DRN-3502103
The complaint
Miss K complains that Scottish Equitable Plc trading as Aegon failed to treat her fairly when 
she reached her selected retirement age. In particular she complains that Aegon failed to 
provide her with sufficient notice in order for her retirement savings to be put into payment, 
that it no longer offered annuities to its customers, that information it used to verify her 
identity was inappropriate, and that it failed to provide her with a full postal address for the 
firm. 
What happened
Miss K held pension savings with Aegon within a Group Personal Pension Plan that she had 
opened in August 2000. The plan had a selected retirement date (SRD) of Miss Ks 
60th birthday in December 2021.
Aegon sent reminders to Miss K about the approaching SRD in June and October 2021. 
Those letters invited Miss K to get in touch with Aegon to discuss how she wanted to use her 
pension savings. The letters also told Miss K that if she failed to make contact with Aegon, it 
would move her SRD back by five years.
In November 2021 Miss K called Aegon as she says she had been expecting some further 
information from the firm about her retirement options. She says that on that call she was 
asked to provide her national insurance number as part of Aegons identity checks. And 
Aegon then told her that it was no longer offering annuities to its customers. She asked that 
Aegon send her details of how she could take her pension savings  Aegon provided Miss K 
with some information the same day.
On 30 November Miss K asked Aegon that she be paid the whole of her pension savings as 
an Uncrystallised Funds Pension Lump Sum (UFPLS). Around a week later Aegon 
responded to that request and asked Miss K to provide some certified copies of documents 
to verify her identity. It also enclosed an application form for her to complete. Miss K 
returned the required information on 17 December and the UFPLS payment was made to 
her around a week later.
Miss Ks complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He didnt think it should 
be upheld. The investigator thought that Aegon had provided Miss K with sufficient time to 
decide how she wanted to take her pension benefits. He didnt think that Aegon had done 
anything wrong in its decision to no longer offer annuities directly, and that it had put in place 
sufficient options with another provider so that consumers werent disadvantaged. And he 
thought that the information Aegon had asked for, to verify Miss Ks identity, had been 
reasonable.
Miss K didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Miss K and by Aegon. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
Miss Ks complaint has primarily arisen from some difficulties she has faced as she reached 
her SRD and looked to put her pension benefits into payment. So I think it might be helpful if 
I explained my interpretation of the different phases of a pension.
Initially consumers will make savings into a pension plan. This is what Miss K started with 
Aegon in August 2000. Her pension savings have been invested and grown in value. But, 
unlike some pension plans, Miss Ks scheme didnt provide her with any guaranteed benefits 
such as an enhanced annuity rate, or guaranteed pension amount. Instead her pension 
savings, that had grown over the years, would provide her with a sum of money at her 
retirement that could be used to purchase retirement benefits.
Since 2015 there has been significant flexibility over the retirement benefits that could be 
purchased. Consumers could use their retirement savings to purchase an annuity  that is 
an income that is paid for life  sometimes from the firm with whom the pension savings 
have been held, or from other firms across the market (known as an open market option). Or 
pension savings could be held flexibly and used in a similar manner to a savings account, 
with withdrawals being taken as and when they were needed. Or the whole pension pot 
could be taken as a lump sum immediately as Miss K chose in this case.
So I think it is important to consider the two phases  accumulation of the pension savings, 
and then their use to provide income in retirement  separately. There are many firms who 
provide schemes to accumulate pension savings that dont offer some, or all, of the 
retirement options that Ive noted above. And similarly there are firms that only offer 
retirement benefits, without offering the necessary plans for the accumulation of pension 
funds.
When Miss K first started her pension plan with Aegon in August 2000 the firm did sell 
annuities to its customers. Aegon says that it stopped selling new annuities in 2016. So, 
when Miss K came to retire, she was unable to purchase an annuity from Aegon.
But whilst I appreciate that might have been disappointing for her, I dont think it means that 
Aegon did anything wrong. In 2016, when it made a commercial decision to stop selling 
annuities Aegon entered into an arrangement with another firm. That ensured that, 
particularly where consumers held guaranteed benefits, they could continue to purchase an 
annuity on the same terms, albeit from the new firm. And, although that wasnt specifically 
relevant to the pension plan that Miss K held, she could also make use of the same 
approach, and use her pension savings to seamlessly purchase an annuity from the other 
provider.I appreciate that Miss K says she didnt find that provider attractive given some poor 
investment outcomes shed experienced in the past. But of course there was no obligation 
for her to use her pension savings to purchase an annuity from that firm. She could instead 
have utilised the open market option and sought annuity quotations from a range of other 
providers. And it is also important to note that an annuity is guaranteed for life  it isnt reliant 
on future investment performance.
Aegon hadnt communicated its decision to stop selling annuities to Miss K, or to its other 
customers. But, particularly in Miss Ks situation where she didnt hold any guaranteed 
retirement benefits, I dont think it needed to. The pension product that Miss K held was for 
the accumulation of pension savings  it didnt offer her any guarantees that Aegon would 
provide her with an annuity at retirement.
From the evidence I have seen, Aegon met its regulatory responsibilities in the 
communications that it sent to Miss K as she approached her SRD. It wrote to her six 
months before the SRD, and sent her a reminder three months later. And both of those 
letters suggested that Miss K needed to consider how she wanted to use her retirement 
savings. They also made it clear what would happen if Miss K failed to get in touch.
So I think those letters were clear that it was for Miss K to lead the process of putting her 
retirement savings into payment. But they also provided the option for her to do nothing at 
that time. I dont think therefore there was any further responsibility on Aegon to chase 
Miss K for an update on her plans as the SRD approached.
When Miss K called Aegon in November 2021 she was asked a number of questions to 
prove her identity. It is understandable, given the valuable nature of pension benefits, that 
providers such as Aegon want to ensure they are dealing with the correct consumer. To 
perform those checks Aegon asked Miss K to confirm some information that it held in its 
records. One item that is asked Miss K for was her national insurance number. A pension 
provider needs to hold a national insurance number to allow it to apply the correct taxation 
treatment of any pension contributions or benefits
I can understand that Miss K might be reluctant to release personal information to an 
unknown party. But it was her that made the call to Aegon using, I assume, contact 
information from its letters or website. So I would expect that she had a degree of confidence 
that she was dealing with a trusted party. I dont therefore think it was inappropriate for 
Aegon to make that request of Miss K. In my experience, many organisations will request a 
consumer to provide a national insurance number as a piece of identifying data when 
dealing with financial matters.
Aegon deals with all its post through a central facility based in Sunderland. There, any post 
for the company is scanned onto its systems and available instantaneously to all of its 
relevant staff. So it seems entirely reasonable that any correspondence, whether of a 
general administrative nature, or even of a more specific complaint nature addressed to 
senior management, is handled through the Sunderland office.
The postal address of that office is provided by the Royal Mail. That isnt something that 
Aegon has any control over. The Royal Mail will ask Aegon to use an address that is the 
most efficient for its mail handling operations. So although I accept that the correspondence 
address Aegon has been asked to use differs from the norm since it doesnt include a 
building name or street location I dont think that means Aegon was attempting to hide its 
location from Miss K or any of its other customers. The address simply provided an effective 
means for the Royal Mail and Aegon to direct the paper correspondence that it received.I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing from Miss K. But I dont think Aegon has 
done anything wrong. I think the information it sent, and the timing of those letters, met its 
regulatory responsibilities to remind Miss K of her forthcoming SRD. I dont think the decision 
it made in 2016 to stop offering annuities has led to Miss K losing out. I think the information 
Aegon requested to verify Miss Ks identity was reasonable. And I dont think the 
correspondence address it provided to Miss K was incomplete. So I dont think any part of 
Miss Ks complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Scottish Equitable Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 January 2023.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman