DRN-2322311
The complaint
Miss W complains about an unsecured loan given by Lloyds Bank PLC. Miss W took out the 
loan in 2015. 
Miss W has said the loan was unaffordable for her so Lloyds shouldnt have lent it to her.
What happened
Miss W applied for a loan with Lloyds in July 2015. Lloyds lent her £12,400 which was to be 
repaid over 84 monthly instalments of £232.17.
Our investigator looked into Miss Ws complaint. She thought Lloyds didnt carry out 
proportionate checks before lending to Miss W. She said that if it had done so, it wouldve 
found the loan was unaffordable to Miss W.
Lloyds didnt accept this and asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint and make a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time.
Lloyds was required to lend responsibly. It needed to check Miss W could afford to repay her 
loan sustainably. There was no set list of checks Lloyds needed to do, but the checks should 
have been proportionate to the circumstances of each loan, which might include 
considerations about the amount borrowed, Miss Ws borrowing history, and so on.
More specifically, I think that Lloyds checks needed to be more thorough:
The lower a customers income;
The higher the amount due to be repaid;
The longer the term of the loan; and
The greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans.
In making my decision, Ive first considered whether Lloyds did everything it should have 
when assessing Miss Ws loan application. And, if I dont think it did, Ive gone on to consider 
whether or not any assessment failings resulted in Lloyds agreeing to lend to Miss W when it 
should have known it would be difficult for her to repay.
Having done so, I dont think Lloyds should have given this loan to Miss W. Ill explain why 
below.
The checks Lloyds completed
Miss W applied for the loan in branch. Lloyds have provided details of her application. I can 
see it recorded details of her income as around £775, and no monthly expenditure. 
Lloyds says it calculated Miss Ws expenditure based on an internal statistical model which 
calculates essential living costs based on what it knows about a customer. It calculated    
Miss Ws essential monthly expenditure as £388. This left her with a declared disposable 
income of around £380 to make her monthly repayment of £232.17. So with this information 
alone, it looked like the loan was affordable for her.
But Ive looked further at Miss Ws circumstances at the time she applied for the loan. And I 
think there was sufficient evidence available to Lloyds which demonstrated Miss W was 
finding it difficult to meet her existing repayments in a sustainable way.
At the time Miss W applied for the loan, she also held an overdraft and credit card account 
with Lloyds, which totalled around £12,400. Miss W told Lloyds her overdraft and credit card 
used to be cleared annually by a charity linked to her profession, but the charity was no 
longer going to support this. So she wanted the loan to clear her outstanding debt balances.
In addition, the same charity also contributed to a portion of Miss Ws rent payments, with 
the remainder being covered by the local council. Miss W told Lloyds these payments would 
continue.
So, considering these factors, I think there was enough evidence to suggest Miss W was 
finding it difficult to pay her existing monthly commitments sustainably as she was relying on 
her credit card and overdraft each year. And I think this information called into question 
whether it was appropriate for Lloyds to make an assumption on Miss Ws essential monthly 
outgoings, and as such a monthly disposable income of around £380. 
So I think Lloyds should have asked more questions about the information Miss W provided 
and verified her answers to make sure she could maintain her repayments for the 84-month 
period. It couldve done this through a more detailed look at her essential monthly 
expenditure or asked for further evidence of her charity payments.
I havent seen any evidence that Lloyds questioned Miss W further about the information she 
provided, so I dont think its checks went far enough. 
What I think proportionate checks would have most likely shown
Miss W has provided further testimony to Lloyds and our service to demonstrate her financial 
position at the time of applying for the loan. Ive reviewed this information and I think it 
demonstrates Miss W wouldve struggled to repay the loan sustainably. Ill explain why.Our investigator told Lloyds she didnt think it could rely on some of the charity payments 
Miss W received when she applied for the loan. She said the payments were discretionary 
and had to be applied for annually. So there was no guarantee Miss W would continue to 
receive them for the duration of the loan. This meant Miss Ws income was closer to £687 
per month.
Lloyds said the loan would still be affordable without these charity payments. It said that after 
deducting the assumed monthly living costs of £388, this would have still left Miss W with 
£299 of disposable income to make her monthly repayment of £232.17.
Im not persuaded by Lloyds argument here. The figures it has used means Miss W would 
have been left with little to no disposable income to meet her remaining monthly 
commitments after the loan repayment had been made. In addition, Miss W has provided 
further testimony and evidence which shows her monthly living costs are higher than Lloyds 
estimated. As Lloyds didnt ask further questions about her expenditure, I dont find that 
leaving Miss W with around £50-£60 of disposable income each month shows she could 
sustainably repay the loan for the 84-month period.
Lloyds has said the charity payments to cover Miss Ws rent have continued  which show it 
could rely on these when deciding to lend. And its also said Miss W has kept up with the 
monthly repayments on the loan. In response, Miss W says she has requested payment 
holidays on the loan when available, in order to help manage her monthly finances. 
Miss W has said shes relied on cash from family and friends to meet her monthly 
commitments such as food shopping and day-to-day living, which has enabled her to use her 
income to meet the loan repayments. Im persuaded by her testimony here. And whilst I 
acknowledge Lloyds comment that the charity has continued to cover Miss Ws rent 
payments, I dont find this has any bearing on its original decision to lend, given it couldnt 
have known at the time how long these payments were likely to continue.
So from the evidence Ive seen Miss W didnt have sufficient disposable income to repay the 
loan. Whilst I acknowledge this loan was granted to refinance an existing Lloyds overdraft 
and credit card, I think had Lloyds asked further questions, it wouldve seen Miss W wasnt in 
a position to take on more borrowing. So it shouldnt have given Miss W the loan.
Putting things right
In order to put things right for Miss W, Lloyds Bank PLC must:
Refund all interest and charges it applied to the loan from the date it was approved 
on 23 July 2015 to the date Miss W tells our service she accepts my final decision. 
Lloyds Bank PLC may apply this refund to the outstanding loan balance;
Refund any extra amount over and above what Miss W borrowed;
Add interest at 8% per year simple on this amount from the date the extra amounts 
were paid to the date of settlement;
HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds Bank PLC to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds 
Bank PLC must give Miss W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for 
one.
If there is a remaining balance on the loan, Lloyds must explore all reasonable repayment 
options with Miss W based on her current financial situation.My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Miss Ws complaint. And I require Lloyds Bank PLC to 
put things right for her as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 January 2021.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman