DRN-1231855
 
The complaint
Mrs J says Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.  
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in connection with a store card in 2000. 
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint should be upheld, because he didnt think Mrs 
J wouldve bought the policy if shed had better information about its cost and benefit. FICL 
disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my conclusions on the balance 
of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Js case.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Js complaint because I think if better information about the 
policys costs and benefits had been provided by FICL, its unlikely Mrs J would have taken it 
out. 
The information FICL gave Mrs J about the cost and benefit wasnt as clear as it should have 
been. I say this because although Mrs J may have been told the cost was £1.00 per £100 of 
the outstanding balance, I think its unlikely she wouldve been told that the premium would 
be added to her store card balance and could attract interest. I also think its unlikely that 
FICL pointed out that the benefit was actually less than 15% in real terms, as Mrs J would 
have to continue paying the premium while receiving the policy benefit.
I think this would have mattered to Mrs J because at the point of sale she's said she was 
entitled to full pay from her employer if she was off sick for six months, followed by half pay 
for the next six months. Shes also told us she had savings worth between three and six 
months of her pay. So she doesnt appear to have had a strong need for the policy, given 
she had other ways to meet the store card repayments for a while without it.
FICL suggests Mrs J should provide proof of the sick pay she says she was entitled to, and 
the savings she had. But I'm mindful that this sale took place many years ago. So I don't 
think it's reasonable to expect Mrs J to be able to provide the detailed evidence FICL is 
seeking. Mrs J has provided details of her employer and the length of time she'd been in her 
job. Given the nature of her employment, and how long she'd been doing her job I think it's reasonable for me to accept what she's said about the sick pay she was entitled to. I also 
think it's reasonable for me to accept that she had the amount of savings she's referred to.
So I remain of the view that Mrs J wouldn't have wanted to take out the policy if she had 
better understood its cost and limited benefit to her. 
So I think Mrs J has been disadvantaged as a result of FICLs failings in this case, because I 
dont think she would have taken out the policy if better information had been available. 
Putting things right 
FICL should put Mrs J in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A. FICL should find out how much Mrs J would have owed when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  
as well as any interest added to those charges.
FICL should then refund the difference between what Mrs J owed when she closed her 
account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs J made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what she got for the 
claim from the amount it owes her.
B. FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs J would have owed 
when she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The interest 
rate should be 8% a year. 
C. If  when FICL works out what Mrs J would have owed each month without PPI  Mrs 
J paid more than enough to clear her balance, FICL should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs J paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mrs J would 
have owed FICL something on her store card. The interest rate should be 8% a year. 
D. FICL should tell Mrs J what its done to work out A, B and C.
If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Mrs J that relates to this PPI 
sale, that sum can be deducted by FICL from the redress shown above.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must 
give Mrs J a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. 
My final decision 
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Financial Insurance Company Limited to 
pay compensation to Mrs J in line with the instructions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman