DRN-3666745
The complaint
Mr K has complained that Scottish Widows Limited trading as Clerical Medical made 
changes to his pension (switching funds and increasing contributions) that he only wanted 
an illustration for. 
Mr K would like to be put back into the position he would have been in if this had not 
happened. He would also like the business to demonstrate that he has not suffered a 
financial loss as a result of the error.
What happened
Mr K, via his IFA, requested an illustration on 23 December 2020 showing a change of fund 
mix in his pension and an increase to his monthly contributions (from £400 net to £1,000 
net). 
His IFA chased the illustration throughout January 2021. On 16 February the request for an 
illustration was interpreted by Scottish Widows as an instruction to transact and acted it was 
upon. Correspondence was sent to Mr K and his IFA showing that the funds had been 
switched. By late February, Scottish Widows had recognised the error. In March they told Mr 
Ks IFA that they had switched funds and increased contributions in error, leading to the 
initiation of the formal complaint. Two days later Mr K noted that his contributions had been 
increased to £2,200, which was taken under his direct debit mandate twice. He expressed 
his dissatisfaction and shock and wanted things returned to how they were before, with no 
fund switch and no increase to his contributions. Mr K cancelled his direct debit at this time 
as he was concerned about further incorrect payments being taken from his account. 
There were some conflicting communications from Scottish Widows. For example, on 1 April 
they said that contributions had been stopped; then on 12 April that contributions had been 
reduced from £1,000 a month to £500. Next, having already said on 29 April that they would 
reverse the fund switch, on 19 May Scottish Widows said they had not been able to carry it 
out in the first place. 
In May Mr K brought his complaint to this service. He subsequently received a final response 
from Scottish Widows fully upholding the complaint. The business acknowledged their error 
in misinterpreting the request for an illustration as an instruction. They apologised and 
offered to ensure that Mr K had suffered no financial loss by backdating the transactions. 
They also offered him £600 for the difficulty in resolving the matter, which included £100 for 
not responding in a timely manner. 
While this letter contained some policy valuations at various dates, there was not enough 
detail for Mr K and his IFA to be sure that there had been no financial loss. 
In November, Mr K confirmed to this service that he broadly agreed with the offer from 
Scottish Widows. 
In January 2022 Scottish Widows issued a revised response to clarify that the fund switch 
had in fact happened and had subsequently been reversed. They repeated the offer of £600 
for the trouble caused and also to effectively backdate the missed contributions so that it 
would be as if they had been paid when originally expected, ensuring there would be no 
financial loss.
Our investigator thought that this was a fair offer in the circumstances and issued an opinion 
to that effect in February 2022. Mr K said that he was happy he would be put back into the 
position he would have been in if not for the error and accepted the investigators opinion. 
But he also wanted to see the underlying transaction details so he could tell for himself that 
he had not been disadvantaged. 
A month later Mr K got back in touch to let us know that he had received his £600. And he 
explained that on 6 April he had made a payment of £4,800 for the missed contributions. But 
he had not heard anything from Scottish Widows on the backdating of these contributions or 
the transaction information that would show there had been no financial loss. Nor had 
Scottish Widows provided new Direct Debit information for Mr K to reinstate his regular 
contributions. 
In April Scottish Widows told Mr K that they were unable to offer a timescale of when they 
might be able to complete the other elements of what they had agreed to do. Our 
investigator then gave the business a final chance to resolve things before referring the 
complaint to me. 
Since then a Direct Debit arrangement has been put in place for regular contributions to be 
reinstated. Both the backdating of the £4,800 net contribution, and a full explanation of the 
transactions to confirm that there has been no financial loss, remain outstanding.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, I think it is important to say that there is no substantial dispute over the facts of 
the case. I would also like to acknowledge that Scottish Widows accepted responsibility and 
has offered to put things right. That they have been unable to do so for so long is clearly a 
source of frustration for Mr K, but because the transactions will be backdated, this will not 
cause Mr K any additional financial loss. Nevertheless, the matter should have been 
resolved long before now. 
The first element of Scottish Widows offer was a payment of £600 for the trouble caused 
throughout, including £100 for the delay in responding. I think this is a fair reflection of the 
trouble caused and is in line with what this service would recommend if the business had 
made no offer. 
Secondly, the fund switch that was carried out in error has already been reversed so there 
has been no loss in this regard. Mr K made a lump sum payment of the contributions that 
were missed. Scottish Widows offered to carry out a calculation to see whether there was 
any financial loss caused by these contributions not being made when they should have 
been. I agree that this is a fair way to resolve this issue.
Given the history and sometimes conflicting information, I can understand why Mr K wants to 
see the detail of Scottish Widows calculations to see that he has not lost out. So I think that 
this is an important element of their offer to put things right and will help Mr K to have the 
confidence that he has not been disadvantaged. On 22 May Scottish Widows undertook to 
provide a transaction history for the previous 18 months which should satisfy this 
requirement.  So, in summary, I agree with our investigator that Scottish Widows offer was fair and 
reasonable.
Putting things right
Since I think their offer was fair and reasonable I am not going to require Scottish Widows to 
do anything substantially more than they have already offered to do. I accept that some of 
these steps may already have been taken, but for the sake of clarity and completeness, the 
full steps are as follows:
Reverse the fund switch carried out in February 2021 so that it would be as if it never 
happened and ensure there is no loss to Mr Ks pension as a result of the switch.
Allow Mr K to make up the contributions that were missed while the issue was being 
resolved and carry out a calculation to see whether the delay in making these 
contributions has caused any financial loss. Where there was a loss, Scottish 
Widows should adjust Mr Ks policy to make good that loss. As well as making good 
any loss Scottish Widows must also add interest to the loss at 8% a year simple from 
the date of my final decision to the date of settlement. Scottish Widows must also 
provide Mr K with a copy of their calculation. 
Provide Mr K with a transaction history to cover the whole period to ensure that Mr K 
and his IFA have enough information to be able to determine for themselves that 
there has been no financial loss, or that any loss has been made good.
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Ks complaint against Scottish Widows Limited trading as Clerical Medical 
and I require the business to take the steps outlined in the putting things right section. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2022.
 
Martin Catherwood
Ombudsman