DRN-3179002
The complaint
Mr W complains that BISL Limited is responsible for poor service in connection with his 
motor insurance policy.
Where I refer to BISL, I include employees and others insofar as I hold BISL responsible for 
their acts or omissions.
What happened
For the years from September 2018 and September 2019, Mr W had insurance arranged 
and administered by BISL, an insurance intermediary using the brand name of a bank. 
The insurance included motor insurance under which an insurance company was 
responsible for dealing with claims. It also included motor legal protection under which 
another insurance company was responsible for dealing with claims.
In February 2020, Mr Ws vehicle and a third partys vehicle were involved in a collision. 
There was damage to Mr Ws vehicle, and he was injured. He held the third party at fault. 
Mr W contacted BISL. It referred him to a law firm in connection with his claim for personal 
injury. Mr W became unhappy about the law firms service.
In early April 2020, Mr W complained to BISL. By a final response dated early April 2020, 
BISL turned down the complaint. On 30 April 2020, Mr W complained again. On 4 June 
2020, BISL issued a further response. Mr W brought his complaint to us later in June 2020.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think 
BISL was responsible for what happened after the referral. 
Mr W disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
On 1 February 2020, BISL transferred his call to the law firm, but no-one was 
available to speak with him.
BISL mustve spoken to the law firm.
On 3 February 2020, the law firm emailed him saying it would assist him with his 
personal injury claim. That email shouldve come from BISL but due to a system 
issue it came from the law firm. The email instructed him that he was using that law 
firm (and other suppliers).
On 4 February he called the law firm.
He asks whether BISL operate within any relevant regulations/guidance.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is bound by the Financial Conduct Authoritys dispute 
resolution rules (DISP). We deal with a consumers complaint against a regulated financial 
firm about regulated financial activities. In our final decision, we name that firm, but we dont 
identify any other party.
Ive taken into account the relevant law, regulation, and good practice. Above all, I have 
considered whats fair and reasonable.
Where a regulated firm refers a consumer to another business in connection with an injury 
claim, the Financial Ombudsman Service expects the regulated firm to provide the consumer 
with clear information about that and the consumers other options.
From a call recording after the accident, I note that Mr W told BISL he had some stiffness in 
his arm and neck. BISL said the following:
In this situation I would advise you speak to [law firm] ; this is to seek advice in 
regard to making a claim for any injury sustained. They will also be able to assist you 
in recovering any uninsured losses like time off work or medication or treatment, 
theyll be able to help you with that. You can seek you own legal representation and 
you may be called by other solicitors. However, I would recommend you speak with 
them as they are approved, and they are specialists in this kind of Road Traffic 
Accident. I can transfer you to them at the end of the call where you need to repeat 
some of this info. Are you ok with that?
So BISL advised Mr W and recommended the law firm as approved and specialists. 
But BISL gave Mr W a choice to seek other legal representation. Im satisfied that BISL 
provided Mr W with clear information about the referral and his option to seek other legal 
representation.
Mr W agreed that BISL could transfer his call to the law firm. I find it likely that BISL treated 
that as a successful referral. 
I have no reason to doubt Mr Ws statement that no-one was available at the law firm to 
discuss his claim that day. 
BISL later said that the law firm owns the claims platform that BISL use. So I find it likely that 
BISL made some information available to the law firm. 
The email dated 3 February 2020 came from the law firm. But it related not only to the injury 
claim but also to other suppliers such as the car hire company. So I accept BISLs later 
statement that the email shouldve come from BISL. 
The email included the following:
[The law firm] will assist you with your personal injury claim and a representative 
from [that firm] will contact you shortly to discuss your needs. They will also seek to 
recover any out of pocket expenses that you may have incurred as a result of this 
incident.
I accept that the use of the word will anticipated that Mr W had decided to instruct the law 
firm. But I consider that BISL had done enough on 1 February to let Mr W know he had a choice of legal representation. And I dont consider that Mr W ought reasonable to have 
thought that the email on 3 February meant that he no longer had a choice.
Mr W contacted the law firm on 4 February 2020. I consider that this was his choice. 
In any event, I dont find it fair and reasonable to hold BISL responsible for the quality of the 
law firms services. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to hold BISL responsibly for any 
delays in the personal injury claim or the effect on Mr Ws recovery.
Overall, I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct BISL to pay compensation to Mr W or to 
do any more in response to this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. I dont direct BISL Limited to do 
any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2022.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman