The complaint
Mr C complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc unfairly increased the interest rate on the overdraft 
facility on his account.  Mr C would like HSBC to apply the previous interest rate to his 
account. 
What happened
Mr C holds a business account with HSBC which has an overdraft facility of £12,000. This 
had been agreed several years ago with an interest at 5.5% above base rate being applied 
most recently in 2018/2019.
HSBC wrote to Mr C in July 2019 to give him notice that the interest rate on the overdraft 
was being increased to 9.9% above base rate.   
Mr C wasnt happy about this and contacted HSBC asking it to explain in more detail the 
rationale behind the decision to increase the interest rate on his account. 
HSBC say that the terms and conditions of Mr Cs account allow it to make changes to the 
interest rate it applies subject to the appropriate notice period which it says it gave to Mr C. It 
also explained that it considers several things when reviewing overdraft interest rates to 
assess the risk of the lending. These factors include: the number of days the account is in 
debt, the maximum overdraft balance, the amount credited to the account, any instances of 
the limit being exceeded and if any transactions have been returned unpaid. Mr C did not 
accept the explanation. And he brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator said it wasnt the role of this service to tell a business what rate of interest it 
should apply. But she said we can look at what had happened and decide if HSBC had 
treated Mr C fair and reasonably. She noted that HSBC had followed the account terms and 
conditions and provided the required notice when increasing Mr Cs overdraft limit. And so, 
she didnt think HSBC had done anything wrong. As she thought HSBC had treated Mr C 
fairly and didnt uphold the complaint.  
Mr C didnt agree. He acknowledged HSBC had followed its procedures. But he says HSBC 
had not acted fairly in his circumstances. He referred to HSBCs comments about what it 
considers when making decisions about changes in interest rates. He pointed out that he 
hadnt exceeded his overdraft limit or had any items returned unpaid. So he felt the banks 
decision was based solely on the number of days the account was in debt and the maximum 
overdrawn balance when compared to the amount of credit paid into the account. And he 
said these circumstances had been the same for several years. Indeed, he felt that more 
recently his account had showed a downward trend in the level of borrowing. So, he didnt 
accept that his account presented more of a risk to HSBC in July 2019 than it had previously 
to warrant an increase in the overdraft interest rate.
DRN-1343734The investigator considered what Mr C had said but didnt think this altered the outcome she 
had reached. Mr C asked for an ombudsman to reach a final decision. And so this matter 
has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr C feels strongly about what happened here. And thats not surprising. Hes 
a longstanding HSBC customer and he has a substantial overdraft facility with the bank for 
several years which from what Ive seen has been managed within the account terms and 
conditions. But having thought about everything very carefully, I dont think HSBC has done 
anything wrong. I know Mr C will be disappointed with this decision, so Ill explain why.
As the investigator explained, the terms and conditions of Mr Cs account allow it to amend 
interest rates subject to 60 days written notice. HSBC has provided the letter HSBC sent  Mr 
C in this regard and Mr C has accepted HSBC followed it procedures in the respect. So, I 
think HSBC acted correctly here.   
But Mr C has questioned whether the decision to increase the interest rate on his overdraft 
was fair and reasonable given the activity on his account. But HSBC is entitled to make 
commercial decisions about the rate at which it provides overdraft facilities, and I cant tell it 
what rate of interest it should offer to its customers or when it should make changes.  
I think a bank should give some explanation behind its decision making. And I can see that 
HSBC has explained what factors it took into account here. And it said that a review of      Mr 
Cs account had highlighted that the account had been overdrawn continually for the six 
months leading up to the review. I appreciate Mr C says that his account doesnt represent 
any greater risk to HSBC than it had previously. And I dont dispute Mr C has handled his 
account in the same way he has always done. But I think it most likely that HSBCs attitude 
towards risk has changed more recently  particularly, when an account doesnt revert to a 
credit position on a regular basis. 
Overall, I cant say HSBCs decision to increase Mr Cs overdraft interest was unreasonable. 
Of course, If Mr C still considers the interest rate applied is not competitive, he has the 
option of finding more favourable alternatives elsewhere. Or he may wish to discuss the 
possibility of transferring the overdraft to a loan which might return a lower rate of interest. 
I appreciate Mr Cs strength of feeling about this matter and the time he has sent pursuing it. 
But overall, I dont think HSBC has done anything wrong. So, Im not going to ask it to take 
any further action in respect of this complaint. 
 
 
 
 
 My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2020.
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman