DRN-3802127
The complaint
Mr S complains he was the victim of an investment scam and that Barclays Bank UK PLC 
didnt do enough to protect him from financial harm or to recover his money.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
Mr S complains he was the victim of a scam involving five transactions totalling £7,005.06 
that he made within a twelve-month period using a Visa debit card linked to his Barclays 
account.
Mr S came into contact with someone claiming to be a broker who worked for a company Ill 
refer to as C. The broker told him he could make money from investing in cryptocurrency, 
advising him to first purchase cryptocurrency through a cryptocurrency exchange company 
and then loading the cryptocurrency onto an online wallet.  Mr S made an initial payment of 
£3,160 on 16 October 2019, followed by a further four payments of £268.77, £2,034.12, 
£542.17, and £1,000. 
In March 2020, Mr Ss portfolio had grown to £25,000, but on 18 March, he realised he had a 
negative balance. He was unable to contact the broker or log in to his account, at which 
point he realised hed been the victim of a scam. When Mr S contacted Barclays, it said 
there was nothing it could do to retrieve the money due to the length of time that had passed 
since the payments.
With the help of a representative, Mr S complained to Barclays. The representative 
explained Mr S had seen stories about people making large profits by investing in 
cryptocurrency. He had researched several investment companies and read some 
impressive reviews about C online, which made the company appear legitimate. The broker 
had appeared professional, helpful, and friendly and had sent Mr S articles detailing Cs 
recent performance. Mr S was told the more money he invested, the higher his profits would 
be, and, on 9 December, he made a withdrawal of £178.19. He was also able to log in to his 
account and see for himself how his trades were performing and the profit he was making.
Mr Ss representative argued that, prior to investing, he only had standard domestic bills 
leaving his account and that the disputed payments were extremely unusual for him, not 
least because they were to payees known to be linked to investment scams and fraud. They 
also argued that the size of the payments was unusual, he hadnt traded previously and had 
little to no knowledge of trading or investing. 
Mr Ss representatives argued that if Barclays had contacted him to make enquiries, he 
might have been alerted to the fraud. They also said the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
had published a warning about C on 9 October 2020, yet Barclays had allowed a payment of 
£1,000 to leave Mr Ss account on 23 October 2020. The also explained Mr S has now lost 
confidence in handling his own financial matters and the incident has left him feeling 
embarrassed and ashamed. 
Barclays maintained its position. It accepted Mr S had been the victim of a scam, but it said it 
was unable to raise a Chargeback request or issue a refund. It also said it was unable to 
locate the payment dated 23 October 2020.
Mr S wasnt satisfied and so he complained to this service stating he wanted Barclays to 
refund the outstanding amount of £6,826.87. He said the payments were higher than his 
usual account activity and Barclays had failed to give effective warnings which could have 
stopped him from losing the money. In total there had been five opportunities to prevent the 
scam occurring and he wouldnt have proceeded with the payments if he didnt have a 
reasonable basis to believe it was genuine.
Barclays has said the transactions didnt flag as suspicious, so there was no intervention by 
the fraud team. It doesnt accept the payments were out of character for Mr Ss account 
arguing hed made similar payments using the same payment method on 28 May 2019 
(£3,335.50) and 17 July 2019 (£2,114.23). It also said Mr S had failed to complete adequate 
due diligence such as checking C was regulated by the FCA.
Finally, it explained it didnt raise a chargeback request because the transactions were all 
made to legitimate cryptocurrency exchange companies and authorised by Mr S, so there 
was no chargeback reason code that would be successful. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld as he was satisfied Barclays had 
acted fairly by declining to reimburse Mr Ss losses. He explained the starting point is Mr S is 
liable for authorised payments and in the circumstances Barclays decision not to raise a 
chargeback claim was reasonable as the cryptocurrency exchange company had provided 
the service it was required to provide.
He went on to explain that although there was an FCA warning against C, there was no 
adverse information recorded about the cryptocurrency exchange company with the FCA or 
the International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO) suggesting the payments 
shouldve been blocked.
Our investigator didnt think any of the individual payments shouldve have triggered 
Barclays anti-fraud systems based on Mr Ss previous account activity as the disputed 
payments were not particularly large or out of character for Mr S, so he didnt think Barclays 
had missed an opportunity to stop Mr Ss loss.
Mr S has asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. His representatives 
have argued the first transaction of £3,160 is relatively large transaction on Mr Ss account 
and had Barclays detected the payment, it would have seen it had the hallmarks of an 
investment scam.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that although Mr S didnt intend the money to go to scammers, he did authorise 
the disputed payments. Barclays is expected to process payments and withdrawals that a 
customer authorises it to make. But, where the customer has been the victim of a scam, it 
may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the them even though they 
authorised the payment.Mr S has lost the payments that he made to accounts that he held at a cryptocurrency 
exchange company. From the evidence Ive seen, the money went to a genuine 
cryptocurrency exchange company in respect of which there were no warnings with either 
the FCA or IOSCO. Buying cryptocurrency is a legitimate activity and therefore the extent of 
what we would expect Barclays to have done to protect Mr S is restricted to triggers, 
meaning I need to consider whether the transactions were so unusual or suspicious that 
Barclays ought to have intervened to warn Mr S when he tried to make the payments.
Barclays, along with other payment services providers, should be monitoring accounts and 
be on the lookout for unusual transactions or other signs of fraud. Ive considered the nature 
of the each of the five payments in the context of whether they were unusual or 
uncharacteristic of how Mr S normally ran his account and I dont think they were. I accept 
Mr S had never traded before and that the first payment of £3,160 on 16 October 2019 was 
for a large amount of money. But not so large that it was unreasonable for it not to have 
triggered Barclays fraud systems and, when considered in the context of the payments on 28 
May and 17 July 2019, it wasnt unusual for the normal spending on the account. So, I dont 
think Barclays missed an opportunity to intervene in this or any of the four subsequent 
payments. 
Chargeback
Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by VISA whereby it will ultimately arbitrate on a 
dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved between them after two 
presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme  so there are limited 
grounds on which a chargeback can succeed. Our role in such cases is not to second-guess 
Visas arbitration decision or scheme rules, but to determine whether the regulated card 
issuer (i.e. Barclays) and reasonably when presenting (or choosing not to present) a 
chargeback on behalf of its cardholder (Mr S).
Chargeback is a voluntary scheme and Barclays is bound by the card scheme operators 
(Visa in this case) rules. But being the victim of a scam doesnt automatically entitle the 
payer to a refund through the chargeback scheme. For a claim to be successful, Mr S 
wouldve needed to show the cryptocurrency exchange company didnt provide the intended 
service, which it did. Im satisfied therefore that Barclays decision not to raise a chargeback 
claim was fair.
Overall, Im satisfied Barclays took the correct steps prior to the funds being released  as 
well as the steps it took after being notified of the potential fraud. Im sorry to hear Mr S has 
lost money and the effect this has had on him. But for the reasons Ive explained, I dont 
think Barclays is to blame for this and so I cant fairly tell it to do anything further to resolve 
this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2023.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman