DRN-2926404
The complaint
This is a complaint that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold Mrs and Mr B payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about monthly-premium PPI policies taken out in 2006 and 2008, and 
which covered a mortgage and a further advance. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mrs and Mr B disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
In reviewing this complaint, Ive checked the possible ways in which the PPI might have 
been mis-sold. Ive also taken full account of the comments made in support of the 
complaint. 
Mrs and Mr B have said the PPI was added without their knowledge  they say they werent 
aware of it util 2018. However, it wouldnt be fair for me to conclude this happened unless 
there was reasonable supporting evidence of it. And Im conscious that this happened over 
14 years ago, and it wouldnt be surprising if someone didnt recall in detail everything that 
happened that long ago. 
And Ive seen on the file two applications for PPI, signed by both Mrs and Mr B in 2006 and 
2008, when they also applied for the mortgage advances. There are also separate direct 
debit mandates for payment of the monthly premium to the insurance company, and Mrs and 
Mr B have signed these. 
So I think its more likely than not that Lloyds presented the PPI to Mrs and Mr B as an 
option, and they signed to take it on both occasions  but that, not surprisingly, they later 
didnt remember that they had agreed to it. 
Ive looked to see whether there are other reasons the PPI might have been mis-sold  but 
as Ill explain, I dont think they apply.
I think Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mrs and Mr B, and this means we would judge its 
sales process by a higher standard  it had to make sure the PPI was suitable for Mrs and 
Mr Bs circumstances. However, it looks to me as though a recommendation would have 
been a suitable one, based on what Ive seen of Mrs and Mr Bs situation at the time: 
Its true that PPI was of questionable value for many people with certain types of 
borrowing. But finding yourself unable to pay a mortgage can lead to significant 
difficulties, and it was often sensible to consider covering yourself with PPI for this.
Its likely Mr B (the person covered by the PPI) was eligible for the policy, so would 
have been entitled to make a claim if needed. 
The PPI would have paid benefits at the same time as Mr B received any employer 
sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would have paid unemployment benefits in 
addition to any redundancy pay. And it would have put off the time when Mrs and 
Mr B would need to fall back on any savings or other means they may have had for 
paying the mortgage and other living costs. This all would have put Mrs and Mr B in a 
more secure position, if theyd eventually lost income due to Mr Bs long-term 
sickness or unemployment. 
Ive not been told anything to suggest Mrs and Mr B couldnt afford the PPI when 
they took it out; so it wasnt unsuitable in that way. And they could have cancelled the 
policy if this changed later on. 
There are some things the PPI didnt cover (exclusions). But its unlikely Mr B would 
have been affected by any of these at the time.
So I think the PPI would have been potentially useful, and that a recommendation was 
suitable. It would then be up to Mrs and Mr B to decide whether they wanted to accept the 
recommendation and agree to buy the PPI (assuming they were given that choice, which I 
accept they believe didnt happen).
I can see that the monthly price of the policy was shown in 2008, and its likely a similar 
process was followed in 2006. So I think Mrs and Mr B would have understood how much it 
would cost. 
My overall view is that the PPI wasnt mis-sold. 
Mrs and Mr B are also say they were pressured into taking a larger loan than they wanted. I 
dont know whether theyve complained separately to the bank about that. Ive not looked 
into it here, as Im just looking at whether the PPI was mis-sold. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman