DRN-4250632
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O have complained that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) didnt deal with or settle 
their claim fairly.
What happened
Mr and Mrs O have a travel insurance policy underwritten by UKI. Whilst they were abroad, 
Mrs O fell and sustained an injury. 
Mr O telephoned UKI on 16 September who advised him to seek medical assistance. He 
said he wanted to cut the trip short and return home. UKI sent Mr O an email and asked for a 
copy of the medical report. Mr O replied but didnt get a response. He emailed again on the 
next day but didnt get a response. So he decided to arrange his own flights and returned 
home on 19 September. 
On 19 September, UKI called Mr O and he advised he hadnt received a response to his 
emails. 
He complained about customer service, delays and lack of policy documentation and in 
response to the complaint, UKI apologised and offered £150 compensation for not replying 
to his emails sooner. But it said curtailment wasnt medically necessary and so it wouldnt 
cover that part of his claim. 
Unhappy, Mr O referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and partially upheld it. She said UKI should 
increase the compensation award to a total of £350 for failing to send Mr O insurance 
documents and for the poor customer service when he emailed and didnt get a response. 
But she didnt think it had incorrectly declined the claim for the curtailment costs as Mr O had 
been told to wait for authorisation before curtailing over the telephone on 16 September.
Mr O disagreed and in summary, has made the following comments:
When speaking to UKI, he was very stressed and concerned for his wife in the 
hospital car park in poor weather conditions so he may have missed something UKI 
told him.
By the time UKI contacted him, they were already back in the UK. 
Had Mr O been informed of a more specific medical report requirement, he would 
have returned to the hospital to obtain it.
This case is almost identical to a Financial Ombudsman Service case study and that 
precedent should be considered. 
And so the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree this complaint should be partially upheld. 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say an insurer should handle claims promptly and 
fairly. And shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
Curtailment costs 
Under the curtailment section, the policy documents confirm UKI wont pay for Any claim for 
costs as a result of having to cut short your trip that were not agreed by our emergency 
assistance service before you returned home.
Mr O said he had never received the policy documents with the terms so I have considered 
the other evidence available from the time. 
Mr O telephoned UK on 16 September to report the claim and the call notes from UKI show:
Mr O was advised he might need to keep receipts and claim later because with the 
curtailment element, he needed to wait until UKI advised the claim was covered in 
case he returned home early just to find it wasnt covered.
UKI sent an email to Mr O following this telephone call to confirm a reference number 
and this said: Currently I have placed the case onto the operations team section as 
your wife will require assistance for her return to the UK and we will require the 
medical report. The email also provided a direct number to contact and said they 
operated 24 hours. 
Mr O replied to UKIs email later on the same day and confirmed the hospital couldnt 
provide a medical report until Tuesday (4 days later) and had confirmed that she was 
ft to fly. As Mrs O wasnt able to bear weight on her foot for two weeks, they would 
look to return to the UK and curtail the holiday. His email ended by asking how they 
would go about this and what costs would be covered by the travel insurance. 
Mr O sent a further email on the following day asking if UKI had received his email. 
He then made his own arrangements to return home.
Having considered the above sequence of events, Im not satisfied that Mr O received 
agreement from UKI that the trip could be curtailed. Even if he didnt have the policy 
documents, he was told on the phone that he would need to wait for UKI to confirm they 
were covered. Following this, Mr Os email of 16 September also asks UKI how they would 
go about curtailing the trip and what would be covered so based on this, I dont think he was 
under the impression that the curtailment was authorised after the phone calls and emails of 
16 September. 
There is no medical evidence to show that the trip needed to be curtailed and I havent seen 
any evidence that Mr O called UKI back after he didnt receive any responses to his emails. 
He was provided with a direct number to contact on 16 September but didnt make any 
further attempts to call UKI. So Im not satisfied that UKI gave the impression that his 
curtailment costs would be covered and I think it fairly declined this part of the claim.Customer service and policy documents 
Mr O says UKI took too long to respond to his contact and also failed to provide him with 
policy documents. Its clear that UKI didnt reply promptly to Mr Os emails of 16 September 
and didnt provide him with his policy documents. UKI accepted that its customer service 
standards were below whats expected for delays, lack of contact after 16 September and for 
not being clear about which parts of the claim were covered when the claim was assessed. 
UKI has paid £150 compensation but our investigator recommended an additional £200 (a 
total of £350) to recognise all of the issues. I agree £350 compensation is more appropriate 
in these circumstances as it was a number of minor errors which caused Mr and Mrs O 
stress and frustration when trying to make a claim. 
Financial Ombudsman case study
Mr O has referred to a case study which he says is almost identical to his complaint. I should 
confirm that our decisions do not set a precedent and each case is decided on its own facts. 
Even where a case may seem similar, the case will be decided with reference to the specific 
facts and circumstances applicable. I have made my decision based on the facts of Mr and 
Mrs Os complaint and all the evidence available.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint in part and direct U K Insurance 
Limited to pay Mr and Mrs O an additional £200 compensation (a total of £350 of which £150 
has already been paid) for the distress and inconvenience caused to them. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O and Mr O to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 September 2023.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman