DRN-1272685
The complaint
Miss L says Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Miss L bought the policy in 1999 at the same time as applying to upgrade her existing credit 
card. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss L disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ls case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold for the following reasons. 
Miss L ticked a box on her application form to indicate she wanted the PPI. She had 
previously declined PPI in 1992 when taking out her original card, so I think she knew she 
didnt have to have it. Both application forms presented the PPI in a similar way. So, I think 
Barclays made it clear that Miss L didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it 
out.
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Miss L so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
But it did have to make sure Miss L got the information she needed to decide if it was right 
for her. 
Its possible the information Barclays gave Miss L about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. 
And it seems like it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like 
it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her off 
taking out the cover. 
This means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss L.
But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss L because Barclays got a 
high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should 
have told Miss L about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Miss L, that was unfair. To put that 
right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was above 
50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Miss L has said. But these points dont change my decision.My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard does not 
have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss L.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Miss L any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman