DRN-3541276
The complaint
Miss R complains that Foundation for Credit Counselling  trading as STEPCHANGE DEBT 
CHARITY (Stepchange) has mismanaged her debt management plan (DMP) and failed to 
respond to her communication with it.
What happened
Miss R set up a DMP with Stepchange in May 2012, she provided the list of creditors she 
owed and the amounts she believed she owed to them. She provided details of her Income 
and expenditure to establish what her monthly contribution towards the DMP should be. 
Stepchange then approached the creditors to propose payment plans. 
Each month Miss R made a payment to Stepchange, and it disbursed the money between 
Miss Rs creditors. This went on for many years, until it was cancelled on 22 February 2021, 
as Miss R had not made any payments towards it for three months. During the lifetime of the 
DMP the monthly amount Miss R paid changed to accommodate changes in her personal 
circumstances.
On 13 January 2021 Miss R contacted Stepchange to query some of the balances owed to 
her creditors as she believed they should be lower than what Stepchange had recorded. She 
also wanted to know why some creditors were listed twice.
Stepchange wrote to Miss R on 18 January 2021, explaining that one of her creditors, who 
for the purpose of this decision Ill call AF had contacted it back in February 2013, so within 
the first year of the DMP being in place, to say that the balance was incorrect. Miss R had 
originally told Stepchange she owed AF £2,904.33, but AF had confirmed the amount to be 
£8,173.73 so the plan had been amended.
It went on to explain that some creditors were listed twice as Miss R had different accounts 
with those creditors. So, although the creditor was the same the payments to it were treated 
separately from one another.
Miss R was unhappy with the explanation and so complained to Stepchange. In its final 
response it said it relies on both her and the creditors to provide accurate information about 
the debts she owes. It provides monthly statements showing estimates of the balances and it 
recommended that Miss R checked these regularly so she could deal with any discrepancies 
with the businesses concerned as they happen. 
Miss R remained unhappy with Stepchanges response and so brought her complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator didnt think this was a complaint that should be upheld, in summary she 
said:
Stepchange hadnt acted unfairly when changing the balances Miss R owed, and she 
could see that the changes were only in line with payments Miss R had made or if the 
creditor had contacted it with an up-to-date balance.
Stepchange had responded to Miss R when she had written to it, and she couldnt 
hold it responsible for any problem with the postal service if Miss R hadnt received it.
Miss R disagreed and so the matter has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues I 
consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful consideration 
to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision. Having done so I have to tell 
Miss R that Ive reached the same outcome as the investigator and for broadly the same 
reasons, Ill explain.
Stepchanges responsibility as the DMP provider is to set up payment plans with creditors 
and distribute the monthly payments between the creditors. It also has a responsibility to 
keep customers up to date with the progress of the DMP. It is not responsible for negotiating 
or disputing the balances owed to the creditors.
As explained above, the starting point with any DMP is the customer, in this case Miss R, 
tells Stepchange who the creditors are and what they think the balances are that they owe. 
These balances are not set in stone and its often the case that creditors will let Stepchange 
know if there is a more up to date figure that it should be using. And while most creditors do 
suspend interest and charges while a DMP is in place they do not have to do this. When 
they choose not to suspend interest and charges the balances often dont decrease as a 
customer will expect.
I can see that Stepchange distributed every payment Miss R made to it to the creditors, and 
it sent Miss R monthly statements showing this, and what it estimated to be the up-to-date 
balances on her accounts. 
Stepchange has shown that AF contacted it to say the balance Miss R had quoted was 
incorrect and it updated its records to accurately reflect what she owed as shown in the 
monthly statements. It has also shown that AF contacted it a second time reducing the 
balance and it again updated its records and reflected the change.
I understand Miss R disagrees with the figure AF has said she owed, and this has been 
considered separately by this service. As such I will not be commenting on it here.
I appreciate that Miss R feels like she has been paying more than she thought she owed, but 
I havent seen anything to suggest that Stepchange has changed any of her balances other 
than for the reasons above. Miss R has also suggested that it may have made payments to 
accounts that didnt relate to her, but I havent seen any evidence that supports this. So 
overall Im satisfied it hasnt treated her unfairly here.
Additionally, Miss R complained that Stepchange didnt respond to her letter dated 13 
January 2021. But Stepchange has shown it wrote to Miss R on 18 January 2021 in 
response to the letter, it has also provided this service with a copy of the letter, so Im 
satisfied it did respond to her. 
In summary I havent seen any evidence that Stepchange has treated Miss R unfairly or 
mismanaged her DMP. So, it follows I wont be asking it to do anything here to put things 
right for Miss R.I know Miss R will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision ends what we  in 
trying to resolve her dispute with Stepchange can do for her.
  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 September 2022.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman