DRN-1774669
 
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold her a monthly premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mrs H was sold a PPI policy with a credit card. The credit card was taken out in 1998. Its not 
clear when the PPI was taken out but the first available statement from 2000 (January) 
shows that PPI had already been applied. The PPI cost no more than 79p per £100 of the 
monthly outstanding balance and would have paid out 10% of the monthly outstanding 
balance for up to 12 months if Mrs H was off work sick or lost her job. 
Our adjudicator didnt think Mrs Hs complaint should be upheld. Mrs H didnt agree with our 
adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Hs case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Hs complaint. I will now explain why.
In the absence of any evidence to suggest otherwise and given that PPI appeared on the 
first available statement in 2000, I think its more likely that Mrs H would have been sold PPI 
at the same time as when she was sold the credit card.
Ive considered whether Mrs H was eligible under the policy. Based on her age, residence 
and employment at the time of the sale, Im satisfied that Mrs H was eligible for the policy. 
Lloyds had to make it clear to Mrs H that the PPI was optional and needed her consent 
before it could be applied to Mrs Hs account. Mrs H says that PPI may have been applied 
without her knowledge or consent. 
I cant know for sure what took place during the sale and Lloyds no longer have the actual 
documents available from the time of the sale. However, I cant hold this against Lloyds 
given the length of time since the sale. Equally understandably Mrs H has not provided a 
strong recollection of what took place during the sale.
In these circumstances, it would be unfair for me to conclude that its more likely that Lloyds 
didnt make Mrs H aware that the PPI was optional or that they added it without her consent. 
Particularly given that the sample application form provided shows PPI as being presented 
as optional and that PPI appeared as a separate entry on Mrs Hs statements.  
So while I appreciate what Mrs H has told us, I cant say its more likely that Lloyds didnt 
make it clear to Mrs H that PPI was optional or that it was added without her knowledge or 
consent. 
Lloyds say they advised Mrs H to take PPI. This means had to check if the PPI was suitable 
for Mrs H. I cant say that Lloyds checked all the things they should have but I do think the 
PPI was suitable for Mrs H. I say this because:
- The PPI would have paid out in addition to Mrs Hs existing employee benefits and 
savings. It would also have paid out if she lost her job in addition to any redundancy 
pay she may have been entitled to. 
- Mrs H doesnt appear to have been affected by the terms in the policy which would 
have made it difficult for her to make a successful claim under the policy. For 
example, terms relating to certain medical conditions and unusual working 
arrangements.
- I havent seen any evidence which would suggest that the PPI was unaffordable for 
Mrs H.
- Mrs H could have cancelled the PPI at any time without losing out financially.
Lloyds also had to give Mrs H clear information about the PPI  in particular about the costs, 
benefits and main exclusions in the policy  so that she could make an informed decision 
about whether or not to take it out.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mrs H wasnt as clear as it should have been but 
this in itself doesnt mean the policy was mis-sold as I have to go on and consider whether 
better information would have put her off taking it out. And I dont think it would have. I say 
this for the same reasons I think the PPI was suitable for her.
So having taken everything into consideration, I dont think Lloyds mis-sold Mrs H this PPI 
policy.
I understand Mrs H has made other complaint(s) that have been upheld. However, each 
case is decided on its own merits and in this particular case, I dont think Lloyds mis-sold 
Mrs H PPI.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Hs complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2020.
 
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman