DRN-3739550
The complaint
Mr I complains that a letter he received from American Express Services Europe Limited 
(AESL) increasing his credit card interest rate was humiliating and defamatory.   
What happened
Mr I holds three credit card accounts with AESL and has been a customer since 1984.
In October 2021, Mr I received a letter from AESL relating to one of his accounts. They said, 
We review Cardmember Accounts on a regular basis to determine whether there is a 
greater likelihood that certain Cardmembers might not be able to repay us. Following a 
recent review, we have decided to increase the Personal Interest Rate on your Account.
Mr I thought AESLs letter was humiliating and defaming addressed to me in person. He 
said hed always maintained his accounts satisfactorily and never defaulted or delayed his 
payments. He accepted banks have a right to increase interest rates but thought they 
should not use the same yardstick to measure all customers.
Mr I decided to complain to AESL. AESL issued their response in an email on 28 October 
2021. They apologised that his experience has left you feeling dissatisfied and our 
decision to increase your interest ratehas caused you inconvenience. AESL also 
apologised that Mr I feels that we are questioning your financial integrityPlease be 
advised we are not questioning your financial integrity, and I am sorry to learn you feel 
otherwise.
AESL explained Mr Is right to opt out of the change. They said this would result in his 
account being closed although any remaining balance could be repaid at the existing rate.
Mr I wasnt happy with AESLs response. So, he referred his complaint to this service. He 
said he wanted a formal written apology upholding (his) written complaint.
Having considered all the information available, our investigator didnt think AESL had acted 
fairly. He said Mr I had previously raised concerns about a similar letter hed received 
relating to another of his accounts some time earlier. Our investigator said AESL had given 
Mr I an assurance they were amending the text of their letter. But the wording of the later 
letter hadnt been changed. Our investigator thought AESL should apologise to Mr I and 
award him £100 for the inconvenience caused.
AESL didnt agree theyd acted unfairly and didnt feel they could be held accountable for 
how Mr I perceives the wording of their letter. They said their letters are passed through 
rigorous testing and compliance analysis and their intentions were never to cause Mr I any 
alarm, dismay or inconvenience.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, Mr Is complaint has been passed to me to consider. 
In doing so, I reached a different outcome to that of our investigator. Because of that, I 
issued a provisional decision on 8 September 2022  giving both Mr I and AESL the 
opportunity to respond to my findings below before I reach a final decision.
In my provisional decision, I said:
Mr I has accepted that AESL are within their rights to vary the interest rate on his 
credit card account. Having considered AESL terms and conditions, I also agree they 
are able to make those changes, providing Mr I is provided with the stated period of 
notice and they have a valid reason for the increase. 
The rules that apply to such changes are detailed within the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys (FCA) Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). 
CONC 6.7.13 says that AESL must give Mr I 60 days notice of any interest rate 
increase and also permit him to pay off the outstanding balance at the rate of interest 
before the proposed increase over a reasonable period. Thats what AESL did here, 
so I cant reasonably say they did anything wrong or made a mistake in that respect.
CONC 6.7.15 provides examples of valid reasons for increasing the rate of interest. 
They include:
(1) recovering the genuine increased costs of funding the provision of credit 
under the agreement; and 
(2) a change in the risk presented by the customer which justifies the change in 
the interest rate, which would not generally include missing a single 
repayment or failing to repay in full on one or two occasions. 
CONC 6.7.16 goes on to say Where a firm increases a rate of interest based on a 
change in the risk presented by the customer, the firm must:
(1) notify the customer that the rate of interest has been increased based on a 
change in risk presented by the customer; and
(2) if requested by the customer provide a suitable explanation which may be a 
generic explanation for such increases.
The wording of AESLs variation letter suggests that the increase, in Mr Is case, 
follows an assessment of whether there is a greater likelihood that certain 
Cardmembers might not be able to repay us. I think this suggests the increase 
resulted from a change in the risk presented by Mr I. 
Mr Is complaint letter of 14 October 2021 specifically asks, Could you please 
explain and clarify to me on what basis Amex have determined that there was a 
greater likelihood that I would not be able to repay Amex my debt?. I think its clear 
that Mr I was requesting a suitable explanation. So, given the requirements of CONC 
6.7.16, I think AESL were obliged to provide that explanation, albeit generically.
In AESL response to Mr Is complaint, they said, I confirm we are making changes to 
your agreement as we are increasing the interest rate on your account. Having 
considered all other correspondence provided, I cant see that AESL have provided a 
suitable explanation where they shouldve done. And while it is accepted that 
explanation can be generic, I dont think theyve addressed Mr Is concern here. So, I 
intend to reflect this in my decision.
The crux of Mr Is complaint then relates to the wording AESL used in their letter. Mr I 
perceives the wording as insulting and defamatory. I do appreciate Mr Is strength of 
feeling here. Perception is a very personal thing. What is seen as reasonable by one 
party may not be considered so by another.
Defamation occurs where theres damage to the reputation of an individual resulting 
from actions or communications to a third-party. Mr I confirms that AESLs letter was 
addressed to him in person. Ive found no evidence that the letter was sent to any 
other party by AESL. So, I cant reasonably conclude that AESLs actions here were 
defamatory. Furthermore, an insult requires there to be deliberate intent. Based on all 
the information available, Ive found nothing to suggest that AESL sent the letter to 
Mr I with the specific intention of insulting him. So, while I appreciate Mr I will be 
disappointed, I cant reasonably say that the wording of AESLs letter supports Mr Is 
perceptions.Mr I has referred to a letter he received from AESL previously, following his complaint 
about a similar variation letter hed received. Im unable to consider the 
circumstances of that complaint as its outcome hasnt specifically been referred to 
this service. However, I accept that AESL had told Mr I that they would be changing 
the wording of their letters based upon his and other customers feedback.
Its unfortunate that the proposed wording change hadnt been introduced by AESL. 
But as Mr Is complaint is driven by his perceptions rather than any inaccuracies or 
mistakes, I cant reasonably say that AESL did anything wrong by not implementing 
those changes sooner.
As a resolution, Mr I would like AESL to uphold his complaint and provide a formal 
written apology. Accepting that AESL havent upheld Mr Is complaint, I believe their 
written response does apologise for how their letter made Mr I feel. And I think that 
was the appropriate thing to do here. 
However, I cant see AESL have provided Mr I with a suitable explanation of why his 
interest rate was increased and why they believe theres a change in the risk 
presented by him. And I believe this is likely to have contributed to Mr Is perceptions. 
For that reason, I believe Mr I should be compensated for any distress and 
inconvenience caused.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr I responded to my provisional decision confirming that he had nothing further to add. 
AESEL havent responded to my provisional decision, despite a follow up request to them.
In the circumstances, and in the absence of any additional information or evidence, Ive not 
been persuaded to vary from my original findings, so my final decision remains unchanged.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Is complaint.
I require American Express Services Europe Limited to:
provide a suitable explanation to Mr I of why theyve concluded theres a change of 
risk, if applicable; and
pay Mr I compensation of £100. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman