DRN-3731315
The complaint
Ms M complains that she has been the victim of a scam and wants The Royal Bank of 
Scotland Plc to refund the money she lost.
Ms Ms complaint that RBS restricted access to her bank account is being considered 
separately.   
Ms M is represented by her grandson and power of attorney, Mr M. To make my decision 
easier to read, I will sometimes refer to Ms M even when it was Mr M that said or did 
something. I intend no discourtesy by taking this approach. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. As such, Ill provide 
only an overview of the most essential facts here. 
In Spring 2020, Ms Ms home was in the process of being sold. She explains her daughter 
was planning to move to a new area and had suggested that Ms M should sell her home and 
use the money towards somewhere where they could all live together. 
Unfortunately, Ms M had a fall as the sale was going through. She moved into her daughters 
home so that family could care for her whilst she recovered. 
Ms M received the proceeds from her property sale into her RBS account on 14 May 2020. 
Mr M says Ms Ms daughter told Ms M that she needed to give her granddaughter money 
towards a property instead and then that amount would be taken from the granddaughters 
inheritance in Ms Ms will. Over the next few days, £65,000 was transferred from the account 
to an account belonging to Ms Ms granddaughter. RBS say the payments were unusual for 
Ms M and as such, it spoke to her on the phone before allowing them to be made. Once the 
payments had been made, Ms M says her daughter blocked contact with her. 
Mr M says that Ms M was heavily sedated and in bed at the time the transactions were 
made. He explains she was taken advantage of by family whilst she was ill and has been left 
in difficult circumstances. He says that Ms M was going to use the proceeds from the sale of 
her home to move abroad but losing this money disrupted those plans and effectively left her 
homeless. 
In July 2020, Ms M went into branch and said that she had been pressurised into making 
payments to help her granddaughter buy a flat. RBS explain the branch immediately 
contacted the Police because it was concerned. 
RBS say that Ms M told the Police she made the payments of her own free will. As such, the 
bank concluded that no scam or crime had been committed. 
Mr M raised a complaint about the payments on Ms Ms behalf. He said his gran had been 
coerced and manipulated into paying this money. When RBS did not refund the money, 
Mr M referred the complaint to this service. 
Two of our Investigators considered the matter and reached broadly the same conclusions. 
The first Investigator explained she had listened to recordings of the calls when the 
payments were made and concluded that Ms M was aware of what they were for. She 
thought the matter was a civil dispute between the family. Mr M disagreed.
When the first Investigator left this service, a second Investigator was appointed to consider 
Mr Ms response. He agreed that Ms M had authorised the payments and that this seemed 
to be in line with a family arrangement to pay her granddaughter an advance on her 
inheritance. He noted that Ms Ms will had been updated to remove her granddaughter after 
the payments were made. He wasnt persuaded that Ms M had been the victim of a scam. 
He said that it looked as if Ms M had an agreement in place with family members and that 
agreement had not gone as planned, but he was not able to establish why as this service is 
not able to question Ms Ms daughter or granddaughter. He didnt think RBS had treated 
Ms M unfairly when it decided the situation was a civil dispute and concluded he couldnt 
fairly ask RBS to refund the money that was sent. 
Mr M remained unhappy. He said that Ms Ms will had been changed so that his mother and 
sister couldnt get access to any more of Ms Ms money after they had scammed her. He 
said that when the disputed transactions were reported, Ms M was taken into a room where 
both the bank and Police spoke to her without an appropriate adult present and that wasnt 
right.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint was referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
My role is to determine whether RBS is responsible for refunding the money Ms M sent. 
Having considered everything that both sides have said and provided, I cannot see any 
basis on which I can fairly instruct RBS to do this. I will explain why.
Has Ms M been the victim of a scam? 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that its customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. This means that if 
Ms M made the disputed transactions herself or agreed they could be made on her behalf, it 
would not ordinarily be fair to ask RBS to refund them. RBS has provided call recordings of 
conversations with Ms M at the time some of the disputed payments were made. My starting 
point is that these transactions were made with Ms Ms knowledge and agreement. But that is not the end of the matter. In some situations, a bank can still be responsible for 
refunding payments that its customer has made if that money has been lost to a scam. To 
see whether any of those situations apply here, I first need to consider whether Ms M has 
fallen victim to a scam. In order to conclude that the payments Ms M made were part of a 
scam, Id need to be reasonably satisfied from the available evidence that her daughter and 
granddaughter had set out to defraud her. 
But I dont think I can fairly conclude what their motives were from the information available 
to me. I dont have the power to compel Ms Ms daughter or granddaughter to provide me 
with evidence, or to cross-examine them or have them cross-examined in order to try and 
establish their true intentions. Im also mindful that Ms M didnt want to pursue criminal 
action against them and that she has said on more than one occasion that she made the 
payments of her own free will. 
On balance, I cant safely say that this situation meets the high legal threshold and burden of 
proof for fraud. As such, I dont think it was unfair for RBS to take the view that the situation 
was not a scam and formed part of a wider family dispute. 
Should RBS have done more to protect Ms M from financial harm? 
There is no responsibility upon a bank to refund victims of civil disputes. But Mr M has made 
serious allegations that Ms M has been manipulated to deceive her of her money. So Ive 
thought about whether RBS ought to have done more to protect her from the risk of financial 
harm. 
A bank should usually follow a customers instruction, unless there is a good reason not to 
do so. RBS has systems in place to monitor accounts for unusual and out of character 
activity and, where appropriate, it can choose to intervene before a payment is made to 
protect its customer from financial harm from fraud. In this case, RBS identified the payment 
requests were unusual and out of character for Ms Ms account. It spoke to Ms M on the 
phone about the payments she was making, on a phone number that we now know 
belonged to her daughter. 
But I dont think the fact the bank had Ms Ms daughters phone number automatically means 
that Ms Ms daughter was taking advantage of her. From the banks perspective, it was just 
as likely that Ms Ms daughter was offering her support, especially as in one of the call 
recordings that I have listened to, Ms M told the banks advisor that she was living in her 
daughters home whilst she recuperated. I appreciate things are often not as cut and dry as 
they may first seem, but I can only consider the issues before me based on the evidence Ive 
seen and I dont think I can fairly conclude that RBS acted unreasonably by allowing the 
payments to be made given the information that was given to it at the time. 
I am more than aware that economic abuse does happen within families and elderly 
customers can be particularly vulnerable. But I have not seen any persuasive evidence to 
show Ms M was being exploited or coerced into agreeing to make payments when she didnt 
really want this to happen. Ive paid careful attention to Ms Ms demeanour at key moments. 
Shes clear that this is her money and she can do whatever she wishes with it. She 
understands that shes spending a large amount of money and answers the banks 
questions clearly and confidently. The bank asks her questions about whether someone is 
forcing her or asking her to make these payments and Ms M replies definitely, definitely, 
not. When the banks advisor talks to Ms M about scams, Ms M tells the advisor that shes 
not stupid and nothing like that would ever happen to her. From what I have heard, 
I consider that Ms M knew her own mind, was well aware of all of her affairs and she 
understood what was happening with her money. I dont think the interaction would or should 
have given RBS cause for concern that she was potentially the victim of financial coercion. From what I have heard, I think its apparent that Ms M wanted to pay this money to her 
granddaughter and I cant see that the bank ought to have had any concerns about that 
based on what shed said. So I dont think it would have been right for RBS to have refused 
to transfer the money in the circumstances.
Ive also thought about what happened when Ms M went into a branch and explained she 
had been pressurised into making the payments. This was no doubt an upsetting and 
serious situation for everyone involved. I dont think it was unreasonable or disproportionate 
for RBS to respond by immediately contacting the Police. Ms M had given the staff a strong 
indication that she was potentially in a very vulnerable position. The decision to contact the 
Police at that point was taken out of concern for her and a desire to protect her. 
I also dont think RBS acted inappropriately by allowing bank staff and the Police to speak to 
Ms M without an appropriate adult present. The conversation was not a criminal investigation 
and Ms M was not under arrest. I have not seen anything that makes me think Ms M was 
unable to speak for herself or that it would have been inappropriate or unfair to expect her to 
do so at that time. Given what Ms M had said, I think the bank wanted to understand 
whether she was making her own financial decisions and the easiest way for it to establish 
this was to speak to her alone to understand her perspective on the situation. I consider the 
bank was acting in Ms Ms best interests and the steps it took in the branch on that day were 
intended to protect Ms M from potential harm.  
I was sorry to read about what Ms M and Mr M have been through in recent years. There is 
no question that this has been a very difficult time for them, and I dont underestimate the 
emotional toll things have taken. But for the reasons Ive explained, I am unable to fairly say 
that RBS has responsibility for refunding the payments in dispute.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman