DRN-2684478
The complaint
Mr P complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt offer him a personal loan at the advertised 
Annual Percentage Rate (APR).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
HSBCs underwriting team decided it would only offer Mr P a loan at an APR of 9.9% 
rather than 3.3% - this was based on checks of Mr Ps personal circumstances 
including from sources such as credit reference agencies.
Im satisfied Mr P was told prior to his application that the APR was representative 
only and wasnt guaranteed. Prior to the application process, I can see the HSBC 
website says The rate is subject to change and the representative APR may not be 
the rate you'll receive. We'll offer you a rate based on our assessment of your 
personal financial circumstances. The maximum APR you could be offered is 21.9%. 
So Im satisfied Mr P was told the rate hed actually receive would be based on his 
personal circumstances and that this could be as high as 21.9%. So I think HSBCs 
advertising material was clear, fair and not misleading about the potential for the rate 
to be higher than 3.3%. 
I appreciate Mr P doesnt understand how HSBC reached its decision  he says he 
has a good credit record and sufficient disposable income. But as long as its process 
has been applied fairly, its within HSBCs legitimate commercial judgement to decide 
who it will lend to and at what rate. And Im satisfied that the offer it made to Mr P 
was based on appropriate and proportionate checks of his personal circumstances.
Mr P has concerns about the impact of the application on his credit file. When Mr P 
applied for the loan he was made aware that his credit file would be checked. 
Knowing this he chose to proceed with the application. It was also his choice to apply 
for the loan when it was made clear to him that the APR he would ultimately receive, 
could be different from the advertised rate. Under these circumstances, I cant fairly 
hold HSBC responsible for any negative impact the application may have had on his 
credit file.
 
Mr P thinks all banks should only be able to advertise the APR that it will give 
customers. But this isnt something I can ask banks to do. My role is to resolve the 
dispute between the parties and to decide whether a financial business has acted 
fairly and reasonably in each individual case. In this case, for the reasons Ive set out 
above, I dont think HSBC has done anything wrong in Mr Ps case.
For all these reasons, although I understand Mr Ps frustrations, Im not upholding the 
complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2021.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman