DRN-2889130
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC unfairly recorded adverse information 
on their credit file which meant they were refused a mortgage with another lender
What happened
Mr and Mrs G had a mortgage with Barclays. In 2018, they made a payment of £14,000 off 
their mortgage balance and contacted the bank to find out what their contractual monthly 
payment (CMP) would be until the date the mortgage was to mature. Barclays told them 
that they should pay £145 including debit interest on their Mortgage Current Account 
(MCA) and they paid that sum. On the 21 June, they contacted the bank again to find out 
what the payments would be and were told the CMP was £89.81 and the debit interest on 
the MCA was £68, so they amended the payment to £157 per month. Mr and Mrs G then got 
an arrears letter from the bank and on 9 July 2018 contacted the bank asking it to stop 
sending these letters. On 19 July 2018, they again contacted the bank about the arrears 
letters and were told that the CMP was £154 together with £67 debit interest, so Mr and Mrs 
G amended their payments to £221.32.
Barclays accepts that it should have told Mr and Mrs G in May that they had to pay £545.66 
rather than £145. As they didnt pay this, the account was in arrears and adverse information 
was recorded on the credit file for July and August 2018. Barclays issued a response to the 
complaint in April 2019 which agreed that it made an error in telling Mr and Mrs G how much 
they had to pay in May 2018 and offered to pay £200 compensation but not to amend the 
credit file. Mr and Mrs G didnt receive this letter. After bringing this to Barclays attention, the 
bank wrote to Mr and Mrs G on 13 February 2020 upholding the complaint and offering them 
£100 further compensation. Barclays then amended the credit file in September 2020 and 
offered a further £150 as compensation for previously not agreeing to amend the credit file. 
Our investigator felt that Barclays had dealt appropriately with the complaint and didnt 
recommend that any further compensation should be paid. Mr and Mrs G disagreed saying 
in summary that we hadnt considered their loss in being refused a new mortgage with a 
different lender because of the damage to their credit file.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no doubt that Barclays failed Mr and Mrs G in not advising them how much they had 
to pay to keep their account in order which caused them to fall into arrears. As a result, 
Barclays informed the credit reference agencies of the late payment which was recorded on 
their credit file. Barclays felt it couldnt amend it and then decided it would. 
It seems that although the incorrect information provided by Barclays led Mr and Mrs G to go 
into arrears in 2018, they were unaware of that until they applied for a mortgage with another 
lender which was refused in July 2019 because, they were told, of a negative credit rating. 
So, Mr and Mrs G felt they had to accept a less suitable mortgage offer from Barclays. 
I investigated this further and thank Mr and Mrs G for the assistance they gave me. Mr and 
Mrs G wanted to transfer to another lender for an interest only mortgage which best suited 
their requirements as they were going into retirement and although the interest rate was 
higher than Barclays, the monthly payments were lower as Barclays was a repayment 
mortgage. It seems that this new lender did a credit check which showed the missed 
payments that were wrongly recorded by Barclays and so refused to continue with the 
mortgage application.
Our investigator was of the view that as an application hadnt been made, it wasnt certain 
that even if Barclays had recorded the credit information correctly, that a mortgage offer 
would have been made. Ive since, through Mrs G, got further information from the new 
lender that its mortgage offer - if it had issued - would have required a £25,000 retention and 
that as the new lender says, this may have impacted on your ability to move your 
mortgage.  Given that, I cant say that it was likely that Mr and Mrs G would take up that 
offer, if it had issued, as the whole purpose of the mortgage move was to reduce their 
spending because of a squeeze on their finances during retirement. Nor do I know if there 
were other issues that might have arisen during the application process that might have 
prevented the new lender issuing an offer. So, I cant fairly say, on the evidence, that 
Barclays error in incorrectly recording the credit information in 2018 caused Mr and Mrs G a 
financial loss and I wont be making an award for financial loss. 
I appreciate the issues that Mr and Mrs G refer to in their email to us of 8 June 2021 require 
redress, namely that their credit information was recorded incorrectly, and that Barclays 
should have acted earlier to remedy it. I see that Barclays offered £200 redress for providing 
incorrect information about the monthly payments and £100 for Mr and Mrs G not receiving 
the final response letter. It also offered a further £150 for telling Mr and Mrs G that it wouldnt 
correct the credit file which it has now corrected. I consider that the compensation offered is 
fair and reasonable for their trouble and upset. As part of this compensation was offered to 
Mr and Mrs G after they brought the complaint to us, as is our practice, I will be upholding 
this complaint.  
Putting things right
Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr and Mrs G compensation of £450.00 as set out 
above. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 July 2021.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman