DRN-2766671
The complaint
Miss B has complained about First Central Insurance Management Limited  it arranged her 
car insurance and she paid it monthly for the policy, but following some problems with 
payment, it cancelled it. Miss B had an accident and was uninsured.
What happened
Miss B arranged her policy in November 2019. In January 2020 First Central asked Miss B 
to provide it further details  it indicated if this wasnt received the policy would cancel. The 
information was provided and the policy continued.
In March 2020 Miss B didnt make her monthly payment on time, but she caught this up 
within about a week. When First Central tried to take the monthly payment due at the end of 
May, the bank wouldnt pay it. First Central emailed a letter to Miss B the next day explaining 
that it had been unable to take the payment and it would try again in a few days. A few days 
later First Central emailed a further letter to Miss B  this confirmed to her that without 
payment being made her policy would cancel in 14 days. First Central sent a reminder a 
week later, the subject header of this email included the phrase your policy is at risk. After 
a further week, with no payment having been made, First Central cancelled the policy. 
Confirmation of the cancellation was sent to Miss B, also in the form of an emailed letter.
A few days after the policy was cancelled Miss B checked her emails. She saw there was an 
outstanding amount to pay, and paid it. Miss B has said she thought that had resolved the 
situation  as it had when shed caught up her missed payment from March. She didnt 
realise, and nothing from First Central alerted her to the fact, that despite her payment, the 
policy was cancelled.
 
On 6 July 2019 Miss B was involved in a crash which damaged her car and that of another 
driver. When she called First Central she was told the policy was cancelled, and had been 
since mid-June. Miss B was upset and frustrated and when First Central wouldnt agree it 
had been wrong to cancel the policy and/or that it should have done more to inform her, she 
complained to us.
Our investigator felt First Central had been able, under the terms of its agreement with 
Miss B, to cancel the policy for non-payment of premium and that it had been clear with her 
about what was happening. He noted Miss B had concerns about what had happened once 
shed complained to First Central  but explained that we couldnt comment on how a 
business handles its complaints. 
Miss B said First Central should have written to her  and at least warned her when she 
made the payment in June that her policy was still cancelled. She felt its failings had led to 
unfair hardship for her. Her complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
With regret for the disappointment I know this will cause Miss B, Im not going to uphold her 
complaint. I think First Central were entitled to cancel the policy and did enough to warn 
Miss B that a) this was going to happen unless action was taken, and that b) action had not 
been taken so the policy was cancelled. 
I understand that during the first part of 2020 Miss B was experiencing some changes in her 
life and that this made it more difficult for her to manage things like her car insurance. I know 
shes said she didnt have access to her mobile phone or the internet and told First Central 
this. However, First Central has no log of Miss B calling it between January, when papers it 
had asked to see were provided to it, and July when the accident occurred. When Miss B 
had arranged her policy, shed selected email as her communication method. Im satisfied it 
was reasonable for First Central to continue corresponding with Miss B in this way, even in 
respect of these important communications about missed payments and policy cancellation.
I think the emails were clear  and included sufficient information in their subject headings to 
let Miss B know they contained important information. Whilst Miss B didnt have general 
access to the internet, I am satisfied that, before the accident, she did open the first warning 
of possible cancellation that First Central sent her, and the email from mid-June which 
confirmed the policy had been cancelled. I understand that Miss B made a payment having 
seen these letters and that when payment was made she wasnt given any further warning 
about the payment being made against a cancelled policy. But neither did First Central 
advise or give any indication, in the cancellation confirmation email or at the time of 
payment, that payment would undo the cancellation that had occurred. And this was different 
to when Miss B had paid Marchs monthly sum late, because at that time the payment was 
made soon enough to avert the policys cancellation. It seems to me that Miss B assumed 
the payment she made in June would make everything alright. Unfortunately for Miss B she 
was wrong and I dont think First Centrals actions misled her into making that conclusion.
As our investigator explained, we cant get involved in concerns about how an insurer 
handles a complaint. That said, I note First Central has offered £50 compensation for what 
its said was a failure by it to log the complaint when Miss B first made it. If Miss B wants to 
receive this compensation, she should contact it direct.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against First Central Insurance 
Management Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 June 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman