DRN-2728110
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs B complain about National House-Building Councils handling of a claim under 
their buildings warranty policy.
What happened
Mr B and Mrs B have a Buildmark warranty policy with NHBC which covers the new-build 
home they bought in 2016.
For the first two years, the policy says NHBC will provide a dispute resolution service if the 
builder doesnt rectify any (covered) faults with the building. In the following eight years, 
NHBC provide insurance and will carry out or pay for any repairs which are covered.
Mr B and Mrs B approached NHBC during the first two years of the warranty because they 
were having persistent problems with their drains. NHBC tried to resolve this with the builder, 
but when that failed, they accepted an insurance claim and responsibility for the necessary 
rectification work.
In October 2018, NHBC carried out an inspection and following that they put together a plan 
of works and appointed a contractor. 
The works began but ceased when the contractor advised NHBC that the fall or gradient on 
the drain was insufficient to allow it to operate effectively. 
This eventually led to a further inspection in February 2019. The upshot being a new 
schedule of works, which involved the local water authority in making adjustments to the 
public drains in the street outside the house.
Mr B and Mrs B made a complaint to NHBC about the poor service and delays with their 
claim up to this point. NHBC sent a final response letter in February 2019, offering £100 in 
compensation. Mr and Mrs B didnt accept this offer. They tell us they thought it was 
insufficient and unacceptable.
A plan was formulated after the inspection in February 2019, but it required NHBC to 
coordinate activity with the local water authority.  
Mr B and Mrs B say NHBC failed to do this until July 2019 - after theyd appointed a solicitor 
to deal with NHBC.
They made a further complaint to NHBC about the inactivity and poor service between 
February and July 2019. NHBC provided a final response to that second complaint in July 
2019, offering £400 in compensation. Again, Mr B and Mrs B didnt find that acceptable and 
didnt accept the offer.
In July 2019, NHBC, the local water authority, the contractor and Mr B and Mrs B came to an 
agreement about a plan to take things forward.
It was agreed that work would commence in September 2019, in line with the Water 
Authoritys schedule. And it appeared everyone was happy with the new plan and timetable.
That work began, but again it was brought to an abrupt end before completion. On this 
occasion, the contractor informed NHBC that the tarmac around the property  which was to 
be replaced as part of the schedule of works  was thicker than expected. In short, the 
contractor appears to have been unwilling to do the job for the previously agreed price.
This led to another hiatus, whilst various solutions were discussed. NHBC proposed to skim 
the existing tarmac and re-surface it, but Mr B and Mrs B found that unacceptable, for 
understandable reasons.
Eventually, NHBC agreed a cash settlement for the work, but only after Mr B and Mrs B lost 
patience and had the work carried out themselves.
Mr B and Mrs B made a further complaint to NHBC, who now offered £600 in compensation 
for their trouble and upset. Mr B and Mrs B werent happy with this outcome and brought 
their complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into it and thought the offer of £600 compensation was fair and 
reasonable. Mr B and Mrs B disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important first of all to set out exactly what I can consider in this decision. 
As weve explained to Mr B and Mrs B previously, there are rules which govern the way our 
service operates  the Financial Conduct Authoritys dispute resolution (or DISP) rules.
These say that before we get involved, a financial business has an opportunity to put things 
right for the customer themselves. If they receive a complaint, they have eight weeks to try to 
resolve things. And they must provide the customer with a final response to their complaint.
The rules also say that once the customer has the final response from the business, they 
have six months to bring their complaint to us if they arent satisfied with the businesss 
answer.
We cant consider complaints brought to us after that time unless the business consents or 
there are exceptional circumstances to explain why the customer could not have brought 
their complaint sooner.
Mr B and Mrs B have made three complaints to NHBC during the course of their claim. The 
first, which was about the delays and poor service up to around February 2019, received a 
final response from NHBC in February 2019.
The second  about poor service and delays between February 2019 and July 2019 - 
received a final response from NHBC in July 2019. 
The third and most recent complaint  about delays and poor service after July 2019 - 
received a final response from NHBC in April 2020.
Mr B and Mrs B brought these complaints to our service in May 2020. So, the last complaint 
was brought to our attention within six months of the final response from NHBC. The previous two complaints were not. And so, we cant look into them.
Mr B has told us he thinks this is unfair, given that it made sense to allow the claim to be 
concluded before he brought the full set of complaints to our attention. I can understand his 
point of view, but I cant choose to ignore the rules which govern our service, and which give 
us powers to investigate complaints and instruct businesses to take action and/or provide 
compensation. As I say, we are entirely bound by those rules and have no discretion to 
operate outside them.
NHBC havent consented to our looking at the two earlier complaints. And there are no 
exceptional circumstances which would explain why Mr B and Mrs B couldnt have brought 
those matters to our attention earlier.
So, in this decision, all Im looking at is the alleged poor service and delays after July 2019.
When I look at this period, I think its important to say right away that however the parties 
reached the point they did in July 2019, at that stage they were all  including Mr B and 
Mrs B  happy to accept that the work would start in September 2019. And they were all 
happy with the proposed plans for those works.
By just after mid-January 2020, Mr B and Mrs B had NHBCs offer to pay for the works 
theyd had completed on the hard standing around their property. So, from the start date for 
the works, theres at most four months delay before things were finally resolved. 
Had the works gone entirely smoothly, they might have reasonably taken some part of that 
four months to complete. 
The remaining delays were due to the contractors leaving the site due to the unforeseen 
issue with the depth of the tarmac and NHBCs attempts to devise an alternative means to 
repair the hard standing by skimming and re-surfacing it.
I think NHBC are primarily, though perhaps not wholly, responsible for those delays. The 
delays certainly arent Mr B and Mrs Bs fault. And its clear that NHBCs initial response to 
the dilemma  to skim and re-surface the hard standing area around the house  wasnt an 
appropriate solution to the problem.
I dont think £600 compensation is unfair and unreasonable given the trouble and upset 
suffered by Mr B and Mrs B in that time. 
They were caused a good deal of inconvenience by the fact their driveway had holes and 
trenches in it (boarded over to provide for access). They had the stress of not knowing when 
and how the issue would be resolved. And they had to go to the trouble of arranging the 
repairs themselves eventually.
But they werent without access to or use of their property. And the repairs were completed, 
as I say, within at most four months of the original start date for the work.
Mr B and Mrs B think NHBC should also pay their legal costs after they appointed a solicitor 
to deal with the claim on their behalf. The costs were just over £2,500.
Im afraid I dont agree with Mr B and Mrs B on this point, for a number of reasons. First and 
foremost, the warranty policy is very clear on this point. In the Section entitled General 
Conditions and Exclusions, the policy document states that NHBC will not pay for:
The cost of getting professional advice in connection with your claim (unless we asked you to).
Additionally, Mr B and Mrs B signed up to a full and final offer for settlement of their claim, 
which NHBC sent to them in January 2020. 
The letter making that offer says that the payment to be made will be in full and final 
settlement. And it explicitly says that:
 (the policy) has an exclusion for professional costs we would not look to cover 
any costs for legal expenses.
If this were buried in the small print of the offer letter or were in any way unclear or obscure  
or if indeed there were any indication that Mr B had Mrs B had been coerced, tricked or 
compelled into accepting the offer  then I might take a different view. But there is no sign of 
any of those things. Mr B and Mrs B signed up to accept that offer with the terms set out 
clearly before them. 
Mr B tells us he wasnt aware NHBC wouldnt pay his solicitors fees until after hed hired the 
solicitor. He ought to have been so aware, if hed read the policy. And in any case, Mr B and 
Mrs B signed up to an agreement which specifically and explicitly made it clear that these 
costs wouldnt be covered. I dont think it would be fair to ask NHBC now to put aside the 
parts of that agreement Mr B and Mrs B have decided they dont like, after NHBC have 
honoured the parts they do like.
So, Im not going to ask NHBC to cover Mr B and Mrs Bs legal costs in this case. 
Putting things right
Mr B and Mrs B have my sympathy. What happened to them in their new house was clearly 
stressful, unwarranted and unfair. The build was clearly defective in a number of ways and 
this led to annoying and persistent problems with their drains.
But it was the builder, not NHBC, who was primarily responsible for the problem. And I have 
to separate out: (a) the distress and inconvenience inevitably caused to Mr B and Mrs B by 
the defective build; from (b) the additional, unnecessary trouble and upset caused by 
NHBCs delays and poor service (after July 2019).
Given the degree of trouble and upset suffered by Mr B and Mrs B  for at most four months, 
during the period I can consider  Im satisfied that £600 is fair and reasonable 
compensation. 
I should be absolutely clear that I think £600 compensation reasonably covers the trouble 
and upset Mr B and Mrs B suffered after July 2019. I make no comment at all  because the 
rules dont allow it  on the period before that time. 
I cant compel them to do so, but NHBC will have to decide for themselves whether their 
offer of (cumulatively) £400 for trouble and upset before July 2019  in addition to the £600 
were now awarding for the later period (after July 2019)  still stands. I cant make any 
direction at all on that point since were not entitled to look at those earlier complaints, as Ive 
explained above.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr B and Mrs Bs complaint.National House-Building Council must pay them £600 for their trouble and upset.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 October 2021.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman