DRN-3448866
The complaint
Miss T complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) applied unfair 
damage charges at the end of her hire purchase agreement.
What happened
Miss T signed a hire purchase agreement with MBFS in November 2017 to acquire a car. 
Due to the Covid-19 pandemic she extended the term of the agreement and this ended in 
June 2021. The car was collected in July 2021 and Miss T says the only damage the 
collection agent noted was to one tyre. Miss T then received an invoice for damages and 
missing items. She didnt accept that these charges were reasonable and raised a complaint 
with MBFS.
MBFS issued its response in August 2021 partially upholding the complaint. It said it had 
reviewed the damage charges and reduced these to include:
Compressor missing 
Panel valance front dented 
Roof dented 
Sill cover right hand insecure 
Wing inner left front insecure 
Tyre right front cut 
Missing V5C document 
Additionally, it offered Miss T £100 as a goodwill gesture. MBFS said the total amount 
required to settle the invoice was £1,934.27 if Miss T accepted the offer before 18 
September 2021, otherwise it reserved the right to pursue the full balance of £2,034.27.
Miss T wasnt happy with MBFS response and referred her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He explained that when assessing damage 
theres guidance set out by the industry trade body, the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing 
Association (BVRLA) about what can be considered fair wear and tear when returning a 
vehicle, and the damage thats fair for a business to charge for. He considered the damage 
that MBFS was charging Miss T for and found this fell outside of normal wear and tear. He 
didnt think that MBFS was wrong to apply the damage or missing item charges. 
Miss T didnt agree with our investigators view. She said that had the roof been dented at 
the time of collection the collection agent would have noted this. She also didnt think the 
charge applied for this was reasonable and that the repair could be carried out for less 
money. She said the V5C document was in the folder she handed to the agent. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Miss T was upset when she received an invoice for charges totalling 
almost £4,000 especially as she thought she would only be charged for a tyre. However, for 
me to uphold this complaint I would need to be satisfied that the charges had been applied 
incorrectly or Miss T had been treated unfairly. I note that MBFS has reduced the charges 
from its initial invoice and so it is only the remaining charges that I have considered. 
I note the points Miss T has made about the collecting agents comments. The car was 
collected on 5 July 2021 and Miss T was provided with a vehicle condition report which 
recorded the damage to the tyre and noted that a second inspection was required. This 
report stated that following the second inspection an invoice showing all charges would be 
sent. Therefore, I find it reasonable to say that Miss T was aware that the car would be 
subject to a further inspection after collection and that the charges would be confirmed at 
this time. 
Miss T has suggested that damage may have happened after the car was collected. I have 
considered this. MBFS has provided a copy of the report details from 5 July and these note 
the compressor and V5 document as missing and record damage to the tyre and roof. 
Therefore, while I appreciate the point Miss T has made about when the damage may have 
been caused these issues were identified on the 5 July. The second inspection took place on 
7 July 2021. The additional issues recorded in the 7 July inspection were panel valance front 
dented, sill cover right hand insecure and wing inner left front insecure. There were only two 
days between the reports and the car had been driven less than 20 miles and so on balance 
I find I t more likely than not that the damage was caused while in Miss T possession than 
after collection. 
As I accept the damage was present at the time of collection, I have considered whether this 
could be considered reasonable wear and tear. As our investigator explained, when 
considering whether it is reasonable for a business to charge for damage, we take into 
account the BVRLA guidelines about what is reasonable wear and tear as well as the 
business own vehicle return standards. I have looked at the photographs from the 
inspections carried out and compared these to the standards for acceptable wear and tear. 
Having done so I find that the damage falls outside what would be accepted as wear and 
tear and so I do not find I can say the charges have been applied unfairly. This is because 
the BVRLA guidelines say that Dents of 15mm or less in diameter are acceptable provided 
there are no more than two per panel and the paint surface is not broken. Dents on the roof 
are not acceptable. The report shows front valance panel is dented and the paintwork is 
broken and the dent on the roof is larger than would be considered acceptable. The report 
further shows that the inner wing and sill cover have become detached and are loose and 
the damage to the tyre (which Miss T has accepted).
While I note Miss Ts comments about the V5 document, this was recorded as missing in the 
5 July report and I do not find I have further evidence that this, or the compressor, were 
provided when the car was returned.
In conclusion, having considered the charges being applied by MBFS as recorded in its final 
response letter, I do not find I can say that these had been applied incorrectly or unfairly. 
Miss T has said that paying the charges will have a big financial impact on her. We would 
expect MBFS to treat her positively when discussing repayment of the outstanding balance.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman