DRN-3271924
The complaint
Mr M complains that Arrow and its agents didnt send him documentation to show it owns a 
valid debt in his name. Mr M also complains that Arrow closed and default his account. 
What happened
Mr M had a credit card with another business (V) that was sold to Arrow in July 2019. Arrow 
sent Mr M a Notice of Assignment (NOA) to confirm the new arrangements. Arrow appointed 
a third party (N) to contact Mr M and try to collect payments. 
In April 2020 N contacted Mr M and he asked it to send him documentation that supported 
its request for payment. N responded and confirmed it would process his request but didnt. 
No payments were made and the account was closed with a default reported on Mr Ms 
credit file. The account was terminated in April 2021. 
Mr M complained and Arrow issued a final response on 16 July 2021. Arrow agreed N 
shouldve sent the documents Mr M requested to him and apologised for the error. Arrow 
sent Mr M a cheque for £50 for the inconvenience caused. But Arrow didnt agree it had 
acted unfairly by closing the account and reporting a default on Mr Ms credit file. Arrow 
arranged for information supporting its claim the debt had been purchased from V to be sent 
to Mr M. 
Mr M referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
thought Arrow had dealt with the complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr M 
didnt agree and said it had taken too long to close and default his account. Mr M also said 
he wanted to see a copy of the original credit agreement and a break down of his accounts. 
As Mr M didnt accept the investigators view, his complaint has been passed to me to make 
a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As there are different parts to Mr Ms complaint, Ill look at each in turn. Mr M says Arrow 
failed to send him documentation to show the debt it was seeking to collect is his. Mr M has 
asked to see a copy of his original credit agreement but Arrow has sent him information from 
its systems. Mr M has also asked for a breakdown of the account and a copy of the NOA. 
The Financial Ombudsman Service considers complaints on a fair and reasonable basis. Ive 
considered whether theres sufficient evidence on file to show whether Arrow is fairly 
contacting Mr M about a debt it owns. Arrow has provided a copy of its NOA that confirmed 
the debt was acquired from V in 2019 and the outstanding balance at that time. I know Mr M 
wants to see a copy of the original credit agreement. But thats not available. In its place 
Arrow has provided a copy of the original application from V. I think thats reasonable in the 
circumstances. I dont think Arrow wouldve been able to obtain a copy of Mr Ms original 
application if it hadnt purchased the account from V.  
I can see Mr M asked for a breakdown of his account and statements. Arrow has provided 
statement information from the period its owned the debt. Ive seen the statements and they 
show the account balance its seeking to collect is in line with the NOA Arrow sent. The 
original credit card with V was opened in 2014 so its unlikely Arrow would be in a position to 
supply statement information going back that far. Mr M has the option of asking V to provide 
historic credit card statements. 
Im satisfied theres sufficient information to show Arrow purchased Mr Ms credit card debt 
from V in 2019 as it claims. As Im satisfied Arrow acquired a debt in Mr Ms name, I havent 
been persuaded its unfair for it to contact him to ask for payment. I note Mr M says the debt 
is unenforceable. But thats something for a court to decide. Were an alternative to the 
courts and I havent found Arrows treated Mr M unfairly. 
Mr M asked N to provide supporting evidence to show Arrow acquired his credit card debt 
but it failed to respond. Arrow paid Mr M £50 and apologised. I think thats a fair way to 
resolve this part of Mr Ms complaint. I dont think the move to default Mr Ms account was 
impacted by Ns delay. As Mr M has confirmed in his response to the investigator, the 
account had been in arrears for a number of years. I can see Arrow sent Mr M 
correspondence to confirm his account would close before the default was registered. Im 
satisfied Arrow followed the right process before closing and defaulting Mr Ms account. 
In Mr Ms response to the investigator he pointed out he was making payments of £4 a 
month from 2016 and says it took too long to close and default his account. This isnt an 
issue I can see Mr M has previously raised with Arrow or V. We cant look at a complaint 
unless a business has already had the chance to investigate and issue its final response. I 
leave it to Mr M to decide whether he wishes to raise this point with the businesses involved. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr M but as Im satisfied Arrow has dealt with his complaint fairly Im 
not telling it to take any further action.  
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman