DRN-3763163
The complaint
Mrs P complained that her claim for stolen jewellery with QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) under her
home insurance policy was unfairly declined.
What happened
Mrs P had workmen carrying out repairs to the outside of her house. She allowed the
workmen to use her toilet which was located on the ground floor. Mrs P said the workmen
went upstairs in her home and proceeded to steal some jewellery.
Mrs P made a claim to QIC under her policy for the theft, but QIC declined the claim as it
said the theft wasnt covered under the policy because Mrs P had lawfully let the workmen
into her home. So, it couldnt attribute the theft to deceptive measures.
Our investigator decided to uphold the complaint. He didnt think QIC had fairly applied the
terms and conditions, as he said the workmen had acted outside of their permission to only
go downstairs in the property. QIC disagreed, so the case has been referred to an
ombudsman.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this on 13 September 2022. I said:
I have looked in more detail why QIC declined the claim to understand if I think it has been
fair. QIC said to outline this decision, I would again like to refer to the Contents Cover
section of your policy wording which states we do not cover  loss or damage by theft or
attempted theft by any person who is lawfully in your home. In light of the above, as the
builders that you believe stole the jewellery were lawfully in your home at the time of the
incident, we cannot attribute this to be theft by deceptive measures.
QIC provided further information that was supplied by Mrs P when she made her claim.
When making her claim Mrs P said the worker who stole the jewellery was given permission
by me to use the toilet only and I would say that it would be implied that the permission was
to go to the downstairs toilet. So, QIC said I am of the opinion that the policyholder made
an assumption that the worker would use the downstairs toilet and did not specify this to
him.
I have reviewed the policy to understand what is covered under the theft peril. The policy
states we will cover loss or damage to your contents while they are in your home if (a) this
was caused by theft or attempted theft following forced and violent entry to your home or (b)
deception has been used to gain entry to your home.
Whilst I appreciate the theft of Mrs Ps jewellery, particularly in these circumstances,
wouldve been distressing for Mrs P, Im not intending to uphold this complaint, and Ill
explain why.
When QIC set its premium for this policy, it did so based on the limitations it set within its
terms and conditions of the policy. In other words, QIC was happy to provide insurance
cover for the policy based upon a certain level of risk. I think the theft that occurred fell
outside of what is covered in the policy or put another way, outside the level of risk QIC
expected when it sold the policy. Therefore, I dont think it would be fair to expect them to
cover the claim.
By Mrs P granting permission to the workmen into her home, I dont think these
circumstances of this theft meet the terms of the policy. As the workmen were lawfully in her
home - no forced entry or deception has been needed for the workmen to enter the property.
I dont think it was unreasonable for Mrs P to allow the workmen to use her toilet, however
as she was taking a risk that she wasnt covered for, I wouldve expected her to take 
reasonable steps to prevent loss. Therefore, whilst I know this will be disappointing for Mrs 
P, but I dont intend to uphold this complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs P disagreed with my provisional decision. Mrs P said QIC are saying that if a policy 
holder allows a worker into their home, the policy holder is not covered should that worker 
steal from the home. As most people at some point, are likely to need a worker to do work in
their home, this situation regarding someone being "lawfully in your home" should be given 
much more prominence in the policy so that it is made obvious and clear. She said if this is 
the case, then the policy isnt fit for purpose.
Mrs P said But [the workman] did deceive me as he asked to use the toilet but actually used 
that as a deception in order to steal from me. And she continued I gave explicit instruction 
for him to use the downstairs toilet and I showed him where it was. There was nothing
implied in what I said to him. I told him explicitly and exactly which toilet to use by showing 
him the downstairs toilet. I did not make an "assumption" that he would use the downstairs 
toilet. I clearly and definitely told him he was to use the downstairs toilet.
QIC agreed with my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Insurance policies, of whatever nature, dont provide cover for all eventualities. QICs
policy provides Mrs P with cover for theft of her jewellery. And within the policy terms there 
are certain circumstances listed  called policy exclusions  where the jewellery wont be 
covered by the policy if stolen.
The risk of providing cover for stolen jewellery rests with QIC. It decides the terms it wants to 
offer cover on, what circumstances it wants to exclude from cover and it sets the price 
accordingly. Generally, the higher the price the greater the cover.
The circumstances excluding cover are typically those which an insurer considers to be too
risky  or, put differently, more likely to happen. In Mrs Ps policy, one of those scenarios is
that QIC isnt willing to provide cover for theft if that theft is carried out by someone the
policyholder has lawfully invited into their home.
Of course, I understand that Mrs P needed work doing at her home. The workmen werent in 
her sight the whole time they were in her home. Mrs P did nothing wrong and she has indeed been the victim of an opportunistic, unpleasant and unwarranted crime. I have every 
sympathy for the situation she has found herself in.
But despite the natural sympathy I have for Mrs P it wouldnt be fair for me to make QIC
settle her claim in circumstances where the policy did not provide cover. That wouldnt be
reasonable. As QIC has acted in line with what the policy terms set out, and shown the 
policy exclusion applies, I cant say it has acted unfairly. The policy doesnt cover loss or 
damage caused by theft or attempted theft by any person who is lawfully in your home. QIC 
has set out that home is defined in the policy as the main building you live in. As Mrs P let 
the workmen into her home, she is not covered for the theft by the workmen under her 
policy. Therefore, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require QIC
Europe Ltd to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman