DRN-3780258
The complaint
Mr E complains about the information recorded on his Credit Karma UK Limited credit file in 
relation to utilities accounts. 
What happened
In January 2022 Mr E contacted Credit Karma to raise concerns over entries on his credit 
file. Mr E explained a utilities supplier was reporting separate entries for his gas and 
electricity supplies. Mr E said multiple entries were impacting his credit score.
Credit Karma directed Mr E to another business (T) that provides the data it uses to produce 
his credit report and said he could raise a dispute with it. Mr E complained and Credit Karma 
apologised for some of the service provided and said its agents couldve given clearer 
explanations of how to challenge information on a credit file. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Es complaint. They thought Credit Karma had 
dealt with Mr Es complaint fairly. Mr E asked to appeal, so his complaint has been passed to 
me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see there was a delay after Mr E first raised his concerns over the dual entries reported 
by his utilities supplier to Credit Karma. After a follow up email, Credit Karma responded and 
advised it uses information from a credit reference agency and data supplier, T, to produce 
its credit reports. And Credit Karma directed Mr E to T to raise a dispute. Thats the correct 
process as Credit Karma isnt a credit reference agency so cant change the information 
recorded on Mr Es credit file. It uses the information provided by T to produce its credit 
reports.
I understand Mr E had already raised the dual entry issues with T before contacting Credit 
Karma. And I agree Credit Karmas initial response failed to clear matters up. But Credit 
Karmas follow up response explained the situation and how Mr E could dispute the entries. 
Im satisfied that was a fair response. 
Mr Es told us the issues have been ongoing for a long time. But I havent seen anything to 
show Credit Karmas made a mistake with Mr Es credit report or treated him unfairly. Im 
sorry to disappoint Mr E but as Im satisfied Credit Karma dealt with his complaint fairly Im 
not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Es complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman