DRN-3090778
The complaint
Mrs C complains about Fairmead Insurance Limiteds handling of her Buildings Insurance 
claim.
All references to Fairmead also include its agents
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
My provisional findings
I sent my provisional findings to both parties on 4 February 2022. In this I set out why I 
needed to reduce the compensation awarded by our investigator. I explained:
Our service previously considered a complaint from Mrs C regarding Fairmeads handling of 
her claim. An ombudsman provided a final decision in September 2018.
My investigation focusses on events following this decision; however, I may refer to events 
prior to this where necessary for contextual purposes.
I understand Mrs C has strong views about what has happened and has provided detailed
submissions to support the complaint. Im sorry to hear of the issues shes described, and 
the impact she said it has had on her and her family. I want to assure her that Ive read and
considered everything she has said carefully.
However, my intended findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues of the
complaint, and not all the points raised. I dont mean this to be a discourtesy. But the 
purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point the parties have raised or to 
answer every question asked. My role is to consider the evidence presented by Mrs C, and 
by Fairmead, to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the 
case.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
The previous decision addressed the initial stages of the claim and provided direction 
as to the next steps that should be taken. Its consideration included the action of 
excavation of the driveway and reinstating the tarmac. I will not therefore be 
commenting on the tarmac or its aesthetic appearance as this was covered in the 
previous decision
I can see our investigators view extended to comment on, and award compensation, 
for matters which fell under the previous ombudsmans directions. Under our rules I 
am unable to reconsider matters previously decided - or how Fairmead carried out 
those directions. As such I will not comment on these here, and while the investigator 
has awarded compensation, this is not something I am able to do for the same 
reasons
All parties agreed, in the previous decision, the pipe was the issue  not the Septic 
Tank. So my investigation, and my intended decision, concerns Fairmeads decision 
to further decline the claim
I can see Fairmead questioned the original construction of the tank, and I can 
understand Mrs Cs frustration and concern here. But as its ultimately declined the 
claim as it feels no insurable event has taken place, I wont be commenting further 
regarding the installation of the system
Fairmead said the soakaway had failed gradually and not due to a one-off event  so 
no accidental damage had occurred. And from the information provided I havent 
seen anything that persuades me Fairmeads conclusion here is obviously wrong. So 
I dont think it declined the claim unfairly at that time
The systems septic tank has subsequently been reported as damaged and a 
separate claimwas initiated. 
In the meantime, I can see Mrs C replaced the tank and Fairmead have since chosen 
to settle for the full cost of replacing it. Which I think is reasonable in the 
circumstances
From considering all the available information while I think Fairmead declined the 
claim reasonably, I do think some compensation is still due. I can see Mrs C asked 
Fairmead if all email correspondence could also be sent by post in February 2019. 
She explained she had missed email correspondence due to being unwell and in 
other emails around this time, explained she had been in hospital.
This didnt happen  and I cant see Fairmead ever acknowledged this request. I can 
understand how this wouldve made the claim harder to manage for Mrs C in what 
was already a stressful situation by nature. Our Investigator recommended £200 
compensation be paid to Mrs C, and I think this is within the region of what I think 
reasonably reflects the inconvenience caused by this, so I dont intend to alter this
Putting things right
To put things right, I intend to direct Fairmead to pay Mrs C £200 compensation
Responses to my provisional decision
Fairmead accepted my provisional decision.
Mrs C has provided no further response or comments to my provisional findings
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reconsidered everything, I see no reason to depart from my initial findings  or my 
reasoning. So my final decision remains that I uphold Mrs Cs complaint for the reasons set 
out above
Putting things right
To put things right, I direct Fairmead to pay Mrs C £200 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
I direct Fairmead Insurance Limited to do as Ive set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman