DRN-3571976
The complaint
Mr J feels that Klarna Bank AB (Publ) has treated him unfairly with regard to his credit 
agreement and his credit file.
What happened
Mr J entered a credit agreement with Klarna in May 2021 to purchase a bike. Mr J says he 
filled all the documents and expected payments to be taken automatically. A couple of 
months later Mr J said he checked his credit file and could see Klarna had logged late 
payment markers relating to June and July 2021. So he complained. He explained that 
although the Klarna staff he had contact with were sympathetic to his situation his complaint 
was unsuccessful. So he complained to this Service.
Our Investigator liaised with Klarna and it changed its position. It offered Mr J £50 distress 
and inconvenience and offered to remove the first months adverse credit reporting. But it 
didnt offer to remove the second missed payment because it said it had sent him sufficient 
reminders and notifications in time so that he could have paid it, even if hed not understood 
he needed to set up the payments originally. 
Our Investigator felt this offer was fair considering what had happened here. But Mr J feels 
that hes done little wrong, that Klarna staff have agreed with him and as such all adverse 
reporting should be removed from his credit file. Hes also paid off the credit as he feels hes 
not been treated fairly.
As Mr J remains unhappy, this complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The facts are not in dispute here. Mr J says he entered the agreement with Klarna. He 
doesnt dispute not paying during the period in question. And having considered the 
statements I can see no payment was made in the months in question. So considering 
everything in the round Im satisfied that the payments werent made. So it follows that 
Klarna could apply late payment markers to his credit file. But the question here is whether 
that would be fair or not.
Mr J says that in credit agreements hes seen before the repayment method is set up when 
the credit is taken out. And for many agreements that is the case. However this running 
account agreement isnt the same as many other types of agreements. Its a running account 
agreement which is more like a credit card type agreement where there may be months 
where nothing needs to be paid because there is no outstanding balance. And other months 
there might be a need to pay significant sums because there is significant borrowing.
So Ive considered what happened from when he took out the borrowing. I can see a 
welcome letter and a copy of the agreement and explanation of how to pay were provided 
just after he purchased the bike. I can also see statements being sent to Mr J which showed 
his purchase, no payments being shown each month to the outstanding balance and the 
outstanding balance not going down. Klarna has also pointed to text messages and other 
correspondence that it sent at the time.
Having considered everything in the round Im satisfied that whether or not Klarna made 
clear the need to set up repayments at the point of sale it did enough after the agreement 
was arranged to tell Mr J that he needed to pay, how to pay and when to pay particularly by 
the time of the second payment Mr J missed. So I dont think it is at fault for him not paying 
the second payment. And accordingly I think it is fair for the latter late payment marker to 
remain on his credit file.
I can see Klarna has offered to remove the first late payment marker and to pay £50. I can 
also see Klarnas staff comments to Mr J about the matter and it not being an isolated 
incident. So although there was some information about paying provided at the start I do 
think Klarnas offer to remove the first payment adverse credit reporting and to pay £50 is 
fair.
Mr J says that if its fair they remove the first then Klarna should remove the second adverse 
reporting as it flows from the same issue. But I dont agree. Ive seen copies of the 
statements sent, along with emails sent (which includes when they were opened) and text 
message reminders as well. And considering the number of these and when they were 
respectively sent I think Klarna did enough to show Mr J that he needed to pay that month. 
So in the round I think the suggested settlement is fair. 
In summary I am not persuaded by Mr Js arguments that the offer isnt enough. So in short 
this complaint does succeed. I appreciate this will be a disappointment to Mr J and I 
appreciate he points to comments made by Klarnas staff. However Klarna repeatedly made 
clear what he had to pay between when the agreement was set up and when he missed the 
second payment which was recorded as late. So I think it fair that particular reporting 
remains.
Putting things right
Accordingly Klarna should remove the first months adverse reporting and pay Mr J £50 if it 
hasnt done so already.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold the complaint against Klarna Bank AB (Publ). It 
should remove the first adverse reporting and pay Mr J £50 if it hasnt done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman