DRN-4253237
The complaint
Mr M complains about how Haven Insurance Company Limited has dealt with a claim on his 
taxi insurance policy. Specifically, Mr M is unhappy with the communication with Haven, 
delays in having the repair done and also the lack of a car while his is waiting to be repaired. 
What happened
Mr Ms taxi was hit by a third partys car, so he claimed on his policy with Haven. Haven 
reviewed the damage and said it would cost around £3,000 to repair. Mr M wanted to use his 
own garage and so got quotes from other garages to repair his taxi. The quotes Mr M 
obtained came in at over £15,000 for the repair. As the repair quotes Mr M obtained were 
more than Haven could repair the car for, Haven said it would repair Mr Ms car or pay him 
the cash in lieu equivalent of what it would cost Haven to repair it. 
Mr M didnt think Haven was handling his claim correctly and complained. He said he hadnt 
had a replacement taxi while his claim was ongoing, he also said the communication from 
Haven wasnt good enough and referred to the cash payment for not having a hire taxi. Mr M 
also said Haven was taking too long to deal with the claim. 
Haven reviewed the complaint and issued a final response on 4 April 2023. In its final 
response Haven acknowledged it hadnt been able to provide the hire taxi as expected and 
had instead offered a cash equivalent. It also acknowledged delays with repairing Mr Ms taxi 
but was due to have a meeting about it the day after. Haven also acknowledged its 
communication hadnt been good enough and apologised. 
A few days later, Haven updated Mr M on his claim and said it could either repair Mr Ms taxi 
or pay him the cash equivalent of what it would cost Haven to repair the taxi. Mr M wasnt 
happy with Havens response and brought his complaint here. He said hed been unable to 
work due to the delays in getting his taxi repaired and thought Haven should pay him the 
repair quotes hed obtained. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and upheld it in part. He found that Haven had 
offered to repair Mr Ms taxi as it should do under the policy. He also didnt think it was fair 
for Haven to pay more than it would cost Haven to repair the taxi. So didnt agree Haven 
should pay the quotes Mr M had obtained. Our investigator also discovered that Mr M had 
now been provided with a hire taxi for the maximum amount of time allowed under the policy, 
so didnt think Haven needed to do anything else. However, our investigator agreed the 
communication about the claim could have been better and recommended Haven pay Mr M 
£100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Haven agreed to our investigators outcome, Mr M did not. Mr M said hed been unable to 
work due to the poor claim handling and thought Haven should compensate him for his lost 
earnings. He also said our investigator hadnt commented on the storage costs for his taxi 
which Haven had been paying for. 
As Mr M didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has made a number of detailed points. Were an informal dispute resolution service set 
up as a free alternative to the courts. In deciding this complaint Ive focused on what I 
consider to be the heart of the matter rather than commenting on every issue in turn. This 
isnt intended as a discourtesy to Mr M. Rather it reflects the informal nature of our service, 
its remit and my role in it.
In this decision I will only be considering what happened up until 19 April 2023. Im aware 
our investigator said we could only consider what happened until Haven issued its final 
response letter on 4 April 2023. However, as Haven then clarified some points on the 19 
April 2023, which is also the date Mr M referred his complaint here, I will be considering what 
happened up until 19 April 2023. Anything which has happened after that date which Mr M is 
unhappy with will need to be raised separately. 
In the event of loss or damage to Mr Ms taxi the terms and conditions of his policy say:
If Your Taxi is damaged, at Our option We will:
a) Repair the damage to Your Taxi; or
b) Settle the claim by monetary payment; Or
c) Provide You with a replacement Taxi.
This means that Haven can decide which option it chooses to settle Mr Ms claim. Ive 
therefore looked at whether Haven has applied the terms in a fair and reasonable way for Mr 
M. 
I can see that Haven has agreed to repair Mr Ms taxi or said it would pay him the cash in 
lieu equivalent of what it would cost Haven to repair the taxi. Haven asked Mr M which he 
would prefer. Mr M has provided quotes to repair his taxi which are over £10,000 more than 
it would cost Haven. But, while I understand Mr M would like the quotes, he's provided paid, 
Im not persuaded Haven needs to do so. I say this because one option available to Haven is 
to repair Mr Ms taxi and as Haven has offered to do this, Im satisfied thats a fair and 
reasonable way to handle his claim and I dont think it would produce a fair and reasonable 
outcome, in this particular case, for me to require Haven to spend more than £10,000 than it 
would cost it to carry out repairs. Haven has also said it would pay the cash equivalent 
amount that it would cost Haven to carry out repairs to Mr M if he wished to use his own 
repairer. As it would be Mr Ms choice to use his own repairer, Im satisfied its fair and 
reasonable for Haven to only pay Mr M what it would cost Haven to repair his taxi. 
Ive also considered the lack a replacement hire taxi Mr M raised. Mr M has another policy 
with Haven which says Haven is obliged to provide Mr M with a hire taxi in certain situations. 
I understand initially that Haven couldnt provide him the hire taxi and so offered the cash 
equivalent. Haven was then able to provide Mr M the hire taxi for the maximum time allowed 
under the policy. Ive reviewed the policy terms and can see Haven has acted in line with the 
terms and conditions, Im therefore satisfied it did what it was supposed to under the policy 
as it ultimately provided the hire taxi for the full duration available under the policy. However, 
given the conflicting information Haven gave about the cash settlement Im satisfied Haven 
caused some unnecessary distress and inconvenience to Mr M which it should compensate 
him for. 
Mr M also raised his loss of earnings and the storage costs for his taxi until it is repaired. The 
terms and conditions of Mr Ms policy says loss of earnings arent covered, however, if Im satisfied Haven has caused unnecessary delays and Mr M was unable to use his taxi then it 
might be appropriate for Haven to cover his loss of earnings on a fair and reasonable basis. 
When reviewing this complaint, I can see there have been some delays by Haven as 
acknowledged in its final response letter. However, when taking all of the circumstances into 
account including the hire taxi and repair times, Im not satisfied Haven has caused Mr M the 
months of delays hes claiming loss of earnings for, I say this as Haven has been trying to 
deal with the claim and arrange the repairs to Mr Ms taxi as I would expect it to. I therefore 
wont be telling Haven to cover Mr Ms loss of earnings.  
I can also see Haven had agreed to cover the storage costs of Mr Ms taxi and has said it 
would be covering these past the point Mr Ms complaint was referred here. As Haven has 
agreed to the storage costs past the date Mr M referred his complaint here, Im satisfied its 
acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances as it means hes not incurred a loss for 
storing his taxi until Haven could repair it. 
As mentioned above though, in my view, Haven hasnt communicated as well as it could 
have, and this has led to unnecessary confusion as to what is happening on Mr Ms claim. In 
particular Haven said hire taxis were available when they werent and also gave the incorrect 
information about how much Mr M would receive when it couldnt provide a replacement taxi. 
To compensate Mr M for this, Haven should pay him £100 for the unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience it caused by the poor communication.  
So, to clarify what Ive said above:
1. Im satisfied Haven has acted fairly by saying it will repair Mr Ms taxi or pay him the 
cash equivalent of what it would cost Haven to repair it
2. Im satisfied Haven acted fairly by providing the hire taxi as required under the policy
3. Im satisfied Haven hasnt caused months of delays which has led to Mr Ms loss of 
earning
4. Im satisfied Haven has given misleading information in relation to how much it would 
pay when it had difficulties in supplying a replacement hire taxi which caused Mr M 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require Haven Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr M £100 for distress and 
inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2023.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman