DRN-3244960
The complaint
Ms A complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) handled her subsidence 
claim unfairly.
What happened
Ms A made a claim for suspected subsidence damage to her property toward the end of 
2017. At the time, RSA concluded that the damage was historic and likely occurred prior to 
them insuring the property. So, they declined the claim.
Ms A complained and an ombudsman at our service decided that RSA should monitor the 
cracks for no less than 12 months, in order to determine whether there was any ongoing 
movement. Because if there was, RSA may be liable for the cost of repairs.
RSA did this, and concluded that Ms As property was stable, so they dont believe theres a 
valid claim for subsidence.
Ms A didnt agree and so came back to our service.
An investigator here looked into the matter and concluded that RSA had been reasonable in 
their assessment and handling of the claim. They felt RSA had relied upon expert opinion in 
assessing the claim and, as that expert opinion ruled out subsidence as the cause, the claim 
rejection was fair.
Ms A didnt agree with the investigator either. She also said RSA had continually tried to 
close the case, had been poor in their communication with her, had delayed matters and had 
interpreted the monitoring results unfairly.
Agreement couldnt be reached, so the case was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the sake of clarity, I wish to confirm that I was limited in what I could consider. Another 
ombudsman looked at the original claim rejection and issued a final decision. So, I could 
only consider what had happened since then, from when monitoring started in January 2019.
RSA instructed their contractors to monitor the cracks for a period of six months. That was 
less than the period required by the ombudsman but once this was identified it was quickly 
resolved and monitoring continued for over 12 months in the end. That was because at one 
point some slight movement was detected, and it was felt it would be beneficial to obtain 
monitoring reports for a further period.
Once the monitoring had been completed, RSAs contractors told them there was no 
progressive movement. They said the point at which movement had been detected was 
within tolerance of thermal movement and general property movement, and that the property 
was effectively stable.
Ms A countered this, saying that the people making the decision werent suitably qualified, 
she also provided some comments from a civil engineer who said he felt the results showed 
changes of up to 1.7mm and that that could not be put down to thermal or general property 
movement. He added that the readings indicate this was the result of below ground 
movement.
The way we look at cases such as this is to consider the evidence provided by both parties. 
My starting point would be, has RSA reached a fair outcome based on the conclusion 
reached by their contractors. Given their contractors have said the movement was within 
tolerance and that there was no evidence of ongoing subsidence, I think it was reasonable 
for RSA to decline the claim.
Ive then gone on to consider what Ms A and her Civil Engineer have said. And while theyve 
offered a different opinion on the matter it isnt sufficient for me to conclude RSAs 
contractors were unfair in their interpretation of the monitoring results. So, I cant reasonably 
say the claim being declined was the wrong decision.
I note Ms A has suggested that RSAs contractors arent suitably qualified, but theyve 
provided evidence that a Chartered Member of the Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors 
considers the house to be stable. And their Lead Adviser on subsidence has said the same. 
So, without anything more convincing from Ms A or her Civil Engineer I cant say otherwise.
Turning to the other issues Ms A has raised. I can see that on occasion RSA did try to close 
the case, but that was due to the mistake in only requesting six months monitoring to begin 
with. And as I say, that was quickly remedied so I dont think it had any significant impact on 
the matter.
From what Ive seen, I acknowledge that RSA appear to have stopped giving Ms A regular 
updates on the monitoring for a period but as it continued to be carried out I dont think that 
had a significant impact either.
In terms of delays, Ms A says the matter has gone on far too long and that has allowed 
damage to worsen and prevented her from arranging repairs. But I dont think there have 
been any unreasonable delays  and I ask Ms A to remember I am only looking at what has 
happened since January 2019.
There was a period where monitoring was paused due to coronavirus restrictions being 
introduced in March 2020. And whilst Ms A says the monitoring was taking place outside, I 
still dont find it unreasonable that a pause was felt to be necessary, given the monitoring 
wouldnt have been considered as emergency work.
I accept that the monitoring went on for significantly longer than the 12 months the previous 
ombudsman decided was necessary, but from what Ive seen that was for Ms As benefit. At 
one point some slight movement was noticed and so it was felt the right thing to do was to 
carry on for an extended period in case it continued. But, following that, it was concluded the 
property was stable, so I dont think it was of any detriment to Ms A.
Ms A has also said that RSA took too long to issue their final response letter in this matter. 
Based on their file notes I cant see that Ms A raised a complaint with them before she came 
to our service. And while it seems RSA then took more than the allotted eight weeks to issue 
their final response, I dont consider that to have had much effect in the grand scheme of 
things.Ms A could have come back to us at the end of the eight-week period and asked us to start 
our investigation regardless of what RSA had, or hadnt, done. And complaint handling on its 
own isnt a regulated activity, which is what Id need to find had been the cause of any issues 
in order to uphold a case.
Overall, while I consider there to have been some shortcomings in RSAs handling of the 
matter, they were relatively minor. I do appreciate that for Ms A this matter has been ongoing 
for over four years, so I hope my decision can at least bring some closure for her.
My final decision
It is my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2022.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman