DRN-3647757
The complaint
Ms H complains that Everyday Lending Limited (Everyday Loans) lent to her in an 
irresponsible manner.
What happened
Ms H was given 2 guarantor loans by Everyday Loans. She borrowed £5000 in December 
2017 and agreed to repay this over 36 months. She then went back to Everyday Loans and 
applied for a top up loan in June 2019. Most of the proceeds of this second loan was to be 
used repaying loan 1. The remaining balance went to Ms H. The second loan was again for 
£5000 and was due to be repaid over 36 months.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in July 2022. Both parties have received a 
copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from the decision 
below. I said;
Everyday Loans gathered some information from Ms H before it agreed to the first loan. It 
asked Ms H about her income and expenditure. It says it verified her income by asking for a 
payslip. It carried out a credit check and also requested and looked through 2 months worth 
of bank statements. It then used a figure of 35% of Ms Hs verified income to use as her 
living expenses. It says those checks suggested Ms H had enough disposable income each 
month to afford the loan repayments. 
Ms H was entering into a significant commitment with Everyday Loans. She was agreeing to 
make monthly repayments for a period of 3 years. So, I think it is right that Everyday Loans 
wanted to gather, and independently check, some detailed information about Ms Hs 
financial circumstances before it agreed to lend to her. I think that the checks it did were 
sufficient to achieve that aim. I think Everyday Loans checks were proportionate. 
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to
react appropriately to the information those checks show. Those results might sometimes 
lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a consumers financial situation. Or, in some 
cases, the results might lead a lender to decline a loan application outright. So, Ive looked at 
what the Everyday Loans gathered to see whether it needed to ask for more or whether it 
made a fair lending decision. 
Everyday Loans credit check showed that Ms H was making use of other credit at the time 
she applied for loan 1. She had a loan and 5 credit cards. Ms Hs open accounts appeared 
to be well maintained with no issues reported. 
Ms H told Everyday Loans she was going to consolidate her loan and then use the rest of 
the capital for other reasons. So, it took the loan repayment figure off when it assessed 
affordability. I think it was entitled to rely on what Ms H had told it she was going to use the 
money for at this point. The amount that Everyday Loans had calculated Ms H to have in 
disposable income after it did this, meant that she could afford the repayment for loan 1.
So, at this stage I currently dont think Everyday Loans did anything wrong when it agreed to 
give her loan 1, based on what it had gathered and what it had in front of it.
Ms H asked Everyday Loans for loan 2 in June 2019. She had a large balance left to repay 
from loan 1 and most of the capital was to be used to repay it. A small balance was left over 
which Ms H said she was going to use for home improvements. Everyday Loans has said it 
will put things right for this loan, but it doesnt agree with the investigators findings. So, for 
this reason, I have looked into what it did when it agreed to provide the loan to Ms H. 
As before, Everyday Loans asked Ms H for information about her income and expenditure. It 
largely carried out the same checks as it did for the first loan including a credit check. This 
time though, it used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data to calculate her monthly living 
costs. The checks again suggested that Ms H had enough disposable income each month to 
afford the second loan repayments. I think on balance, its checks were also proportionate. 
But again, I think it would need to react to what these checks showed, and I dont think it did 
for loan 2. I think it should have not agreed to lend and I will explain why.    
The credit check that Everyday Loans carried out showed that Ms H had taken out new 
credit since it had last carried out a check on her finances for the application for loan 1. I can 
see that at the time of requesting Loan 2, Ms H had 3 open short term loans, with the most 
recent of these being taken out by Ms H in March 2019 only 3 months before her application 
for this one. She had also defaulted on a credit card in November 2018, between taking out 
loan 1 and asking for loan 2. Ms H had also accrued arrears on a second credit card. 
Ms Hs outstanding debt and her monthly credit commitments had increased significantly 
and in a fairly short space of time. Seeing all of this on Ms Hs credit report, demonstrates to 
me, on balance, that Ms H was having problems managing her finances. This loan would do 
nothing to alleviate that or improve the situation she found himself in. She wasnt for 
example, able to use the proceeds of this loan to consolidate the short-term loans or pay off 
her arrears. And she didnt say she was going to use the additional amount passed to her by 
Everyday Loans for any of this either. For the reasons I have just mentioned, I dont think the 
loan repayments for loan 2 were sustainably affordable for Ms H, as she didnt appear to be 
able to repay what she was already committed to. So I dont think Everyday Loans should 
have agreed to it.  
In conclusion, I think Everyday Loans made proportionate checks when it agreed to loan 1 
and on balance didnt do anything wrong when it agreed to lend at that stage. But by the 
time Ms H asked for loan 2, her circumstances had changed, and Everyday Loans ought to 
have seen and reacted to this through the checks it made. I am currently minded to think it 
didnt make a fair lending decision when it agreed to loan 2. So, I uphold Ms Hs complaint 
and Everyday Loans need to put things right.
I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response to 
my provisional decision. Everyday Loans did not respond. Ms H responded through her 
representative and said she is willing to accept the decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has anything further to add that I feel I need to comment on or that will 
change the outcome of this complaint. So, because of this, I dont see any reason to depart 
from my findings within my provisional decision. With that being the case, I uphold Ms Hs 
complaint.  Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Ms H to repay the principal amount that she borrowed for 
loan 2, because she has had the benefit of that lending. But she has been indebted with 
interest and charges on loan 2 that shouldnt have been provided to her.
Everyday Loans should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges on loan 2 and treat all the payments Ms H has 
made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Ms Hs loan account results in her having effectively made payments 
above the original capital borrowed, then Everyday Loans should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date 
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled*.
Discuss with Ms H an affordable repayment plan if there is still an outstanding 
balance to repay.
Remove all negative information about Loan 2 on Ms Hs credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to deduct tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans should give Ms H a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she 
asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Hs complaint and direct Everyday Lending Limited to 
put things right as I have described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman