DRN-4217992
The complaint
Mr W says that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) acted irresponsibly by providing 
him with an overdraft facility and allowing him to increase his overdraft limit to £2,000 when 
he was in an individual voluntary arrangement (IVA). 
What happened
Mr W applied online and was agreed for an overdraft with a limit of £200 in July 2020. This 
was increased to £2,000 the following month.  
Mr W complained that the overdraft lending was irresponsible and is unhappy that 
Nationwide wouldnt offer a loan to pay back his overdraft. Nationwide says Mr W passed all 
its credit checks at the time of the lending and it hadnt made any errors in allowing the 
overdraft facility. Nationwide says it is unable to offer Mr W a loan at present as hed stopped 
paying back his overdraft.  
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ws concerns and didnt think Nationwide had made 
an error on its overdraft lending and was satisfied that Nationwide had carried out 
appropriate credit checks and that the lending was affordable based on the information 
Nationwide had. They hadnt seen any evidence of Mr W being in an IVA and as Nationwide 
took action quickly when it became apparent Mr W wasnt managing his account they didnt 
think Nationwide needed to do anything more.
Mr W disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including the 
key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive referred to this 
when deciding Mr Ws complaint. Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail. 
Nationwide needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means 
is Nationwide needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr 
W would be able to repay what he was being lent before providing any credit to him. Our 
website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. 
Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of 
how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship. But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income 
was low or the amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the 
greater the risk of it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial 
difficulty. 
Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether Nationwide did what it needed to 
before agreeing to Mr Ws overdraft. Mr W was given what was an open-ended credit facility. 
So overall this means the checks Nationwide carried out had to provide enough for it to be 
able to understand whether Mr W would be able to repay his overdraft within a reasonable 
period of time. 
Nationwide says Mr W had an initial overdraft with a limit of £200 increasing to just over 
£2,000 the following month in August 2020. Nationwide says all overdraft and limit increase 
applications were fully credit scored taking into account information about how Mr W had 
managed his account with it as well as carrying out a credit check  a copy of which has 
been provided.
I can see that despite Mr W saying he was in an IVA that at the time Mr W applied for the 
overdraft and limit increase he had no adverse information showing up through the credit 
check Nationwide carried out and I havent seen any evidence to negate this. I can also see 
from Mr Ws bank statements that prior to the lending he was receiving healthy regular 
credits into his account which exceeded the overdraft limit he requested and had a healthy 
credit balance in the months leading up to the overdraft being granted and that the overdraft 
limits he requested were within the affordable limit Nationwide had calculated for him. And 
based on this information Nationwide was satisfied his score was high enough to provide 
him with the overdraft facility and limits he requested.
I accept that Mr Ws financial position may well have been worse than the credit checks 
carried out showed or in any information he disclosed to Nationwide at the time of his 
applications. And it is possible that further checks might have told Nationwide this. But 
Nationwide was reasonably entitled to rely on the credit check it carried out and the 
information Mr W provided it. And given there wasnt any adverse information shown on the 
credit check and his account showed a credit balance, I think Nationwides checks went far 
enough. 
So I dont agree that Nationwide acted irresponsibly by allowing Mr W an overdraft and 
agreeing to increase his overdraft limit. And considering the credits going into the account I 
dont think that it was unreasonable for Nationwide to conclude Mr W would be able to repay 
the additional funds within a reasonable period of time. 
This means that I dont agree Nationwide provided Mr W with an overdraft unfairly or 
irresponsibly. That said, even though I dont think Mr Ws overdraft was approved 
irresponsibly, Nationwide still wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr W if it 
applied any interest, fees and charges to Mr Ws account in circumstances where it was 
aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware Mr W was experiencing financial 
difficulty. 
So Ive considered whether there were instances where Nationwide didnt treat Mr W fairly 
and reasonably. Mr W didnt start using his overdraft until the end of October 2020. The 
statements show that Mr W didnt use his overdraft to live on, but rather he used it to make 
two transfers out of around £2,000 in January and again in May 2021. 
Following this point Mr Ws no longer paid his salary into the account but continued to credit 
his account with transfers from another account. In August Mr W exceeded his overdraft limit 
and direct debits were now being regularly returned. Mr W stopped crediting or using the 
account in November 2021 and in response Nationwide closed off his account in March 
2022 around four months later  which is in line with what Id expect it to do.So I dont think that Nationwide treated Mr W unfairly or unreasonably as up until August 
2021 there didnt appear to be any signs of financial difficulty and as soon as Mr W stopped 
managing his account Nationwide took appropriate action quickly, which means that Im not 
upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman