DRN-2648187
The complaint
Mr P complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited has unfairly declined 
a claim under his pet insurance policy.
For ease, any reference to Red Sands also includes its agents.
What happened
In late 2019 Mr P visited his vet as his dog had a lump on his lower jaw. The vet suspected 
an epulis and removed the lump. Unfortunately the lump returned, requiring surgery to 
remove this and to reconstruct the jaw. Mr P made a claim on his pet insurance policy. Red 
Sands turned down the claim on the grounds that the policy didnt cover any dental or gum
treatment. Mr P complained, providing additional information from the vets involved, but Red 
Sands maintained that the claim wasnt covered.
Unhappy with this outcome, Mr P brought the complaint to this service. Our investigator
looked into the matter but didnt uphold the complaint. She found that the condition
diagnosed was a mass which affects the gum and therefore it was reasonable for Red
Sands to rely on the exclusion to turn down the claim.
Mr P disagreed with our investigators opinion so the complaint was passed to me to
decide.
In January 2021 I issued my provisional decision. In it I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Insurance policies do not provide cover for every eventuality. Each policy includes terms and
conditions which explain what will be covered by the insurer and also the risks that it doesnt
wish to insure. The terms and conditions of the policy Mr P took out excludes claims for Any
dental or gum treatment. The policy defines treatment as any examination, consultation,
advice, tests, x-rays, slides, ultrasound, MRI, medication, surgery or nursing care. What I
need to consider is whether it was reasonable for Red Sands to rely on this term to turn
down the claim.
Ive seen the medical reports and letters provided by the vets who treated Mr Ps dog and
note that these refer on a number of occasions to the growth being gum related. The
condition was initially diagnosed as an Acanthomatous Epulis - an Epulis being a tumour
found on the gum. The results of a CT scan a couple of months later confirmed the likely
recurrence of the tumour, stating it was arising from the gingiva (gum) and appeared to be
confined to that area. Im satisfied this is treatment, as defined by the policy, that relates to
the gum and therefore would be excluded by the terms of the cover.
Mr P has referred to the substantial work done to his dogs jaw, including the removal of the
life-threatening cancerous tumour and the reconstructive surgery. He says this is not
treatment of gums or teeth and therefore it should be covered. I appreciate Mr Ps point of
view but I dont agree that this is a separate matter. In cases like these I rely on the medical
evidence supplied and the documentation Ive seen refers to the treatment as being related
to the epulis or tumour on the gum  so I dont think that Red Sands has acted unfairly in
refusing to cover any additional or subsequent treatment that was required as a result.
In support of his claim, Mr P has recently provided us with evidence that Red Sands paid a
claim for a different pet, who appears to have had a similar medical condition and
circumstances. I have considered that evidence, but it hasnt persuaded me to uphold Mr Ps
complaint. Thats because my provisional decision is based on the individual circumstances
of Mr Ps case, and in light of his circumstances, and the other evidence relevant to his
complaint, Im currently satisfied that Red Sands has acted fairly in its decision to refuse the
claim.
Both parties provided a response to the provisional decision. Red Sands said it had nothing 
further to submit. Mr P said that he disagreed with the outcome. He said that he didnt 
understand how an insurer can pay out on another claim that he says was identical to his but 
refuse his claim. He also provided a further letter from the vets who treated his dog in which 
it describes the extensive treatment that was required. In this letter the vet says that there 
isnt any evidence that routine dental hygiene can reduce the risk of the disease so he feels 
this should be considered as cancer surgery and not any form of dental treatment. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted the additional comments made by Mr P about the other claim made and also 
reviewed the letter he has recently provided from the vets who treated his dog in this case. 
And whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr P, this information doesnt persuade me to alter my 
outcome. 
Ive looked at the additional correspondence from the treating vets regarding the condition 
which has caused the claim. Ive noted that this letter explains the treatment that was 
required and why the vet doesnt think it should be considered as dental treatment. But I 
dont think there is any indication that this claim is being rejected as it is believed it occurred 
as a result of poor dental hygiene. The policy excludes dental and gum treatment - the 
evidence provided indicates that this lump was situated on the gum on the lower jaw. 
An insurer is allowed to decide what it does and doesnt want to provide cover for. Red 
Sands has decided not to provide cover for claims for gum treatment. As this lump was 
located on the gum, I dont think it is unreasonable for Red Sands to reject the claim for the 
treatment that was received for this condition.
I do appreciate why Mr P feels the information about another claim made should be taken 
into consideration but as mentioned before, complaints are considered on their own 
individual merits, based on the specific circumstances of that case. The complaint made to 
this service relates to rejection of the claim Mr P submitted for the treatment received by his 
dog and based on the information and evidence supplied in relation to that claim, I think Red 
Sands has acted fairly when making that decision.
My final decision
For the reasons stated above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman