DRN-3684731
The complaint
Mrs Z has complained about the poor service provided by ReAssure Limited when she made 
a withdrawal from her pension. She says as a result of the delayed payment shes had to 
pay additional income tax on the withdrawal. 
What happened
Mrs Zs complaint was considered by two of our investigators. They set out the background 
and circumstances to the complaint in their assessments, which were sent to both parties. In 
summary, Mrs Z wanted to make a withdrawal from her pension. She says that having 
initially being unable to find the right option on ReAssures website she called ReAssure 
about it in February 2021. Mrs Z says ReAssure redirected her back to its website at that 
time. ReAssure said it cannot find any records of Mrs Z calling it in February 2021.
Mrs Z said neither she nor her husband were able to find the right option online. So Mrs Z   
e-mailed ReAssure on Thursday 11 March 2021 saying:
I would like to take out some of my pension to pay for some medical treatment. I would like
to clear £20,000 after tax taking a clear £10,000 in this tax year and the rest in the new tax 
year. My personal tax code is 1250L I think. Please advise the best way to do this and if 
under the present restrictions I can discuss this on the phone with someone.
The e-mail was received in the relevant department on 12 March 2021. With no reply, Mrs Z 
resent her e-mail on Tuesday 16 March 2021. Mrs Z also completed an online help form on 
16 March 2021.This said:
I have tried online to organise a withdrawal from my retirement pension. I would like to
withdraw £12,000.00 from my pension as a one off payment this year. Could someone help
and let me know what I can do. Thanks.
.
ReAssure called Mrs Z on 23 March 2021. My understanding is that Mrs Z was told to 
contact an office of ReAssures based in Romford. In a further conversation on 25 March 
2021, Mrs Z was advised it was too late to arrange a withdrawal for the 2020/21 tax year. 
However a quotation was sent to Mrs Z to withdraw a sum of £25,000. The documents were 
issued on 27 March 2021. Mrs Z signed the required forms on 31 March 2021 and returned 
them with a covering letter setting out her complaint. ReAssure received the correspondence 
on 8 April 2021.
In response to the complaint, ReAssure said they received the required paperwork on 8 April
2021, but hadnt processed the withdrawal in timely manner. They offered interest for Mrs Z
being deprived of using the funds, for the delay between 8 and 27 April 2021. In addition, an
offer to pay £50 for the upset was made.
Our investigators didnt recommend that the main part of Mrs Zs complaint should be 
upheld. The first investigator explained that pension withdrawals werent as simple as the 
sale of an investment or a bank transfer. He said they were broadly similar to payroll 
payments, and cut off dates were to allow for the relevant processes to be carried out and 
appropriate tax codes applied. 
The first investigator said in light of the lack of a record of a call to ReAssure in February 
2021, the earliest record of Mrs Z contacting ReAssure was on 11 March 2021. And that 
based on ReAssures requirement for 20 working days to process an end of tax year 
payment, the request couldnt be processed in time to make payment before the new tax 
year started. He said ReAssures records suggested it contacted or tried to contact Mrs Z on 
16 March 2021. It received a call from Mrs Z on 23 March 2021. And discussed the 
withdrawal with Mrs Z again on 25 March 2021 where she was told it was too late to arrange 
a withdrawal in the current tax year. The investigator thought that ReAssure should have 
alerted Mrs Z that it wasnt possible to arrange the withdrawal in time earlier, as it was clear 
that it was important to her to arrange the withdrawal in the 2020/21 tax year. 
The investigator noted that ReAssure had acknowledged that it hadnt paid the withdrawal to 
Mrs Z in a timely manner on receipt of her request on 8 April 2021. It had offered Mrs Z 
appropriate interest on the late payment and £50 for the upset caused. The investigator said 
he thought ReAssure should increase its offer for upset and inconvenience to £200 given the 
additional upset and inconvenience caused by it failing to alert Mrs Z about the withdrawal in 
a timely manner.
The second investigator noted that ReAssure hadnt got any records of Mrs Z calling it in 
February 2021. And that Mrs Z had been unable to obtain records of the calls from her 
phone provider during that period. He said he thought the starting point was therefore 11 
March 2021, when Mrs Z e-mailed ReAssure saying she wanted to make a withdrawal. 
The investigator explained that ReAssure had given us conflicting information about the 
relevant cut-off date. But he said despite the ambiguity, he thought by the time ReAssure 
called Mrs Z on 23 March 2021 it was clear that the withdrawal couldnt be completed in the 
2020/21 tax year. He said there was a further complication as Mrs Z had to set up a new 
bank account for the payment and ReAssure didnt hold records of this account.
The investigator said ReAssures records indicated it had spoken with Mrs Z on 16 March 
2021, but it hadnt told her that the withdrawal request may not be able to be completed on 
time. ReAssure had also said it wasnt its standard procedure to advise its policy holders of 
the cut-off date for the tax year during a call. But it said its call handlers were aware of the 
cut-off date and could provide that information if requested. 
The investigator said he didnt think Mrs Z would have thought to ask that question. But he 
thought as ReAssure knew of the urgency of Mrs Zs requirement and the possibility it might 
not be completed in the 2020/21 tax year, he thought ReAssure should reasonably have 
made Mrs Z aware of it on 16 March 2021, and managed her expectations. 
Overall, the investigator thought Mrs Zs request to make a withdrawal was received too late. 
But he thought that as ReAssure knew of the urgency of the situation it should have told Mrs 
Z that her withdrawal may not be completed in time. Therefore he agreed with the first 
investigators recommendation that ReAssure should pay Mrs Z £200 for the upset and 
inconvenience caused, alongside its reasonable offer to pay interest for late payment at the 
rate of 8% simple (per year).
Mrs Z didnt agree with the investigators assessments. She said, in summary, that 
ReAssure had her appropriate bank account details prior to her initial approach in February 
2021, and she had a letter confirming this. She said she had asked for assistance to 
withdraw the funds in February 2021 but received no help until late March - despite 
numerous requests. And by this time it was too late. She said if shed been passed to 
ReAssures Romford team in February the situation wouldnt have arisen. Mrs Z thought that ReAssure was culpable in causing the delay and the resulting tax losses 
shed suffered. Mrs Z said all her dealings with the company had been littered with 
incompetence and ineptitude. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mrs Z will be particularly frustrated with the matter given she says she first 
contacted ReAssure about the withdrawal in February 2021. And spent several long periods 
when she telephoned ReAssure on hold, being subsequently re-directed to different 
departments (both in February and March 2021). However, as explained by the 
investigators, ReAssure has no record of contact in February 2021. I note that when Mrs Z 
e-mailed the firm on 11 March 2021 there was no mention of any previous contact. And Mrs 
Z has been unable to provide evidence of a call from her phone provider. I accept that 
doesnt necessarily mean that Mrs Z didnt call/speak to ReAssure in February 2021. But Im 
not persuaded there is sufficient weight of evidence for me to conclude that it was more 
likely than not that Mrs Z did first call the firm about the withdrawal in February 2021.
So like the investigator, I think the firms actions need to be considered following receipt of 
the 11 March 2021 e-mail. Mrs Z has said she tried to arrange the withdrawal online in late 
February 2021 but was unable to, and then called ReAssure who directed her back to its 
website. She then tried again without success, and subsequently e-mailed ReAssure on 11 
March 2021. I realise that Mrs Z may not have been aware of it, but I think by 11 March there 
was limited time to arrange the withdrawal.
As the investigator said, ReAssure has referred to different cut-off dates. Its website referred 
to mid-March, but it has also said as late as 22 March 2021. Like the investigators, I think 
ReAssures call handlers should have alerted Mrs Z to the position and cut-off dates earlier. 
Mrs Z has said if shed been offered a form to complete the withdrawal at an earlier date 
(which is how the withdrawal was subsequently arranged) she would have had a good 
chance of making the cut off date. For the reasons Ive given above, Im not persuaded there 
is sufficient evidence to conclude its likely the February calls were made. And I think the first 
appropriate opportunity to send the forms was following the call on 16 March 2021. However 
I think even if Mrs Z had been sent the forms following that call, there was no guarantee that 
the withdrawal would have been processed in time even if the forms had been returned in a 
more timely manner (than the original forms) and irrespective of the bank details.
Overall, looking at the position from 11 March 2021, Im not persuaded that the withdrawal 
would most likely have been completed in time but for any failings on the part of ReAssure. 
However, for the reasons outlined by the investigator and set out above, I think ReAssure 
failed to manage Mrs Zs expectations earlier which caused additional distress and 
inconvenience. 
My final decision
My final decision is that ReAssure Limited should pay Mrs Z £200 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
It should also pay interest at the rate of 8% simple (per year) on the delayed payment  if it 
hasnt already done so.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2023.
 
David Ashley
Ombudsman