DRN-2658253
The complaint
A, a limited company, complains that GPUK LLP gave it incorrect information about a card 
payment which led to it being the victim of fraud.
What happened
A had an agreement with GPUK for it to process card payments. A took a payment from a 
customer for £6,900 on 12 August 2019. It says it contacted GPUK that day to ask about the 
payment. And was told that if it wasnt contacted back by GPUK in 24 hours there wasnt any 
problem. It says it didnt receive a call but that on 14 August 2019 it found out that that 
GPUK were concerned about this payment and two others. It had released the goods by 
then. The payment for £6,900 was charged back and GPUK wants A to repay the full 
amount.
GPUK said that it didnt tell A that the payment would be safe. It said it told A that it would 
take 24 to 48 hours for the payment to be settled to As bank account. And it didnt tell A that 
it would be contacted or informed within 24 hours as claimed. It had no record of A calling on 
14 August 2019 and being told that the payment had gone through. It had called A that day 
about its concerns about this payment and two others through the same customer for £7,500 
each. GPUK had told A to refund those other payments. This payment was taken as a card 
not present transaction. It processed a chargeback of £6,900 in line with the requirements of 
the card scheme and the terms and conditions of its agreement as the genuine cardholder 
had said that the payment wasnt authorised.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that A had first 
attempted to take this payment from its customer on 9 August 2019, but it hadnt gone 
through. The customer had used a different card on 12 August 2019. There was a dispute 
over what A was told on 12 August 2019. There was no record of A calling on 14 August 
2019 and no recordings of any calls now available. It wouldnt have been correct for GPUK 
to have said that the payment was certain and not potentially subject to chargeback. And 
under the terms and conditions of the agreement A had with GPUK it was responsible for 
any chargeback amounts. There were specific risks with a cardholder not present payment 
set out in its terms and conditions and A had allowed the goods to be taken by an agency. It 
had never had the payment card and couldnt show that the genuine cardholder authorised 
the payment. 
A didnt agree and wanted its complaint to be reviewed. It said that there was some 
confusion about the call referred to on 14 August 2019. Key was what it had been told on 12 
August 2019. It provided a statement from a member of staff working at A at the time which 
confirmed what the directors had said. GPUK had also told A that it could provide a copy of 
the recording and it was unclear why we hadnt received this. A said that its mobile phone 
provider had agreed to provide a log of its calls at that time. This loss had a devastating 
affect on a small business, and it wasnt As fault that it seemed to have taken so long for the 
calls to be requested.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
background
I know that our investigator has been in further contact with GPUK and it says that there are 
no call recordings available. GPUK didnt send call recordings with its initial business file and 
all the evidence available was sent to the investigator. There also seems to be some 
confusion about exactly which calls are in dispute and so I want to set out an extract from 
As complaint form as follows:
Being cautious after the initial declined payment we phoned global payments at 14:52 on 12 
8 19 and checked there was no problem with the payment. We were told that if there was 
any type of problem at all we would be informed within 24 hours. We phoned global 
payments at 13:00 on 14 8 19 which was over 46 hours later and were told that the payment 
was absolutely fine it had all gone through, the money was going into our account and there 
was no problem. At this point we released the [goods].
I also note that in a final response sent to A on 14 August 2019, GPUK said that the 
complaint had been in relation to a failure to return a callback within 24 hours and that 
cardholder not present transactions were at As own risk.
I have read the witness statement from the past member of staff. The difficulty in assessing 
and placing weight on that is that we arent a court and so not able to take sworn statements 
and allow for cross examination of witnesses. I do note though that the member of staff said 
he heard GPUK say in a call on 12 August 2019 that all checks are completed within 48 
hours and once the money is paid into the company bank account thats safe and secure. 
He says he listened in to the call on 14 August 2019 when the director of A was told that the 
payment was fully secure and passed its security checks And that in a later call a 
member of staff at GPUK stated that A had been totally misled.
assessment
This payment was taken as has been said when the cardholder and so card wasnt present. 
As far as I understand it A sometimes took payments in this way and had an agreement with 
GPUK since 2017. And it seems it wasnt uncommon for an agent to collect goods. A said in 
an email to this service of 4 February 2021 that no goods are released until cleared funds 
are received.
The terms of the agreement set out that payments taken in this way carried specific risks 
and proceeding with such a transaction would be at the merchants own risk. It is clear from 
what A said that it had concerns over this payment given the background. If as it says it was 
told that this payment after a period of up to 48 hours was going to be immune from a claim 
of fraud then this was completely wrong.
If A received sufficient assurances in the first call I am unclear why it says it would need to 
phone again. And its position is that it was given completely incorrect information again. 
I cant know what was said in these calls as I dont have a recording. I have case notes from 
GPUK and the recollections from A and its witness. And I dont have any independent 
evidence of the call of 14 August 2019 that A and its witness says happened. I think A has 
now had a reasonable period of time to provide a record it happened but even if it had that still wouldnt show what was said. So, I need to consider what I think is most likely taking into 
account all the background. 
The key points for me are that:
- A had concerns about this payment given the first with a different card was declined. 
That was based on its business experience and that it seems that further large 
payments came in the same way. I consider it bore a responsibility for verifying who it 
was doing business with and making its own checks.
- A as it had before equated receiving cleared funds in its bank account with checks 
having been made by GPUK. I see the potential for confusion to have arisen about 
this.
- Given that A says it had concerns about fraud I consider it highly unlikely that two 
members of staff would tell A that the payment was going to be effectively 
guaranteed against fraud after 24 to 48 hours (the first call) and then was (the 
second call).
- There is limited evidence to support that the second call happened, and it is unclear 
why As complaint was recorded as not receiving a call back when its position is that 
it had had to call back itself and later by the time it complained realised that what it 
had been told was incorrect.
- I dont consider that authorisation of a payment or the provision of cleared funds to 
settle payments to A was any guarantee the payment was secure. A remained fairly 
subject to the terms of the agreement and explicitly bore the risk of chargeback and I 
dont consider it would reasonably be able to think that would be overridden here.
- The timing of when GPUK did identify concerns about this customers payment is 
very unfortunate as A had released goods.
- Having said that GPUK was entitled to expect A to comply with the terms of the 
agreement and to be responsible for any amounts eventually charged back through 
the card scheme as this one was.
I fully appreciate A has been the victim of fraud here and has lost money. I am thinking about 
whether GPUK is responsible. I dont doubt A took reassurance from the payment having 
been settled to it by GPUK. And as it had gone through with no immediate issues. But Im 
afraid that I dont consider on the evidence that GPUK effectively overrode the terms of the 
agreement with A and its related obligations from the chargeback scheme. And so, I dont 
consider GPUK is responsible for all or any part of the loss here: that was down to the 
fraudster. I know that this will be a great disappointment for the directors of A. If A does not 
accept my decision it remains free to pursue this matter in court subject to any relevant time 
limits.My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman