DRN-2545306
The complaint
Mr E and Ms E are unhappy that Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) will not add Ms E as a 
party to Mr Es current account.
What happened
Mr E, who is a UK resident, has a current account with RBS and wanted to add his mother, 
Ms E, as a party to his current account. Ms E has a savings account with RBS from which 
she cant withdraw cash, as RBS no longer issue debit cards on that account, and wanted to 
be able to transfer funds from it to the current account. 
RBS declined Mr Es request and said it did not accept applications for new accounts from 
non-UK residents. Ms E has been a customer of RBS for over 50 years and said she was 
not trying to open a new account.
Ms E and Mr E complained to this service. Our investigator spoke to RBS, who told him that 
it could not add Ms E to Mr Es account because its policy now requires all applicants for 
new accounts to be UK resident. Ms E lives partly in Spain and partly in the UK and is a 
Spanish resident for tax purposes. RBS said it treats the addition of another party to a sole 
account as a new account.
Ms E was very disappointed with this, particularly as she has been a loyal customer for 50 
years. RBS suggested an alternative solution, that Ms E transfer funds to the joint current 
account she holds with her husband, but this wasnt an acceptable solution for Ms E.
Our investigator understood Ms Es frustration but didnt uphold the complaint as he said 
RBS was entitled to set its own policy and hadnt acted unfairly in applying it to Ms and Mr 
Es situation. He said he could not tell RBS to add Ms E to Mr Es account.
Ms E and Mr E asked for the case to be referred to an Ombudsman, so the case has come 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start by saying that banks are entitled to set their policies. So here, RBS is entitled to 
decide that itll only open new accounts for UK residents. Although Ms E spends some time 
in the UK, she has said she is resident in Spain for tax purposes, and as far as I can see, 
she doesnt disagree with RBS that she is not a UK resident.
RBS says it treats changing a sole account to a joint account as the opening of a new 
account, which is what Ms E disagrees with. She says she isnt a new customer  she 
already has accounts with RBS - and it isnt a new account because she wants to be added 
to Mr Es existing account. 
I can understand that Ms E doesnt feel that being added to an existing account equates to 
opening a new account. But equally  RBS is entitled to take this approach and I think its 
treating Ms E as it would any other customer in a similar position.
 
I can see that changing a sole account to a joint account would mean that RBS is providing 
Ms E with a new service on an account that she didnt have before and there would be a 
new account relationship between Ms E and RBS. Ms E is not new to RBS, but she would 
be getting a new product held in a different capacity.
So, I dont think RBS is acting unfairly or unreasonably in applying its policy to treat Ms Es 
application in this way. And, in doing so  I think its fairly declined her application on the 
basis that it doesnt meet its criteria. I know that Ms E will be disappointed with this, but I 
hope she will understand that in the circumstances, I will not be asking RBS to add her to Mr 
Es account.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E and Mr E to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 March 2021.
 
Rosemary Campbell
Ombudsman