DRN-2475140
The complaint
Ms C complains that a quote for her motor insurance with AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) was 
a lot higher than the price of the previous policy. She also complains that she was spoken to 
insensitively in a phone call with AXA which caused her upset.
What happened
Ms Cs husband held a motor insurance policy with AXA. Ms C was a named driver on his 
policy. Sadly Ms Cs husband passed away, and she contacted AXA to tell them.  AXA said 
Ms C could remain covered by the policy until the renewal date.
Shortly before the policy had been due to renew, AXA wrote to Ms C. The letter said 
As the policy is due for renewal on [date], alternative cover needs to be arranged as the 
policy will end with effect from 23:59 hours on [date].
To purchase a new policy with AXA, please visit [website].
Ms C got some quotes from the website, which were a lot higher than the cost of the 
previous policy. Ms C called AXA. She said shed tried to renew the policy online and the 
quote was a lot higher this year. The quote she was given on the phone was also higher.
Ms C was unhappy about this and complained to AXA. Her complaint was not upheld. AXA 
said based on its internal risk assessment Ms C had been given the correct premium. AXA 
said details of its internal risk assessment were business sensitive, so it could not provide a 
specific reason for the increase.
Ms C was not happy with AXAs response and complained to this service. Ms C said she felt 
she was being punished by AXA for the loss of her husband.
Our investigator said it was clear from speaking with Ms C and listening to the call she made 
to AXA that Ms C thought she was renewing the policy rather than looking to purchase a 
new policy. The investigator said the person taking the call could have clarified this, but 
didnt think she was insensitive. AXA offered Ms C £50 for her trouble and upset, which the 
investigator thought was fair. Ms C said the offer of £50 made her feel like she was being 
paid off, and asked for it to be paid to a childrens hospice charity.
Ms C wasnt happy with this outcome so her complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision. Ms C believes AXAs system for dealing with policies in these circumstances is 
wrong and she wants it to change. The investigator explained to Ms C that this services role 
is to resolve disputes and not to regulate how businesses conduct themselves. However, Ms 
C still wants her complaint to proceed to a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am upholding Ms Cs complaint in part. I will explain why.
AXAs process if a policy holder passes away and named drivers are listed states - 
We can continue to cover until renewalA letter will be issued 25 days prior to the renewal 
date confirming a new policy will be required.
AXA has followed this process. AXA has also explained that even if this had been a renewal, 
the cost would have been a lot higher than the previous year, due to changes in the way it 
assessed risk. There were also other changes, such as Ms Cs change in circumstances. 
Insurers constantly update how they rate the risk of consumers. And their rates continually 
change. AXA has provided me with confidential business sensitive information to explain 
how the new quote was more expensive than the old policy. Im afraid I cant share that, but 
Im satisfied the price quoted was calculated correctly and all of AXAs customers in Ms Cs 
position will have been charged a similar premium.
I can see that in her contacts with this service Ms C talked about renewing the insurance. I 
have listened to a recording of the phone call Ms C made to AXA and Ms C again talked 
about renewing the policy. I think it would have been helpful had the call handler been 
absolutely clear that the quote was for a new policy and not a renewal.
However, I do not think that the call handler was insensitive. She apologised to Ms C and 
said there was nothing she could do to make the quote lower, but she would feedback to the 
people who set the rates and pass Ms Cs complaint to the complaint team.
Ms C took out cheaper insurance elsewhere so she is not out of pocket in this respect.
AXA has offered to make a payment of £50 in recognition of Ms Cs trouble and upset. I think 
this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I think AXA otherwise behaved fairly and 
reasonably and followed its own processes, so I will not be asking it to do anything else..
My final decision
My final decision is to uphold Ms Cs complaint in part. If it has not already done so, I require 
AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay £50 compensation to Ms C.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2021.
 
Sarah Baalham
Ombudsman