DRN-3133257
The complaint
Ms A and Miss P complain that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax prevented them 
taking a new interest rate on their mortgage. Ms A and Miss P are mother and daughter; only 
Ms A is living in the property and she brings this complaint with the agreement of Miss P.
What happened
Ms A and Miss P have a mortgage with Halifax. Ms A tried to apply for a new interest rate in 
February 2020, but her application was refused. She was told there was a marker on their 
account.
Ms A complained. She believed that the marker was applied some years before when their 
local branch made a mistake with a payment. 
Halifax said it had removed the marker. And because it recognised it hadnt immediately told 
them it had done this, it offered to backdate any new interest rate to March 2020, when the 
marker was removed following the application  if Ms A and Miss P applied for one before 
the end of May 2020. It also offered them £75 compensation.
Ms A wasnt happy with this. She wanted a new interest rate backdated to when the marker 
was applied and the extra interest shed paid refunded. And she didnt see why they had to 
go through an application process when theyd done nothing wrong.
When the complaint came to us, Halifax said that Ms A and Miss P would still need to apply 
for a new rate. But if they did so, it would honour the offer of backdating the rate to March 
2020. Our investigator thought that was a fair offer, but Ms A asked for it to be reviewed by 
an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms A and Miss P took out their mortgage in around 2007. After an initial fixed rate, it reverted 
to Halifaxs standard variable rate (SVR) in 2009. It has remained on the SVR ever since.
In February 2020, Ms A contacted Halifax to apply for a new rate. She told our investigator 
that she hadnt been ready to apply before then.
Halifax refused the application. It said there was a historic late payment marker on the 
account.
This was wrong. Ms A says she has never missed a payment and she thinks the marker 
might be because of a mix-up with payments some years before in her local branch. Its 
possible thats the reason for the marker; I dont know for sure. 
But at any rate its not in dispute that the mortgage was not in arrears when Ms A applied for 
the new rate. Its been in credit since at least 2016. Therefore even if  which doesnt seem 
to be the case  there had been a missed payment at some point in the past, that should not 
have stopped Ms A from applying for a new rate in 2020. This was a mistake on Halifaxs 
part, as it accepts.
Halifax has therefore offered to backdate any rate Ms A and Miss P might apply for to March 
2020, which is when a new rate would have taken effect had the application gone through in 
February 2020 as it should.
I think thats a fair offer. 
Halifax cant just apply a new rate to a mortgage; Ms A and Miss P need to apply. There are 
several reasons for this. Halifax has a range of rates, so Ms A and Miss P need to choose 
the right one for them, or take advice if theyre not sure. And because a new rate also comes 
with an early repayment charge, its important Ms A and Miss P know about and agree to 
that first. Applying a new interest rate is a change to the terms of the mortgage, and 
therefore requires Ms A and Miss P to request the change and then agree to what Halifax 
offers.
So its reasonable that Halifax wants Ms A and Miss P to apply for a new rate, not just have 
one imposed on their mortgage. And its fair that if they do so, Halifax will backdate the rate 
to March 2020  as if the mistake that stopped them getting a rate before had never 
happened, and as if the February application had completed in March as it should have 
done.
But it wouldnt be fair to expect Halifax to backdate the rate to a date earlier than March 
2020. As I say, its for Ms A and Miss P to apply for a rate. Halifax cant be expected to give 
them a rate before they apply for one. Theres no evidence of Ms A and Miss P applying for 
a rate before February 2020, and indeed Ms A says it was only then that she felt ready to 
review her mortgage. It wouldnt be fair to backdate a new rate to before they applied  that 
would leave them better off than had Halifax never made a mistake. 
And while Ms A is right that if they had applied sooner the same thing might have happened 
 had they done so and complained about it, the resolution would still be to backdate a rate 
to the date of the earlier application. Ultimately it was up to Ms A and Miss P to apply for a 
new rate when they felt ready to do so, and so fair redress for this complaint runs from their 
application. Thats what Halifax has offered to do, alongside some compensation for the 
upset caused, and I think thats fair in all the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im satisfied that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax has 
made a fair and reasonable offer to settle this complaint. It should pay Ms A and Miss P £75 
compensation, if it hasnt already made the payment, and  provided that Ms A and Miss P 
apply within three months of the date we notify Halifax they have accepted this final decision 
 should backdate any new rate they take to 1 March 2020. I dont require it to take any 
further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A and Miss P 
to accept or reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman