DRN-4315319
The complaint
Mr W complains about the level of customer service he has received from Triodos Bank UK 
Limited (Triodos). 
What happened
Mr W is unhappy with the interest rates offered by Triodos and that it charges a fee for his 
personal account. Mr W wants Triodos to use his chosen Christian name when dealing with 
him. Mr W is unhappy that Triodos expects him to log onto a website to receive 
communications and asks that it communicate via email.
Mr W also had other concerns about Triodos but these relate to accounts held in the name 
of organisations hes associated with it. Our investigator explained that the Financial 
Ombudsman Service could only consider Mr Ws complaint as it relates to his personal 
account. 
Our investigator recommended that Mr Ws complaint be upheld and that Triodos pay him 
£100 compensation. Our investigator noted that Triodos confirmed it would use Mr Ws 
preferred name going forward. 
Our investigator said that we cant ask Triodos to reconsider the fees it charges or interest 
that it pays on an account as we are not the regulator. Our investigator thought that the 
terms of Mr Ws account allowed Triodos to charge a fee.
Where our investigator thought Triodos could have done better was around Mr Ws preferred 
method of contact. Our investigator thought Triodos had given Mr W some conflicting 
information and that for the shortfall in customer service, £100 compensation was fair.  Our 
investigator asked that going forward, Triodos contacts Mr W by email or post, as allowed 
under the terms of his account. 
Triodos responded to the investigator and said the only personal account Mr W holds is a 
saver plus account. So, it provided the terms and conditions of the saver plus account rather 
than the current account. 
Triodos explained that although it uses email for general communication, it uses a secure 
messaging service for account specific communications. Triodos says that it can send letters 
to customers where they have disclosed a vulnerability and require paper communications 
but that this isnt offered as standard. 
Our investigator considered the correct account terms and said his view about the charges 
and interest remained unchanged. He still thought that the terms of the account mention 
email as a method of communication and that it was fair for Mr W to ask for this method. Our 
investigator didnt think Triodos made it clear that the online banking portal would be the only 
or preferred way for Mr W to make contact. Our investigator thought that if email wasnt 
secure, Triodos shouldnt have listed it as a method of communication in the terms. He 
asked Triodos again to use the postal service in circumstances when email would not be 
secure.
Neither Triodos nor Mr W responded to our investigators second view so the complaint has 
come to me to make a final decision.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator told Mr W, I can only consider his complaint as it relates to his personal 
account. Triodos has confirmed that the only personal account Mr W holds is an online saver 
plus account. As far as I am aware this account does not charge a fee so I dont say 
anything more about this aspect of Mr Ws complaint, which likely relates to an account held 
by one of the organisations that he is associated with.
Although Mr W is unhappy with the level of interest Triodos pays on the saver account, the 
Financial Ombudsman Service cant interfere with Triodoss commercial decision to set rates 
at a particular level. It would be for the regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority - to make 
decisions about the way Triodos runs its business. My decision is limited to whether Triodos 
has treated Mr W unfairly and if so, what steps it should take to put things right.
Triodos has confirmed that it will add a further note to Mr Ws account to remind colleagues 
to use his preferred name. I think that this is a fair way to resolve Mr Ws concerns about his 
name.
I agree that it may have been confusing for Mr W to see that Triodos will send and accept 
email communication in certain circumstances. Triodos on the other hand says that email is 
not a secure form of communication, so for this reason, it notifies customer via email that 
there is a secure message waiting for them to view online. 
Mr W has explained the difficulties he has receiving emails from a do not reply sender and 
that these notification emails routinely go into his spam folder. Although Triodos has told Mr 
W what steps he can take to try and prevent emails from being treated as spam, Mr W 
remains unhappy. I agree with our investigator that its fair to recognise Mr Ws concerns 
about the method of contact by awarding him £100 compensation.
Going forward, Triodos says that it can issue letters to a customer where they have 
disclosed a vulnerability but that as an online bank with commitments to reducing carbon 
emissions, it doesnt offer paper communication to customers as a standard preference. 
However, given the difficulties Mr W has faced receiving notifications of secure messages, I 
dont see why Triodos cant use email contact for information which isnt account specific 
and post for anything that needs to be sent securely. 
Putting things right
To put things right, Triodos Bank UK Limited should:
try, where possible, to communicate with Mr W by email and if this is not secure, by 
post; and
pay Mr W £100 compensation.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Triodos Bank UK Limited to put 
things right in line with the above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2023.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman