DRN-4198103
The complaint
Mrs S complains about the amount she has to pay to settle her hire purchase agreement 
with PSA Finance UK Limited (PSA).
What happened
In December 2021, Mrs S acquired a new car through a hire purchase agreement with PSA. 
The total amount financed on the agreement was £23,692.05 payable over 48 months. PSA 
confirmed the agreement ended in November 2022 following a part exchange Mrs S 
arranged with the dealership. PSA wrote to Mrs S confirming her repayments were due on 9 
of each month commencing in January 2022.
Mrs S told us that shed sold her car on 19 November 2022 and paid off her agreement on 
25 November 2022. Mrs S said she believed her Novembers payment was included in the 
settlement figure given to her, however she said PSA told her that she still needs to make 
November 2022s payment. Mrs S provided us with a copy of a settlement figure she 
received from PSA dated 14 November 2022, stating the amount to settle the agreement 
was £21,977.32.
Mrs S said she complained to PSA on 30 November 2022 about the issue. On 1 March 2023 
PSA issued their final response to her complaint. PSA explained that as Mrs S had changed 
her repayment date to 24 of each month, at the point of settlement, it was expected that she 
would make her next monthly payment which would have been due on 24 November 2022.
However, to recognise any upset caused when they issued a notice of arrears, PSA agreed 
to remove half of the outstanding balance, leaving Mrs S to pay £176.44.
Unhappy with PSAs decision, Mrs S brought her complaint to our service for investigation. 
Having considered the information on file, our investigator recommended that the complaint 
shouldnt be upheld. They concluded that PSA had acted fairly and in line with their terms 
and conditions. 
Mrs S didnt accept our investigators recommendation and asked that her complaint be 
referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
The agreement in this case is a regulated hire purchase agreement. As such, this service is 
able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
My starting point is that Mrs S made a request to settle her finance agreement in November 
2022, and received a settlement quote of £21,977.32 on 14 November 2022. PSA confirmed 
this in their final response and neither party disputes it.
What appears to be in dispute is whether Novembers monthly repayment is also due in 
addition to the settlement amount quoted.
The terms of the settlement as set out in PSAs letter says:
This figure assumes that youve made all the instalment payments under your agreement 
up to and including 24/11/2022, this amount includes any arrears which have not been paid
Mrs S provided us with a copy of the settlement letter when she brought her complaint to us, 
so Im satisfied that shed received it and would have had the opportunity to familiarise 
herself with its contents and the terms of the settlement.
Although Mrs S repayments were originally set for around 10 of each month, PSA explained 
in their final response that Mrs S changed it during the agreement to the 24 of each month. 
As the settlement figure was issued to Mrs S on 14 November 2022, Im satisfied the next 
monthly payment, due on 24 November would be due, in order for the settlement to be 
completed.
I acknowledge Mrs S would have seen the settlement amount of £21,977.32, and so 
probably made the assumption that it would be sufficient to settle the agreement; however, I 
think its reasonable to expect that shed become familiar with the terms of the settlement 
which I think were reasonably set out on the following page of the letter.  
All things considered; I dont think itd be fair to ask PSA to absorb this cost for Mrs S as its 
a payment that she is liable for. 
I recognise PSA has waived half of the payment, to acknowledge any upset caused to Mrs S 
when she received the arrears correspondence. In the circumstances, I think its fair for them 
to have done so.
As Ive concluded that PSA have acted fairly by requesting that Mrs S make Novembers 
payment, I dont require PSA to take any action in respect of this complaint. I leave it to Mrs 
S to liaise with PSA with regard to arranging a suitable method of repaying the outstanding 
balance on her agreement.
My final decision
Having thought about everything above along with what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances I dont uphold Mrs S complaint against PSA Finance UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman