DRN-2544645
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy about the poor service she received throughout her escape of water claim 
under her buildings and contents insurance with AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA).
Mrs Ms daughter has assisted her with the claim and represented her for this complaint. But 
Ill only refer to Mrs M in my decision.
What happened
In December 2018 Mrs M contacted AXA to get emergency help and to register a claim for
escape of water. 
I note at this point that Mrs Ms home emergency cover was held with a different provider. 
AXA simply provided the building and contents cover. But Mrs M thought that her home 
emergency cover was also with AXA. The home emergency provider was responsible for all 
aspects of the home emergency aspect of the claim. Mrs M has made a separate complaint 
about that provider. So I wont comment further on that in my decision. To complicate things 
further, both the home emergency cover and the buildings and contents cover were branded 
under another name. So at the start of the claims process Mrs M had a lack of clarity about 
who she needed to contact in order to get her claim processed quickly.
Mrs M says that the service AXA provided was inadequate and that AXA didnt send anyone 
to deal with the emergency. As noted above, AXA cant be held responsible for the way the 
emergency was dealt with, as that wasnt part of the cover it provided. But I can look at 
whether it provided an adequate service for the escape of water claim. Mrs M is also 
unhappy about the confusion over the safe removal of asbestos at her home as part of that 
claim.
AXA acknowledged that Mrs M called in December 2018. But it had no record of that call. 
Mrs M had to call a different number to get the claims process started.
After it had been notified of the claim, AXA appointed its agents to validate it. AXA then 
appointed agents to carry out the drying of the property and different agents to deal with 
asbestos removal. Mrs M was unhappy with the process for removing all the asbestos, which 
took longer than she expected due to some confusion over what needed to be done. And 
there were other issues with the repair work. So she complained to AXA. 
AXA upheld her complaint. It felt it and its agents couldve managed her expectations better. 
In recognition of the inconvenience it had caused it awarded £400 compensation.
Mrs M wasnt happy with AXAs response. She said that because of the delays in the repairs 
she felt AXA was responsible for she had no option but to refer her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold her complaint. He said he felt that AXA had acknowledged its 
part in the delays and the poor service and that the £400 compensation it had offered was 
reasonable.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that AXA and its agents didnt always handle Mrs Ms escape of water claim well. 
The flooring providers failed to measure the flooring required properly resulting in a delay. 
The asbestos removers didnt remove all of the asbestos at first and this caused confusion 
and delayed the drying out of the property, which had a knock-on effect on the repair work. A 
kitchen side panel and kick panels were damaged and when replacements arrived they 
werent the same colour as the existing kitchen units and panels. I can imagine that all of this 
caused distress, frustration and inconvenience to Mrs M.
I also note that Mrs M is an elderly lady who was recovering from both pneumonia and a 
broken shoulder around the time of the claim. She had to spend many hours on the phone 
trying to sort out the repairs. Mrs M says she feels that AXA shouldve been able to 
coordinate the repairs on her behalf.
So I need to decide whether I think AXAs offer of £400 is fair compensation in all the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
First, I think its important to note that any awards this service makes for distress and 
inconvenience arent designed to punish a business for any wrongdoing  thats the job of 
the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority). But we do expect businesses to 
acknowledge any wrongdoing and make it right.
I can see that it took just over three months to complete the repairs. This mustve seemed 
like a very long time when living with the inconvenience and not knowing when everything 
would be resolved. But a level of inconvenience is common in escape of water claims. 
Delays often occur due to the number of contractors involved. And the property needs time 
to dry out before any repair works can begin. This claim had the added complexity of 
asbestos needing to be removed. So I cant say that this was an excessively long time for a 
claim like this. 
I also note from the claim notes that AXA was coordinating the work. It was chasing its 
agents for progress updates and ensuring they were doing what they were supposed to do. 
Unfortunately Mrs M still needed to do some of the coordinating of the work as the various 
contractors wouldve needed her input on some of their tasks. This is a usual part of the 
process for a claim like this.
AXA has acknowledged that its agents caused delays and that there was confusion over the 
asbestos removal. There were also significant delays in responding to the complaints made 
about the claim. A total of £400 compensation was offered for the less than perfect service, 
delays and confusion with the asbestos removal.
Overall I appreciate that AXA caused distress and inconvenience to Mrs M at a time when 
she was recovering from health issues. But I also think that AXAs offer of £400 
compensation is reasonable and within the realms of what I would award in relation to the 
issues it caused with the claim. So I wont be awarding anything further.
I know this isnt what Mrs M was hoping to hear. I know Mrs M feels that the whole process 
should be clearer and less confusing. I agree. But I cant hold AXA responsible for that. I can 
hold AXA responsible for not managing Mrs Ms expectations and for its agents part in 
causing delays to the restoration process. But AXA has already acknowledged that its 
service fell short and has also offered to apologise again for its poor service. And its offered £400 compensation, which is in line with what this service wouldve asked it to pay if it hadnt 
already made this offer. So it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to ask AXA to do more. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman