DRN-2920119
The complaint
Mr L, a loss assessor, has complained on behalf of Mr C that Aviva Insurance Limited 
unfairly declined a claim he made under his home insurance policy for accidental damage to 
underground pipes.
What happened
The foul drainage from Mr Cs property runs to a septic tank in the lawn and goes out into a 
drainage field in the same lawn.
In May 2020 Mr C noticed that his toilet and sink were draining slowly. He contacted a local 
drainage contractor who jetted the lines to try to relieve the blockage. When that didnt 
resolve the issue, he contacted a drainage specialist. That company carried out further 
investigations. It believed the pipework had been damaged when Mr C had driven a mini-
digger over his lawn. It recommended that Mr C should investigate having a new drainage 
field.
In mid-July 2020 Aviva told Mr C the claim was being declined as it didnt consider the 
damage was covered by the policy. This was because he hadnt chosen to include the 
optional accidental damage cover at an additional cost.
Mr C complained that Aviva should have made it clear to him that the policy didnt include 
cover for accidental damage to underground pipes. He said if it had, he would have taken 
out additional cover.
Aviva didnt change its decision to decline the claim. It apologised for the fact that Mr C 
hadnt been kept well-informed during his claim and offered him £75 compensation for that.
Mr L brought  Mr Cs complaint  to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold it. He didnt 
think Aviva should have accepted the claim. He also thought Aviva had done enough to 
make it clear to Mr C the elements of cover hed chosen.
As Mr C didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Most buildings insurance policies will include cover for damage to underground pipes, 
drains, cables and tanks. That usually includes water tanks and septic tanks. 
Its not in dispute that Mr Cs policy didnt include such cover. So far as this service is 
concerned, this is unusual and significant, so it should be appropriately highlighted to 
policyholders at the time they buy the policy. Aviva didnt advise Mr C regarding the policy or 
recommend the policy to him. That means it simply had to provide enough information so 
that Mr C could make an informed choice about whether the policy was right for him. What I 
need to decide is whether Aviva did enough in that respect when Mr C bought the policy 
online.
When Mr C took the policy out, Aviva offered three levels of cover to suit consumers needs. 
They were branded as Essentials, Essentials Plus and Premier. A table highlighted the cover 
which applied for buildings and contents depending on the level of cover chosen. It was clear 
that the Essentials policy didnt cover accidental damage to services, glass and sanitary 
fittings while the Essentials Plus and Premier policies did. The schedule said the same.
The Insurance Product Information Document was similarly clear that accidental damage to 
underground pipes wasnt included.  
I can see Mr C would have had to select the level of cover he wanted. It was also clear what 
additional cover could be added. So I think Aviva did provide him with clear, fair and not 
misleading information allowing Mr C to make an informed choice when deciding whether or 
not to take these additional insurances. 
Mr Cs loss assessor has pointed out that a complaint was upheld by our service in similar 
circumstances. Each complaint is considered on its merits. However Ive looked at the 
decision referred to and can see that the nature of the cover was described using different 
terms in the other complaint. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman