DRN-3269544
The complaint
Ms A, on behalf of Mr R, complains Lloyds Bank PLC, wont refund payments that she made 
in her capacity as power of attorney, after they allege they were victims of a scam. 
What happened
Its undisputed that from late 2019 until May 2020, Mr R was in prison and that he asked his 
partner, Ms A to act as his power of attorney so that she could manage his affairs while he 
was detained. She registered the power of attorney with the bank in March 2020.
Once Mr R was released from prison he contacted the bank to dispute transactions which 
had taken place on his account. There appears to be broadly three groups of transactions 
that were originally disputed  card payments alleged to have been carried out by someone 
known to Mr R, but not Ms A, faster payments made directly from his savings account by Ms 
A and faster payments made from his current account which were funded by credits from 
either Ms A or people Mr R says are friends of his, payments which were also carried out by 
Ms A.
When Mr R first contacted the bank following his release, he only appears to have been 
aware of the card payments. It was only after speaking to Ms A that he explained that she 
had received a series of messages which appeared to come from him. The messages 
initially asked, it is claimed, for money for various reasons  protective equipment, money 
that Mr R owed, even some sort of investment. Subsequent messages threatened violence 
against Mr R (whod been sadly attacked in prison by this time) unless further monies were 
paid. 
Mr R said that his friends had also received similar messages  and this explained why he 
had received credits from them which Ms A then paid out. By the time Mr R had contacted 
the bank following his release, one of the individuals whod made payments to his account 
had reported the matter as fraud  saying that theyd been under the impression theyd been 
paying to help fund Mr Rs early release from prison. 
Lloyds refunded the disputed card payments but, after initially crediting 50% of the rest of the 
money in dispute, ultimately took those funds back and declined the claim. It said Mr R had 
given conflicting accounts about the reasons for the payments but, even accepting his 
version of events, it didnt feel hed suffered a loss for the payments funded by credits and it 
was of the view that the payments directly from Mr Rs savings account were a civil dispute 
between him and the recipient, rather than a scam. 
 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint  but for slightly different reasons. They 
thought that some of the payments Ms A made were essentially as the result of blackmail 
rather than fraud and such circumstances are not covered under the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code). For the payments that dont appear to have 
been made as a result of blackmail, they didnt think that Ms A held a reasonable belief that 
she was communicating with Mr R. 
Ms A, on behalf of Mr R, didnt agree. She stressed the amount of money lost and provided 
some evidence of their attempts to pursue those they feel are responsible. She also said Mr 
R was particularly unhappy that hed been credited money, only for it to be taken back later. 
Finally, she reported Mr R is unable to open a bank account now and believes that this is 
due to the actions of Lloyds. 
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Beyond the facts which are undisputed  that Mr R was in prison and Ms A made a number 
of payments to a third party, much of what happened is unclear.
Ms A doesnt have a record of any of the messages she says she received. Neither was she 
able to provide such messages to the bank or the police at the time. I find this surprising, 
given that the fraud was revealed so soon after the payments were made. Mr R and Ms A 
appear to have given different reasons why these messages arent available  Mr R claimed 
Ms A was asked to delete them by the fraudster. Ms A, on the other hand, has said that her 
phone is broken, she no longer has it and she has moved network. 
I think evidence of the messages is particularly important here  not only because it would 
provide some contemporaneous evidence of what happened, but also because the account 
of events given by Ms A and Mr R hasnt been consistent.
As noted in the background to this complaint, various reasons were given by Mr R for why 
these payments were made including, oddly, some kind of investment. I note Ms A told our 
investigator that she made the initial payments believing she was communicating with Mr R, 
while the later payments were made as a result of blackmail. Ms A later told me that all of 
the payments were made as a result of threats against Mr R and, importantly, she made 
those payments knowing that she was not communicating with Mr R.
The snapshots of conversations between Mr R and both the recipient of the funds and the 
alleged fraudster arent particularly revealing either. They only really show that Mr R was 
accusing the other party of some kind of fraud and that they may have impersonated him. 
They do not provide any details of the alleged fraud.
While its clear something has happened while Mr R was in prison, I dont believe Ive been 
given a complete picture of why these payments were made. Without a compelling and 
consistent account of what happened, it is very difficult to assess whether the bank has any 
liability in relation to the payments. 
But, if Ms As most recent account of events is to be believed  that all of the payments were 
made as a result of threats against Mr R (and not due to impersonation of him)  then such a 
scenario would not, in any case, be covered under the provisions of the CRM Code. Thats 
because such circumstances do not fall under either definition of an APP scam under the 
Code:
(i) The Customer intended to transfer funds to another person, but was instead 
deceived into transferring the funds to a different person; or
(ii) The Customer transferred funds to another person for what they believed were 
legitimate purposes but which were in fact fraudulent.According to Ms A she wasnt tricked into sending money to a different person, so the first 
definition doesnt apply. Neither does the second as payments to a blackmailer, while 
perhaps understandable, cant reasonably be described as legitimate. And, while the actions 
of the blackmailer would clearly be criminal, they cant, particularly if those threats are real 
(and they may well have been here), be described as fraudulent. 
Im also mindful that Lloyds should have had systems in place to monitor accounts for 
unusual and out of character activity and, where appropriate, intervene before a payment is 
made to protect its customer from financial harm from fraud. In this case, even if I was of the 
view that Lloyds ought to have spoken to Ms A before the payments were made, if what Ms 
A has told us is true  that she paid a blackmailer rather than going to the police, it seems 
very unlikely that the bank would have been provided with the true reasons for the payments 
and been able to dissuade Ms A from making them.
I know Mr R was disappointed that money was credited to his account then subsequently 
removed. While I can see why this action would be frustrating for Mr R, Im satisfied Lloyds 
eventually made the right decision, albeit for slightly different reasons than my own, and I 
wont be asking it to do anything further. 
Finally, Lloyds have confirmed that it hasnt recorded any information about Mr R that might 
prevent him from opening an account elsewhere. Weve advised Ms A of the steps Mr R can 
take to establish whether any such information has been recorded by any financial business. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2022.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman