DRN-3095630
The complaint
Mr W is the current, sole director of P, a limited company. Mr W complains, on Ps behalf, 
that TSB Bank caused P to lose a lucrative contract with a third party and this, ultimately, led 
to the demise of his business.
The circumstances that led to this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat 
them in detail here. But, in summary, Mr W says the third party decided not to contract with 
P purely because of the Confirmation of Payee responses it received from its bank when it 
tried to make a payment to Ps account with TSB.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator, for much the same 
reasons:
TSB hadnt yet implemented the Confirmation of Payee payment process when the third 
party tried to make a payment to Ps account. There was no requirement for the bank to 
have done so at that point and it had no involvement or control over what message the 
third party was given by its bank when it tried to make the payment. Mr W has suggested 
that TSB ought to have told him it wasnt implementing the new payment process, but I 
cant see how that wouldve made a difference given the particular circumstances of this 
complaint.
Ive seen nothing which shows there was any guarantee the third party would contract 
with P in the way Mr W has described.
Mr W has shared some of the messages he exchanged with the third party around the 
time the payment was attempted. It seems he may have spoken with TSB about the 
problem and it made some suggestions about how Mr W might offer reassurance to the 
third party. Overall, it doesnt seem to me that the third partys decision not to contract 
with P was made only because of the messages that were returned to it when it tried to 
make the payment to Ps TSB account. 
TSB hasnt done anything wrong and I cant fairly instruct it to compensate P for the financial 
losses Mr W has claimed.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W (as the sole 
director, and on behalf, of P) to accept or reject my decision before 19 November 2021.
 
Ruth Hersey
Ombudsman