DRN-3430901
The complaint
Mr L complains he was the victim of an investment scam and that Revolut Ltd didnt do 
enough to recover his money.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
Mr L came into contact with someone he believed to be an investment broker online. The 
broker convinced him to trade in cryptocurrency with the promise of high returns and 
bonuses. He also told Mr L hed be able to withdraw his money without any limitations.
Between 9 June 2021 and 11 June 2021, Mr L transferred £4,080.32, £3,774.39 and 
£3,774.2 to a cryptocurrency exchange company using his Revolut debit card. The crypto 
was then loaded onto his online wallet. After making the first payment, Mr L was told a 
second payment would greatly increase his profits. He was then asked to make a further 
payment to continue trading and have access to his profits. At this point, he realised hed 
been the victim of a scam.
Mr L told Revolut it should have intervened and stopped the transactions. He asked it to 
refund the full amount he transferred to the exchange company, but Revolut said Mr L had 
authorised the transactions and it didnt accept it had acted negligently in carrying out his 
instructions. It said there had been no reason for suspicion or alerts and so he wasnt 
entitled to a refund or compensation. It urged him to obtain a police report so it could attempt 
to obtain the funds from the beneficiary accounts but said it couldnt guarantee recovery. 
Mr L complained to this service explaining hed transferred £11,629 to scammers via a 
cryptocurrency exchange company. He said Revolut had an obligation to keep his account 
safe and to provide protection against fraud, stating it had enough knowledge of this type of 
scam for the transfers to have triggered a warning. He doesnt accept the fact the crypto 
account was in his name is grounds to reject the complaint.
Revolut explained Mr L had asked it to refund the money hed transferred but hed failed to 
produce a police report. It said that after a thorough investigation, it had decided not to 
uphold Mr Ls complaint as all the payments were authorised and the money had been sent 
to an intermediary platform. 
Revolut said its role had been simply to execute Mr Ls instructions and this was completed 
in accordance with its legal and regulatory obligations. It said the transactions were genuine 
and they werent unusual or suspicious in comparison to Mr Ls normal account activity.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied Mr L had 
authorised the payments, meaning hed given Revolut an instruction to make payments from 
his account in line with its terms and conditions. He explained that, as a starting position, 
banks have an obligation to make payments or accommodate cash withdrawal requests 
correctly and promptly so that legitimate payments are made correctly. 
He went on to explain there are some situations where we believe banks ought to have been 
on alert or notice that something wasnt right or should have looked at the wider 
circumstances surrounding the transaction before making the payment and should have 
done more to prevent the payment or to help you recover the funds. But, he concluded it was 
reasonable that Revolut didnt identify that Mr L might potentially be the victim of a scam 
when making this payment because he didnt think the payments were particularly unusual 
or suspicious. He confirmed the cryptocurrency exchange account was in Mr Ls name and 
the funds were converted to cryptocurrency before sent on to a third-party wallet, at which 
point there would be no possibility of Revolut being able to recover the funds. 
Mr L wasnt satisfied and has asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
Hes argued Revolut had a duty to exercise reasonable skill and care, pay due regard to the 
interest of its customers, and to follow good industry practice to keep his account safe; which 
includes identifying vulnerable consumers who may be particularly susceptible to scams and 
looking out for payments that might indicate the consumer is at risk of financial harm. He 
said Revolut should have had systems in place to look for out of character or unusual 
transactions, or other signs to indicate he was at risk of fraud, particularly in light of the 
increase in sophisticated fraud and scams. 
Mr L has argued his Revolut account was the first point of contact for the scam and it should 
have called to check everything was in order and to establish he wasnt at risk of financial 
harm. Hes explained Revolut knew hed previously been the victim of a scam and it should 
have been aware there was a possibility that it was happening again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Revolut said it asked Mr L for a police report so it could attempt to recover the funds from the 
beneficiary account, but he didnt produce the report. I dont think Mr L needed to produce a 
police report for Revolut to have considered whether he had any recovery options as it would 
have had enough information based on the account hed given. But Im satisfied that as Mr L 
had made the payments to first purchase crypto which was then sent to a wallet of his 
choice, its unlikely chargeback or any other recovery option would have been available.
Im satisfied that although Mr L didnt intend his money to go to scammers, he did authorise 
the disputed payments. Revolut is expected to process payments and withdrawals that a 
customer authorises it to make. But, where the customer has been the victim of a scam, it 
may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse them even though they 
authorised the payment.
Mr L has lost the payments he made to accounts that he held at a cryptocurrency exchange 
company. From the evidence Ive seen, the money went to a genuine cryptocurrency 
exchange company in respect of which there were no existing warnings from the FCA or 
from other regulatory bodies on IOSCO. Buying cryptocurrency is a legitimate activity and 
therefore the extent of what we would expect Revolut to have done to protect Mr L is 
restricted to triggers, meaning I need to consider whether the transactions were so unusual 
that Revolut ought to have intervened to warn Mr L when he tried to make the payments.
Revolut, along with other payment services providers, should be monitoring accounts and be 
on the lookout for unusual transactions or other signs of fraud. Ive considered the transfers 
in the context of whether they were unusual or uncharacteristic of how Mr L normally ran his 
account and I dont think they were. None of the transfers were for particularly large amounts, and they were made to a legitimate company in respect of which there were no 
FCA warnings. So, I dont think they needed to have been flagged by Revolut.
Mr L has said Revolut knew hed previously been the victim of a scam. But this doesnt mean 
it should have blocked all payments from his account  particularly payments to legitimate 
payees. If the payments were unusual then it would be relevant if theyd been made to the 
same payee or a similar type of scam, but Ive found the payments werent unusual, and 
previous scam history alone is not enough to say the payments should have triggered 
warnings. 
Consequently, Im satisfied Revolut took the correct steps prior to the funds being released  
as well as the steps they took after being notified of the potential fraud. Im sorry to hear Mr L 
has lost money and the effect this has had on him. But for the reasons Ive explained, I dont 
think Revolut is to blame for this and so I cant fairly tell it to do anything further to resolve 
this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman