DRN-2019824
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E are unhappy that Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead) declined a claim 
on their home insurance.
What happened
In May 2019, Mr and Mrs E notified the police that their garage had been broken into and 
submitted a claim to Fairmead under their home insurance policy the following day. The 
claim was for several items which were missing from the garage, including a bike and some 
golf clubs.
Fairmead arranged for their loss adjuster to visit the property at the beginning of June 2019 
in order to validate the claim. The claim was declined as the loss adjuster said there was no 
evidence of a break in. And, while there was damage to the door, the loss adjuster believed 
that this was from a previous break in a couple of years prior to this one. Mr and Mrs E 
disagreed with the outcome of the claim and also raised concerns about the way their claim 
had been handled, including delays in updating then.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In short, he said that from the 
evidence he had, he didnt think Fairmead had acted unreasonably in declining the claim as 
Mr and Mrs E hadnt been able to evidence that an insured event took place.
Mr and Mrs E didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator.
Like all insurance policies, this policy isnt designed to cover every eventuality and I must 
consider whether Mr and Mrs E have evidenced that an insured event took place and 
whether Fairmead has acted reasonably in declining their claim.
Firstly I wanted to point out that the bike wasnt covered under this policy. It isnt clear 
whether Mr and Mrs E have been informed of this but as the bike was worth more than £350 
and wasnt listed in the specified items to be insured, their policy states that this item isnt 
covered.
The terms of Mr and Mrs Es policy state that no cover is provided for theft unless there are 
signs of damage caused by the thief (or thieves). I understand that Mr and Mrs E say 
there were marks on the door frame of the garage that are damage caused by the thief but 
Fairmead raised concerns that this damage was caused by a previous incident.
Fairmead has considered the testimony that Mr E provided it when he reported the claim and 
when he spoke to the loss adjuster. Mr E told Fairmead that he didnt notice the items were 
missing initially or that the door was damaged. Mr E didnt know when the burglary had 
taken place and says he wasnt the first person to enter the garage the day the items were 
discovered as being missing.
The loss adjuster, who is the only expert opinion we have in this case, believes the marks to 
Mr and Mrs Es garage door arent marks that were caused by the thief or thieves. Mr E has 
also confirmed that the door frame and the garage door werent replaced following the 
previous break in but a new lock was fitted  so it isnt clear whether the damage was 
caused by this incident or the previous incident. And the loss adjuster raised concerns that if 
the door had been prised open, Mr E would have noticed the damage when entering the 
garage.
Our investigator explained that we could consider any reports or expert opinions Mr and 
Mrs E could provide but theyve said they are not willing to provide these. And they have 
disputed the report provided by the loss adjuster, saying it isnt a representative reflection of 
what was discussed. While I can understand Mr and Mrs Es concerns, without further 
evidence, I cant conclude that the damage was caused during the burglary. The loss 
adjuster has suggested that it is likely the garage door wasnt locked properly and that is 
how the thief may have obtained access, which appears to be a plausible explanation in the 
circumstances.
The policy goes on to confirm that it doesnt cover unexplained losses. So I am satisfied that 
Fairmead acted reasonably in declining the claim as there wasnt sufficient evidence that an 
insured event took place.
I also understand the Mr and Mrs E were unhappy with delays and the fact that Fairmead 
didnt send them the information they requested. I believe they have now received further 
information about the claim and can refer back to Fairmead if there is any other information 
they require. And while there were some delays in the handling of their claim  which must 
have been frustrating  as the claim was ultimately declined, I dont think Mr and Mrs E have 
lost out as a result of those delays.
My final decision
While I realise this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs E, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E and Mr E to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 September 2020.
 
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman