DRN-1419383
 
The complaint
Miss H complains that ReAssure Limited (formerly Barclays Life) recommended her to take 
out a decreasing term assurance (DTA) policy, as it was a condition of a mortgage she 
arranged in June 1999 requiring her to hold life cover that would repay the amount 
outstanding if she died during the term of the loan.
She says she already held life cover at the time through her employer that would have been 
appropriate for the mortgage. As such, shes been paying for a policy she didnt need. Also, 
she wasnt made aware that she could source a policy elsewhere.
What happened
In June 1999, Miss H arranged a mortgage loan of £55,000, repayable on a capital and 
interest basis over 25 years to purchase right-to-buy property worth £105,000. The lender 
has confirmed it was a condition of lending at that time for borrowers to take out cover that 
would repay the outstanding balance of the loan if they died before the loan was fully repaid. 
At that time, Miss H was single and in her early-40s. She says she was a member of her 
employers occupational pension scheme that provided a death-in-service lump sum of four-
times her annual salary and her employer also provided long-term sickness and injury 
benefits. 
One of our investigators considered Miss Hs complaint and didnt think it could be upheld 
because:
it was a condition of the mortgage agreement that Miss H should take out a life 
assurance policy to repay the outstanding balance of the loan if she died within the 
mortgage term. This was a common requirement at the time and was an integral term 
of the mortgage product offered by that lender. This was a legitimate commercial 
decision taken by the lender which our service cant change retrospectively;
so, given the nature and terms of the policy matched repayment terms of the loan, 
she couldnt say ReAssure had done anything wrong or that the policy had been mis-
sold to Miss H;
Miss H would have been aware from the mortgage agreement that she needed to 
take out a suitable policy. ReAssure simply put in place what the lender required her 
to do. If she didnt wish to take out life cover specifically for the loan because she 
already held an appropriate level of cover though her employer, she was free to 
approach another lender which didnt apply such a condition;
the lender was entitled to apply this condition regardless of any existing life 
assurance arrangements Miss H held. As it is, life cover provided through an 
employers pension scheme is rarely considered appropriate for long term borrowing 
because it cant be guaranteed to remain in place for the duration of the loan if Miss 
H changed employer in future and her new employer didnt offer life assurance 
benefits or a pension scheme at all. Also, death-in-service pension benefits cant be 
lodged with a lender.In response, Miss H didnt accept the adjudicators assessment and maintained that she met 
the Barclays Life representative only after agreeing the mortgage and she wasnt given 
suitable advice or enough information about the policy.
As no agreement has been reached over Miss Hs complaint, it has been referred to me for 
review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the investigator has confirmed, it was a condition of the mortgage for Miss H to have in 
place a suitable form of life cover that would repay the outstanding balance of the loan if she 
died during the repayment term.
So, in arranging the DTA policy, which provided a reducing level of life cover that tracked 
the rate at which Miss H repaid the capital loan over 25 years, ReAssure put in place a 
policy for her that was appropriate to satisfy this condition. As such, given Miss H accepted 
the terms of the mortgage agreement, I cant say that ReAssure has done anything wrong.
However, it also seems Miss H was recommended to include cover within the policy that 
would repay the outstanding balance of the loan if she suffered a critical illness. I, therefore, 
must decide whether, on balance, this was an appropriate recommendation for her based on 
the limited information available of her circumstances at the time.
It does seem from the points made by Miss H that the complaint was triggered by her 
original letter of complaint that referred to this policy as a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
plan. 
But, as ReAssure has already explained to Miss H, the DTA policy is not PPI, and the 
considerations for assessing the merits of PPI do not particularly apply to the need to take 
out a DTA policy; not least, because a DTA or similar policy providing life cover was a 
condition of the loan.
Briefly, a PPI policy would pay an income benefit equivalent to the monthly costs of a loan if 
Miss H was ever made unemployed or suffered long term incapacity that prevented her 
working. 
On the other hand, the DTA policy she took out pays a capital sum in the event of her death, 
or on suffering a critical illness, at any time during the policy term equivalent to the 
outstanding balance of the mortgage at that time. The outstanding capital loan (which still 
could have been a significant sum if death or a critical illness occurred in the short term) can 
therefore be repaid in full.
I appreciate that Miss H has said she held life cover within her occupational pension scheme 
that would have been enough to repay the outstanding mortgage loan. Her salary needed to 
have been £13,750 per annum in 1999 for the death-in-service lump sum to cover the whole 
mortgage loan. Even then, if this benefit was used to repay the mortgage, there would be no 
funds remaining for any other beneficiaries. 
Also, her pension scheme would not have included critical illness cover that could repay the 
capital loan if she was no longer able to work due to a serious illness or incapacity. Without 
this form of cover, Miss H would still need to fund her mortgage payments without an income and her future pension benefits could be significantly reduced as well. Its also relevant to 
note that Miss H was in her early-40s when she took this mortgage and would still be 
repaying the mortgage past her likely scheme retirement age.       
A critical illness benefit is not just appropriate to repay the loan; it can otherwise help to pay 
for modifications to a property that might be needed to accommodate her for a particular 
disability. 
Above all, lenders generally dont accept pension scheme benefits as security for a 
mortgage as they cant be assigned; theyre paid to a nominated person at the discretion of 
the scheme trustees. Also, Miss H couldnt be sure she would remain with the same 
employer for the duration of the loan - she may join an employer that doesnt offer the same 
level of life assurance benefits or a pension scheme at all. 
I imagine Miss Hs employer did provide sickness benefit, but this pays an income, which 
could help to fund her monthly mortgage payments, for a limited period. But sick pay usually 
stops after 12 months; critical illness cover, on the other hand, pays a capital sum 
immediately on diagnosis of a serious illness that could repay the loan itself and Ive seen no 
evidence that Miss H already held this form of cover in June 1999.
So, while Miss H has said that she was paying a significant monthly premium for a DTA 
policy didnt need, she did need the policy because the life cover it provided was a condition 
of the mortgage shed agreed to take out. 
And, in my view, the policy provided both life cover and critical illness cover for her mortgage 
that wasnt suitably provided by any other arrangement she was likely to have had in place 
at the time. 
Of course, Miss H could have arranged a similar policy with another provider that might have 
been cheaper if she does accept that she was required to take out life cover through a new 
plan. 
But Miss H dealt with a representative who was authorised to advise only on the products of 
Barclays Life. And it was a regulatory requirement at the time for advisers to provide her a 
business card and Buyers Guide, which explained the respective status of an adviser who 
was tied to one insurer and one who was independent who could recommend the products 
of more than one provider. From this, Miss H would have been aware that she could have 
engaged an adviser to research the market, if she so wished. But the recommendations of 
an independent adviser would not be based solely on cost.
So, even if Miss H had taken out a policy elsewhere, its not possible for me to know which 
provider she would have chosen, how much the policy would have cost and, therefore, 
whether shes been disadvantaged by the premium she paid to the DTA policy with Barclays 
Life, or not.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 February 2020.
Kim Davenport
Ombudsman