DRN-2083444
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the early settlement balance (ESB) calculated by Provident Personal 
Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma). Mr H says the balance was too high.
 
What happened
Mr H took out two £900 12-month loans with Satsuma in May 2019. Mr H asked Satsuma to 
provide him with an ESB so he could pay off the loans early but he wasnt happy with the 
figure provided. I understand Mr H did still settle his loans early at the end of March 2020.
An adjudicator considered Mr Hs complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. The 
adjudicator thought the way Satsuma had calculated the ESB for the loans was in line with 
the relevant regulations and Mr Hs loan agreement with Satsuma. Mr H didnt accept the 
adjudicators view, so his complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
From the information Ive seen, I think Satsuma has calculated Mr Hs ESB fairly, taking into 
account the relevant regulations and law, including The Consumer Credit (Early Settlement) 
Regulations 2004. 
Importantly, I also think Satsuma made Mr H aware that settling his loans early would 
include paying an extra 28 days interest from the point the ESB was requested. Under the 
heading Early Repayment Mr Hs loan agreements say:
You have the right at any time to make early repayment to settle the loan fully or in part. To 
do so, you should first give us notice. When you notify us that you want to settle your 
Satsuma Loan early, we will give you a settlement quote so you know how much you need 
to pay in total. This will be valid for 28 days. The amount you need to pay to settle your 
account will include interest calculated to cover this 28 day period in which the quote is valid. 
This amount is payable even where you settle the loan immediately
Had Mr Hs loans run to term, he wouldve paid around £890 in interest. The interest rebate 
Satsuma calculated on 15 October 2019 (for one of the loans) was £345.05  which 
wouldve included the interest payable up until 12 November 2019, which was about half 
way through that loan agreement. The interest rebate was a little less than 40% of the total 
interest payable  which supports Satsumas argument that it didnt make a mistake when 
calculating the ESB, as the interest elements of the repayments are not distributed evenly 
across the 12 months.
I understand that Mr H expected a larger rebate of interest and was surprised to find it was 
lower than he expected. But I dont think Satsuma made an error when calculating Mr Hs 
ESB. I also think it explained how it would calculate the ESB. For these reasons, I dont think 
Satsuma treated Mr H unfairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2020.
 
Matthew Bradford
Ombudsman