DRN-2395053
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that HSBC UK Bank plc acted unreasonably when it declined a debit 
card payment from their account. Mr and Mrs P also complain about the service theyve 
received from HSBC UK Bank plc when they raised their complaint.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P have a joint account with HSBC. Mrs P has a debit card on the account.
On 7 October 2019 Mr P says he sent HSBC a message using its secure messaging 
system. He informed it that a payment would be made using the debit card the following day. 
He says he provided HSBC with full details concerning the proposed payment. And he says 
there was sufficient cleared funds in the account to make the payment.
On 8 October 2019 Mrs P tried to make the payment using the debit card but it was declined. 
She says she tried to contact HSBC using the telephone number on its website but she 
wasnt able to complete the call because HSBC required her to provide a security number. 
Mrs P didnt have access to this at the time. 
She says Mr P had to return to their home address to get the security number. And, at that 
time, he decided to pay the merchant by means of an electronic payment from the joint 
account.
Mr and Mrs P complained to HSBC about what had happened. They said the fact the 
payment had been declined caused them embarrassment.
HSBC investigated their complaint. It said that when the payment was declined it had tried to 
contact Mrs P on her mobile but this hadnt been successful, so it had sent a letter. It said 
the payment had been declined because of its fraud detection system. It said this could 
happen even though the payment was genuine. It said it would pay £50 for the 
inconvenience experienced. And, it provided a 24 hour direct line telephone number which it 
said Mrs P could use to contact it in future.
Mr and Mrs P werent satisfied with this response. They said they wanted to know why the 
payment had been declined when they had sent details of the proposed payment to HSBC 
on 7 October 2020. They also said that HSBC had not tried to contact them on 8 October 
2019 by telephone. They said £50 was not commensurate with the inconvenience theyd 
been caused. Mr and Mrs P sent a significant number of further requests to HSBC asking it 
to respond to these questions. They say they didnt get a response. So, Mr and Mrs P 
referred their complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into their complaint. He said HSBC had attempted to contact them 
by telephone on 8 October. He said the terms and conditions for the account stated that 
HSBC could refuse to make a payment where it reasonably believed thered been:
 a breach of security or misuse of your account, security details or a payment 
device. 
He said HSBC had an automated system for fraud detection. So, even though Mr and Mrs P 
had sent a message on 7 October to HSBC about the payment, that didnt prevent it from 
being picked up by the fraud system. He said our service couldnt tell HSBC to change its 
procedures.
He considered what Mr and Mrs P had said about how their complaint had been dealt with. 
He said theyd been sent a final response letter on 11 October 2019 and been offered £50 
as a gesture of goodwill. He didnt think HSBC had done anything wrong, but he said he was 
pleased it had made a goodwill payment.
Mr and Mrs P didnt agree. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about each of the points Mr and Mrs P have raised:
Why was the payment declined when theyd sent a message on 7 October to tell HSBC 
about the proposed payment?
Ive looked at the terms and conditions for the account. These state that HSBC can refuse to 
make a payment where it reasonably believes there is fraudulent or criminal activity on an 
account. The terms and conditions also say that it might not be able to make a payment 
where it reasonably believes theres been a breach of security or misuse of the account, 
security details or a payment device.
Mr and Mrs P argue HSBC cannot say it reasonably believed any of these things. Theyve 
pointed to the secure message theyd sent to it on 7 October 2019 which they say shouldve 
dispelled any reasonable belief that the payment was anything other than genuine.
I can understand why Mr and Mrs P have said this. But HSBC says it has an automated 
system for detecting potentially fraudulent transactions. Once a transaction is identified as 
potentially fraudulent it will refuse to make the payment. And it says this is the case even 
though Mr and Mrs P had sent it a message about the proposed payment.
It is the case that organisations such as HSBC are required to have systems and controls to 
detect and prevent fraud. Its not unusual for those systems to be automated. This helps to 
keeps accounts protected in an environment where there are many thousands of payments 
being made every day. And, even though Mr P had sent it a secure message about the 
proposed payment, that doesnt mean HSBC acted unreasonably when its systems 
highlighted the payment as unusual.
I can see that the payment was for a significant amount. And, in these circumstances I dont 
think it was unreasonable for HSBC to put itself on further enquiry about the payment. Mr 
and Mrs P say HSBC couldve dealt with its concerns by looking at the message theyd sent 
to it.
Ive thought about what theyve said here. Ive asked HSBC to send me a copy of the 
message Mr P says he sent to it. But it says its fraud team doesnt have a record of this 
message. Im uncertain what the reason for that is. I accept what Mr P has said about sending the message. But, even if the fraud team did 
have a copy of the message when the payment was highlighted by its systems, I think it 
would still have been acting reasonably when it declined the payment and decided to contact 
Mr and Mrs P before proceeding. As Ive mentioned above, the payment was for a significant 
amount of money.
What actions did HSBC take before the payment was declined?
The terms and conditions permit HSBC to decline a payment request. But, before taking that 
action HSBC is required to comply with certain obligations set out in The Payment  Services 
Regulations 2017 (the Regulations).
Under the Regulations, HSBC is required to notify the customer about the refusal to make 
the payment and, if possible, provide the reasons for that refusal. The notification must be 
given in the manner set out in the terms and conditions and at the earliest opportunity.
So, Ive looked at the terms and conditions. There is a section entitled Contacting you. This 
says:
Well use the most recent postal or email address, phone and mobile numbers we 
have for you
Well sometimes need to contact you about your account and your relationship with 
us. So, its really important that your contact details are correct and up to date. If 
anything changes, you must tell us as soon as you can but always within 30 days. If 
you dont, we wont be responsible if you dont get information or notices
Ive considered whether HSBC complied with its obligations to notify Mr and Mrs P in the 
way required by the Regulations and as set out in its own terms and conditions. 
HSBC sent us a copy of its records which detail the actions it took on 8 October 2019, when 
it declined the payment.
Ive examined these records. They show that HSBC tried to make a phone call to the 
number it held on its records for Mr and Mrs P. HSBC has confirmed to our service that this 
call was to a landline number and not a mobile phone number. That differs from what it told 
Mr and Mrs P in its final response letter.
It says when this number is dialled a long beep is heard. So, it says the number it holds may 
be incorrect or not current. But it says theres no other number recorded for Mr and Mrs P. 
So, even though it incorrectly referred to having telephoned a mobile phone number, Im 
satisfied HSBC did comply with its terms and conditions.
About an hour later, the records show that HSBC sent a letter to Mr and Mrs P to ask them 
to contact it about the payment. Mr and Mrs P confirm they received this letter.
Shortly after this, the records show that HSBC received a call from its customer.
Having considered the information recorded, Im satisfied HSBC did comply with its 
obligations.  It tried to contact Mr and Mrs P by telephone, using the number on its records, 
when the payment was attempted. It appears the number HSBC held on its records was 
either incorrect or not the current number. But, even if the call to the landline number had 
been successful, Mr and Mrs P wouldnt have received the message, because they werent 
at home when the call was made. Mr and Mrs P have confirmed to us they havent provided 
their mobile phone details to HSBC. I dont think HSBC did anything wrong when it used the information on its records to contact 
Mr and Mrs P. The terms and conditions make clear that HSBC will try alternative means to 
contact its customers. It didnt have mobile phone details, so when its attempt to speak to Mr 
and Mrs P by telephone failed, it sent them a letter asking them to contact it. Thats in line 
with what it says it will do in the terms and conditions.
Ive also thought about what Mrs P said concerning the telephone call she made to HSBC. 
She says she couldnt speak to it because she didnt have her telephone security number. 
She acknowledges shed been issued with this number, but she didnt have it with her when 
she tried to make the payment.
HSBC says it needs customers to provide the telephone security number before it can 
proceed with a call. Its not clear why HSBC didnt have any alternative security process 
which would have allowed Mrs P to speak to it, in circumstances where she was trying to 
make a payment. But, in any case, Mr P decided to return home to get the security number. 
He then decided to make the payment by electronic means. So, the payment was able to be 
made on the same day.
I can understand what Mr and Mrs P have said about feeling embarrassed when the 
payment was declined. But, as Ive said above, the terms and conditions did permit HSBC to 
decline the payment and Im satisfied it tried to contact Mr and Mrs P in the agreed manner 
when it did this. Ive also noted that the payment was made by an alternative means on the 
same day, so the transaction was able to progress.
How HSBC handled the complaint
Mr and Mrs P have complained about how their complaint was handled. 
As our investigator said the rules which apply to our service set out what we can and cannot 
investigate. We cannot investigate any complaint point that relates only to complaint 
handling. This is because a complaint about complaint handling is not a complaint about a 
financial service. 
So, I have no jurisdiction to consider what Mr and Mrs P have said about how HSBC 
handled their complaint. And, for that reason, I make no findings about this issue.
Having considered everything here, Im satisfied HSBC has acted fairly and reasonably. It 
has paid Mr and Mrs P £50 as a gesture of goodwill. I dont require it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint about HSBC UK Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 January 2021.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman