DRN-4130578
The complaint
Mr G complains about how AXA Insurance UK Plc settled his claim on his contents 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr G has a home insurance policy with AXA that covers the contents in his home. In March 
2022 he made a claim after a burglary. He claimed for a number of high value items, that 
added up to a value of around £18,000. However AXA said there was a limit for high value 
items of £1,500 and a total policy limit of £5,000. So it said it would only pay the policy limit, 
and offered no cover for items above £1,500 in value.
Mr G was unhappy with this, he said he had called AXA specifically to ensure he had the 
correct level of cover for his high value items. And it had failed to add these to the policy as 
specified items, so he shouldnt be penalised for AXAs error. 
He made a complaint but AXA didnt uphold it. It said Mr G had called but had only added on 
two specified items that werent included in the claim. And hed been sent the policy 
documents that explained the limits at each renewal. Unhappy with this, Mr G brought his 
complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She 
said from the evidence provided she didnt think AXA had acted unfairly as there was no 
evidence that the items above £1,500 had been specified when the policy was taken out. Mr 
G didnt agree and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While Mr Gs policy covers him for around £86,000 worth of contents, there are individual 
limits with the policy for some items. The policy states:
Our Contents cover (Section 2) includes cover within the Home for
High Risk Items worth less than £1,500 individually (up to £5,000 or 20% of the
Contents sum insured, whichever is lower - if you need more than this limit, please
call us).
If you have items worth more than the above limits or if youd like to protect them away
from the home, youll need to specify them otherwise theyre not covered.
The policy only has one item of contents at home listed as a specified item  a harp, and a 
laptop covered away from home. These items werent claimed for, however numerous other 
items above the £1,500 limit were including watches and jewellery. 
Based on the above wording, I can see that AXA acted in line with the policy terms. As the 
more valuable items werent specified they wouldnt be covered. And those under the £1,500 
would only be paid up to £5,000. And this is what AXA has offered as settlement. 
However Mr G has said that when he first took out the policy with AXA he called it in order to 
ensure these more valuable items were covered. And it hadnt mentioned the policy limits or 
added his specified items. 
AXA hasnt been able to provide this service with a copy of the call, so Im unable to listen to 
what was discussed. Instead Ive looked at AXAs notes from the call and the documents 
sent to Mr G afterwards to determine what is most likely. 
AXAs notes state that during the call two specified items were added to the policy  a harp 
and a laptop. And that it told Mr G anything over £1,500 needed to be specified, but said full 
policy information is available in the policy terms. After this, AXA sent Mr G the documents. 
And these included the two specified items from the call notes. 
Based on this, I think its most likely AXA did discuss the specified item limit in the call. As 
its clear this resulted in Mr G adding on two items, which is in line with AXAs notes from the 
call.
And even if AXA had failed to add on additional items that Mr G wished to specify, he was 
sent documents after the sale, and at each renewal. And these clearly show just the harp 
and a laptop as the items valued above £1,500. So Mr G had the opportunity to check the 
documents and query them if there were any errors. 
For these reasons, I dont think AXA has acted unfairly or unreasonably in the claim 
settlement its offered Mr G. It has fairly applied the policy limits and I think it most likely that 
Mr G didnt tell it about the additional specified items worth over £1,500 when he took out the 
policy. But he had ample opportunity to check his policy cover even if he did. I therefore 
wont ask AXA to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman