DRN-1705573
 
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy that AXA Insurance UK Plc didnt accept a claim for storm damage on his 
home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr K noticed water leaking through the ceiling of a bedroom. He contacted AXA to make a 
claim for storm damage. However, AXA declined the claim because its property surveyor 
said that the internal damage showed signs of previous repair, indicating that it wasnt a one 
off incident. It said that although there was a storm at the time of the loss, the damage 
wasnt typical of storm related damage. The policy didnt cover damage as a result of 
deterioration, wear and tear or anything that happened gradually.
Mr K complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that it 
was reasonable for AXA to take into account the already existing internal damage when 
assessing the claim and that there was evidence to show that the roof may not have been in 
a good state of repair.
As Mr K did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt in dispute that there was a storm at the time of the claim. The issue here is whether 
the storm was the primary cause of the damage to the roof. 
AXA sent a surveyor to assess the damage and declined the claim on the basis of the 
damage being due to wear and tear. A significant factor in that decision was the internal 
damage, which indicated that this wasnt the first time that the roof had leaked. Mr K accepts 
that there was existing internal damage but said that this had happened several years before 
and that the roof had since been replaced. Mr K also said that he had told AXA that he didnt 
want the internal damage to be repaired as part of the claim.
I have listened to phone calls related to this claim and note that, as part of registering the 
claim, Mr Ks wife spoke to AXA. She specifically included the internal damage as part of the 
claim. It was only further on in the process that Mr K said it didnt need to be included. 
However, even if the internal damage had been excluded right from the start of the claim, I 
still think the surveyor would have looked at the internal damage as it was likely to be a 
factor in understanding the context of the claim.
Given that the claim was registered as being about damage to the roof and the resulting 
internal damage, that is what the surveyor assessed. The surveyor identified that there was 
an issue with a particular part of the roof and that this had resulted in water entering into the 
property for some time. This was based on an assessment of the roof itself and the internal 
damage. In the circumstances, I think that the surveyor carried out an appropriate 
assessment and based on that, it was reasonable to turn down the claim.
When Mr K contacted AXA about the claim being turned down, AXA said that if he provided 
an independent report, it would review this and consider whether it affected the decision on 
the claim. However, Mr K didnt send a report. I am therefore satisfied that AXA did provide 
an opportunity for Mr K to provide evidence that the damage was for a reason other than 
wear and tear, but that he didnt do so.
Thinking about all of the above, Im satisfied that it was reasonable for AXA to turn down the 
claim, as the evidence indicated that the dominant cause of the damage being claimed for 
was not a storm.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 July 2020.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman