DRN-2578182
The complaint
Mr G complained because Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, refused to refund 
him for four payments which he said he didnt authorise.
What happened
Between 6 and 17 September 2019, four transactions debited Mr Gs Barclaycard. The 
largest two, for £178.90 and £1,208.66, were online payments to an international financial 
services company. The other two were contactless payments for £12.90 and £13.80, for 
entertainment.
On 18 September 2019, Mr G sent a secure message to Barclaycard disputing these 
transactions.
Mr G said Barclaycard didnt process his claim quickly. Barclaycard said it tried to contact Mr 
G and left several phone messages but couldnt reach him. It closed Mr Gs claim, but 
reopened it after Mr G sent a secure message saying he was unavailable most of the time 
because of his working hours. Barclaycard sent Mr G a fraud claim form on 13 December. 
On 21 January, Barclaycard wrote to Mr G and said it was still waiting for Mr G to return the 
fraud claim form, and it couldnt investigate until he sent it. It said it had tried several times to 
phone him but couldnt get through. So it said it couldnt refund him, but apologised for taking 
a long time to deal with his complaint, and offered Mr G £150 for the delays.
When Mr G returned the fraud claim form, Barclaycard investigated. It said that it had 
contacted the international financial services company, to which the two largest payments 
had been sent. That company told Barclaycard that the information it held about the two 
disputed September 2019 transactions matched an account in Mr Gs name. 
Barclaycard refused to refund Mr G for all four September 2019 transactions. And it then 
closed Mr Gs account in line with its terms and conditions, saying Mr G no longer met its 
lending criteria.
Mr G complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint. He noted there had been ten days between 
the first disputed transaction and the second, and it was unlikely that an unknown third party 
fraudster would have waited so long. The investigator also saw Mr Gs previous disputed 
payments to the international financial services company, and that hed had a new card each 
time. The investigator thought it was very unlikely a fraudster could have set up an account 
in Mr Gs name with the company, and then registered each replacement Barclaycard onto 
that account.
The investigator also considered whether Mr G might have been a victim of identity theft, 
and that the account with the international financial services company might have been 
opened fraudulently in Mr Gs name. But no evidence indicated that. And although Mr G had 
said hed spoken and written to the international financial services company to say the 
account in his name was fraudulent, he hadnt provided any evidence to show hed done 
this. And undisputed payments had previously gone from Mr Gs account to the account in 
his name with the international financial services company.
So the investigator thought it was most likely that Mr G had carried out the transactions 
himself.
Mr G didnt agree. He said it was offensive to be accused of making the payments himself, 
and said he hadnt made them. Mr G said his main objective now was to get the late 
payments taken off his credit file, and not to be accused of being fraudulent with a CIFAS 
marker against his name. CIFAS is a fraud prevention organisation. 
Mr G also said that Barclaycard had told hm not to make payments until after his complaint 
was finalised.
The investigator told Mr G that lenders have to record payment history accurately. And 
Barclaycard had written to Mr G on 12 March 2020, saying that as hed been held liable for 
the disputed transactions, hed have to make repayments. So the investigator said he 
wouldnt ask Barclaycard to make any changes to Mr Gs credit file. The investigator said 
that as Mr G hadnt mentioned CIFAS in his original complaint, hed have to raise this first 
with Barclaycard. 
Mr G asked for an ombudsman decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Ill set out what I can and cant look at. This service is governed by rules, one of which 
says that complaints have to be raised with the financial organisation before a customer can 
bring it to us. So I cant consider any complaint from Mr G about a CIFAS marker. He didnt 
raise this in his initial complaint to this service, and Ive seen nothing to indicate hes 
complained about it to Barclaycard. If he wants to proceed with that complaint, hell have to 
complain to Barclaycard and if necessary to this service after that. Any issue of a CIFAS 
marker is separate from the issues about the disputed transactions, and credit file, and 
doesnt impact my final decision about those matters.
The complaints I can consider are Mr Gs complaint that he didnt carry out the four disputed 
transactions between 6 and 17 September 2019, and that he wants Barclaycard to remove 
what its recorded on his credit file.
Disputed transactions between 6 and 17 September 2019
The relevant regulations for disputed transactions taking place in September 2019 are the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017. These say that the payment service provider (here, 
Barclaycard) must show the payment was authenticated. Barclaycard sent us the electronic 
proof, from which I can see that the two disputed transactions to the international financial 
services company were authenticated online, and the two disputed transactions for 
entertainment spend were authenticated by contactless use of Mr Gs genuine card. So all 
four disputed payments were authenticated.
The next stage is to look at whether the card holder authorised the payments. The Payment 
Services Regulations 2017 provide for the Consumer Credit Act (CCA) 1974 to apply when 
credit is involved, as it is here. The relevant section of the Consumer Credit Act is Section 83.  A consumer is only liable for loss arising from a credit facility if they, or someone acting 
as their agent, used the facility. 
So Ive considered whether its more likely than not that Mr G authorised the four disputed 
transactions.
The pattern of the disputed transactions means its unlikely to have been a fraudster who 
carried them out.  After the first transaction for £178.90 on 6 September 2019, there was 
then a gap until 16 September, when the two smaller entertainment transactions took place. 
The largest transaction, for £1,208.66, didnt take place until 17 September. This just isnt a 
likely pattern for any fraudster, who would have wanted to maximise their spend before the 
cardholder could find out and get the account blocked.
Ive also looked at the history of payments on Mr Gs account, to the international financial 
services company. Mr G made undisputed payments to that company from his Barclays 
personal account on 15 May 2018 and 12 July 2018.
And Ive looked at the information which the international financial services company 
supplied to Barclaycard about the two largest September 2019 payments. Its provided 
details of the account to which they went. And its in Mr Gs name, with other personal details 
which match those which Mr G supplied to us when he brought his complaint. So those two 
payments went to an account with Mr Gs details.
Mr G told our investigator that hed written to the international financial services company, to 
tell it that hed been a victim of identity fraud and that account was fraudulent.  But Mr G 
didnt provide us with any evidence that hed done so. Nor did he provide any evidence to 
indicate that identity theft was likely  for example what identification documents hed lost, 
when, details of reporting such losses, whether he suspected anyone, and how anyone 
could have obtained enough personal information to open the account with the international 
financial services company in Mr Gs name. Without any such evidence, I cant reasonably 
conclude that the recipient account with the international financial services company was 
fraudulent.
Taking all these factors into account, I consider the most likely explanation for the 
withdrawals is that Mr G carried them out himself. So I dont require Barclaycard to refund 
him.
Mr Gs credit file
Mr G is particularly keen for his credit file to be changed. Lenders have to report accurate 
information. Mr G says that Barclaycard told him not to pay until his complaint was resolved, 
and that this was why he didnt pay, which led to the credit file issue.
So I have looked at the documents to check whether or not Barclaycard did tell Mr G not to 
pay. Ive seen Barclaycards final response letter dated 12 March 2020. This says:
Our Investigations Team have concluded the transactions for [name to which the disputed 
payments were sent] are genuine. As such you are responsible for these and are expected 
to make payments to clear the amounts, in line with the terms and conditions of your lending 
agreement. Should you find yourself unable to make payments or have difficulty making 
payments, please let us know so we can discuss your option. Failure to make the required 
payments Im afraid may result in further action being taken.
Barclaycard sent a further letter to Mr G on 16 October 2020 which confirmed this position. It 
repeated its previous decisions that Mr G was liable for the transactions, that he was also liable for the interest which had accrued, and that Barclaycard wouldnt amend Mr Gs credit 
file, because he knew he had to pay.
So I find that by 12 March 2020 at the latest, Mr G knew that he had to pay for the 
transactions and interest.  Like all lenders, Barclaycard has to submit accurate information 
about Mr Gs account, to the credit file companies. And it was accurate that Mr Gs 
Barclaycard hadnt been paid. So I do not order Barclaycard to make any changes to the 
information it sent to the credit file companies.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman