DRN-2752567
The complaint
Mr P complains that Zurich Assurance Ltd mis-sold him a whole of life policy.
The complaint has been brought by a representative who Ill refer to as L.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
In March 1995 Mr P was advised to set up a whole of life policy by a firm Zurich has since 
acquired liability for. It provided an initial sum assured of £70,000 with premiums starting at 
about £69 per month. The policy included an indexation and waiver of premium benefit. 
The policy premiums were met by the waiver of premium benefit between February and 
August 1999. At which point, no further premium payments were made and the policy was 
surrendered. 
L complained on behalf of Mr P to Zurich in September 2020 about the sale of the policy. 
They raised the following concerns:
Mr P was advised to take out a policy linked to the stock market when he didnt wish 
to take any risk.
There doesnt appear to have been any discussion of the alternative types of cover 
available. 
Mr P had limited financial means, evidenced by the policy being surrendered in a 
short period of time. His existing policies were paid up, he had no savings and limited 
disposable income each month. 
As Mr Ps youngest child was aged 12 its not clear why cover on a whole of life basis 
was required. 
Zurich didnt uphold the complaint. They said Mr Ps main financial objective at the time was 
to provide protection for his family in the event of his death. And aside from an endowment 
policy running alongside his mortgage, he had no protection in place. So, they considered 
the policy recommendation was reasonable given Mr Ps circumstances.
Zurich also explained that the main purpose of the policy was to provide life cover protection. 
So, while it was unit linked and had the potential to accrue a cash-in value, they didnt 
consider the associated risks invalidated the protection benefits. Furthermore, they had no 
reason to believe that alternative cover options werent discussed at the time. Zurich also 
added that Mr P was married with two children and theres no indication he required life 
cover for a set number of years. So, they considered a whole of life policy reasonable. They 
did however note that, although they sent two cheques to Mr P in 2000, the surrender 
proceeds were never cashed. 
In respect of the issue of affordability, Zurich considered Mr P ought reasonably to have had 
cause to complain about this when the policy premiums stopped being paid in 1999. So, they 
considered this aspect of the complaint had been made too late.
The complaint was referred to our service. Our investigator likewise considered that issues 
relating to affordability at the time the policy was surrendered had been made outside of our 
time limits and so wasnt something we could consider.
Our investigator also didnt think the policy had been mis-sold. She explained that there 
wasnt any indication Mr P only wanted cover for a specific term and she was satisfied the 
policy recommended met Mr Ps objective of protecting his family in the event of his death. 
She also thought the flexibility offered by the policy  such as changing the sum assured  
was beneficial to Mr P as he was self-employed and she didnt think it being unit-linked was 
inappropriate. She suggested Mr P contact Zurich to arrange receipt of the surrender 
payment. 
L disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
Before I explain my findings, L has confirmed that Mr Ps complaint is in respect of the sale 
of the policy. I therefore dont intend to comment on issues of affordability when the policy 
was surrendered in this decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Providing financial protection for his family was identified as a priority for Mr P when the 
policy was sold. Im aware Mr P had an endowment running alongside his mortgage but, 
given he was married and had two children at the time, I dont consider additional life cover 
to have been an unreasonable consideration.
L has suggested that due to Mr Ps financial problems when the policy was sold that he 
shouldnt have been advised to take out any cover. Theyve noted that the fact find suggests 
Mr P was intending to use existing paid-up policy funds to pay for the whole of life policy. Ive 
given this careful consideration but its clearly recorded alongside this that there was no 
action required currently. And, other than his mortgage, Mr P had no recorded liabilities. The 
premium cost was well within his identified budget and I dont consider savings to be a 
prerequisite for taking out personal protection cover. Im therefore not persuaded that Mr P 
shouldnt have been advised to take out life assurance. 
There isnt any documentary evidence from the time of sale to indicate why whole of life 
cover was preferable to that of a term assurance policy. And, as I wasnt present when the 
policy was sold, I cant be sure what was discussed between Mr P and the adviser. That 
said, there isnt anything to indicate Mr P wanted cover for a specific term. And I think the 
flexibility offered by whole of life cover was advantageous to him. Let me explain why.
Its recorded in the fact-find that Mr P intended to increase the sum assured in addition to the 
indexation included. And so, unlike whole of life cover, a term assurance policy wouldnt 
have offered this flexibility. The ability to change the level of cover may have also been an 
attractive feature to Mr P as his income wasnt of a fixed nature due to being self-employed. 
So, I think a whole of life policy was a reasonable recommendation in the circumstances.L has also raised concerns about the policy being linked to the stock market even though 
Mr P didnt want to take any risk. But, as Zurich has explained, the primary purpose of the 
policy was to provide life cover. And so, while there was some risk involved in relation to the 
premiums being invested, I dont think this meant the policy was unsuitable for Mr P as a 
result. But rather, the benefit of this is that it accrued a cash in value that otherwise wouldnt 
have been available to Mr P if hed opted for a term assurance policy. Zurich explained this 
hasnt yet been paid  even though they sent two cheques in 2000  and so Mr P should 
contact them directly to arrange settlement (if he hasnt already done so). 
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont think the policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2021.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman