DRN-2861831
The complaint
Mrs A and the estate of Mr A complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) should not 
have migrated Mr and Mrs As Joint Additions Plus Account (JAPA) to a Current Account 
with Travel and Tech Pack (CATTP) in January 2017.
 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Id like to offer my sincere condolences to Mrs A and her family for their loss.
Secondly, I need to be clear that this decision is not about the sale of the JAPA as this is 
being considered in a separate complaint.
Mrs A and the estate of Mr A say that Mr and Mrs A both turned 80 years of age in recent 
years and were vulnerable customers. They say that Mr and Mrs A were not able to use the 
travel insurance once they were over 80 and the CATTP was unsuitable for them. They say 
that Barclays should have conducted a review and stopped charging them for the account.
Ive looked carefully at the correspondence that Barclays has provided from the time when 
Mr A turned 80, when Mrs A turned 80 and when the change of the account to a CATTP took 
place in 2017.
I think its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs A received the correspondence as it is 
correctly addressed. 
In my view the two letters sent when Mr and Mrs A separately turned 80 years of age are 
clear that they are no longer eligible for the travel insurance in the JAPA, and they correctly 
ask Mr and Mrs A to contact the bank to discuss the situation.
I can see no evidence that Mr and Mrs A did so, and Barclays could not change their 
account without any form of agreement from Mr and Mrs A. So, I cant say that Barclays did 
anything wrong at those times.
Barclays has also provided the letters that it sent Mr and Mrs A before and after the 
migration of the account from a JAPA to a CATTP. The letters asked Mr and Mrs A to get in 
touch if they didnt want the migration to go ahead. 
And there is no evidence that Mr and Mrs A did so. Barclays was then entitled to change Mr 
and Mrs As account in line with the terms and conditions of the account.
So, again, in my view, I cant say that Barclays did anything wrong in this matter.
So, although I know that Mrs A and the estate of Mr A will be disappointed, in my view it 
would not be fair to uphold their complaint.
To be clear, nothing in this decision affects the consideration of whether the original JAPA 
was mis-sold or not.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and the 
estate of Mr A to accept or reject my decision before 8 November 2021.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman