DRN-3195732
The complaint
Mr C and Mr P complain that Aviva Insurance Limited refused their request for a refund of 
their private medical insurance premiums for the time services were restricted due to the 
Covid-19 pandemic. My references to Aviva Insurance Limited include its agents.
Mr C and Mr P will see that my decision is about a business with a slightly different name to 
the business our investigator referred to in his correspondence, which is Aviva Insurance 
Limiteds agent. Aviva Insurance Limited is the insurer of the policy and the correct business 
for my decision to be about. The change of business hasnt affected the outcome of my 
decision.
What happened
Mr C and Mr P had a Healthier Solutions private medical insurance policy, insured by Aviva 
which provided them with a range of private medical benefits. The policy years relevant to 
this complaint ran from 4 May 2019 to 3 May 2020 and, following renewal, from 4 May 2020 
to 3 May 2021. 
On 23 March 2020 the British government announced wide-ranging restrictions on 
movement, commonly known as lockdown, due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The government 
announcement included an instruction to stay at home other than for a limited list of essential 
reasons. In March/April 2020 private medical facilities were requestioned to the NHS to 
provide support due to the demands of Covid-19.
Mr C and Mr P say that as private hospitals had been requisitioned to the NHS and the 
government had instructed lockdown it would have been impossible and potentially illegal 
for them to go to a private hospital so their medical insurance policy was unusable. They 
wanted a premium refund for 23 March 2020 to 11 May 2020, which they thought was the 
first period of lockdown, and further refunds for subsequent periods of lockdowns.
Aviva refused Mr C and Mr Ps refund request. It said the policy was still useable. It was still 
accepting claims under the policy, although some private treatment may be delayed, and 
there were still other benefits under the policy. Also the policy premium wasnt only payable 
when Mr C and Mr P were claiming. It said Mr C and Mr P had no claims rejected during the 
relevant period and just before the initial lockdown a successful claim was made on the 
policy for consultations and investigations and a follow up consultation was covered in 
July 2020.  
Aviva also said it had issued the following pledge to its private medical insurance (PMI) 
customers:
we appreciate that treatment may be delayed due to COVID-19 and this may result 
in overall claims costs being lower than expected in the short-term. However, we 
expect treatment to be delayed rather than cancelled and we anticipate overall claims 
costs subsequently to be higher. We would expect the period of lower claims to be 
broadly offset by the period of higher claims. However, if PMI claims to Aviva are 
lower than planned over this entire period, expected to be over 2020 and 2021, we 
promise to return the difference to UK PMI policyholders. This calculation will be 
independently audited.
Aviva wasnt able to give the outcome of the review at the time Mr C and Mr P complained 
as it wanted to take a long term view on the impact Covid-19 had on claims made. Aviva 
said as it had issued that pledge it would be unfair to other customers to agree to Mr C and 
Mr Ps request.
Our investigator said Aviva had acted fairly in refusing Mr C and Mr Ps refund request and  
Avivas pledge to consider whether any premium rebates to its customers would be 
appropriate once its review was finalised was reasonable.
Mr C and Mr P disagree and want an ombudsmans decision. They say private hospitals 
werent able to carry out any private services during the first lockdown in 2020 so Aviva 
wasnt able to provide the full service under the policy and it should give a refund.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When making my decision about what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
the complaint, Ive taken into account the terms and conditions of Mr C and Mr Ps contract 
with Aviva as well as other relevant considerations such as the law and industry guidance.
The terms and conditions of Mr C and Mr Ps policy say the policy is for one year (but can 
generally be renewed) and premiums must be paid for Aviva to provide cover during that 
year. Insurance policies are intended to cover the risk of an uncertain event happening over 
the duration of the contract. An insurer is entitled to retain the benefit of the premium paid to 
cover the risk during that time even if no successful claim has been made under the policy. 
Aviva provided cover under Mr C and Mr Ps policy from 4 May 2019 to 3 May 2020 and, 
following renewal, from 4 May 2020 to 3 May 2021. Aviva say a claim was made on the 
policy during that time, which was accepted.  Even if that information is incorrect, and Mr C 
and/or Mr P hadnt claimed, Aviva was still entitled to retain the premium it charged to cover 
the risk of Mr C and Mr P making a claim during that time whether or not theyd made a 
claim.
I also dont think its accurate to say Mr C and Mr Ps policy was unusable. From what Aviva 
said there was a claim on the policy for the relevant policy years. And even if I just 
considered the period from 23 March 2020 to 11 May 2020 the policy was still usable. 
Depending on the type of medical treatment or services Mr C and/or Mr P required, Aviva 
could have pre-authorised treatment to be carried out at a later date. And Mr C and Mr P had 
access to, amongst other things, virtual consultations/therapy. 
If Mr C and/or Mr P had needed to claim for treatment that was covered under the policy and 
Aviva had been unable to provide the necessary private health care services that would 
have been a consideration in my decision. But in this case theres no evidence that they 
wouldn't have received the policy benefits they would have needed. So I cant reasonably 
say the policy didnt met their medical needs.
Mr C and Mr P suggest that due to the governments lockdown instruction if they had needed  
to go to a private hospital it would have been potentially illegal for them to do so. But as the 
government said any medical need was one of the limited purposes people could leave 
their home I dont think Mr C and Mr Ps suggestion is correct.
I wouldnt ordinarily expect an insurer to refund premiums if medical treatment or medical 
services were unavailable due to circumstances outside of its control because of, for 
example, the lack of availability of certain medical professionals. Aviva doesnt own or 
operate the vast majority of the private facilities its members use and the requisitioning of insurer approved private facilities for use by the NHS was something which was outside of 
its control.
The requisitioning of private hospitals may have led to some medical services under the 
policy being reduced for a time or delayed, but for the reasons Ive given above that doesnt 
mean Aviva has to refund any premiums Mr C and Mr P paid. In their circumstances I dont 
think theres any reasonable basis for me to say Aviva has to refund a proportion of their 
premium as they requested.
Aviva told Mr C and Mr P that it will do a review to decide if it will give a policy premium 
rebate to eligible customers. I think thats a reasonable step for Aviva to take once its able to 
establish the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on claims made. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman