DRN-3498764
The complaint
Mr G and Ms W complain about Aviva Insurance Limiteds (Aviva) decision not to cover a 
claim made under their buildings insurance policy. 
What happened
In January 2022, Mr G contacted Aviva after discovering a flood in the cellar of their home. 
He said he was unaware of the cause of the water ingress but was in touch with the local 
water supplier and his Local Authority. Mr G says he was told his claim wouldnt be covered 
by the standard buildings insurance cover, because this didnt provide cover for accidental 
damage. 
Mr G complained. He said this wasnt clear when reviewing the my Aviva section of the 
website and he didnt consider the flooding to be accidental damage. Mr G says in an email 
from Aviva, he was told that the onus was on him to ensure he read his policy documents to 
ensure the level of cover in place was sufficient. 
Mr G referred his complaint to this service. He says the standard buildings insurance offer 
should have been clearer about what was included, as well as excluded. He said to put 
things right, hed like Aviva to accept and settle his claim. One of our investigators 
considered Mr Gs complaint but didnt consider Aviva had acted incorrectly in saying the 
policy didnt provide cover for accidental damage. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G says its impossible to detail all the circumstances that might be covered by an 
insurance policy. And its helpful to note here that an insurance policy isnt designed to 
provide cover for every incident that might occur. The role of this service is to decide if an 
insurer has responded to a claim in line with the policy terms.
Ive started by reviewing the policy terms. Under the buildings section, Im satisfied its clear 
what is covered. There is then a separate section specifying what is covered by the 
accidental damage cover to buildings section. The policy terms go on to say the cover in 
this section only applies when shown on the policy schedule. 
Having considered the policy terms provided to Mr G and Ms W, Im satisfied they are clear 
in setting out what incidents would be covered under the buildings section of the policy. And 
Ive considered how the policy terms define accidental damage, and Ive included this below:
Damage caused suddenly and unexpectedly by an outside force
As the policy terms for accidental damage to buildings states; the cover only applies if its 
specified in the policy schedule. Ive considered the policy schedule provided to Mr G and 
Ms W that came into effect in early 2021. This says:
Accidental Damage cover to Buildings
Accidental damage to services, fixed glass and sanitary fittings    Not covered
Extra accidental damage cover to buildings                                   Not covered
Im satisfied the policy schedule makes it clear accidental damage cover isnt automatically 
included. I appreciate Mr G has said how the damage occurred, from a third-party property. 
It could be argued the damage occurred as a result of an outside force, which is how the 
policy defines accidental damage. However, Im satisfied the policy doesnt provide cover for 
accidental damage to buildings.
Mr G and Ms W took the policy out online, so I dont consider there was any responsibility 
from Aviva in terms offering advice on the relevant level of cover or type of cover when Mr G 
and Ms W took the policy out. Im satisfied the policy documentation is sufficiently clear in 
defining what accidental damage covers and that it wasnt included as part of this policy. 
Having considered what both sides have said, I cant say Aviva acted wrongly in declining 
the claim on the basis the policy didnt offer cover for accidental damage to buildings. I wont 
be requiring it to consider this claim under the accidental damage section of the policy. 
That being said, what I havent seen is Aviva providing an explanation to Mr G and Ms W as 
to why it hasnt considered this claim under the flood peril. While I dont consider Aviva acted 
unfairly by declining the claim on the basis the policy doesnt provide cover for accidental 
damage, if Mr G and Ms W would like Aviva to share its thinking with them, theyre able to 
ask it to do so. 
 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Ms W to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 July 2022.
 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman