DRN-3649118
The complaint
Mr H complains about the quality of a car that was supplied to him under a conditional sale 
agreement with Close Brothers Limited, trading as Close Brothers Motor Finance (CB).
What happened
On 27 August 2021 Mr H took out a conditional sale agreement with CB for a car. The car 
was eight years old and had travelled approximately 61,000 miles. The cash price was 
£6,494. Mr H agreed to pay a deposit of £2,000, followed by 49 monthly instalments of 
£134.18.
Mr H has told us that the gearbox failed on 8 November 2021. He says he complained to CB 
four days after this happened, but that he had to chase them numerous times to try to get 
things resolved. He says in the meantime he had to pay the costs of running another vehicle 
so he could get to work.  
CB obtained an independent engineers report on the fault and provided their final response 
to Mr Hs complaint on 6 June 2022. They said the engineer had confirmed the fault wouldnt 
have been present at the point of supply, so they wouldnt do anything more to resolve the 
complaint. But they said theyd be happy to arrange another inspection of the car if Mr H 
wanted a second opinion. 
Unhappy with CBs response, Mr H referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator 
said she didnt think the car was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied, because she 
didnt think it was sufficiently durable. She felt it would be fair for CB to cover the cost of the 
repair, upon production of a valid receipt. She said that, if the work had already been carried 
out, Mr H should also receive interest on the amount hed paid.
The investigator noted Mr H hadnt been able to use the car since December 2021. She 
thought he should receive a refund of the payments hed made since then, with interest, and 
that any adverse information about this agreement should be removed from his credit file. 
Our investigator felt Mr H had experienced distress and inconvenience because hed been 
supplied with a car that wasnt of satisfactory quality. She thought it would be fair for CB to 
pay him £150 compensation for this. 
CB disagreed. They acknowledged that the original mechanical inspection theyd obtained 
said further investigation would be needed to determine the specific cause of the fault. But 
they said theyd accounted for this by seeking advice from another independent engineer. 
CB said the second independent engineers opinion was that, based on the information 
theyd seen in the first engineers report, the car was likely to have been driven hard and a 
gear missed.
CB said they accepted that a well-maintained gearbox should last more than 67,000 miles. 
But they said the car had covered over 5,000 miles since they supplied it, and it couldnt be 
confirmed that it had been properly maintained or that it hadnt been driven in a manner that 
would cause damage. 
Mr H said he was happy with the outcome the investigator had proposed. He provided 
further comments, which Ill summarise:
On the day the first inspection took place, Mr H complained that the inspector had 
only opened the bonnet and requested a proper inspection on a ramp.
The second engineer decided that another inspection was unnecessary, based on 
the first report. Mr H didnt consider this report to have been based on a proper 
inspection.
Mr H expressed concern about the information the inspector had been given about 
the fault, because hed started the conversation by saying Im going to take it for a 
test drive. The report said the car had a 2.0L engine, when in fact its a 1.2.
CB told Mr H they werent liable for the fault as the car had been modified. The 
retailer hadnt informed Mr H that it had been modified in any way, and no 
modifications had been made since hed had the car.
CB told Mr H theyd cover the additional costs of running another vehicle due to this 
car having failed. He said this was a substantial amount, as the faulty car still needed 
to be insured as well as the replacement vehicle. 
Mr H had been very proud of this car, never missing a payment, and was distraught 
when it failed so quickly. CB failed to deal with the complaint in a timely manner, 
breaking promises to act or call back despite the numerous attempts hed made to 
chase things. He felt £150 to be a paltry amount for this. 
The case has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Hs complaint is about a car supplied under a conditional sale agreement. Entering into 
consumer credit contracts like this as a lender is a regulated activity. So, Im satisfied I can 
look into Mr Hs concerns about CB.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law and 
regulations. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. It says that 
under a contract to supply goods, theres an implied term that the quality of the goods is 
satisfactory.
The CRA says the quality of goods includes their state and condition. It says things like 
fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety, and 
durability can be aspects of the quality of goods. 
The standard thats applied is whether a reasonable person would consider the quality of the 
goods to be satisfactory, taking into account the way they were described, the price and all 
the other relevant circumstances. It seems likely that in a case involving a car, the relevant 
circumstances a court would take into account might include things like its age, mileage, and 
history.
In this case, I bear in mind that the car was eight years old and had covered around 61,000 
miles when it was supplied to Mr H. It cost £6,494, which is significantly less than it wouldve 
cost when it was new. I dont think a reasonable person would have the same standards for 
this car as they would a newer one with less mileage. 
I dont think a buyer would expect the car to be in perfect condition - I think theyd probably 
expect some parts of the car to have suffered a bit of wear and tear. But I think theyd still expect it to be free from anything other than minor faults when it was supplied - and to be 
able to drive the car for a reasonable amount of time without major issues.
Was the car of satisfactory quality?
Ive seen a copy of the independent engineers report, referring to his inspection on 6 
December 2021. The report records the car to have travelled around 67,406 miles at that 
time. The engineer reported that:
The vehicle is noted to be on lowered suspension.  [R8]
There were two pieces of the gearbox casing loose underneath the vehicles bonnet and 
around the engine bay area.  [R9]
There was a gear on the passenger side seat which is a cross pin bent from the 
differential and also one planet gear.  [R10]
The engineer said his opinion was that:
Taking into consideration the time and mileage since finance inception the above listed 
fault would not have been present at that time.
Having reviewed this evidence, Im satisfied that there was a significant fault with the car, 
which meant it could no longer be driven. I dont disagree that this fault wouldnt have been 
present when CB supplied the car to Mr H. The point for me to consider is whether this was 
caused by an issue that was developing, or underlying, when the car was supplied. 
The evidence Ive seen shows Mr H had little more than two months use of the car before 
the gearbox failed, by which time it had only travelled around 67,406 miles. Im satisfied a 
reasonable person would have expected it to last significantly longer than this without major 
problems. For these reasons, I dont consider it to have been sufficiently durable. It follows 
that I find the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the time it was supplied.
I appreciate CB disagree  they say the evidence they obtained indicates the fault wasnt 
present at the time the car was supplied. Ive given careful thought to what the independent 
engineers report says about the cause of the gearbox failure. It says:
 we would require the vehicle to be further stripped and the gearbox removed in order 
to fully assess the gearbox condition to confirm the cause of failure.
As the independent engineer was unable to confirm what caused the failure, I dont find his 
evidence to be persuasive as to whether that issue was likely to have been present or 
developing at the time the car was supplied.
CB said they followed this up by making enquiries with a second independent engineer. 
Theyve told us the second engineer advised that, based on the information in points R8, R9 
and R10 of the first engineers report, their opinion was that the vehicle had been driven hard 
and a gear had been missed. CB said the second engineer advised that, in light of this and 
the mileage covered, their position was unlikely to be any different from that of the first 
engineer.
But Im not persuaded that the information provided by either of the engineers provides any 
firm evidence as to the cause of the gearbox failure in this case. I say this because Ive seen 
clear evidence in the first engineers report that the cause of the failure couldnt be confirmed 
without stripping the car and removing the gearbox.CB accept a well-maintained gearbox should last more than 67,000 miles. But theyve said 
this car had covered over 5,000 miles since they supplied it  and it couldnt be confirmed 
that it had been properly maintained or that it hadnt been driven in a manner that would 
cause damage. Ive considered this point.
Ive seen reference in the engineers report to the car being on lowered suspension. As Mr H 
told us he didnt have this carried out, I dont consider him to be responsible for any damage 
that may have been caused to the car because of that modification. Ive seen no evidence to 
suggest the failure of the gearbox was due to driving style in this case. So, this doesnt affect 
my decision. 
To summarise, Im satisfied that Mr H was entitled to expect more than two months or 
6,000 miles use from the car without the need for significant repairs. I think he could 
reasonably expect it to be more durable than that. So, I dont consider the car to have 
been of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to him. 
Putting things right
I think its fair that CB should cover the cost of repairing the gearbox issue. If Mr H has 
already had this work carried out, CB should reimburse him for this, on production of a 
valid receipt or invoice.
Mr H told us that he hasnt been able to use the car since the gearbox failed on 8 November 
2021. So, I think it would be fair for CB to refund the payments hes made since that date, to 
reflect the fact that Mr H had no use of the car. 
I appreciate Mr H doesnt feel this fully covers the additional costs he incurred due to having 
to get a replacement vehicle. He said this was a substantial amount, as the faulty car also 
still needed to be insured. He says CB told him hed be able to reclaim the additional travel 
and insurance costs he incurred due to the car having failed. Ive seen no supporting 
evidence to confirm this, so Ive given careful thought to what would be fair here.
Although a business may have done something wrong, wed still expect consumers to take 
reasonable steps to avoid incurring unnecessary additional costs. Mr H told us that he didnt 
make a statutory notification to declare the car was off the road, because he didnt expect it 
to take so long to get things resolved. 
But having got another vehicle, I do think it was reasonable for Mr H to declare this car to be 
off-road, to avoid the need for him to insure two vehicles. So, I dont think it would be fair for 
me to direct CB to cover the additional cost of insuring a second vehicle. Im satisfied Mr Hs 
travel costs are reasonably covered by him being reimbursed for the payments he made 
under the agreement.
I can see Mr H has also been caused some distress and inconvenience because of the 
problems with the car. He had to make arrangements to get another vehicle so he could 
travel to work, as well as chasing CB to try to get his complaint resolved. I do think £150 
compensation fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience hes been caused here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct Close Brothers Limited 
(trading as Close Brothers Motor Finance) to:
Pay the cost of repairing the gearbox issue, on production of a valid receipt or 
invoice. If Mr H has already paid for this work to be carried out, interest should be added at 8% simple per year, calculated from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement.
Refund the amount Mr H has paid under the agreement since 8 November 2021. 
Interest should be added to each of the refunded payments, calculated from the date 
of each payment until the date of settlement at 8% simple per year.
Pay Mr H £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience hes been caused.
Remove any adverse information about this agreement from Mr Hs credit file. 
If CB consider tax should be deducted from the interest element of the award, they should 
tell Mr H how much theyve taken off. They should also give Mr H a tax deduction certificate 
if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax if hes eligible. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman