DRN-4190246
Complaint
Mrs P has complained about a guarantor loan Everyday Lending Limited (Trust Two) 
provided to her. 
She says the loan was unaffordable.
Background
Trust Two provided Mrs P with a guarantor loan for £3,000.00 in February 2020. This loan 
had an APR of 79.93% and a term of 36 months. This meant that the total amount to be 
repaid of £6,540.90, including interest, fees and charges of £3,540.90, was due to be repaid 
in 36 monthly instalments of just over £180. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mrs Ps complaint and he thought Trust Two hadnt acted 
fairly or reasonably towards Mrs P when it provided this loan, as it provided the loan in 
circumstances where it ought to have realised it was unaffordable. So he thought that         
Mrs Ps complaint should be upheld. 
Trust Two disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to consider the case.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mrs Ps complaint. 
Having carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ps complaint. Ill explain 
why in a little more detail.
Trust Two needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Trust Two needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mrs P 
could afford to repay any credit it provided. The fact that Trust Two may also have been able 
to seek payments from a guarantor did not alter or dilute this obligation in any way.
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
The information Trust Two has provided suggested that it carried out a credit check before 
this loan was provided. The results of which showed that Mrs P had defaulted on a number 
of previous credit commitments, was in arrears as well as over the credit limit on a credit 
card. 
Furthermore, Trust Twos income and expenditure assessment was calculated with the use 
of estimated expenditure in circumstances where Mrs Ps difficulties with credit suggested 
she fell outside the profile of the average borrower. 
Ive also considered what Trust Two has said about some of the funds for this loan being for 
consolidation. However, its unclear to me how or what was going to be consolidated and 
more crucially how this loan, which was on such disadvantageous terms, was going to 
improve Mrs Ps outgoings going forward. I say this while particularly mindful that Trust Two 
would have seen that Mrs P wasnt making much smaller payments to her credit card.
 
Overall and having considered everything, Im persuaded by what Mrs P has said about 
already being in a difficult financial position at the time. And while its possible Mrs Ps 
troubles reflected her choices rather than financial difficulty, Id add that my experience of 
these types of cases suggest this is unlikely, in the absence of any reasonable or plausible 
arguments from Trust Two, Ive been persuaded to accept Mrs Ps version of events. 
As this is the case, I do think that Mrs Ps existing financial position meant that she was 
unlikely to be able to afford the payments to this guarantor loan, without borrowing further or 
suffering significant adverse consequences. And Im therefore satisfied that reasonable and 
proportionate checks would more like than not have shown Trust Two that it shouldnt have 
provided this loan to Mrs P. As Trust Two provided Mrs P with this loan, notwithstanding this, 
Im satisfied that it didnt act fairly and reasonably towards her. 
Mrs P ended up paying interest, fees and charges on a guarantor loan she shouldnt have 
been provided with. So Im satisfied that Mrs P lost out because of what Trust Two did wrong 
and that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Trust Two needs to do to put things right for Mrs P
Having thought about everything, Im satisfied that Trust Two should put things right for    
Mrs P by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges Mrs P actually paid on her loan;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded interest payments from the 
date they were made by Mrs P to the date of settlement;
removing all adverse information it recorded on Mrs Ps credit file as a result of this 
loan. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Trust Two to take off tax from this interest. Trust Two 
must give Mrs P a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mrs Ps complaint. Everyday Lending Limited 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or reject my decision before 28 August 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman