DRN-1954095
The complaint
Mrs B complains about how Brightside Insurance Services Limited administered her motor 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs B had a policy taken out through Brightside. At renewal she decided to go elsewhere for 
her cover. She cancelled her direct debit and she said she contacted Brightside to let it 
know. The finance provider told Brightside that Mrs B had cancelled her direct debit. 
Brightside then charged Mrs B £53 for cancelling her policy and it recorded the cancellation 
of its internal database. Mrs B discovered this when she returned to Brightside shortly 
afterwards and found that her premium had doubled.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that 
Brightside had incorrectly recorded the cancellation as it shouldnt have cancelled the policy, 
just not renewed it. 
He thought Mrs B had most likely contacted the finance provider rather than Brightside about 
this. But it had told Brightside that Mrs B had cancelled her direct debit and so he thought it 
should have queried this with Mrs B, rather than incorrectly recording a cancellation. He 
thought Brightside should refund Mrs Bs £53, remove the cancellation marker and ask the 
policys underwriter to recalculate Mrs Bs premiums.
Brightside replied that the policy had come into force. It said it had applied its insurers 
charge and its own cancellation charge in line with its Terms of Business. It said it was 
entitled to record the cancellation on its database. And it said Mrs B had decided to buy the 
new policy knowing the price. Brightside asked for an ombudsmans review, so the complaint 
has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator has already explained, our approach in cases like this is to consider 
whether the brokers acted in line with its Terms of Business and fairly and reasonably.
Mrs Bs policy was coming up for renewal and shed previously agreed to have it 
automatically renewed by Brightside. So it sent her its renewal letter. In its Terms of 
Business, under automatic renewal, it says: 
If for any reason we are unable to renew your policy using the payment details we have, or 
if your renewal declines and we can no longer provide cover, then we will contact you.
Mrs B said shed decided to find cover elsewhere. So she cancelled her direct debit and she 
thought she contacted Brightside to say she didnt want the policy renewed. 
Mrs B has explained that she was going through an extremely stressful period at the time. 
And I think she made a mistake and contacted the finance company instead. The finance 
company told Brightside shed cancelled her direct debit. So Id then expect Brightside, 
according to its own Terms of Business, to contact Mrs B. 
I can see that Brightside sent Mrs B an email telling her to contact the finance provider to set 
up a new payment agreement. But this was also a notice of cancellation and it was sent a 
week before the new policy started. But I think this was a mistake as the new policy hadnt 
started and Brightside couldnt issue a cancellation notice when the contract didnt yet exist. 
The email also asked Mrs B to contact Brightside if she wanted to cancel her policy. I think 
Mrs B reasonably didnt respond to the email as shed already cancelled the direct debit and, 
so she thought, the renewal. 
So I think Brightside then incorrectly applied cancellation charges and recorded the 
cancellation on its internal database. So I think Brightside acted outside its Terms of 
Business by not contacting Mrs B as it should have done about the cancelled direct debit. 
And I think it acted unfairly and unreasonably in cancelling a policy that didnt yet exist. 
Mrs B agreed to take out a new policy through Brightside with a higher premium. But, from 
what I can see, this premium was calculated by the insurer based on the information that 
Brightside had provided. This included the cancellation for non-payment. So I think 
Brightside passed incorrect information to the insurer and this had a detrimental effect on 
Mrs Bs premium.
Putting things right
To put things right for Mrs B, I think Brightside should do the following:
1. Mrs B was charged £53 for the cancellation. Brightside said the charges included a 
charge for the insurers time on cover. But as this was applied due to Brightsides error, I 
think it should take responsibility for it as well as its own cancellation charge and refund 
these to Mrs B. 
2. I also think it should remove the incorrect cancellation marker from Mrs Bs record and 
ensure that her new insurer hasnt recorded it anywhere else. 
3. Mrs B was charged a higher premium due to Brightsides error. I think Brightside should 
ask the policys underwriter to recalculate Mrs Bs premium based on the correct 
information.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Brightside Insurance Services Limited to carry out the redress set out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman