DRN-1512788
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T have complained that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) is asking them 
to pay a shortfall debt following the sale of their property under the Mortgage Rescue 
Scheme. To settle the complaint they want the debt written off and for Halifax to stop 
contacting them.
What happened
Mr and Mrs T owned a property which was mortgaged to Halifax. Unfortunately they fell into 
financial difficulty and in 2014, the property was sold to a housing association under the 
governments Mortgage Rescue Scheme. Mr and Mrs T still live in the property, as tenants 
of the housing association
Mr and Mrs T complained in 2019 after being contacted by a third party Ill call M; a debt 
recovery agent acting for Halifax. M told Mr and Mrs T that they still owed Halifax around 
£34,300 and asked them for repayment proposals. Mr and Mrs T said theyd been told 
previously that the shortfall resulting from the sale in 2014 had been written off. They also 
say theyd already paid more than that in interest whilst they had the mortgage.
Halifax didnt uphold the complaint and so it was brought to us where an investigator looked 
at it. He didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs T asked for their case to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The position in relation to recovery of mortgage shortfalls is covered in the code of practice 
issued by UK Finance (formerly the Council of Mortgage Lenders), which says:
In England, Wales and Northern Ireland, a lender legally has 12 years in which to 
contact the borrower to begin the process of obtaining repayment of shortfall debt; 
this period is usually 5 years in Scotland...
In addition, from 11 February 2000, lenders  have agreed voluntarily that they will 
begin all recovery action for the shortfall within the first six years following the sale of 
a property in possession
The six year limit only refers to beginning recovery action and does not affect a 
lenders ability to recover the shortfall debt over a longer period.
It is also part of the Financial Conduct Authoritys Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of 
Business Sourcebook (MCOB), which says:
(1) If the decision is made to recover the sale shortfall, the firm must ensure that the
customer is notified of this intention.
(2) The notification referred to in (1) must take place within five years of the date of 
the sale (if the regulated mortgage contract or home purchase plan is subject to 
Scottish law) or within six years (in all other cases).
Mr and Mrs Ts property was in England. 
Ive considered the period under which a lender must start to take legal action to recover a 
shortfall. A shortfall debt isnt automatically written off when a property is sold in possession. 
Even where a business has used the term written off in correspondence or statements 
shared with the consumer, that doesnt extinguish liability for a shortfall debt. 
Nor can the shortfall be extinguished by the interest the borrowers paid during the life of the 
mortgage, because thats already been accounted for. If Mr and Mrs T hadnt paid that 
interest, the shortfall would have been higher still.
Section 20 (1) of the Limitation Act 1980 sets out that a lender has 12 years to use court 
action to make a borrower pay a shortfall from a mortgage. That 12 years starts from the 
date the property is sold; the 6 years referenced by UK Finance and MCOB starts at the 
same time. Thats because an accurate figure for the shortfall cant be known until the sale 
has definitely gone through. Here, the shortfall debt crystallised in 2014, so Halifax is well 
within both time limits for commencing recovery action.
After taking everything into account, Im satisfied that Halifax can still regard Mr and Mrs T 
as liable for the shortfall debt and it is not out of time to recover it from them.  
Mr and Mrs T are, of course, free to reject my decision, if they disagree with it. Nothing in 
this decision precludes Mr and Mrs T arguing in any court proceedings that Halifax cannot 
recover the debt. I would suggest Mr and Mrs T take legal advice from a qualified solicitor in 
relation to any court proceedings.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 November 2020. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman