DRN-1572772
The complaint
Mrs D says Santander UK Plc (trading at the time as Abbey National), mis-sold her a 
mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
In 2001, Santander sold Mrs D PPI to protect the monthly repayments on her mortgage 
should she become unable to work due to disablement or unemployment.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. They felt the PPI wasnt suitable for 
Mrs D as she had a pre-existing medical condition (PEMC) that she couldnt have claimed 
for. 
Santander didnt agree with the adjudicator, so the complaint was passed to me to review 
afresh. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ds case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI was mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Santander says it recommended the PPI to Mrs D, so it should have taken steps to ensure 
the PPI was right for her. It also had to give her information about the PPI that was clear, 
fair, and not misleading  so she could decide for herself if it was right for her.
There are gaps in the information thats still available from the sale. And, despite what its 
said, I havent seen enough to show Santander gave Mrs D suitable advice or clear enough 
information about the policys exclusions regarding claims for PEMCs.
I think this lack of advice and/or information would have mattered to Mrs D when making 
her decision about the PPI. I say that because Mrs D was already suffering with 
rheumatoid arthritis (RA)  a long-term condition  at the time of the sale. Shes provided 
us with medical evidence from 1993 and 1994 in support of the diagnosis and her 
hospital treatment. Im satisfied the condition had had an impact on Mrs D and, given its 
chronic nature, was likely to continue to do so.
While it wasnt impossible that Mrs D might have been able to claim for another condition, 
it was nevertheless more likely that any disability claim would be related to her RA. 
Theoretically, the cover for Mrs R was unaffected but the scope of the policy overall was 
nevertheless effectively reduced.
In my view, the above meant the PPI was on balance unsuitable for Mrs D. And I think if 
shed been given clear enough advice and information about the PPIs limitations, then its 
likely she wouldnt have taken it. 
Putting things right
Santander should put Mrs D in the position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. The 
policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Santander should:
Pay Mrs D the amount she paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mrs D made successful claims under the PPI policy, Santander can take off what she 
got for them from the amount it owes her. It can also take off any payments already 
made to her for high levels of commission and profit share.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander 
must give Mrs D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. I require Santander UK Plc to 
put things right for Mrs D as explained above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2020.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman