DRN-3125001
The complaint
Mr A complains that Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead) has unfairly handled a 
subsidence claim under his buildings insurance policy.
Any reference to Mr A or Fairmead includes the actions of any respective agents.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties.
Mr A made a subsidence claim under his buildings insurance policy.
Fairmead has carried out repairs but Mr A remains unhappy with the work. He claims 
his rear bedroom is sloping, that the house suffers vibrations, and he was unhappy 
with Fairmeads use of helibars within its repair.
Mr A also complained of the impact of paying the £1,000 excess, and described the 
stress of the subsidence claim during a very difficult time for him and his partner.
Fairmead considered the complaint and agreed it shouldve installed the helibars 
earlier than it did, and awarded Mr A £100. It didnt uphold the other areas of 
complaint, and said the slope of the property was historic and not related to the 
subsidence, as well as not covered due to a gradual operative cause exclusion.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said the excess was reasonable and part 
of the policy Mr A agreed to. She agreed Fairmead shouldve installed the helibars 
earlier than it did, but that its offer for this was reasonable. She said there was no 
evidence to show the house was experiencing vibrations, but would reconsider this if 
Mr A provided expert evidence to support the allegation.
The investigator said Fairmead should accept the claim as it hadnt persuaded her 
the movement was historic. And as a result of its delay in actioning the works, it 
should pay an additional £250 in compensation.
Fairmead disagreed, saying its qualified opinion was the replacement of the wooden 
windows with UPVC ones had resulted in a lack of adequate support, resulting in the 
sloping floors  which wasnt subsidence. And it provided site photos and records 
from its agents visits commenting on the works.
Mr A responded to reiterate the works were of a poor standard, and he just wanted 
the floor repaired.
So, the complaint was passed to me for an ombudsmans decision. I issued my provisional 
thoughts on 20 October 2021 outlining why I didnt intend on upholding the complaint. Ive 
included part of this decision below.
For the reasons explained in detail by our investigator previously, I can only consider 
the events between 18 June 2020 and 18 December 2020 within this decision.
Sloping floor within rear bedroom
The sloping floor appears to be the main point of contention between parties 
following our investigators view.
When making a claim on an insurance policy, the onus is on the policyholder to 
demonstrate the claim is one covered by the policy. If the insurer wishes to rely on an 
exclusion to decline a claim, the onus is on it to show the exclusion more than likely 
applies.
For an event to be covered under the subsidence peril, this would need to be caused 
by the subsidence. Subsidence is damage caused to a property because of 
movement of the ground underneath the foundations. So, I have to consider, what is 
the most likely cause of the sloping floor, in light of all the evidence. Or, at the very 
least, is the cause subsidence or any other insured peril under the policy.
Fairmead has given its commentary on the matter which Ive included below.
The historic movement to the floors is not related to the subsidence as the insured 
has changed the timber windows to UPVC over recent years. There is now lintels 
above ground floor external door and windows, thus causing slight bowing to the 
brickwork and consider this as exclusion under the policy under the gradual operative 
cause defective works.
Its also provided photos and commentary from a site visit, in which the agent says 
..sloping floors to the rear are of historical movement and not related to the 
Subsidence damage.
Based on the expert opinion provided, Im minded to agree that the most likely cause 
of the damage to the floor is related to the change of window types that led to the 
bowing of the brickwork. Theres no indication from these visits or expert opinions 
that the floor has been moved as a result of ground movement.
Fairmead has also pointed to an exclusion within the policy that says it will not cover 
gradual events. It defines this as Any loss, damage or liability arising from wear and 
tear that you know is happening gradually over time.
From the evidence I have, it seems the cause of the sloping floor is gradual and most 
likely known to Mr A in light of the location being within a room in his home. So, Im 
satisfied Fairmead has declined the claim fairly and Im not asking it to do anything 
further.
Vibrations
Mr A has said his home is still suffering the impact of vibrations. Fairmead has 
provided site notes and commentary from the building consultant who visited the 
home. Theyve said no cracking was present to suggest the property was still moving 
or vibrating. They also said there is clear evidence to support the property is not 
subject to vibrations.
I take on board Mr As concerns, but in the absence of any report indicating this is a 
problem and is related to the subsidence that Fairmead has considered, Im not 
intending to direct it to consider this any further.
Use of helibarsFairmead has agreed it shouldve installed the helibars sooner than it did. Im 
satisfied its £100 offer for this delay is reasonable in the circumstances. Mr A has 
provided nothing to suggest this repair isnt appropriate or would not be suitable. So, 
Im satisfied Fairmead has acted fairly by taking this course of action.
Policy excess
I understand Mr As concerns around the cost of the excess being difficult for him to 
pay. However, this is part and parcel of the policy that hes agreed to. So, I wouldnt 
expect Fairmead to waive this or do anything further.
Claim handling
With the exception of the installation of the helibars, it appears to me the claim 
progressed promptly from 18 June 2020 onwards. When Mr A raised concerns, 
Fairmeads agents attended the property to review the quality of works and whether 
there were outstanding issues within a timely manner. In light of this I wont be 
intending to recommend any further compensation beyond the £100 Fairmead has 
already offered.
I concluded that I didnt intend to uphold the complaint and gave both parties an opportunity 
to provide anything further.
Fairmead provided nothing further but Mr A did. He disagreed, saying the following:
When he purchased the property there were no wooden window frames and this was 
the first time this had been mentioned;
The movement was beyond just the rear bedroom and impacted the front bedroom 
and downstairs living room;
The movement appeared to be on internal brickwork;
My decision took what the insurer had said on face value and he didnt think 
Fairmeads explanation made sense; and
Mr A said he shouldnt need to pay a professional to show damage when he is 
already paying for an insurance premium and he didnt feel Fairmead had done a 
thorough enough job when assessing the damage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im still not upholding this complaint.
Within our investigators previous view, she quoted Fairmeads comments about the 
change of windows from timber to UPVC. Even if this change took place prior to Mr 
As purchase of the home, it doesnt change anything as the cause remains the 
same.
In Mr As complaint to this service he said he wanted Fairmead to fix the dip in the 
rear bedrooms. This is also reflected within Fairmeads final response letter. And no 
mention of other floors beyond the rear bedroom was mentioned after our 
investigators assessment. As a result, this is the damage Ive considered within my 
decision.Mr A has disputed Fairmeads findings and expertise. But hes given me no expert 
evidence to support this beyond his own commentary. Were an evidence-based 
organisation and this is what I have taken into account when reaching my decision. I 
understand he feels he shouldnt need to do this, but as Ive said previously the onus 
is on him as a policyholder to show an insured event has taken place  which Im not 
satisfied hes done and isnt reflected within the available evidence. So, Im still 
satisfied the most likely cause of the sloping floor is due to the replacement windows 
not providing adequate support. 
If Mr A were to obtain any report that showed Fairmeads work was unsatisfactory or 
it had reached the wrong outcome as to whether damage was caused by 
subsidence, Id expect it to reconsider this matter.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2021.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman