DRN-3247300
The complaint
Mr H complains that Vanquis Bank Limited incorrectly recorded a missed payment on his
credit file.  
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
Mr H has a loan with Vanquis. At the end of July 2020 Mr Hs payment was declined so 
Vanquis contacted him on 4 August 2020 to ask why. The payment was attempted again 
and successfully processed using Mr Hs card details. During the online chat, Vanquis said it 
could move the due date for Mr Hs next payment. Vanquis confirmed Mr H needed to make 
his next payment on 28 September 2020.
Vanquis tried to claim Mr Hs payment on 28 September 2020 using his card details but it 
was declined. Another attempt the following day was also declined. Vanquis spoke with Mr H 
via its online chat facility on 30 September 2020 and he agreed to make the payment up via 
a Faster Payment. Vanquis offered to amend Mr Hs payment date to the 5th of the month to 
allow them to be received in time. Vanquis also advised Faster Payments can take up to five 
days to credit the loan balance.
On 5 October 2020 Vanquis contacted Mr H again as his payment hadnt reached the loan 
account. Mr H advised hed made a Faster Payment on 1 October 2020. The payment was 
credited to Mr Hs loan on 6 October 2020.
Mr H later raised a complaint as he found Vanquis had recorded a missed payment on his 
credit file for October 2020. Vanquis said it reported the dates Mr H had made payments to 
the credit reference agencies and the information it later reported was out of its control. 
Vanquis didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Mr H referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. The 
investigator thought Vanquis had dealt with Mr Hs complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do 
anything else. Mr H asked to appeal and said Vanquis had recorded a missed payment 
which wasnt right as his payment was made up. Mr H also said the September 2020 
payment was showing as made on his credit file. But the October 2020 payment was 
showing as missed. As Mr H asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make 
a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Vanquis says it reported the dates of Mr Hs payments to the credit reference agencies and 
that it isnt responsible for how its recorded on his file. Vanquis says the information it 
records is correct. But Mr H has told us that his October 2020 payment is showing as missed 
despite making his payment in full that month. Whilst I dont agree it was unfair for Vanquis 
to record a late payment on Mr Hs credit file, I do think the way its reported his loan 
payments is inaccurate and has caused some confusion.
Ill deal with whether Vanquis was correct to record a late payment on Mr Hs credit file first. 
Mr H made a payment on 4 August 2020 and Vanquis agreed that the next payment was 
due on 28 September 2020. Mr H didnt make his next payment until 1 October 2020, after 
the date agreed. I can see no payment was received in September 2020 so I agree that its 
reasonable for Vanquis to report a missed payment in this case.
However, Mr H has correctly pointed out he made his October 2020 payment so the missed 
payment recorded on his credit file for that month is wrong. As Mr H missed his September 
2020 payment, Vanquis should reflect that on his credit file.
Vanquis approach to recording Mr Hs missed payment would mean it would remain on his 
credit file for a month longer than the six years its allowed to report it. I also think its fair to 
note that Vanquis approach appears to have caused some confusion in this case as Mr H 
has repeatedly asked why his October 2020 payment was recorded as missed despite being 
made. Mr H has also pointed out that his September 2020 payment was made late but 
reported as collected on time. I agree that the way Vanquis has reported the payment due in 
September 2020 has unfairly affected Mr H.
Mr H has explained his payment wasnt missed, it was late. I take Mr Hs point, but as no 
payment was made in September 2020, I think its fair for Vanquis to record it as missed. 
And I also think its fair to note Vanquis can record arrears with the credit reference agencies 
when payments arent made on time.
I can see this situation has caused a reasonable amount of confusion for Mr H and I dont 
agree its accurate for Vanquis to report October 2020s payment as missed. In addition to 
amending Mr Hs credit file, I also intend to tell Vanquis to pay Mr H £100 for the trouble and 
upset caused.
I invited both parties to respond with any additional comments or points they wanted me to 
consider before I made my final decision. We didnt hear back from Vanquis. 
Mr H responded to say he didnt agree and remained of the view that there should be no 
missed payment recorded on his credit file. Mr H says he has asked Vanquis to show the 
collections activity it undertook to recover the missed payment. Mr H confirmed his position 
that he had never missed a payment. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has explained he doesnt agree that a payment was missed. But, Ive relooked at the 
available information and remain of the view that there was a missed payment. In his 
response, Mr H said Vanquis agreed there wouldnt be a September 2020 payment. But 
thats not what the information Ive seen says. The available information shows Vanquis 
agreed to amend the due date so Mr H needed to make a payment by 28 September 2020. 
It didnt say no payment was due for September 2020. 
Mr H made a faster payment on 1 October 2020. I appreciate that was only a few days later 
than the new due date. But Im satisfied no payment was made in September 2020. As Mr H 
didnt make a payment towards his loan in September 2020, I agree with Vanquis that it was reasonable to record it as missed on his credit file. 
As I said in my provisional decision, Vanquis has a duty to ensure its recording accurate 
information on Mr Hs credit file. But its recorded the payment as missed in October 2020, 
not September 2020. In Mr Hs case, I dont agree thats a fair approach as it will mean the 
missed payment will remain on his credit file for a month longer than it should. In my 
provisional decision I explained that I intended to tell Vanquis to amend the missed payment 
to reflect September 2020. I still think thats the fairest way to resolve Mr Hs complaint. 
I also awarded £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr H. As Im satisfied Mr 
H has experienced some inconvenience here, Im going to proceed in line with my 
provisional decision.   
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint and direct Vanquis Limited to settle as follows: 
- Amend Mr Hs credit file to back date the missed payment to September 2020
- Pay Mr H £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman