DRN-2965446
The complaint
Mr C complains that Loans 2 Go Limited lent to him in an irresponsible manner.  
What happened
Mr C was given a single loan by Loans 2 Go in December 2019. He borrowed £400 that he 
agreed to repay in 18 monthly instalments. Mr C appears to have faced some difficulties 
making his repayments but he repaid the loan earlier than planned, in January 2021.
Mr Cs complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the 
checks Loans 2 Go had done before agreeing the loan had been proportionate. But she 
thought the results of those checks should have led the lender to conclude that it was 
unlikely Mr C would be able to repay this borrowing in a sustainable manner. So she didnt 
think the loan should have been agreed and she asked Loans 2 Go to pay some 
compensation to Mr C.
Loans 2 Go didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process. If Mr C accepts my decision it is legally binding on both parties.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding Mr Cs complaint.
The rules and regulations at the time Loans 2 Go gave this loan to Mr C required it to carry 
out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he 
owed in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Loans 2 Go had to think about whether 
repaying the credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr C. In 
practice this meant that Loans 2 Go had to ensure that making the repayments wouldnt 
cause Mr C undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for 
Loans 2 Go to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider 
the impact of any repayments on Mr C. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income); 
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required 
to make repayments for an extended period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about whether Loans 2 Go did what it needed to before agreeing 
to lend to Mr C.
Loans 2 Go gathered some information from Mr C before it agreed the loan. It asked him for 
details of his income, and his normal expenditure. And it checked his credit file to assess 
how much he was repaying to other creditors and how he had managed credit in the past. 
Loans 2 Go used the results of its checks to reduce Mr Cs declared disposal income by a 
significant amount.
The loan that Mr C took from Loans 2 Go was relatively small. But Mr C was entering into a 
significant commitment with Loans 2 Go as he would need to make monthly repayments for 
a period of 18 months. So I think it was right that Loans 2 Go wanted to gather, and 
independently check, some detailed information about Mr Cs financial circumstances before 
it agreed to lend to him. I think that the checks Ive described above were sufficient to 
achieve that aim  I think that Loans 2 Gos checks were proportionate.
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to 
react appropriately to the information shown by those checks. Those results might 
sometimes lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a consumers financial situation. 
Or, in some cases, the results might lead a lender to decline a loan application outright. And 
that is what I think should have happened in this case.  
As Ive said earlier Loans 2 Gos checks led the lender to reduce the amount of disposable 
income that Mr C declared. Its checks showed that his income was around 75% of what hed 
declared. And his expenditure was much higher  Mr C had said that he was spending 
around £150 each month on credit commitments, whereas Loans 2 Gos credit check 
showed the true amount to be well over £600. So I think Loans 2 Go should have had 
serious concerns about the application Mr C had made. And I think those concerns might 
have been amplified by the credit check showing that a lender had reported Mr C had made 
a fraudulent application for credit earlier that year. 
Loans 2 Gos credit check also showed that Mr C was making use of multiple other credit 
accounts. Whilst the individual balances on most accounts were not significant, taken 
together they showed a consumer who appeared to be reliant on credit to meet their day to 
day expenses. Mr C had three short term loans outstanding, two credit cards that were at 
their agreed limit, a mail order account, and a significant hire purchase loan. His repayments 
on these accounts utilised over 40% of his verified income.I havent seen anything that would suggest Mr C had told Loans 2 Go he wanted to use its 
loan to consolidate any of his existing debts. So taking the loan would simply further 
increase his indebtedness. Once he started repaying the loan to Loans 2 Go, Mr C would 
then be using almost half of his income to service his debts. I dont think it was reasonable 
for Loans 2 Go to conclude that this was a sustainable position to place Mr C into.
I appreciate that Loans 2 Go says its checks suggested that, even considering the debt 
repayments he would be making, the loan would be affordable for Mr C. But being affordable 
wasnt enough  the loan needed to be sustainably affordable. Loans 2 Go had already seen 
that Mr C had significantly overstated his disposable income. I dont think Loans 2 Go could 
have any reasonable confidence that Mr C would be able to afford the repayments on this 
loan from his normal income, over the lifetime of the agreement. 
So I dont think Loans 2 Go should have agreed to lend to Mr C, and it needs to pay him 
some compensation.
  
Putting things right
I dont think Loans 2 Go should have agreed to lend to Mr C in December 2019. So 
Loans 2 Go should;
refund all the interest and charges Mr C paid on the loan 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Cs credit file in relation to the loan
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to take off tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go 
must give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint and direct Loans 2 Go Limited to put 
things right as detailed above. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2021. 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman