DRN-2565605
The complaint
Miss B is unhappy Santander UK Plc has refused her access to the money in her account.
 
What happened
Miss B opened her account with Santander in February 2019. In April 2019 she received a 
credit into the account for £4,000. This credit was blocked by Santander and it asked Miss B 
to provide proof of entitlement to the funds. 
Miss B provided several bits of information to Santander including her payslip, confirmation 
of her employment from her contractor, her contractors bank statements showing the 
payment and HMRC documents confirming her occupation and tax status. 
Santander did receive this documentation. However, despite this and lots of back and forth, 
it told Miss B it wouldnt be returning the £4,000 to her.  
Miss B complained. She feels shes complied with Santanders requests for information, but 
it has ignored this. She said she took up cleaning, painting and decorating in her spare time 
to pay for her studies at college and being without this money was putting her in financial 
difficulties. She asked why, if Santander doesnt think the money belongs to her, it hasnt 
sent it back to her contractor.  
Santander explained that it received Miss Bs documentation but doesnt think the evidence 
is sufficient for it to release the money to her. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss Bs complaint. She concluded that Santander has various 
legal and regulatory obligations it has to adhere to, and part of these obligations mean that 
accounts can be reviewed, and money withheld. She wasnt satisfied the evidence Miss B 
provided obliged Santander to release the funds to her. She also concluded the account had 
been closed in line with the terms and conditions.
Miss Bs representative let us know that Miss B disagreed. She explained that Miss B isnt 
disputing that Santander can request documents to abide by its procedures, nor is she 
disputing the account closure. But she was shocked that wed say it was normal for a bank 
to block access to someones money and not give it back. Miss B maintained she has 
provided sufficient evidence to show the money was a result of work she carried out and 
cant understand why this wasnt acceptable. 
Because Miss B disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss B has said she isnt complaining about the account closure, rather the fact Santander 
wont give her the £4,000 that was in her account to her. So, my findings focus on this point. 
Santander has a wide range of legal and regulatory obligations it must meet when providing 
account services to its customers. These are ongoing so dont just apply at account opening 
stage. To comply with these obligations, it may need to review accounts and the activity 
taking place on them. Sometimes these reviews will lead to the accounts being blocked and 
closed and money withheld. If Santander didnt do this, it could risk serious sanction.
With this in mind, Im satisfied Santander was within its rights to carry out a review on Miss 
Bs account and Miss B doesnt seem to be disputing this, acknowledging it can ask for proof 
of entitlement to money in an account. Im satisfied Santander did receive this information 
from Miss B and didnt ignore it. Instead, as a result of this review and considering the 
evidence Miss B provided, Santander decided the evidence wasnt sufficient. As a result, it 
decided not to release the £4,000  either to Miss B or to source. Based on what Ive seen, 
Im satisfied it was entitled to make this decision; doing so in line with its legal and regulatory 
obligations. 
I understand this may be a shock to Miss B as she feels the evidence she has provided is 
sufficient for Santander to allow her access to the £4,000. But Im afraid I cant agree the 
evidence places this obligation on Santander in the circumstances. And I should say that 
Santander isnt obliged to tell Miss B why its withholding the money. And it wouldnt be 
appropriate for me to require it do so. 
Should Miss B have anything further she can provide to Santander she should do so. But as 
it stands, Im satisfied Santander hasnt made an error in the actions it has taken. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint against Santander UK Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 May 2021.
 
Sarah Brimacombe
Ombudsman