DRN-3176502
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain about what happened when they asked Co-op to extend their 
overdraft for a short period, to pay for some urgent home repairs.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M said they are longstanding customers of Co-op. They told us about their
financial situation, which they said meant they would be suitable for additional short term
lending.
Mr and Mrs M asked Co-op for a temporary extension to their overdraft, but they were turned
down. Mr and Mrs M said that Co-op was entitled to refuse to lend to them, but they felt that
the reasons they were given for this were contradictory and unacceptable. They also
mentioned an allegation that Co-op made about some earlier mortgage lending, but our
investigator said that we wouldnt look at this yet, because he understood that Mr and Mrs M
hadnt yet complained to Co-op about this.
Co-op said that it didnt think it had made a mistake in deciding not to lend Mr and Mrs M the
extra money they wanted, taking their overdraft from £2,500 up to £6,000. But Co-op said it
did think it had communicated this to Mr and Mrs M poorly. It said it initially declined Mr and
Mrs Ms request based on affordability and on information obtained from a credit reference
agency. But it hadnt been clear that it had also taken into account affordability at this point,
or that Mr and Mrs M could have the decision reviewed. It said it shouldve told them that.
Co-op also said that it shouldnt have sent out a letter at this stage, saying that Mr and Mrs
Ms complaint was resolved, because it wasnt.
Co-op wrote again to Mr and Mrs M after this, and it said it had reviewed the previous
decision. It still wouldnt lend them the money, and at this point it mentioned concerns over
previous mortgage lending made to them. Co-op didnt say that this was the core reason for
the refusal of lending, it said that this was in addition to affordability concerns.
Co-op said it had paid Mr and Mrs M £50 as compensation for the mistakes it had made in
communicating with them, but it didnt think it ought to revise its decision, or pay more
compensation.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said Co-op had decided it
would be irresponsible to provide this amount of borrowing. Our investigator said overdrafts
are lending, and the business has a duty to ensure this is affordable. Here, Co-op had
checked information from Mr and Mrs Ms credit file, held with credit reference agencies,
which is what our investigator said he would expect. Co-op had then carried out a review,
and again our investigator thought its decision was fair.
Mr and Mrs M didnt agree. They said that Co-op at first claimed that Mr Ms score with a 
particular credit reference agency was the reason for refusing a short-term increase in their 
overdraft by a small amount. Mr M said when hed proved that his score was the highest 
possible the bank changed tack and said it was because of the conduct of the account. Mr M 
said he had also disproved this. And it was at this point that Co-op accused him of obtaining 
a mortgage increase by fraud.
Mr M said we should have asked to see the contract hed entered into, for home repairs,
which was the reason for the mortgage advance. He said he was sending us a copy. He said
our investigator seemed to have agreed that what hed done with the mortgage advance,
when it wasnt possible to go ahead with the work immediately, was somehow criminal. Mr M
strongly refuted this.
Mr M also raised concerns about our investigators handling of this case, which its not
appropriate for me to deal with here.
Because Mr M didnt agree, this case was passed to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did not propose to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
Although the extension to Mr and Mrs Ms overdraft was requested for only a short 
period, I do still think that Co-op needed to be satisfied that the overall lending it was 
making to Mr and Mrs M remained responsible.
Mr and Mrs M have pointed out that they have substantial assets, and said that Co-
op could always get its money back. But its not responsible of Co-op to base its 
lending on the assets that it might be able to access if Mr and Mrs M got into severe 
financial difficulties. I would not expect Co-op, or any other lender, to approve lending 
to Mr and Mrs M just because it could force a sale of a property they own and get the 
money back. Co-op needs to check that Mr and Mrs M can repay all the lending its 
making to them, in a sustainable fashion.
Mr and Mrs M have an existing arranged overdraft of £2,500 and a credit card limit of 
£10,000. Whilst they arent currently using all of that lending, Co-op has to take all of 
this credit into account when it decides whether to lend them any more.
And that decision is largely one for Co-op to take. It would be very unusual for our 
service to tell a business that it must lend someone more money. I havent seen 
anything to make me think that we should depart from our usual approach in this 
case.
Co-op is also required to give Mr and Mrs M the main reason that they were turned 
down for lending, if they ask. Co-op says that it did make a mistake here, because 
when it first told Mr and Mrs M about this, it only mentioned Mr and Mrs Ms credit 
file, when it should also have mentioned affordability. Co-op doesnt think it was clear 
at first on the reasons why Mr and Mrs M were turned down. So its paid £50 to say 
sorry for that.
I agree that Co-ops reasons for refusing credit were unclear at this stage. But I think 
that Co-op has now made this clear. And I think a payment of £50 does provide a fair 
and reasonable outcome to Mr and Mrs Ms complaint about the initial confusion over 
this.
Mr M had understood that his credit score was being questioned, and he replied to 
say that his score was very good. He then understood that the conduct of his account 
was being questioned, and he said that this too was impeccable.I dont think thats quite what Co-op meant. Although credit reference agencies 
provide a score for customers, so we can get a quick overview of our credit files, 
they dont send that score to banks. Instead, banks make their own assessment of 
whats on a credit file. So having a good score isnt a guarantee that a bank will view 
the account in the same way.
And I also dont think that Co-op has claimed that Mr M is misusing his current 
account. When it referred to the conduct of Mr and Mrs Ms account, it says all it 
meant was the amount of money it can see coming into the account means that it 
wouldnt be responsible to extend Mr and Mrs Ms credit in the way they would like.
Ive explained that these are decisions for Co-op to make, and our service wouldnt 
tell Co-op to change its mind.
But I note that Co-op did review its decision. When it did so, it said that it would still 
have affordability concerns, and it continued to refuse to lend, for this reason.c
At that time, Co-op also noted concerns that £18,000 which Mr and Mrs M had 
received from a linked business, as an extension to their mortgage, didnt appear to 
have been spent on the urgent repairs that they had requested it for. Mr M has, quite 
reasonably, pointed out that some of this money has been placed in a secure and 
easily accessible investment, so he can retrieve it when this work needs done. But 
the rest of the money appears to have been spent to buy a car, apparently in 
advance of the sale of Mr Ms own vehicle.
Mr M strongly objected to this. He said that he was being accused of fraud.
Our investigator didnt think our service could consider this point, because he didnt 
think that Mr M had complained about this to Co-op. But I do think we can consider it, 
because Co-op has sent us a letter it received from Mr M in which he makes clear 
that hes unhappy with whats been said about how this mortgage lending was used.
I dont read this letter as Co-op accusing Mr M of fraud. It has, however, expressed 
concerns about how previous lending from a linked business was used. The 
extension Mr and Mrs M agreed to their mortgage was paid in September 2020, and 
approved for home repairs. I havent seen a contract for this work, what Mr M sent us 
appears to be a quote rather than a binding contract. But I understand from this 
quote that the additional mortgage lending made in 2020 should have been more 
than ample to cover this work.
It also appears that Mr M is now asking for additional overdraft lending for the same 
purpose  those urgent repairs. I dont think its unreasonable for Co-op to note 
concerns around how funds it has previously lent specifically to cover the costs of 
repairs had been used, in a situation where Mr and Mrs M were asking for further 
lending to pay for the same thing.
I know that Mr and Mrs M wont agree with me, I understand they feel very strongly 
about this. But I think that Co-op has only made a mistake in this case when it first 
set out for Mr and Mrs M the reasons the additional lending was approved. And I do 
think Co-op has made up for that. So, although I appreciate that Mr and Mrs M will be 
disappointed, I dont think this complaint should be upheld.I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Co-op simply acknowledged receipt of my provisional decision. Mr M replied on behalf of 
himself and Mrs M.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M sent us a detailed response. Ive summarised his response points briefly in italics 
below, and Ill address each of his points in turn.
Mr M said he and Mrs M were very disappointed to read the provisional decision, because 
he said that if anything, it repeated the issues which upset them most. 
Im sorry if my decision has upset Mr and Mrs M. Thats never my intention. And I would not 
have chosen to comment on what they see as allegations made against them by Co-op, if 
they had not specifically asked me to address this issue in my decision. I also understand 
that the provisional decision would be unwelcome news, but Ive just not reached the same 
conclusion on this as they have.
Mr M said he thought I was implying that they may not have entered into a contract to have 
the conservatory replaced, because he said that I referred to the document hed sent as 
merely a quote. Mr M said that if wed wanted further evidence on this, he would have sent 
us confirming emails. He said he attached the latest of these. 
Mr M said he had entered into a legally binding contract to have the work done as specified. 
He said that Co-op knew this, and it also could have asked for more proof if it doubted this. 
Before I issued my provisional decision, I considered all of the evidence Mr M had sent us. 
He said, as part of that, hed sent us the contract for the home improvements he was having 
done. In my provisional decision I noted that this wasnt a contract, it was a written quote. I 
mentioned this only because I thought it might have been an oversight on the part of Mr M, 
and he might want to know, if he had wanted us to see the contract hed entered into. 
Mr M has now sent us an email containing a clarification of the specification that he wanted 
for this work. So I dont know whether hes entered into a contract for this work or not. But, 
for the avoidance of doubt, I havent assumed that there is no contract for the repairs Mr M 
wanted to have done. 
Mr M may well have entered into a binding contract for this. Its possible to do that without 
putting things in writing, so there may be no written evidence to show us. 
Ultimately, I dont think anything in this case turns on this, so I have not asked for further 
evidence on this point.
Mr M said that compensation was never the main concern in this case. He wanted an 
apology and clarification that Co-op was wrong in suggesting that he had used the mortgage 
advance for other purposes. But he said that Id repeated that observation by linking the sale 
of his car which took place in July 2021 with the financial actions of 2020 and its aftermath.
As part of this complaint, Mr M had asked us to look at what Co-op said about how the 
mortgage money it had lent him was used. I set out in my provisional decision how I 
understood that this money had been spent. Co-op shared with us a letter that Mr M had sent it in early April. In that letter, Mr M accepts 
that the payment he made for a new car was Technically partially mortgage money and part 
cash in the bank. Although Mr M said that he intended then to sell his existing vehicle, that 
hadnt been done when Co-op wrote to him. I understand from Mr Ms more recent 
comments that this has now been done.
The core of Mr Ms concern, as I understand it, was that Co-op was accusing him of fraud. 
Ive explained that I dont think thats what Co-op was doing. Ive also explained that I dont 
think it was unfair or unreasonable, when Mr M asked to extend his overdraft to pay for 
urgent home repairs, for Co-op to comment that it had already extended his mortgage 
lending to provide money for this purpose, and that money appeared to have been spent 
elsewhere. I know that Mr M finds this point upsetting, but I still dont think that Co-op needs 
to apologise for this.
Mr M also said Id repeated the suggestion that his and Mrs Ms credit rating was an issue, 
suggesting that facts were supplied by another reference agency. He said Co-op had 
already admitted in writing that this was a mistake (paying £50 as unrequested 
compensation) so he asked why I was now seeking to put a different slant on it? He wanted 
to know if I had actually read all the evidence in this case. He said Co-op had only ever 
mentioned one credit reference agency (which I wont name here).
I can see that on 1 April, Co-op wrote to Mr M. In that letter, it said that it had explained its 
lending decision, at first, as based on information held by a named credit reference agency. 
Co-op said specifically that it hadnt mentioned Mr Ms credit score. But Co-op said then it 
should also have clarified that it had also refused further lending on the basis of affordability.
As I understand it, Co-op paid Mr M £50 in compensation because it hadnt set out clearly at 
first the reasons for refusing further lending, as well as because it sent him a letter saying his 
complaint was resolved when it wasnt. 
Co-op doesnt appear to me to have accepted that it made any unfounded accusations about 
Mr Ms credit score. Mr M has told us that his score is excellent. I have no reason to doubt 
this. But I did seek to explain to Mr M that having an excellent credit score isnt a guarantee 
that banks will offer additional lending. I should also clarify that I havent suggested that Co-
op used any other credit reference agency than the one it named, and Ive no reason to think 
it did so.
Mr M said that my provisional decision again implied that Co-op had no guarantee of 
repayment from them. But he said that the terms of the mortgage and bank accounts specify 
that monies may immediately be secured if Co-op believes they have acted incorrectly. He 
repeated that Co-op knew they had a considerable amount of property equity.
I sought to explain in my provisional decision that Co-ops concerns didnt seem to me to be 
about whether it would, ultimately, be able to get its money back from Mr and Mrs M. I have 
no doubts that it could, and I dont think Co-op had any doubts about that either. But what I 
sought to explain to Mr M was that this isnt the test Co-op must apply. So I set out that it 
isnt responsible for Co-op to lend him money, on the basis that it can repossess his property 
if things go wrong. 
The point I sought to make here is that Co-op has to think about whether Mr and Mrs M can 
afford to make repayments on any lending it offers them, without this causing them financial 
difficulties. Not about whether it could just repossess their property.Mr M said that I again referred to him having not made an original complaint about what hed 
understood to be Co-ops written accusation. He said that hed sent several emails, which 
made his concern clear. 
When I write a provisional decision, I summarise briefly the progress of a case to date. Here, 
I set out in my provisional decision our investigators view that we couldnt look into Mr Ms 
concerns over comments Co-op made about what some mortgage lending had been spent 
on. 
I also set out that I thought we could, in fact, look into this issue for Mr and Mrs M. And I 
thought that because I could see Mr M had written to Co-op about this. 
Mr M said that I had glossed over the allegation of misconduct of their various accounts with 
the Co-operative Bank. And he said that suggestion was demonstrably untrue.
Ive sought to explain above that I dont read the letters from Co-op in the same way as Mr 
M. On this specific point, I set out that when Co-op referred to the conduct of Mr and Mrs Ms 
account, it says all it meant was the amount of money it can see coming into the account 
means it wouldnt be responsible to extend Mr and Mrs Ms credit in the way they would like. 
So I wouldnt agree with Mr M that this point was glossed over in my provisional decision. 
I havent been able to see that Co-op used the word misconduct. And I dont think that Co-
op has alleged that Mr and Mrs M have engaged in some sort of misconduct on their 
accounts with Co-op.
Mr M said that he had other concerns with my provisional decision, but he thought that the 
above was enough to make me reconsider both my decision and how I had expressed 
myself. He said he would reserve the right to take this matter elsewhere if necessary.
I have apologised if how I have expressed myself has offended Mr and Mrs M. As Ive said, 
thats never my intention. But, overall, Im sorry to have to tell Mr and Mrs M that I havent 
changed my mind. 
My final decision will bring to an end our services involvement in this case. Mr and Mrs M 
dont have to accept my decision, of course, and if they dont do so, then they remain free to 
pursue this issue in any other way that they feel is appropriate. 
Mr M said that Co-op had written recently to remind them of the loan facilities it can offer, 
and he said that their existing small overdraft facility had never been used to its full extent. 
He said that the credit card limit was also not fully used.
When I wrote my provisional decision, I set out that Mr and Mrs M werent using the full 
amount of credit which Co-op had made available to them, but I also said that Co-op has to 
take all of this credit into account when it decides whether to lend them any more.
I set out then that this decision is largely one for Co-op to take. It would be very unusual for 
our service to tell a business that it must lend someone more money, and I hadnt seen 
anything to make me think that we should depart from our usual approach in this case. 
I still think that. My view on this wouldnt change because Co-op has sent Mr M promotional 
materials on further lending.
Mr M also wanted me to respond to concerns he had about how this complaint was 
investigated. That doesnt form part of my role here, Im aware that this issue is being taken forward by 
our service separately.
I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the decision I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman