DRN-4454255
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy with how a personal loan application was handled by The Royal Bank of
Scotland Plc.
What happened
I issued my provisional findings to both parties on 17 October 2023 setting out why I thought 
Mr Rs complaint should be upheld in part, and I invited both parties to provide any further 
submissions in reply to my provisional decision by 31 October 2023. 
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision together with my 
provisional findings, which are included below and now form part of this final decision. 
Background 
On 5 December 2022 Mr R applied online to RBS for a £35,000 personal loan, over a term
of 84 months. The monthly payment was £588.31. Mr Rs intention was to use the loan to
consolidate existing debt, and put himself in the position of being better off by £850 per
month.
Mr R made the application on the understanding that a credit reference agency (CRA) had
said he had been pre-approved for the loan.
On 8 December 2022 RBS requested copies of Mr Rs last three months payslips. Mr R
responded to this to highlight that he had already told RBS he was self-employed, which is
why he had submitted his bank statements. Mr R asked RBS to confirm exactly what they
wanted, or call him at any time. Mr R provided his contact number.
RBS again asked for Mr Rs payslips. Mr R replied to say he was self-employed as hed
already said. Mr R submitted he had to tried to call RBS and email them as he was happy to
provide whatever information was required. Mr R said he had income of £15k per month and
£8k of this was recurring, as shown on his statements. Mr R asked RBS to call him if they
needed anything.
On 12 December 2022 RBS asked Mr R for copies of his completed SA302/ personal tax
returns for the years 2021 and 2022 respectively. Mr R responded to say hed attached the
necessary documents.
RBS then asked again for Mr Rs SA302/ personal tax returns for the same years. Mr R
replied and said they were attached. Mr R also explained that due to moving into office
premises in the previous year he had spent a significant amount developing the property. He
explained that while his turnover had increased, because of the development and capital
allowances, his profit showed as lower. Mr R also provided a forecast of his expected
turnover for the following year and expected increased profit and asked RBS to take this into
consideration.
The following day RBS again asked for Mr Rs SA302/ personal tax returns for the same
years. Mr R once more responded to say hed sent the documents the day before and asked
RBS to call him and explain exactly what was needed. Mr R noted the application had been
ongoing for 10 days now and that he was being repeatedly asked for the same information.
Mr R said he was happy to provide what was needed, but said it was frustrating being asked
for the same information and asked RBS to call him. Mr R provided his contact number
again.
However, RBS once more asked Mr R for the SA302/ personal tax returns. Mr R again
explained how 2021-2022 was an exceptional year, due to taking on office premises so that
his income now is significantly higher than it was on his last tax return. Mr R pointed out he
was managing all his financial commitments, including the existing loan with RBS. Mr R said
that clearing the existing RBS loan and other commitments meant his monthly outgoings
would reduce by £850 per month. Mr R asked again for someone to call him as he felt there
was a breakdown in communication given his bank statements showed the level of income
his business was generating. Mr R did not feel he could simply keep sending his SA302s
every day.
Mr R also added that he had only applied for the loan as he was pre-approved for it, and
now he had a needless hard search on his credit file. Mr R said he did not understand the
risk here and asked RBS what was required.
A complaint was raised for Mr R around mid-December 2022.
Mr Rs lending application was referred internally, and on 4 January 2023 Mr R was informed
that his application for a loan had been declined because he had not met the eligibility
criteria for a personal loan.
The response to Mr Rs complaint was issued by RBS on 7 January 2023. RBS concluded
there had been no error on their part. They pointed to their obligation to lend responsibly and
that they were required to assess if new borrowing would be affordable by examining a
customers income against their existing commitments as well as considering any
dependents and taking the cost of living into account. RBS said Mr R could appeal the
lending application with the appeals team by post. RBS acknowledged that Mr Rs
experience was not indicative of the high standard of customer service RBS strives to
achieve and said they would take learning from the errors that had been made.
Before bringing the complaint to our service, Mr R posed four areas of concern to RBS.
1) Why advertise a loan as pre-approved, if that is not the case?
2) Why ask for information repeatedly, rather than just call to establish the true level of
income?
3) How can reducing monthly outgoings by such an amount be considered an increased
risk, when all other commitments are being met with no problems?
4) Where did RBSs lending team believe the money was coming from to meet all his
existing commitments if he could not afford them?
RBS did not answer these questions and Mr R brought the matter to our service.
Our Investigator did not uphold Mr Rs complaint as they did not think RBS had done
anything wrong and Mr R disagreed with the Investigators findings. As a resolution was not
reached, the matter has been passed to me to decide.Provisional Findings 
Before setting out my provisional conclusions in this matter, I note that Mr R had some
queries about our service, so it may help him to note the following.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is an alternative dispute resolution service set up to
resolve individual complaints based on what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of
each case. It is not, therefore, a consumer champion. Nor is it set up to fine or punish
businesses, or request that businesses change their processes or practices  that is the role
of the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am minded to reach a different decision to that of the Investigator and
uphold part of Mr Rs complaint. Ill explain.
It appears to me Mr Rs complaint can be broken into the following areas:
1) He was pre-approved for the loan
2) RBSs understanding of his businesss financial circumstances
3) Trying to engage with RBS during the application process
Pre-approval
Mr R has confirmed he saw that he was pre-approved for the loan via credit reference
agency (CRA) sites. His previous experience of being pre-approved had been positive, and
he had no reason to believe in this instance the same would not apply. Mr R said he wouldnt
have submitted an application, but for this assurance.
This forms a large part of Mr Rs concerns given the inconvenience and upset applying for
the loan has created for him, as well as the hard search now showing on his credit file.
As Im sure Mr R is aware, CRAs hold a range of information about potential borrowers
which lenders use as part of their decision making when agreeing to offer credit or not. As
well as reporting the information provided to them by data providers CRAs also operate
other activities such as direct marketing and lead generating functions, and sometimes offer
credit broking services where they might introduce a customer to a finance or credit provider.
The actions of the CRAs here are not something I can hold RBS responsible for. From Mr
Rs submissions I can see that he has approached the two CRAs involved himself to seek
further evidence of what assurances he was given. That will need to be considered
separately to this complaint.
CRAs are accountable to the financial regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
and the Information Commissioners Office (ICO).
I would also add that Ive seen nothing to suggest RBS offered Mr R any assurance that the
loan would be approved without any checks.
RBSs understanding of Mr Rs businesss financial circumstances Ive noted Mr Rs frustration with RBS and that he has seriously questioned on what basis 
they have reached their decision not to lend  particularly because this would have put him 
in a better position on a monthly basis, and he was already servicing his existing financial 
commitments with no problems.
As our Investigator explained, our service does have limitations as to what matters it can
consider. In this case, that includes the lending decision RBS reached about Mr Rs
application.
Ultimately, it is not for this service to tell a lender whether they should lend to an individual or
not  that is for the lenders commercial judgement which I cannot interfere with. But our
service can consider whether the individual has been treated fairly and reasonably during
that process, and I will make further comments on this later on.
Its relevant to note that RBS does have regulatory obligations to ensure they are carrying
out appropriate checks when agreeing to lend, and while there is guidance for RBS to take
into account, this does not provide a set list of things that should be checked or in what
circumstances lending should be approved.
It seems to me the main issue is to do with Mr Rs recorded income. I can see that during the
application process Mr R did put forward to RBS more background information about his
business over the last year, and what his expectations were on the businesss future
performance. Mr R doesnt feel that this was taken into account. RBS have said theyve
provided all the available evidence and submissions in this matter, so there is nothing more
for me to consider. In the circumstances, based on the submissions and evidence I do have,
I think its reasonable for me to say RBS were more likely than not aware of what was
happening with Mr Rs business and this would have been available to them as part of their
considerations. That they continued to decide not to lend would, as Ive said, be RBSs
decision.
I do note from Mr Rs submissions that he does  to a degree  accept that he would have
found it easier to accept RBSs decision had there been no indication of pre-approval status
prior to applying for the loan.
I would also add that RBS have a responsibility to report accurate information about their
customers to the CRAs. In the circumstances, as Ive not found that RBS have done
anything wrong here in terms of the application itself or how the possibility of a personal loan
was initially presented to Mr R, it follows that I am not asking them to remove the hard
search from Mr Rs credit file.
Trying to engage with RBS during the application process
Having reviewed the evidence and submissions made available to me, it does appear that
much of Mr Rs frustrations stem from an inability to be able to speak to someone from RBS
about his application.
Again, I cant interfere with the wider process, systems and controls that a business has in
place  that is something for the financial regulator to consider. But I can look to see if RBS
treated Mr R fairly and reasonably during the application process. I believe our Investigator
may have mis-directed themselves slightly here by considering this as a matter to do with
complaint handling, which as they did correctly note falls outside of this services remit.
So did RBS treat Mr R fairly during the course of the application process? On balance, I
dont think they did.Ive noted the series of communications above that have been made available to me, and I
think its fair to say that Mr R did disclose he was self-employed  so its not clear why RBS
initially requested payslips from him. Furthermore, it seems reasonable to say that RBS did
repeatedly ask Mr R for his SA302s  requests which Mr R responded to each time.
In the circumstances, I think Mr R was engaging with RBS to provide information they were
asking for, so I cant say Mr R was acting unreasonably here. When our Investigator put it to
RBS, they have said there was evidently a problem with uploading the documentation
digitally and they apologised for this.
I realise that on occasion there can be challenges with technology, but I think its reasonable
to say that if the error is repeatedly happening, then it would have been good practice for
RBS to have taken better steps to engage with Mr R to obtain the information they required
from him. It appears the questions being sent to Mr R were also standard information
requests, rather than engaging with Mr Rs specific responses. Further, Mr R had  on more
than one occasion  provided his contact number for RBS to call him (even though he was
also an existing customer). At the very least I think it would have been good practice for RBS
to have responded to Mr Rs requests for a call, even if it would have been to explain that
this was not possible/ part of the application process.
While I accept RBS can decide who they wish to lend to, and Ive seen nothing to suggest
that they gave an assurance to Mr R that the loan was his without any checking, I do think
they could have better engaged with him during the process.
Mr R should note that I cannot fine or punish a business  that is something for the regulator
to consider where appropriate. However, the role of our service can take into account
whether there has been any impact to an individual in terms of the inconvenience and/ or
stress an error may have caused them.
In light of how RBS engaged with Mr R during the application process, I am minded to say
RBS should pay Mr R £150 to recognise the added inconvenience and upset caused to him.
Responses to my provisional decision 
RBS did not respond to my provisional decision by the deadline set out, and so theyve not 
provided me with any further submissions to consider. 
Mr R replied to my provisional findings with additional comments. Having reviewed what Mr 
R has said, Ive summarised his two main points of concern as follows. 
1) The offer of £150 is low given the amount of time and effort he has spent attempting 
to sort out this matter. Mr R says that its taken him away from work so hes incurred 
a loss of income and he believes that £500 would be a fairer reflection of the trouble 
caused to him. 
2) While Mr R accepts the lending decision is ultimately down to the lending 
organisation, he feels he has been misled  either by RBS or the CRA  into 
believing the loan was approved without question. Mr R believes the error rests with 
RBS, but that further analysis should be carried out to understand whats happened 
between RBS and the CRA he used. Mr R also maintains that hes never been pre-
approved for something when that has not been the case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Rs frustrations and disappointment with this matter and that ultimately his 
expectations were raised and then not met during the course of these events. 
I will deal with Mr Rs main point of ongoing concern first  pre-approval. 
In his additional submissions Mr R put forward that RBS must have given the CRA some 
indication that he would be pre-approved for the loan. What Mr R has said is reasonable as 
generally speaking banks and lenders can send CRAs live eligibility scores based on the 
current information a CRA is holding and their eligibility criteria at the time  its done using 
soft searches so as not to impact individuals credit scores.  
While this may then provide a reasonable indicator as to a successful application (and so 
avoid numerous hard searches for people applying for credit), it is still not a guarantee that 
credit will be provided. The bank or lender, on receipt of a full application, will carry out 
appropriate checks to ensure they are meeting their regulatory obligations to lend 
responsibly. Therefore once a full application is submitted a hard search is carried out, and 
the lender will take the relevant steps in their lending process to assess the application. 
Having reviewed the complaint file once more there is nothing in the submissions from either 
party that showed Mr R was given a guarantee by RBS that his loan would be approved 
without any such checks or that the loan would definitely be approved. 
Mr Rs submissions have consistently been that he submitted the application to RBS due to 
the pre-approval indicator that was provided to him by the CRA. I think its fair to say that 
how the CRA may have presented information to Mr R would have been out of RBSs 
control. So Mr R may wish to pursue a complaint against the CRA separately. This case 
deals with RBSs actions only in this matter, so I cannot comment on the CRAs 
responsibilities or their actions here in terms of what happened. 
It may also help Mr R to know that a hard search should remain on his credit file for 12 
months before dropping off.  
Ive next considered what Mr R has said about the level of compensation proposed. 
I understand Mr R is less concerned with this than the question of pre-approval, but I do 
note his frustration and disappointment with RBSs engagement with him. As Ive mentioned, 
my role is not to fine or punish a business. I can only consider the impact to Mr R as an 
individual and Im mindful that a degree of inconvenience is generally to be expected when 
having to sort out a problem. Deciding a level of compensation of this nature is not an exact 
science and I have reflected on what Mr R has said. Overall I think the amount Ive proposed 
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances and in line with our general approach to these 
matters. So Ive decided not to increase the award. 
To summarise, Ive determined RBSs decision not to lend to Mr R was for RBS to decide, 
and Ive not seen anything to suggest RBS acted unreasonably in this regard so that it 
follows there is nothing for them to put right here in terms of any financial loss, or in terms of 
the reporting on Mr Rs credit file. However, I do think RBS could have better engaged with 
Mr R during the application process and this presented Mr R with an added layer of 
inconvenience and upset so RBS should pay Mr R £150 to reflect this. 
Putting things right
The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc should pay Mr R £150. My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that Mr Rs complaint is upheld in part and RBS 
should put things right as Ive described above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2023.
 
Kristina Mathews
Ombudsman