DRN-3960091
The complaint
Miss C complains Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc trading as Novuna Personal Finance 
(Novuna) is holding her liable for lending that she says she didnt apply for. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a summary of some of the key events here.
On 21 February 2022 Novuna received loan applications via a credit report provider (Ill refer 
to as C) in Miss Cs name, for £7,000 and £10,000. Most of the details provided at 
application - including name, date of birth, address, and email - matched Miss Cs genuine 
details. The mobile number however differed. The loan agreements were signed 
electronically with Miss Cs name. The loans were approved, and the loan funds were paid 
into Miss Cs genuine current account on 22 February 2022. On the same day payments of 
£2,500 and £9,500 were paid to two named individuals, one of whom Miss C has confirmed 
to be her ex-partner. £5,000 from the loan funds remained in Miss Cs account. 
Miss C contacted Novuna on 23 February 2022. She said she had received welcome 
documents for the loans by email but said she had not applied for the loans or consented to 
them being taken out in her name. Miss C asked Novuna how to return the remaining funds 
that were in her account, and on 24 February 2022 she transferred £5,000 back to Novuna. 
Miss C told Novuna she thought her ex-partner had fraudulently applied for loans in her 
name. She also suggested that her email and/or her account with C had been hacked. 
  
Novuna carried out an investigation but was unable to conclude the loans had been taken 
out fraudulently or without Miss Cs consent. It said its fraud systems showed the email 
provided at application matched Miss Cs and there was no proof that her email had been 
hacked. 
Miss C referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. She said the loans had 
been taken out fraudulently. She thought her account with C had been hacked and thats 
how the applications came to be made. She initially told us that no one had access to her 
devices, and she didnt know who had applied for the loans. 
Our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said the evidence he received from Miss Cs 
bank did not support her version of events that the loans had been taken out without her 
knowledge or consent. He explained the evidence showed the loans had been applied for 
via Miss Cs account with C, using her genuine details, including her email address. The loan 
funds were then paid into Miss Cs genuine current account and welcome letters were sent 
to her email address. He also noted that the later instruction to transfer money out of 
Miss Cs account had been made via her banking app and on her usual device. Both her 
phone and the banking app were password protected. 
The evidence also showed that Miss Cs banking app had been logged into repeatedly - 
often in close succession - on the day the loans were applied for (21 February 2022) and on 
the day the loan funds were paid into and transferred out of her account (22 February 2022).
 
Our Investigator explained that this sequence of events did not match Miss Cs original 
account to us that no one else had access to her phone. He noted that Miss C had more 
recently suggested that her ex-partner may have been able to gain access to her phone and 
could have guessed her passwords to use both her phone and her banking app. He 
considered this but didnt think it was consistent with the high volume of log ins to her 
banking app.  
Overall, our Investigator was satisfied that Novuna had acted reasonably by seeking 
repayment of the loans from Miss C. 
Following our involvement Miss C also made a further complaint to Novuna, arguing that it 
should not have agreed to the loan applications in her name as it should have known they 
were unaffordable. While I will be considering Miss Cs complaint regarding the affordability 
of the loan separately, it is worth noting here that Novuna upheld that complaint and agreed 
to write off all interest and charges associated with the loan. 
Miss C disagreed with our Investigators findings and asked for her complaint to be referred 
for an Ombudsmans decision. She maintained that she was not responsible for taking out 
the loans and so could not reasonably be held liable for repaying them. 
So, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am not upholding this complaint. And for largely the same reasons as our 
Investigator. I understand that this will be extremely disappointing for Miss C. I dont 
underestimate the distress and upset she has experienced while pursuing this complaint. 
While I dont want to add to her worries, for the reasons Ill go on to explain, I dont think 
Novuna acted unreasonably by pursuing Miss C for the loan balance. 
Novuna has evidenced that the loan application it received used Miss Cs correct personal 
details and contact information  including her email and postal address - which matched the 
information held by her bank.  
While it considered Miss Cs complaint that she did not apply for the loans, Novuna is 
holding her liable for the principal loan amounts. Implicit in this, is the belief that Miss C took 
out the loans herself or consented to someone doing so on her behalf. So, I must decide, 
based on the information available, if Novunas decision was fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances.
Miss C is adamant that she did not know about the loan applications, or the transactions 
made from her bank account. While she says she doesnt know for sure what happened, she 
thinks her ex-partner likely used her mobile phone when he was visiting her house to apply 
for the loans and transferred the money to his own account and that of another third party 
without her knowledge.
 
Unfortunately, there is no evidence that can show me exactly what happened when the loan 
was taken out or who applied for it. So, Ive had to reach a conclusion on what I think is most 
likely to have happened based on all the available evidence. The loans were applied for using mostly Miss Cs genuine details, including her email 
address. The loan funds were paid into Miss Cs genuine bank account. Then, over the 
course of several hours, most (but significantly not all) the funds were transferred to two third 
parties  at least one of whom was well-known to Miss C. Evidence shows that these 
transactions were completed via a mobile banking app using Miss Cs mobile phone, where 
all security checks were satisfactorily completed. 
Further evidence demonstrates that Miss Cs mobile banking app was logged into multiple 
times both on 21 and 22 February 2022, suggesting someone had regular access to, and 
use of, Miss Cs mobile phone. 
I understand Miss Cs recollection of events has shifted over time, in so far as how the loans 
could have been applied for and who had access to her mobile phone and when. But most 
recently she advised us that she thought her ex-partner had likely taken out the loans in her 
name. She has explained that he does not live with her but would visit regularly and 
sometimes stay over. She said he could have easily guessed her banking security 
information as it related to their child. 
Ive had to consider whether I think its more likely than not, that another person (possibly 
Miss Cs ex-partner) applied for the loans without Miss Cs knowledge and agreement. 
While its impossible to know for certain what happened, I cant safely conclude that is what 
happened. The frequency of logins to Miss Cs mobile banking app suggest to me that the 
account was being closely monitored in anticipation of money coming in. It would also have 
required near constant access to the mobile phone, which doesnt match with Miss Cs 
suggestion that her ex-partner could have secretly used her mobile phone, without her 
knowledge, during a visit to her home. 
Ive also had to consider whether the overall circumstances suggest that these transactions 
happened fraudulently, and I dont think they do. Had someone been carrying out these 
transactions without Miss Cs knowledge and agreement, I think its more likely that all the 
loan funds would have been moved in a single transaction, or at least in multiple 
transactions made close together. But evidence from Miss Cs bank show that there was a 
gap of over an hour between the first payment and the second payment leaving the account, 
it also required two successful logins to the mobile banking app. 
I have also noted that £5,000 was left in Miss Cs account for several days after the loan 
payment was received. Again, had someone been acting fraudulently I would not have 
expected them to leave part of the loan funds (or the other available balance) in the account. 
I would have expected a fraudster to want to utilise as much of the available funds as 
possible. By leaving a significant balance in the account it drew attention to the fact that loan 
funds had been paid in. Again, if a fraudster had been using the account, I would have 
expected them to try to draw as little attention to their actions as possible. 
While it may be the case that Miss C did not in fact apply for the loan herself, the available 
evidence supports that she most likely had knowledge of and consented to the loans being 
taken out in her name. 
So, taking all of this into consideration, I think that Novunas decision to hold Miss C liable for 
the principal loan amounts is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. As noted above, it 
has separately offered to remove all interest and charges from the loan. 
Having carefully considered all the available evidence, I do not uphold the complaint and will 
not be asking Novuna to do anything further. If Miss C is struggling financially, I would expect Novuna to treat her positively and 
sympathetically when agreeing an affordable repayment plan for the remaining loan balance. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Lisa De Noronha
Ombudsman