DRN-4209844
Complaint
Mr B has complained about loans Bamboo Limited (trading as Bamboo) provided to him. 
He says the loans were unaffordable.
Background
Bamboo provided Mr B with a first loan for £1,000.00 in September 2018. This loan was due 
to be repaid in 12 monthly instalments of around £115. In June 2019, Mr B was provided 
with a second loan for £1,463.90. Some of the proceeds from this loan were used to settle 
the amount still outstanding on loan 1. This loan also had a 12-month term and had monthly 
repayments of around £165. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr B and Bamboo had told us and didnt recommend 
the complaint be upheld. Mr B disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Bs complaint.
Bamboo needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Bamboo needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr B 
could afford to repay before providing this loan. Our website sets out what we typically think 
about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, we think its 
reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much information it 
gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Bamboo provided Mr B with loans for £1,000.00 and £1,463.90 in September 2018, and 
June 2019. These loans were due to be repaid in 12 instalments of around £115 and £165 
respectively. Bamboo says it agreed to Mr Bs applications after he provided details of his 
monthly income and some information on his expenditure. It says it cross-checked this 
against information on a credit search it carried out. And all of this information showed Mr B 
could to comfortably make the repayments he was committing to. On the other hand, Mr B 
has said the loans were unaffordable.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr B and Bamboo have said. The first thing for me to say is 
that Bamboo has provided a record of the results of its credit searches. Bamboo searches 
appear to show that Mr B did have some existing debts but that his commitments at the time 
were relatively well maintained. Crucially, according to the credit searches, Mr Bs debt total 
at the time of the applications was reasonable in comparison to his income. 
Ive also kept in mind that Bamboo provided a second loan to Mr B and that sometimes 
repeat borrowing in itself can be an indication of difficulty. But loan 2 wasnt for much more 
than the amount of loan 1. The monthly payments for loan 2 werent that much higher than 
for loan 1 and the total period Mr B was due to be indebted for was less than two years (he 
actually ended up settling loan 2 within six months and so only ended up being indebted for 
little more than a year in total). 
So while the pattern of lending here has seen me take a closer look at the individual 
applications, Im satisfied that it wasnt immediately obvious that Mr B might have taken loan 
2 because of the effect loan 1 might have left on his finances. And there isnt anything else 
obvious in these applications which clearly demonstrates Mr B couldnt have afforded the 
loans either.
I accept that Mr Bs actual circumstances may not have been fully reflected either in the 
information he provided, or the information Bamboo obtained. But the key here is that its 
only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances where a lender did 
something wrong. Given the circumstances here, and the lack of obvious inconsistencies, 
Im satisfied that Bamboo was reasonably entitled to lend to Mr B. 
As this is the case, I dont think that Bamboo did anything wrong when deciding to lend to  
Mr B - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out which 
suggested the repayments were affordable. And the second loan was provided in 
circumstances where Mr Bs indebtedness didnt appear to be increasing unsustainably. 
So overall I dont think that Bamboo treated Mr B unfairly or unreasonably when providing 
him with his loans. And Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint. I appreciate this will be very 
disappointing for Mr B. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that hell 
at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 July 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman