DRN-3430195
The complaint
Mrs Y says Capital One (Europe) Plc, has treated her unfairly in relation to a transaction on 
her credit card which paid for a bike.
What happened
In November 2020 Mrs Y used her Capital One credit card to pay for a bike purchased 
through a website marketplace Ill call Firm A. She paid Firm A and the bike was to be 
supplied by a different party who Ill call the Supplier. She paid £660.60. The bike was 
never delivered and in January 2021 the Supplier confirmed it was cancelling the agreement. 
It said there were charges to pay, so after significant debate the Supplier eventually 
refunded Mrs Y £525.42.
Having reached deadlock with the Supplier, Mrs Y took her dispute to Capital One in June 
2021 to see if it could help. Capital One says it considered Chargeback and the Consumer 
Credit Act and having done so it didnt think it needed to refund her the amount shed lost. 
So Mrs Y brought her complaint to this service.
Our Investigator felt Capital One had treated Mrs Y fairly. And Mrs Y remains unhappy and 
so this complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Y used her Capital One credit card to pay Firm A for the bike. This means Capital One 
has certain responsibilities to Mrs Y (if certain criteria are met) which arise from the relevant 
law, specifically, Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act). There is no need for 
me to go into great detail about how this operates, but in summary, if certain criteria are met, 
Section 75 has the effect of allowing Mrs Y to hold Capital One liable for breaches of 
contract by the Supplier, or misrepresentations made by it in relation to the agreement 
made. Again without going into a large amount of detail a breach of contract occurs when 
one party to a contract fails to provide what it has agreed to under that contract. 
Misrepresentation is when something is said which is relied upon and transpires to be untrue 
leading to detriment. Capital One is also a member of a card network which provides card 
services. And this network has rules which includes giving Capital One an avenue for card 
transactions to be disputed, namely through the Chargeback process.
I should also add at this juncture that this decision is solely about Capital One and whether it 
did what it should have and whether it treated Mrs Y fairly. This decision isnt about Firm A or 
the Supplier-neither of which are parties to this decision and neither of which are within this 
services remit for complaints regarding Chargeback and S75. I hope this distinction is clear.
could Capital One challenge the transaction through a Chargeback? 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute about a transaction, as Mrs Y 
does here, Capital One (as the card issuer) can attempt to go through the Chargeback 
process. Mrs Y doesnt dispute that she used her Capital One credit card here. Nor does she 
dispute the amount, date, or any other details about the transaction itself. So I dont think 
Capital One couldve challenged the payment on the basis Mrs Y didnt properly authorise 
the transaction, given what Ive just set out.
Capital One is required to consider whether there is a reasonable prospect of success when 
it is considering whether to go through the chargeback process or not. If it does go through 
the process, then it must do so properly. But ultimately the Card Scheme has the final say on 
this process. So Capital One isnt solely responsible for the decision whether to refund or 
not, when going through the chargeback process. And it can fairly decide to not proceed at 
any stage if it doesnt think there is a reasonable prospect of success. Capital One has 
pointed to the Scheme rules about time limits to raise Chargebacks. And it notes that the 
transaction was in November 2020, but it says Mrs Y didnt raise the issue with it until June 
2021, by which time it was significantly outside the time limits applicable.  Ive considered the 
card network rules and it is outside of the time limits appropriate to the transaction and 
indeed the notice of cancelation. So I dont think Mrs Y has lost out here because Capital 
One didnt raise a Chargeback as it would have been out of time. And consequently would 
have been unsuccessful.
Section 75
Before deciding on whether there is breach or misrepresentation here there are some 
requirements set out in the CCA which also have to be met before these issues can be 
considered. One of these tests is around financial limits and having considered these I think 
on balance that Mrs Ys claim meets the financial limits criteria.
Another test in the CCA for a valid claim is that there must be a debtor-creditor-supplier 
arrangement in place. This is often referred to as the DCS relationship or simply DCS. This 
means that there needs to be the necessary three-party relationship. This often looks like:
A debtor (who makes repayments to the creditor for the borrowing for the purchase)
A creditor (who has to send the borrowed amount direct to the supplier)
A supplier (who has to provide what was purchased to the debtor)
This means the person who paid for the goods (the Debtor-Mrs Y) should have a contractual 
relationship with the Supplier as well as with the credit provider (Capital One). And this is the 
crux of the complaint here. Mrs Y says that the DCS relationship is in place so Capital One 
can be held liable for any breach of contract by the Bike.
Mrs Y paid Firm A, but Firm A wasnt the party supplying the bike-the Supplier was due to 
supply the bike. And Mrs Y wasnt the contracting party who contracted with the Supplier for 
the supply of the bike - Mr S was, who is a friend of Mrs Y. I can see this is the case as its 
Mr S details on the correspondence and Mr S who corresponded with the Supplier. And Mrs 
Y funded the transaction through her credit agreement with Capital One but wasnt a 
contracting party.
Firm A acts as a marketplace and/or introducer. Its terms and conditions say its an 
electronic web-based platforms for exchanging information between buyers and sellers of 
products and services. Its terms also say it does not represent either the seller or the buyer 
in specific transactions and that it does not control and is not liable or responsible for the 
quality, safety, lawfulness or availability of the products or services offered for sale on the 
Sites, the ability of the sellers to complete a sale or the ability of buyers to complete a purchase. So when agreeing to use its services consumers the terms and conditions agreed 
make clear Firm As role in the matter.
So in this transaction we have more than the requisite three parties. We have Capital One 
(Creditor), Mrs Y (Debtor) Firm A (website marketplace), Mr S (contracting party) and the 
Supplier (who agreed to supply the bike). So we have five parties here and considering the 
intertwined relationships here Im satisfied that the required relationship as set out in the 
CCA is not met and thus Capital One cannot be held liable for the loss Mrs Y has suffered 
here. Ive also considered whether Firm A is acting purely as a payment processor here, but 
Im not persuaded it is. Clearly its providing introductory and information services rather than 
simply transactional services. And clearly Firm A and the Supplier are not Associates as 
defined in the Consumer Credit Act (which is a far tighter, more defined definition that the 
common usage of the word).
It should also be remembered that the only reason Capital One is potentially liable is due to 
this legislation Ive described. If the legislation wasnt in place then Capital One wouldnt 
have any potential liability for the Bike at all (it would have obligations around Chargeback 
but that isnt nearly as extensive in terms of protection to the consumer). So it is key that if I 
am to hold Capital One liable the tests required under the Act must be met including DCS. 
And Im satisfied it isnt made out here. So all in all having considered the matter Im not 
persuaded Capital One has treated Mrs Y unfairly. Im not persuaded that the required 
relationship was made out. I think there are five parties involved in this transaction and I 
dont think the DCS relationship has been shown to be in place for the provision of the bike. 
So I dont think Capital One hasnt done anything wrong here which needs remedy.
This decision doesnt decide that Mrs Y hasnt lost out, clearly she has. But Capital One is 
only responsible for what it is responsible for. And Capital Ones position on Chargeback and 
S75 is fair. I can well appreciate Mrs Ys disappointment at what has happened. However 
Capital One has treated her fairly.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Capital One (Europe) 
Plc. It has nothing further to do in respect of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2022.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman