DRN-3302196
The complaint
Mr B complains about the way Thompson Taraz Managers Limited (TTML) managed a fund 
he invested in. He argues it didnt carry out sufficient due diligence on the companies the 
fund invested in, nor did it appropriately monitor the performance of the companies. He says 
TTML never ought to have made the investments on behalf of the fund, and if it hadnt 
invested in these companies he wouldnt have suffered the losses he now has.
What happened
In 2017, Mr B received advice from his financial adviser (not affiliated with TTML) to invest in 
TTMLs EIS fund (the fund). He proceeded to make two investments, totalling around 
£22,000. The fund was managed by TTML, with another company, E, acting as TTMLs 
adviser and proposing companies to invest in. The fund was an alternative investment fund 
(AIF) particularly focussed on investments in unlisted companies in the recycling and 
environmental sector. One of the principal objectives of the fund was for the underlying 
investments to attract enterprise investment scheme (EIS) tax relief for investors.
In September 2018 TTML ceased managing the fund, with management passing to another 
firm. Between 2019 and 2020, the outlook for some of the underlying companies worsened, 
and by 2021 Mr B considered he was facing a near total capital loss on his investment. He 
complained to TTML. In summary, he said:
TTML didnt carry out sufficient due diligence on the investee companies. If it had, 
some of the problems which later led to the companies failure would have come to 
light, and TTML wouldnt have made the investments in the first place.
TTML failed to take responsibility for due diligence or ongoing monitoring of the 
investments, instead saying this was all Es responsibility. As the fund manager, 
TTML ultimately was obliged to ensure the investments were suitable for the fund 
and in Mr Bs interests.
TTML couldnt explain issues with some of the companies such as debt being taken 
on in contravention of the information memorandum (IM). It couldnt explain why the 
companies had failed, showing it had no grip on what was happening with the funds 
investments.
Two of the investee companies were reliant on the same third party company 
providing energy infrastructure for their operations to run. This was unnecessarily 
risky, and the third partys failure led to these two companies also failing. This 
shouldnt have been allowed to happen.
TTML didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. It maintained that the investments it had made were in 
line with the funds mandate and objectives. It said it had fulfilled its obligations to carry out 
due diligence on the companies it invested in. And said that the issues with the underlying 
companies had only arisen some years later, after TTML stopped managing the fund. It said 
in its view the cause of the companies failing related to matters it couldnt have known about 
or foreseen when investing  the withdrawal of other funding, the withdrawal of certain 
government subsidies and incentives, and the impact of the coronavirus pandemic.
One of our investigators looked into the matter and didnt think Mr Bs complaint should be 
upheld. In summary, she said:
TTML had discretion as fund manager to make the investments it considered 
appropriate, in line with the fund objectives and criteria set out in the IM.
In her view, the investments TTML made were in line with those criteria.
She considered the due diligence carried out by TTML was reasonable. On TTMLs 
behalf, E carried out research into the companies (business activities, financial 
position, assets and liabilities, amongst other things) which TTML reviewed before 
making the decision to invest. She considered this to be fair and in line with TTMLs 
obligations as fund manager.
She wasnt persuaded there was evidence of aspects of the way the investee 
companies operated that breached the IM during the period TTML managed the 
fund. She considered the investee companies remained engaged in the type of 
activity described at the outset, and didnt think there was enough evidence of 
leverage or a failure to secure charges over the assets of the companies in order to 
say TTML had fallen short in this regard.
Mr B still didnt agree, and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He said he felt too much 
weight was being given to things that E carried out, and TTML wasnt taking full 
responsibility for managing the fund. He said E had effectively managed the investments, 
which it shouldnt have. He also felt he was entitled to see full details of the due diligence 
carried out on the investee companies. Mr B said that it was unclear why so little value was 
able to be recovered from the companies when they supposedly had significant plant and 
machinery worth a lot of money. He didnt think TTML had satisfactorily answered his 
questions about what happened to those assets, or the companies themselves.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator, and for broadly the 
same reasons. Ill explain why. First, I think it would be helpful to set out the nature of the 
fund and the relevant rules and regulations which are, in my view, of particular relevance to 
the complaint Mr B has made.
Mr Bs application form sets out that in subscribing to the fund, he agreed to the terms of the 
Investors Agreement (IA), and that the fund would be managed in accordance with that 
agreement and the IM.
The IA says that the arrangements are such that TTML will act as a discretionary investment 
manager to invest on Mr Bs behalf. But that these investments would be made in common 
on behalf of all Investors in the Fund in accordance with the Investment Objective.
The IM also sets out that the fund will be managed on behalf of all investors in common. 
That while the arrangements are made of individual discretionary management agreements, 
the Fund is the regulatory client of the Manager and Investors will not be treated on an 
individual basis as clients of the Manger for regulatory purposes. It goes on to say that The 
Fund is an Alternative Investment Fund within the meaning of the AIFMD.The regulator gives guidance in its Perimeter Guidance Manual (PERG) about when this sort 
of arrangement may be an AIF. Question 2.43 of PERG 16.2 says:
It is useful to take into account the difference between conventional individual portfolio 
management arrangements (where an investor entrusts a manager with a sum of money, to 
be invested on a discretionary basis, based on the individual circumstances of the particular 
investor) and EIS funds, where the manager would not be making investments on the basis 
of their suitability for any individual investor. Hence, it is likely that an EIS fund should be 
considered to be a CIU and an AIF.
Im satisfied that here, TTML was making investments, in line with a broad mandate for the 
fund and not based on the individual circumstances of Mr B or any other given investor. Im 
satisfied that based on the conditions describing an AIF that the fund was, in fact an AIF and 
TTML was the funds manager.
One of the consequences of this is that different of the regulators conduct of business rules 
apply, when the fund is an AIF rather than an individual discretionary management 
arrangement. The parts of COBS which apply to an AIF manager are set out in COBS 
18.5.2-AG. For example, the requirements in COBS 9 to ensure that investments are 
suitable for a particular investor, dont apply. However, of relevance here, COBS 2.1.4R did 
apply to TTML in managing the fund. This says that the manager of an AIF must:
(1) act honestly, fairly and with due skill care and diligence in conducting their activities;
(2) act in the best interests of the AIF it manages or the investors of the AIF it manages and 
the integrity of the market;
(3) treat all investors fairly;
There are further particular rules regarding how an AIF needs to be managed set out in the 
FUND sourcebook of the FCAs handbook. These include at FUND 3.7.5R that the AIF 
manager must implement an appropriate, documented and regularly updated due diligence 
process when investing on behalf of the AIF, according to the investment strategy, objectives 
and risk profile of the AIF.
I think theres an important distinction between these obligations and those that TTML might 
have owed Mr B were it purely managing his individual investments on a discretionary basis. 
Im satisfied the rules Ive listed above encompass the key aspects of TTMLs actions which 
Mr B has complained about.
To summarise  the fund was arranged in such a way that TTML was acting on behalf of all 
investors, rather than Mr B individually. It needed to ensure it ran the fund in a way that was 
in the best interests of the fund itself, that it treated investors fairly, and that it acted with due 
skill, care and diligence in managing the fund. And it needed to invest incorporating a due 
diligence process which took account of the funds stated strategy, objectives and risk 
profile.
The fund objectives were set out in Schedule 1 of the IM, and were given as:
To offer Investors the opportunity to invest in unquoted EIS Qualifying Companies which 
carry on business in the recycling, environmental and/or waste sectors.
It went on to give the restrictions on investment, which related to attempting to ensure the investments were able to benefit from EIS relief.
The IM also gave further detail on the fund strategy:
Monies raised by the Fund will be deployed into EIS qualifying companies that are seeking 
to build and operate shovel-ready recycling and environmental facilities. This provides the 
underlying investments with significant asset backing combined with long term predictable 
revenue streams secured against reputable counterparts.
So how did TTML go about selecting investments for the fund? It used the services of E, as 
its investment advisor, to select and recommend investments and do the practical gathering 
of due diligence information. Mr B has specifically noted Es role, and contends that TTML 
failed in its duty as fund manager by passing responsibility off to E. To be absolutely clear, 
Im satisfied that TTML needed to ensure it managed the fund in line with the funds interests 
and investors interests. And that it was itself responsible for complying with all relevant rules 
and regulations. Ive considered what it did here with that in mind.
However I dont think this responsibility precluded TTML from employing E in the way it did. 
TTML was a fund manager, but this particular fund was fairly niche and bespoke. The fund 
strategy and objectives make it clear that it was a particular type of company in a very 
specific sector that would be invested in. And this was a sector in which E had both practical 
and investment experience.
The IM set out that E, at the time, managed over £35m of investors capital and oversees 
investments in a range of sectors from waste management and recycling to renewable 
energy and power generation. It detailed that before this E had itself built a recycling facility, 
including funding and building the relevant plant and machinery.
So Im satisfied E had relevant experience  both practical and investment  in the particular 
sector the fund was to invest in. While its hands on approach in supporting the investee 
companies gave rise to potential conflicts of interest (where related entities could benefit 
from contracts issued by the investee companies) Im satisfied these conflicts were clearly 
and consistently disclosed, and Ive seen nothing to suggest they werent managed 
appropriately.
Taking all this into account, while I stress that TTML retained responsibility for managing the 
fund and ultimately ensuring that relevant rules were complied with (in other words, that it 
was in the fund and investors interests to invest into the investee companies selected) I find 
that it was reasonable for TTML to rely on the advice and information E provided. I also find 
that the role of E in selecting the investments was clearly set out within the IM and IA. For 
example clause 5.2 of the IA sets out that, amongst other things, when performing its 
investment management services TTML would have regard to the advice of E. 
Ill now turn to the due diligence TTML carried out before investing. As set out above, the 
relevant rules dont give prescriptive steps TTML had to follow. But in assessing the steps 
TTML did take, Ive borne in mind the fact that its due diligence process needed to be 
implemented according to the investment strategy, objectives and risk profile of the AIF. 
And that at all times TTML needed to act with due skill, care and diligence, and in the best 
interests of the fund or its investors.
Ive considered the particular due diligence reports TTML relied on carefully. Id note at this 
stage that Mr B has complained in part that he feels he should be able to see these reports. 
Im satisfied there is no regulatory or other requirement, for a fund of this type, which means 
TTML needs to disclose this information to Mr B. TTML has asked that our service accept 
the evidence of these reports in confidence as DISP allows us to do. Im satisfied thats appropriate here. TTML says the particulars of the documents are commercially sensitive 
and Im satisfied thats the case. 
I do however think the nature of the information TTML considered is relevant to the outcome 
of this complaint, where it relates to the crux of Mr Bs contention that TTML didnt carry out 
its due diligence properly. I can see that our investigator gave a detailed summary and 
description of the things TTML considered before investing, and Im satisfied this has 
provided Mr B with the opportunity to make representations about TTMLs due diligence and 
argue his case. Im not persuaded Mr B is unable to fairly put across his side of the matter 
without seeing the original documents themselves.
Ive looked at the information TTML considered before deciding to invest. This included:
Description of the business plan and proposed market for each company.
The fact that a company described as Es development team would be involved in 
the operation of the sites and development of the companies operations.
Each companys Articles of Association and Shareholder Agreements.
Financial information in the form of current position, statements, forecasts, and 
records of assets and liabilities.
Records of Share Options and Consultancy Agreements the companies were tied to.
KYC and AML checks on the companies, directors, and large shareholders.
Checks of the company Directors with Companies House.
The opinion that E considered the companies to be attractive investments for the 
fund.
So while the information may have been gathered by E rather than TTML itself, Im satisfied 
TTML ensured the sorts of things Id expect were verified and considered before it made the 
decision to invest in the companies. It had assurances and information about the people 
involved in the companies, each companys financial position and forecasts and the type of 
business theyd operate in. This process also provided information to ensure the likelihood of 
the investments qualifying for EIS relief.
In my view TTML ensured it had enough information to be able to take an investment 
decision it could be satisfied was in the funds interests. Im not persuaded its failed to carry 
out its activities with due skill or care. The decision as to whether to invest was then up to 
TTML as the fund manager. In order to uphold this complaint Id need to be persuaded that 
this was a decision that no reasonable fund manager would have made. But I think TTML 
had the sort of information it would need in order to make that decision, and Ive not seen 
anything in the substance of the financials, or other company information, that mean I 
consider it wasnt fair and reasonable for TTML to have accepted Es recommendations and 
invested the funds money in these particular companies.
Mr B has mentioned that two of the investee companies were reliant on one third party 
company building a biomass plant to provide them with energy. Im not persuaded this 
particular risk made the decision of TTML to invest in those companies unfair or 
unreasonable. The fund as a whole was operating in a small and narrow industry sector. I 
think its understandable for there to be a number of interdependencies between firms 
operating in that same sector and geographical area. Im not persuaded that the extent to which those investee companies relied on the same third party power plant meant the 
investment decision was an unreasonable one for TTML to make.
Mr Bs then gone on to complain about a number of aspects of things that happened with the 
fund, and the investee companies, later. Hes mentioned issues with charges over the assets 
of the companies, and a failure to realise any value from the companies when they failed. He 
said he wants TTML to provide answers and to explain why companies with significant fixed 
assets werent able to return any value at all to investors.
As mentioned above, TTML managed the fund until September 2018. Ive seen the portfolio 
report from June 2018, and financial statements for the investee companies for the financial 
year ending in April 2018. I cant see that there was anything at that stage that ought to have 
prompted TTML to act differently or that would have alerted them to potentially fatal issues 
with the companies. The companies were all reporting healthy asset to liability ratios and 
appeared to be developing their projects as intended. Whatever happened after September 
2018, and whatever the ultimate reasons for the companies failure, isnt something Id be 
able to fairly hold TTML responsible for. 
As Ive explained, Im not persuaded TTML acted unfairly or unreasonably in making the 
investments in the first place. And Ive not seen any evidence to suggest TTML ought to 
have known about, or taken action about, any issues with the companies during the period of 
time it managed the fund.
I sympathise with Mr B as the investments eventually failed and hes lost a lot of money. I 
appreciate his desire to understand what happened to those companies. But I dont think it 
would be fair to hold TTML responsible for his losses, or to expect it to be able to explain 
events that happened after it stopped being involved in the fund or the underlying companies 
in any way. So for the reasons given above I dont think it would be fair to require TTML to 
compensate Mr B for the losses he says hes suffered.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Luke Gordon
Ombudsman