DRN-2962779
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E are unhappy with the way Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) 
handled their claim under their home insurance following a flood which damaged their home. 
The policy is in joint names and their representative, Mr M, brought the complaint. For ease, 
Ill refer only to Mrs E throughout my decision.
What happened
During a flash flood, contaminated water entered parts of Mrs Es property, affecting the 
garden, outbuildings, driveway and some contents. She was also concerned that the ground 
beneath her house was affected. Lloyds appointed contractors who inspected the damage 
and recommended repair work.
Mrs E was affected by the chemicals the contractors used to sanitize the affected areas, and 
she complained to Lloyds. It paid £375 to compensate her for that and other issues at the 
start of the claim.
The proposed repair work hadnt been agreed, so Lloyds appointed an independent surveyor 
to inspect the damage and list the repair work. Just under two weeks later, Mrs E received 
the report and Lloyds confirmed that it would start work. Mrs E cancelled appointments due 
to illness and, after some short delays, Lloyds issued another proposed schedule of work. 
Mrs E and Lloyds couldnt agree the way work would be done so no further progress was 
made.
Mrs E complained about the following points:
Lloyds didnt arrange alternative accommodation (AA) for her.
After offering to replace the full drive, Lloyds only included patch repairs in the 
schedule. 
Lloyds wouldnt replace a kitchen worktop under the matching items cover.
There was no guarantee to replace her flooring if patch repairs were unsuccessful.
Because of the disagreement, Lloyds caused significant delays to tests and repairs, 
causing upset, stress and poor health.
Lloyds investigated Mrs Es complaint. It compensated her after investigating the first 
complaint about the sanitisation process, but it didnt think it had done anything wrong in 
respect of the remaining issues.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Es complaint. She said Lloyds had offered to handle the 
claim in line with the policy, there was no evidence it had offered to replace the full driveway, 
and the additional delays had been unavoidable. 
Mrs E didnt agree. She felt that Lloyds email to her confirmed its intention to replace her 
driveway. And she didnt think it was fair to agree a way forward if Lloyds wouldnt commit to 
replacing her flooring if the patch repairs were ineffective. Mrs E also said she disagreed 
with the definition of set and uniform and she thought Lloyds was just trying to avoid 
responsibility.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise Mrs E will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold her complaint. Ill 
explain why.
Firstly, theres no dispute that the cause of Mrs Es claim is covered under her policy. Lloyds 
accepted the claim and the disagreement is about what repairs should be done and how. My 
role is to decide whether Lloyds handled the claim in line with the policy terms and 
conditions, and whether it was fair in all the circumstances. Theres a lot of information 
available to me and, having looked at everything, its clear this matter has become 
protracted. Our rules dont require me to comment on everything so, instead, Ill focus on the 
main issues to explain my decision.
Lloyds issued three final response letters to Mrs E covering different aspects of her 
complaint. I understand Lloyds settled the first complaint with compensation for delays and 
chemical irritation when it sanitised her home. The next two letters, issued in February 2021 
and March 2021, cover the remaining issues of complaint and Ill address each in turn. 
February response
This letter covered the complaint about driveway repairs, accessing the void beneath the 
house to test the soil, and replacing the lawn.
Driveway
The water pushed up parts of the driveway and Lloyds offered a patch repair or cash 
settlement. Mrs E thought Lloyds should tarmac the full driveway because it had already 
agreed to do so in a call and email. She said a patch repair would stand out, reduce her 
homes value, and bring into question the reason for the repairs should she sell the house. 
Theres no evidence of what was discussed during the call, but Ive looked at the email to 
which Mrs E refers. It says, Regarding the driveway [contractors] will attend and quote for 
replacement of the driveway and the investigation of the flooringAt this stage [contractors] 
just need to visit to assess and provide quotes.
                                                                                                                                                                                             
I cant reasonably say this email confirms Lloyds will tarmac the full driveway. I can see why 
Mrs E mightve interpreted it that way, but I dont think its clear whether replacement (of 
the tarmac) refers to all or just the damaged parts. So, Ive looked at what the policy covers: 
How we settle claims under your Buildings covers
We will pay the cost of rebuilding or repairing the part of your home which is 
damagedWe have the option of giving you a money payment instead of repairing or 
rebuildingWe will either: pay the cost of repairing the damage less an allowance for wear 
and tear                                                                                                                                                                                            
This policy does not cover 
Non-insured lossAny costs beyond the cost of replacing damaged property or repairing the damage to 
property, for example any loss in value which may occur as a result of loss or damage.
For completeness, Ive looked at the expert reports to see how much of the damage was 
attributed to the flood. The available photos show clear signs of wear and tear as well as 
damage caused by the flood, and the surveyors report says, the tarmac driveway has not 
been installed to the best specification and is suffering from wear and tear that has occurred 
gradually over time and from the proximity of a large overgrown Conifer tree. Further, Ive 
seen records of conversations with Mrs E which show Lloyds was reluctant to jet wash the 
driveway because of the concern that it would cause more damage due to the existing 
conditions. While Mrs E was concerned that patch repairs wouldnt provide a uniform finish, 
it was reasonable for Lloyds to offer the patch repair. Tarmac fades over time and Lloyds felt 
it could provide a reasonable finish, however, it also made a cash settlement offer to Mrs E 
should she wish to arrange repairs herself.
 
Im satisfied that Lloyds offer to complete a patch repair or cash settle was in line with the 
policy, and it was fair to decline a full replacement. I havent seen anything to suggest Lloyds 
acted unfairly in respect of the driveway.
Accessing the floor void
To determine whether the void beneath the floor in Mrs Es home was contaminated, Lloyds 
agreed to test the soil. However, the sticking point here is the method that should be used. 
Mrs E doesnt want Lloyds to access the soil through her wooden flooring unless Lloyds 
agrees to replace the whole floor. In summary, Lloyds said it would repair the floor and take 
a view on any further work should the need arise. Mrs E wasnt happy with the response and 
refused to allow testing. Lloyds offered an alternative method of accessing the soil from 
outside, but Mrs E thinks it will damage her damp proof course. 
Having considered the evidence, including the conversations between Mrs E and Lloyds, I 
cant see that Lloyds has done anything wrong here. I can see it identified an area of 
wooden flooring where removal would cause minimal, if any, noticeable damage, and 
confirmed it would complete a repair, if needed, in line with the terms of the policy. As Mrs E 
was unhappy with that it decided a below soil method was the better option, less likely to 
cause disruption or damage to her home.                   
Its not for me to say which method is the most appropriate because Im not qualified to do 
that. Its my role to decide whether Lloyds has made a fair offer to move the claim forward 
based on the evidence available. As a qualified surveyor has suggested either method would 
be suitable, then Im satisfied it was reasonable for Lloyds to propose using the below soil 
method because of the minimal disruption. I see no reason to ask Lloyds to access the void 
through the wooden floor and commit to replacing the whole floor.
Replacing the lawn
Mrs E is unhappy because she was unable to use her garden due to contamination of the 
lawn. She thinks Lloyds should replace it. I see Lloyds didnt think the lawn would be 
affected because rainwater would naturally flush away any contamination. Nevertheless, it 
offered to test the soil to provide some reassurance. I think that was a fair offer and wouldve 
determined whether the lawn needed replacing. I dont think Lloyds response to Mrs Es 
concern was unreasonable.
Overall, Im satisfied that Lloyds has suggested a reasonable way to move each of these 
parts of the claim forward in line with the terms of the policy. I cant reasonably say that it 
should do any more while Mrs E remains reluctant to allow the work proposed. March response
This letter from Lloyds addressed Mrs Es complaint about her kitchen worktop.  
Worktop
A section of removable kitchen worktop used to cover the cooker was stored in the garage 
and suffered damage from the flood. Mrs E had matching items cover under her policy and 
she thought Lloyds should replace all her kitchen worktops. Lloyds disposed of the wooden 
cover and offered a cash settlement for it, but it didnt agree that all worktops should be 
replaced. Lloyds said the removable cover was uniform in nature rather than part of a 
matching set or suite. 
The policy says:
If you have made a successful buildings claim for an item which forms part of a 
matching set or suite, we will pay for the cost of replacing or changing any associated 
undamaged item from the matching set or suite when a replacement of, or reasonable 
match for, the lost or damaged item cannot be obtained. 
By reasonable match we mean this may be similar but not an exact match. 
On settlement of your claim, if we ask, you must give us any damaged or undamaged 
items for which the claim has been accepted.
What we dont cover in the section(s) of cover under which you have claimed.
Undamaged items that are articles of a uniform nature, colour or design which are 
not part of a matching set or suite.
By articles of a uniform nature, colour or design which are not part of a matching set or 
suite, we mean articles such as windows, conservatory roof panels, internal doors.
The dispute between Mrs E and Lloyds is whether the removable worktop was part of a set 
or uniform in nature. Looking at the definition given in the policy, Im satisfied that Lloyds 
reasonably classed the piece of wood as uniform in nature. The cover was stored in the 
garage, suggesting that there was no detriment to the look of the kitchen  no obvious 
missing piece - when it wasnt in use. Lloyds asked Mrs E for a photo of it in use, which she 
said shed provide when it returned the cover to her. However, Lloyds had disposed of the 
damaged wood, so it wasnt possible to determine how it fit into the kitchen. Even so, had 
Lloyds considered the wood part of a matching set, the policy provides for replacement with 
a reasonable match. As Mrs Es neighbour had created the worktops by adapting standard 
pieces from a retailer, its reasonable to think that a good match could be achieved again.
Understandably Mrs E was unhappy that Lloyds had disposed of the cover, though I can see 
why Lloyds wouldnt have thought shed want to keep the spoiled wood which was beyond 
repair. The policy provides for disposal, but I accept that Lloyds shouldve asked first. It gave 
Mrs E a cash settlement for the cover, so Im satisfied it has indemnified her for the loss. 
Overall, Im satisfied Lloyds declined Mrs Es request for replacement of all her worktops 
fairly and in line with the policy.
Alternative accommodation (AA)
Mrs E remains unhappy that Lloyds didnt provide AA. The policy provides cover as follows:If your private residence is made uninhabitable by any cause under What we cover for 
Buildings  Private residence cover, we will pay for:
Up to 2 years ground rent which you or your family have to pay;
Rent you should have received but have lost; 
The additional costs of similar short-term alternative accommodation for you, your 
family and your domestic pets while you cannot live in your private residence
The policy doesnt define uninhabitable, but we generally consider that to mean a lack of 
cooking, bathing or toilet facilities. That said, if there was evidence that Mrs Es home was 
contaminated with a substance making it dangerous to stay there, then Id question whether 
it was fair to decline her request. But Mrs E hasnt provided any evidence that the soil 
beneath her home was contaminated and, therefore, I cant say Lloyds has failed to provide 
cover available under her policy. 
Lloyds offered to test the soil and due to disagreement it didnt progress. But I see Lloyds 
told Mrs E that her policy doesnt provide for testing and it was a discretionary offer. As the 
policyholder, its Mrs Es responsibility to show that she has suffered an insured loss. In the 
absence of any evidence that her home was contaminated, there would be no reason for 
Lloyds to provide AA. I can see that it confirmed this to her in its correspondence. 
I know Mrs E thinks its decision was based purely on cost. While Lloyds mentioned the cost 
of accommodation, I dont think it was saying it wouldnt provide it for that reason. I see 
Lloyds explained that AA would be on a six-month term and it may be difficult to find suitable 
accommodation which would allow her pets to stay. I dont think that means Lloyds was 
refusing accommodation because of costs so much as pointing out the difficulties in the 
circumstances. Regardless of this, Im satisfied that Lloyds refused to provide AA because it 
wasn't shown to be necessary. I dont think that was unfair in the circumstances.
Delays and health
Mrs E says Lloyds delays handling her claim caused her to suffer stress related illness. 
Having looked at the timeline of events, I can see that the earlier delays were due to Mrs E 
being unwell and postponing appointments. I dont disagree that this matter has taken a long 
time and, as yet, the repairs are still to be completed. But it wouldnt be fair to say Lloyds is 
at fault here. Thats because the delay completing work is due to the disagreement between 
the parties about the best course of action. While Mrs E remains unhappy with Lloyds 
proposals for progression, theres little it can do to settle the claim. Ive said its offers have 
been reasonable, so I cant say its at fault for the delay.
Ongoing issues
Mrs E has explained about further outstanding works and, more recently, health issues and 
decisions shes made because of the stress she experienced throughout this matter. She 
provided a letter from her GP as evidence. Im sorry to hear that Mrs Es had to make some 
difficult decisions because of her health. However, as the problems Mrs E explained about 
happened after she brought her complaint to our service, and Lloyds hasnt had an 
opportunity to respond, I cant take that information into consideration here. 
I understand that being without the use of her garden for so long was causing Mrs E some 
distress and she has since re-laid the lawn and jet-washed her driveway. I appreciate that 
she wouldve been fed up waiting for progress of her claim but, as Ive explained, Lloyds 
couldnt progress until the work was agreed. 
In summary, Im satisfied that the evidence shows Lloyds proposed a schedule of work in 
line with the policy terms and went beyond that by offering to test the soil, which wasn't covered under the policy. While I can understand that Mrs E is concerned about how her 
home will look once the repairs have been done, I cant see anything to suggest Lloyds 
failed to act in line with the policy, or that it caused avoidable delays. I wont be asking 
Lloyds to do any more than it has already offered.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 December 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman