DRN-3167062
The complaint
Mr S complains that TSB Bank plc (TSB) didnt tell him he had an outstanding overdraft 
balance to pay and hes unhappy it sold his account to a third party without prior notice.
What happened
In April 2020, TSB wrote to Mr S and explained in January 2020 it had sold the rights for    
Mr S current account to a third party who Ill refer to as G. It explained Mr S owed the 
outstanding balance to G and not TSB. So any payments Mr S had paid to TSB since         
24 January 2020 would be returned to Mr S.
Mr S wrote to TSB and said the letter was difficult to comprehend and it was confusing. He 
asked TSB to send him details of all transactions between 4 December 2007 and       
January 2020.
G also wrote to Mr S separately and sent him a notice of assignment. This was sent to 
explain his current account had been assigned to it from TSB since 24 January 2020. As it 
didnt receive contact from Mr S, it sent him a reminder letter on 23 April 2020. Mr S wrote to 
it on 29 April 2020 and explained he wasnt aware he had an outstanding balance. So he 
asked G to provide him with the details of how the overdraft had accrued. G responded on 
27 May 2020 and explained it had referred Mr Gs complaint to TSB.
TSB looked into Mr S complaint in July 2020. It said it had sent Mr S an arrears letter in 
January 2015, followed by a formal demand letter. It said it registered a default on his credit 
file and passed the account to three debt collection agencies. As the debt collection 
agencies were unable to contact Mr S, TSB made a decision to sell the account to G.
Unhappy with this, Mr S referred his complaint to our service. He said TSB refused to send 
his bank statements to him, it didnt discuss selling his account to G with him before it sold it 
and it didnt explain how the overdraft amount had accrued.
Our adjudicator looked into the complaint but didnt think TSB did anything wrong. He said 
Mr S owed the balance of the overdraft and it was correct to default his account. He also 
said TSB was entitled to sell the account given it had tried to recover the debt from Mr S 
through a number of different debt collection agencies unsuccessfully. 
Mr S disagreed. He said he wasnt in the UK between 10 May 2013 and 15 October 2015 
and said it was unfortunate money was withdrawn from his account during this period. He 
said he would pay TSB the outstanding balance through an agreed repayment plan. But hed 
pay TSB directly, not to G.
Mr S remains in disagreement, so the case has been passed to me to decide.
I havent considered the impact of Mr S saying he wasnt in the country between                 
10 May 2013 and 15 October 2015, as Mr S hasnt made this complaint to TSB previously. If 
Mr S is alleging he didnt make or authorise payments during this time, he needs to complain 
to TSB separately about this. However, given the time that has now passed, it may be too 
late for him to bring a complaint about this.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S isnt disputing that he owes an outstanding balance on his overdraft. But he says that 
he should be able to pay this amount to TSB not G. So Ive considered whether TSB should 
reobtain the debt so that Mr S can make payments to TSB directly. And having done so, I 
dont think it should. Ill explain why.
I can see TSB tried to reach Mr S after his account was in overdraft and when it couldnt 
reach him, it passed the account to three different debt collection agencies between 
February 2015 and December 2015. As the attempts by the debt collection agencies to 
contact Mr S were also unsuccessful, TSB sold the account to G in January 2020. This is a 
commercial decision it is allowed to make. 
TSB didnt have to tell Mr S it had sold his account either. Ill explain why.
TSB is authorised and regulated by Financial Conduct Authority, so it follows the FCAs rules 
in respect of consumer credit activities. Part of these rules are set out in The Consumer 
Credit Sourcebook (CONC) which sets out specific rules and guidance firms must follow 
when carrying out credit regulated activities and ancillary activities. 
CONC 6.5.2.4 (1) states:
Where the rights of a lender under a regulated credit agreement are assigned to a firm, that 
firm must arrange for notice of the assignment to be given to the customer:
1. (a) as soon as reasonably possible; or
(b) if, after the assignment, the arrangements for servicing the credit under the 
agreement do not change as far as the customer is concerned, on or before the first 
occasion they do.
In this case, the firm is G. So TSB didnt have to tell Mr S it had assigned the rights to his 
account to G. This was Gs responsibility as it now owned the debt. I do understand why    
Mr S may feel that this is a matter between him and TSB. But as TSB assigned the debt as it 
was entitled to, I dont think it did anything wrong here. And I can only recommend Mr S 
contacts G to make the outstanding repayment, or reach an arrangement to do so.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2022.
 
Sonia Ahmed
Ombudsman