DRN-3631061
The complaint
Mr F complains that Santander UK Plc wont honour a destroyed counter cheque. 
What happened
In September 2003 Mr F obtained a counter cheque for £11,425 from a business that 
Santander later acquired. Ill call that business B. Mr F gave the cheque to his ex wife as part 
of a divorce settlement. The funds were withdrawn from Mr Fs account by B at the time it 
wrote the cheque. But Mr F has told us his ex wife didnt cash the cheque and destroyed it. 
In 2020, Mr F and his ex wife discussed the cheque and have told us they realised it hadnt 
been cashed. But Mr F says the funds were never returned to his account by B or Santander 
after the cheque wasnt cashed by his ex wife. 
Mr F asked Santander to issue a replacement counter cheque but it declined and he 
complained. Santander issued a final response and said that no records remained from the 
period in question. Santander said it was only required to keep information for six years and 
that it had taken 17 years to raise the issue. Santander said a search of its archives hadnt 
located any records relating to the cheque, which had been issued around five years before 
B was taken over. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Fs complaint but thought Santander had dealt 
with it fairly. Mr F asked to appeal and said Santander ought to be able to provide evidence 
the cheque had either been cashed or returning to his account with B. As Mr F asked to 
appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to explain that in this decision I can only look at Santanders actions in terms of how 
theyve impacted Mr F. I understand the cheque in question was issued so Mr F could give it 
to his ex wife. But as she isnt a customer of Santander in relation to the account where the 
cheque was drawn, only Mr F is party to this complaint. My investigation and decision 
focuses on Mr F and Santander. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr F but Ive reached the same view as the investigator  I 
havent been persuaded to uphold his complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mr Fs responses to the investigator go into considerable detail concerning whether 
Santander can show evidence of what happened to his money. Mr F requests evidence that 
shows whether his cheque was cashed, repaid to an account in his name or retained by 
Santanders predecessor. But Santander has explained it simply doesnt have that 
information on file because it no longer exists. The cheque was issued 17 years before Mr F 
asked Santander to trace it. And the original bank that issued the cheque was later taken 
over by Santander. Businesses arent required to keep information indefinitely and 
Santander has explained that it has followed industry guidance in terms of the information it 
retains. Im satisfied thats the case. 
Mr F has provided copies of passbooks covering the account in question, which remains 
open. The passbook provides an account history that predates the cheque that was issued 
in September 2003. I can see the cheque was debited in September 2003. But theres no 
corresponding credit that shows the funds were repaid to the account. I agree with Mr F that 
the proceeds werent returned to the original account. 
Mr F has sent us copies of a statement provided by his ex wife from the period in question. 
Whilst I dont intend any discourtesy or to cause offence, the statement doesnt show 
whether there were other accounts the funds couldve been paid into open at the time. And 
theres nothing on the statement that identifies the account holder. I mean no discourtesy, 
but as an impartial party I think its reasonable to say, the information provided doesnt show 
whether the cheque was cashed or not.
Where the circumstances of a complaint are disputed by the parties involved or theres an 
absence of evidence that clearly shows what happened Ill be my decision on the balance of 
probability. That is, what I consider most likely to have occurred taking all the available 
information and evidence into account. But here, thats difficult to do because of the time 
thats passed since the cheque was issued.
I have to be impartial when looking at this complaint and be fair to both sides. So while Mr F 
has supplied some evidence which he feels supports his version of events, I also have to 
accept that its difficult for Santander to be able to do that because of the time thats passed. 
So, I have to consider whether the evidence that Mr F has provided means that I could fairly 
say that Santander has held onto this money or should pay it to him for any other reason.
Having considered everything Mr Fs sent, alongside the limited information Santander has 
supplied, I dont think I can fairly decide that here. There is no direct evidence that shows 
what happened with the cheque funds after it was drawn. Its possible the funds couldve 
remained in a holding account with B. But its also possible the cheque was cashed. Had the 
money remained in a holding account, I think the business wouldve likely paid it back to 
Mr F at some point over the last 17 years. Put simply, I cant fairly say what happened to the 
money here, but I dont think I can conclude that its more likely than not that Santander has 
kept it. In this case, what little information is available simply doesnt support that.
I realise m Mr F will be disappointed with my decision and, as Ive said above, no 
discourtesy is intended by my approach. But as Im satisfied Santander dealt with Mr Fs  
complaint fairly, Im not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman