DRN-3463679
The complaint
Mrs N is unhappy with the way Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) dealt with a claim she 
made under a home emergency insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs N got in touch with IPA after she noticed water was leaking from her loft through the 
ceiling. IPA sent a plumber, L, who identified the source of the leak was a pipe. They 
replaced it and left.
Around two weeks later, Mrs N got back in touch with IPA. She said L had turned off the 
stopcock in order to carry out the repair. But it was now leaking, so L may have damaged it 
when turning it back on.
Initially IPA asked L to revisit Mrs N. But after it failed to contact her, she got in touch with a 
plumber of her own, A. They repaired the stopcock. This stopped any further leak but, by this 
time, Mrs N said the leak had caused damage.
IPA accepted its service and communication had been poor and offered Mrs N £150 
compensation. It also agreed to reimburse her the cost of As invoice. But it didnt agree to 
cover the cost of repairing any damage caused by the stopcock leak. It didnt think there was 
enough evidence to show L was responsible for it.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. She thought the evidence showed 
IPA was more likely than not responsible for the stopcock leak. She asked IPA to pay for the 
damage that had been caused.
IPA disagreed and asked for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman. It focused on 
the gap between L carrying out the work and Mrs N getting back in touch  17 days  and 
said this showed the leak wasnt caused by L.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In summary, I must decide whether IPA, through the actions of L, is responsible for the 
damage caused by the leak from the stopcock. Ill reach this decision based on what I think 
is more likely than not to have happened, given the available evidence.
IPAs main point is about the time it took Mrs N to report the problem after L had carried out 
the work. In brief, it says:
It should have been made aware sooner if the leak was visible
The leak would have begun straightaway if the repair had failed
If the leak was ongoing for 17 days, the damage would be significant
If it started on the 17th day, the damage would have been minimal
As the stopcock was old, it needed replacing anyway and the problem was more a 
matter of wear and tear
Mrs N has made the following comments:
L said they were having difficulties with the stopcock whilst carrying out the work
They advised her there would be some excess water from the pipe leak in the loft, so 
Mrs N would need to leave the area to dry out
Over the next few days she noticed the floor getting wet, which she initially thought 
was consistent with Ls advice
When it continued, she looked into it further and discovered the leak was from the 
stopcock, which is in a nearby cupboard
A said L should have taken steps to ensure the stopcock was watertight given its age
I havent seen any evidence from L about what happened during its visit. And I note it didnt 
engage with IPA or Mrs N when asked to revisit.
Its accepted L used the stopcock when carrying out the repair. And around a fortnight later 
the stopcock was leaking. That either means L caused the leak or the stopcock began 
leaking by coincidence.
Whilst its possible the leak was purely a coincidence due to age-related deterioration, this 
seems unlikely. Other than A saying the stopcock was old, no other evidence to support this 
possibility has been put forward by IPA.
A said an old stopcock such as this one should be repacked after every use. That seems 
not to have happened. Even if the stopcock was suffering from wear and tear, I would have 
expected L to have taken this into account when working on it. And if it thought the stopcock 
was so old or deteriorated that it was prone to failure, I would have expected it to highlight 
this to Mrs N and IPA.
We dont know exactly when the stopcock began leaking. The evidence suggests it was a 
relatively slow leak that developed during those 17 days  not necessarily on day 1 and 
likely before day 17. Because of that, and given Mrs N was warned to expect more water in 
the area initially, I dont think she acted unreasonably by not reporting it to IPA immediately. 
When she noticed the water getting worse, she did report it  but delays between IPA and L 
meant it took longer for a plumber to visit and stop the leak. The stopcock is in a similar area 
to the original leak, but is in a cupboard, so I understand a slow leak from it wouldnt be 
obvious straightaway. So again, I dont think Mrs N acted unreasonably at this point.
Overall, for the reasons above, Im satisfied its fair to hold IPA responsible for the leak from 
the stopcock  and therefore for the damage it caused. It should now work with Mrs N to 
assess that damage and decide how to put it right.
IPA offered £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused Mrs N. Im 
satisfied this is reasonable and proportionate in the circumstances. If it hasnt done so 
already, it should now pay this amount.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Inter Partner Assistance SA to:
Put right the damage caused by the leak from the stopcockIf not done so already, pay £150 compensation
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2022.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman