DRN-3237028
The complaint
C  a company  has complained that H & H Insurance Brokers Limited mis-sold it a 
commercial property insurance policy.
What happened
There have been several businesses involved in this complaint who have acted on behalf of 
either C or H & H. Moving forward, any reference to C or H & H includes actions or 
arguments taken or put forward by their respective agents/representatives. 
C complains that H & H didnt tell it that the policy they discussed would be commencing 
immediately. C also complains that H & H didnt tell it about an important security 
endorsement on its policy regarding the requirement for an alarm system  C didnt have an 
alarm at the time. This resulted in claims for two thefts, which happened in quick succession, 
being declined by the insurer. C wants H & H to make good its losses.
C says it told H & H about the security in place at the premises during the sale  which didnt 
include an alarm system. It says H & H have sold it a policy which wasnt suitable for its 
needs as it knew the security in place didnt comply with the endorsement. 
H & H says the sale was completed by its appointed representative; whose calls are not 
recorded. This means no recording of the sales call is available. 
H & H says it emailed C on the day of the call to provide all required policy information and 
to confirm the policy was commencing and this included the alarm endorsement. H & H says 
it was Cs responsibility to check and confirm that all the information was correct. It says C 
didnt notify it that it didnt or couldnt comply with the security endorsement.
One of our investigators considered Cs complaint, but she didnt think it should be upheld. 
She said H & H did confirm the policy was starting and confirmed the applicable 
endorsement on the day of the sale. She said C confirmed receipt of this email and left cover 
in place for a number of months before making the claims. She said the sales information 
made it clear that C needed to check and confirm that the information enclosed was correct, 
and to contact H & H if it wasnt  but it didnt do so.
C didnt agree with the outcome reached by our investigator and asked for an ombudsman to 
consider things. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Firstly, Ill address Cs complaint that it wasnt notified that the policy was commencing. 
H & H has supplied evidence of an email that was sent to C on 18 February 2020. This 
confirmed that the commercial combined policy was in effect from that date. It also included 
various attachments including a new business letter, statement of demands and needs and 
the insurance schedule.
This email was sent to Cs correct email address and I can see that it was received as C 
later forwarded the email to the insurer when attempting to set up a direct debit for 
payments. So, based on the available evidence Im satisfied that H & H appropriately notified 
C that the policy was commencing on the date of sale.
Ill next consider the issue of the security endorsement, and whether the policy H & H 
recommended to C was mis-sold.
This was an advised sale. This means H & H was required to clearly highlight any unusual or 
restrictive terms to C, and to make sure that the policy it recommended was suitable for Cs 
needs.
As there is no recording of the sales call available, Ill not be able to know for certain what 
was said and discussed. In situations like this, where evidence is incomplete or 
contradictory, Ill reach my decision on the balance of probabilities. That is, on the basis of 
what I think is more likely, taking into account the evidence that is available.
C says it made it clear during the sales call that the only security in place at the premises 
were shutters and a bar on the window. Based on this, it says H & H ought to have known 
that the policy it recommended wasnt suitable. 
H & H says C was emailed policy information on the date of sale which set out the brokers 
understanding of Cs demands and needs. The information also set out Cs responsibility to 
confirm everything captured accurately reflected the conversation. For example, the cover 
letter stated:
Your responsibilities/duty to disclose material facts
Should any of the information in the enclosed statement of fact be incorrect, then 
please advise us at your earliest opportunity so that we may review our 
recommendation.
The statement of demands and needs stated:
Your Demands and Needs
You asked that we recommend and arrange Commercial Combined as per the 
enclosed documents. This policy has been recommended as it meets your insurance 
needs as you have advised us. If we have not be (sic) able to meet any of your 
needs then these are detailed in this document.

Please read the enclosed documents which list all of the warranties and conditions 
applicable to this policy. Failure to comply with these can lead to your insurer 
cancelling this policy or affect any claim made on this policy. Please advise us 
straight away if changes are required or if you need us to explain these further.Our Recommendations
Our understanding of your demands and needs is based on information you have 
supplied to us. Please read through the enclosed documents and advise us as soon 
as possible of any amendments that are required.
.
Has this policy met your Demands and Needs?
This policy meets all of your requirements as we understand them. Please make sure 
that you read all of your documents. It's important that you let us know if any of the 
information is incorrect or requires amendment. 
Please check that all of the information that we have sent you is correct and 
complete and contact us immediately if this is not the case. Paying particular 
attention to all applicable warranties/clauses/endorsements that are shown on the 
Insurers schedule

By paying for your insurance you are confirming that you have read all the 
documents that we have issued to you and that the information contained within 
these documents is accurate and that you understand your responsibilities with 
regards to this policy.
The statement of fact and insurance schedule included similar statements regarding Cs 
requirement to check the information was accurate and that the policy met its needs. And the 
insurance schedule set out the endorsements applicable, one of which required an intruder 
alarm with specific signalling types.
These documents were produced and sent on the date of the sales call. So, in the absence 
of the call recording and on balance, I think theyre more likely to reflect the discussion which 
took place on that date, than Cs recollections several months later. Based on these 
documents, it seems the brokers understanding was that the recommended policy met Cs 
needs. And crucially, the documents provided gave C clear enough information to establish 
whether or not the policy did, in fact, meet its needs, and to know that it should contact the 
broker to amend the policy if it didnt. 
I say this because the various documents provided made it clear that C had a responsibility 
to check the accuracy of the information so it could make changes if anything was 
inaccurate. And the insurance schedule clearly highlights the endorsement. But I cant see 
that C made any attempt to question the endorsement or to amend the cover if it felt it wasnt 
suitable. 
In considering whether H & H recommended a policy that was suitable for Cs needs, Ive 
looked at whether the questions asked were sufficient to establish that the policy it 
recommended was suitable. Having regard to the statement of demands and needs, and 
other point of sale documentation, Im of the view that H & H did ask enough questions to 
make a recommendation to C, about purchasing a policy that was suitable for its needs. Ive also had regard to the many prompts contained in the point of sale documentation, that 
Ive detailed above, which made C aware of the steps it needed to take, if it felt the policy 
wasnt right for it. Given C decided to go ahead with the policy, and made premium 
payments as they fell due, I think it more likely than not, that C was of the view the policy 
was suitable for its needs.
So, taking all the above into account, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Cs complaint about H & H Insurance Brokers 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2022.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman