DRN-3063152
The complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard allowed him to open a 
credit card account but with a credit limit that was too low. He also complains that possible 
adverse information has been recorded on his credit file.
What happened
Mr M says he received a Barclaycard offer for a credit card account in January 2020. He 
says he applied, and the application was approved but with a low credit limit of £130. Mr M 
says he was unable to carry out a balance transfer which he had indicated he wished to do 
in the application. He says that credit limit was too low and would like to know how that 
amount was calculated. He also would like any reference to it removed from his credit file as 
it is misleading.
Barclaycard says Mr M opened the account and closed it sometime later without using it. It 
says it has a duty to report the accurate account position to the Credit Reference Agencies 
(CRAs).
Mr M brought his complaint to us, but our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Mr M applied for the account and it up to Barclaycard to decide upon the credit limit. 
The investigator also thought Barclaycard had to report accurate information to the CRAs.
Mr M doesnt accept that view and says Barclaycard ought to tell him why the credit limit was 
too low and questions if a mistake was made.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr M will be disappointed by my decision.
Im satisfied that, regardless of the information Barclaycard sent him, Mr M applied for the 
credit card account. In doing so he agreed to Barclaycards account terms and conditions 
which clearly say it will set a credit limit. So, I dont think Barclaycard made a mistake here or 
acted unfairly by approving Mr Ms application and setting the credit limit of £130.
I appreciate Mr M would like to know why the credit limit was set at that amount. But Im 
satisfied its up to Barclaycard when exercising its commercial judgement to decide upon 
such matters and is not something I can fairly interfere in or order what is commercially 
sensitive material be made public.
I am sure Mr M appreciates that Barclaycard is obliged to report accurate information to the 
CRAs as part of its regulatory duties. And Im satisfied that Barclaycard is obliged here to 
report to the CRAs that Mr M opened an account which wasnt used. So, I dont think 
Barclaycard has acted unfairly or made a mistake by doing so and I cant see why that 
information could be regarded as anything but accurate.
Overall, Im satisfied Mr M decided to apply for the credit card account and in doing so 
agreed to the account terms and conditions. It follows that I cant fairly order Barclaycard do 
anything further in the circumstances of this complaint.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 November 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman