Complaint
Mrs N says MYJAR Limited (MYJAR) irresponsibly lent to her.      
Background 
This complaint is about three instalment loans that MYJAR provided to Mrs N. Mrs Ns first 
loan was provided in August 2018 and her final one in February 2019. Our adjudicator didnt 
think that MYJAR had treated Mrs N unfairly and so didnt uphold her complaint. Mrs N 
disagreed with our adjudicator. So the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for review.
My provisional decision of 9 June 2020
On 9 June 2020, I issued a provisional decision setting out my initial findings on Mrs Ns 
complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a summary of my 
findings.
I started out by explaining that MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it 
didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice this meant that it should have carried out proportionate 
checks to make sure Mrs N could repay her loans in a sustainable manner. These checks 
could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the 
early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that MYJAR should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
unsustainable).
Having considered all of the factors and arguments, I thought that MYJAR should reasonably 
have seen that Mrs N was unlikely to have been able to make her payments in a sustainable 
manner when it provided loan three. I thought this was the case because Mrs N entered an 
arrangement to repay loan two a couple of months before she was provided with loan three. 
DRN-1955005I did accept that Mrs N did go on to repay loan two in full in January 2019. But it was clear 
that she then applied for loan three a matter of weeks later. Given the proximity between 
loan two being repaid and loan three being applied for, I thought that MYJAR ought 
reasonably to have realised that Mrs N may well have been borrowing to cover the hole left 
in her finances, by her settling her previous loan, which her actions had already shown shed 
struggled to repay. 
And, in these circumstances, MYJAR ought reasonably to have realised that Mrs N was 
unlikely to be able to repay loan three without borrowing further or experiencing financial 
difficulty. So overall I was satisfied that MYJAR ought to have realised that Mrs N was 
unlikely to have been able to sustainably repay loan three. Mrs N had to, or was being 
expected to, pay interest and charges on a loan that MYJAR shouldnt have provided her 
with. So I thought that Mrs N lost out because of what MYJAR did wrong and it needed to 
put things right.
I finally proceeded to set out a method of compensation which I thought adequately put thigs 
right for Mrs N.
Responses to my provisional decision
Neither MYJAR or Mrs N disputed the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision or 
provided anything further for me to consider.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending - including the key relevant rules, 
guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive referred to this when deciding 
Mrs Ns complaint.
I carefully considered the checks MYJAR carried out, whether they were proportionate and 
whether they led to fair lending decisions and set out my thoughts in relation to these 
matters in my provisional decision of 9 June 2020. Given this is the case, and Ive not been 
provided with anything further at all to consider, Ive not been persuaded to depart from the 
provisional findings I reached on 9 June 2020.
So I find that MYJAR unfairly provided Mrs N with loan 3 and that it should put things right.
Putting things right  what MYJAR needs to do
remove all interest and charges applied to loan 3 from the outset. The payments that 
Mrs N made either to MYJAR or any third party debt-purchaser should then be 
deducted from the £725 originally lent. If the payments made are more than £725 any 
extra should be treated as an overpayment and refunded;
 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any overpayments, should there be any, from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must 
give Mrs N a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Id also remind MYJAR of its obligation to exercise forbearance should an outstanding 
balance remain after all adjustments have been made and it be the case that Mrs N is 
experiencing financial difficulty.My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mrs Ns complaint. MYJAR Limited 
should put things right in the way I've set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman