DRN-1053669
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold them 
a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a regular premium MPPI policy taken out by Mr and Mrs L in 
December 2000. They had taken out their mortgage several years before this, in 1991. The 
MPPI policy protected Mr L only in the event he had an accident, was sick or unemployed.
Mr and Mrs L say RBS mis-sold the policy to them. They say they never asked for it and did 
not need it. They say that no conversation about PPI ever took place. If it had they say they 
would have explained they didn't need it.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs L disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ls case.
I have decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint about the sale of the policy. Here are 
my reasons:
This has been a difficult complaint for me to consider as I havent been able to see 
much of the sales documentation that would have been used at the time of sale. It is 
also not clear where the sale took place. I have though considered what I know of 
sales of MPPI policies that happened at that time involving RBS and also read Mr 
and Mrs Ls recollections. 
 
I cant be sure what was discussed between the parties and I acknowledge Mr and 
Mrs L's comments that no conversation about PPI took place. I do need to consider 
though that the policy was added several years after Mr and Mrs L took out their 
mortgage. Its also completely understandable that Mr and Mrs Ls recollections are 
not detailed as the sale took place many years ago. And because of this and 
considering what I know of sales carried out by RBS at that time, I dont think the 
evidence is strong enough for me safely to say Mr and Mrs L were not aware 
of MPPI or that it was an optional feature. So I dont uphold Mr and Mrs L's complaint 
regarding this. On balance, I havent seen enough to conclude otherwise.
 Moving on, I need to consider whether RBS provided advice to Mr and Mrs L or not 
during the sale. If it did, it would have had an additional responsibility to ensure the 
policy was suitable for them. But on looking at the very limited information provided 
and also taking into consideration of what I know of RBS sales during this time, I 
dont think advice was given. RBS still had to ensure that it provided information to 
Mr and Mrs L in a clear, fair and not misleading way however, so that they could 
make an informed decision on whether they wanted the policy. 
 
And based on the information Ive seen, I cant be entirely sure that RBS did provide 
clear information to Mr and Mrs L. That said, I am not sure they would have acted 
differently (that is, not taken out the policy) if they had been properly informed.
 
I say this after considering Mr L's circumstances at the time of sale (as the sole policy 
holder). Mr L says he had 9 months worth of sick pay and £5000 savings (as well as 
shares he could have sold). The MPPI policy would have paid out if Mr L was sick in 
addition to his sick pay and savings. Having the policy in place would mean Mr 
L could use his sick pay and savings to cover other expenses. I dont think Ive seen 
enough that I can reasonably say that he wouldnt have had at least some use for the 
policy. 
 
Mr L was not affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits, 
such for someone that had a pre-existing medical condition. It is unlikely he needed 
better information about the policys exclusions and limitations and if he had received 
clear information on these terms I dont think it would have put him off.
 
Finally, I havent seen enough that would suggest to me that RBS disclosed the costs 
of the policy in a clear way, but even if it did, I dont think Mr and Mrs L would have 
done anything differently for the same reason as I have already given. Ive also seen 
nothing to suggest it was unaffordable. So overall, I think it unlikely Mr and 
Mrs L would have made a different decision about whether to take out PPI if better 
information had been provided.
 
In conclusion, it has been a difficult decision to make due to the lack of information provided 
about this sale, but based on what I have seen, I do not think the policy was mis-sold.
my decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 March 2020.
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman