DRN-3855579
The complaint
Mr L says NewDay Ltd, trading as Fluid, did not make clear the details of its balance transfer 
offer.  
What happened
Mr L opened a credit card with NewDay on 27 August 2022. On 7 September 2022 he tried 
to transfer in a balance from another provider to take advantage of the 0% interest for 9 
months promotion. On 9 September 2022, after discovering he could not transfer in his 
balance, he used the money transfer facility to clear the other balance. He says NewDay 
misrepresented the balance transfer as whilst there were specific card issuer exclusions his 
provider was not listed. And as he had a recent search on his credit file he could not apply 
for another card in the short term so he had to use the more expensive money transfer as a 
workaround. So he feels NewDay must offer the balance transfer terms on his money 
transfer balance.
NewDay disagreed, saying the offer details made it clear that all balance transfers are 
subject to its approval. When Mr L discovered he couldnt complete a balance transfer it was 
his decision to go ahead with the money transfer so NewDay was not at fault. But it refunded 
Mr Ls money transfer fee and first month of interest as a gesture of goodwill (£25.54).
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ls complaint. He said NewDay had made no error by not 
accepting the balance from the other provider, nor in charging interest on the money transfer 
at the rate of 49.94%. The terms of the offer made clear all balance transfers were subject to 
the NewDays approval.
Mr L disagreed with this assessment and asked for an ombudsmans review. He said 
NewDay had misrepresented its balance transfer offer and as he then had a hard search on 
his credit file it would have been impossible to apply for another card, with a similar balance 
transfer offer, quickly enough. So the money transfer was the only option open to him. He 
remains of the view it would not be unreasonable for NewDay to offer the balance transfer 
terms on his money transfer debt, as his card provider was not on the exclusions list.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding Mr Ls complaint. I will explain why.
The balance transfer promotion makes clear all balance transfers are subject to NewDays 
approval. And whilst I understand Mr Ls frustration that the promotion did not list his card 
provider as excluded, I would not expect this to override the key provision NewDay set out  
that it has the right to approve all balance transfer requests. And the headline on the 
promotion states from the majority of UK credit cards. Mr L recently shared the initial advice 
he was given by the regulator. But I am satisfied that NewDays promotion meets the 
relevant guidelines as it in no way leads applicants to believe a balance transfer is 
guaranteed, or without the need to be approved by the lender.
Mr L then opted to complete a money transfer to allow him to settle the balance on his other 
card  but this was wholly his decision and I can see no reason why NewDay should not 
apply the relevant interest and charges as set out in the credit agreement Mr L had signed 
electronically. He has inferred he had no choice as he had recently opened this account  
but I have seen no evidence he explored other cheaper borrowing options that he was 
unable to secure. A single recent search would not typically be a reason to decline a credit 
card or loan application.  When Mr L discovered he could not transfer in his balance, he 
could have exercised his 14-day right to withdraw from the agreement. Rather he opted to 
use the money transfer facility.
I note NewDay refunded Mr Ls money transfer fee and the first months interest as a gesture 
of goodwill. Given the findings I have set out above I am not instructing it to take any further 
action. 
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman