DRN-1700340
The complaint
Mr W complains, through a claims management company (CMC), that Bank of Scotland plc 
trading as Halifax (Halifax) gave him unsuitable investment advice.
What happened
In 2002 Mr W made a lump sum investment of £2,000 into the Halifax ISA Investor. He 
surrendered the investment in 2005 for around £2,148.
In 2019 the CMC complained on Mr W's behalf to Halifax. In summary, they said Mr W 
was invited to his local branch to meet with a financial adviser. He was then advised to make 
the investment. And the fund he was advised to invest in was nearly entirely equity based 
and would be considered at least a medium-high level of risk. They thought such a high level 
of risk was unsuitable for Mr W.
Halifax didn't uphold the complaint, they said Mr W took out the investment under their Direct 
Offer scheme, which meant no financial advice was provided. The ISA was offered to 
customers as part of a savings review which informed them about available products. 
They had simply provided factual information about how it worked and the risks involved. It 
had then been Mr W's decision to proceed. 
The CMC didn't accept this and referred the complaint to this service. But our investigator 
reached the same conclusion as Halifax. She thought there was no evidence to suggest that 
personalised advice was provided. She said Mr W was sent a letter stating that no advice 
had been provided and thought if he believed he had been advised he would have contacted 
Halifax or have cancelled the ISA within the cancellation period. 
The CMC didn't agree with her. In summary, they said they didn't think Mr W would cancel 
the investment just because he had been sent a letter stating it had been sold on a non-
advised basis. If he'd been told by the adviser that it  was a good investment choice, he 
wouldn't feel the need to take any action.
They also thought the application form showed that a lengthy discussion took place where 
the product was recommended. The application form was then pre-printed for Mr W to sign 
and it was clear that he had not simply walked into the bank and completed a form himself. 
Because he was a novice investor it seems unlikely that he would have asked for a particular 
product that he had no understanding of.
The investigator wasn't persuaded to change her opinion. Because there's been no 
agreement, the case has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I'm not going to uphold this complaint. I will now explain why.It's clear that the CMC feels very strongly that Mr W was given advice and incorrectly 
persuaded into investing. I've noted Mr W's recollections of the sale, but I have to take into 
account that the sale took place around 18 years ago and recollections can fade over time.
But, crucially, there is no documentary evidence that supports any advice having been given 
to Mr W. If advice had been given, I would expect to see some evidence of the advice 
process such as a completed fact find and a formal 'reasons why' letter giving the reasons 
why the adviser felt the investment was suitable for Mr W. All the available documentation 
I've seen - the Key Features document, application form and confirmation letter - doesn't 
show that this was a sale conducted with advice.
For instance, the confirmation letter said "No advice has been given on the suitability of this 
investment, as this Trust is designed for investors, like yourself, who are happy to make their 
own informed decisions." And the Key Features document said "If you require advice as to 
the suitability of investing in the UK FTSE 100 Index Tracking Fund you will need to see 
a Financial Adviser, as a Halifax Adviser cannot provide advice on this option."
I don't agree with the CMC that the application form shows that a lengthy discussion took 
place. The details on the first section of the form are all fairly generic personal details. The 
details on the second part of the form are to do with how much money Mr W wanted to put 
into the investment, the type of ISA (maxi or mini) and what percentage of the investment 
would be invested in the selected fund.
I don't think giving details of the difference between a maxi and mini ISA and a description of 
the fund Mr W chose to invest in constitutes giving formal advice. This information was also 
available in the Key Features document. So, taking everything into account, I'm not 
persuaded that Mr W received any formal advice.
So, I'm satisfied this was a non-advised sale and therefore Halifax can't be held accountable 
for the suitability of the investment.
My final decision
For the reasons I've given above. I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2020.
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman