The complaint
Mrs D and Mr H complain that The Co-operative Bank plc trading as Britannia (The Co-op) 
mis-sold them a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1992 when they applied for a joint mortgage.
What happened
They took out a mortgage and PPI policy with The Co-op in 1992. They complained they 
were not told the policy was optional and so they felt pressured to buy it because the adviser 
said they should have it; they didnt need PPI because they had good sick pay benefits and 
secure jobs.
Our adjudicator rejected the complaint. Mrs D and Mr H disagreed with our adjudicators 
view and asked for the matter to be looked at again. They added again that they had 
significant sick pay and stable jobs; Mrs Ds health condition was medically controlled; and 
they could rely on family for support.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ds and Mr Hs complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I know this will be a disappointing result for them, 
so Ill explain why.
They complain they were not told the policy was optional and felt pressured to buy it. 
However, I have seen copies of the 1992 mortgage application which does not mention PPI. 
I have also seen a separate PPI application form which was completed a month after the 
mortgage application was completed. As there was a separate PPI form, I think its 
reasonable to assume that Mrs D and Mr H didnt have to complete it at all. As they had that 
choice, I couldnt see enough evidence that they were pressured to buy the PPI. So I think 
The Co-op probably did make it clear to them that PPI was a separate and optional product 
and they chose to buy it.
The Co-op said the sale was non-advised, so it didnt have to make sure the policy was right 
for them, but it did have to give Mrs D and Mr H enough information for them to make their 
own assessment about whether they should buy PPI.
I looked at their circumstances at the time to see if they might have found a benefit in having 
PPI. Mrs D and Mr H would get sick pay from their employers, so they said they didnt need 
DRN-1571945PPI. But the policy could have paid out for up to 12 months in addition to any sick pay they 
might receive. So I think it was still a potentially useful policy and was of benefit to them.
They told us they could rely on family to make mortgage repayments, but there was no 
guarantee they could still rely on this support at some unknown point in the future. So I think 
the policy was of benefit to them.
I dont know how The Co-op told Mrs D and Mr H about the cost and benefits of the policy, 
but having decided they chose to have it, I think any detailed information about cost and 
benefits was unlikely to have changed their minds about taking it out.
I would also have expected The Co-op to tell Mrs D and Mr H about the things the policy 
didnt cover (the exclusions). But I dont think it's likely that Mrs D and Mr H would have 
wanted to make an insurance claim for something that was excluded. So even if they had 
been given a full list of exclusions, I dont think it would have put them off buying PPI. 
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about the non-
disclosure of commission where PPI was sold.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties. So to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should pay back the amount of commission and profit share that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
But these rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship provisions 
in the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions  which were added to 
the Consumer Credit Act in 2006  came into force on 6 April 2007. The changes made in 
2006 explained that the unfair relationship provisions would only apply to credit agreements 
taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements taken out before then, which were still 
running on 6 April 2008.
The Co-op said Mrs Ds and Mr Hs credit agreement ended before 2008. So based on what 
Ive said above, I dont think the unfair relationship provisions in the Consumer Credit Act, 
the Supreme Court judgment, or the rules and guidance made by the FCA in relation to the 
non-disclosure of commission apply here. So The Co-op doesnt need to refund any of the 
commission Mrs D and Mr H paid for the PPI they had with their mortgage.
Overall, I think the evidence suggests The Co-op probably did make it clear PPI was 
optional, and more information about it wouldnt have changed their minds about taking it 
out. So Im not going to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 July 2020.Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman