DRN-1886559
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy that AmTrust Europe Limited (Amtrust) declined his claim for storm 
damage.
What happened
Mr P had buildings and contents insurance with Amtrust, excluding accidental damage. He 
made a claim for damage to his chimney and fireplace caused by water ingress following a 
storm. Amtrust declined the claim because the report from Mr Ps contractor suggested the 
work was remedial to fix a long-term problem and amounted to betterment.
Mr P complained. He said Amtrust hadnt inspected the damage so it wasnt fair to dismiss 
his contractors report. He said that although there were defects with his chimney, the storm 
had forced the water in, causing damage to the chimney and plaster around the fireplace. 
Amtrust maintained its position, stating that the defects in the chimney allowed the water to 
enter the property. So it didnt think the storm was the main cause of the damage.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought that all evidence pointed towards 
the damage being caused because of defects already present, not as the result of a one-off 
storm event.
Mr P didnt agree. He provided a second report from his contractor which confirmed the 
damage was due to the storm winds blowing rain directly at the chimney, forcing it through 
the brickwork. 
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise Mr P will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold his complaint. Ill explain 
why.
Theres no dispute that there is damage to Mr Ps chimney and fireplace. So, its for me to 
decide whether Amtrust declined his claim for the repairs fairly and in line with his policy.
I understand Mr P is aware of the three elements to consideration of a storm damage claim:
Was there a storm?
Is the damage consistent with that typically caused by a storm?
Was the storm the main cause of the damage, or did it highlight an existing problem?
Both Mr P and Amtrust agree that there was a storm and Im satisfied that the weather 
conditions reported on the day are consistent with a storm. So this is not disputed.
Water damage caused by rain coming in through the chimney is consistent with damage 
typically caused by a storm. This is not disputed.
However, Amtrust doesnt think that the damage is consistent with the final element  that 
the storm was the main cause of the damage. I agree. But I think the problem lies in the 
understanding of what main cause means.
His contractor confirmed that the chimney had underlying defects, and I dont think Mr P is 
disputing that. As I understand it, he and his contractor are saying that there were underlying 
problems with the chimney, but the storm caused the rain to enter the property which, in 
turn, caused the damage. So Mr P says the storm was the main cause of the damage.
I dont think Amtrust is disputing that the storm caused the rain to enter the property through 
the chimney. The point here is that the policy doesnt cover the damage when all the storm 
has done is highlight an existing problem  the chimney defects in this case. So, if the 
chimney wasnt already defective, its unlikely the storm wouldve forced rain through the 
brickwork and damaged the plaster above Mr Ps fireplace. So the main cause was the 
underlying problem with the chimney.
The policy gives the following definitions:
Insured Event(s) - All loss, damage or legal liability that arises as a result of any single 
incident or occurrence.
And,
g) Wear, Tear and Gradual Deterioration
This insurance does not cover loss or damage resulting from wear, tear or gradually 
operating causes.
In this case, the damage doesnt match the definition of an insured event. Thats because 
the damage was caused following a storm which revealed defects that were already present 
 so its not damage caused only by a single incident.
The damage does match the definition of gradual deterioration. Mr P knew the chimney was 
defective, and it had happened over time, so the resulting storm damage is not covered by 
the policy. 
Ive looked at whether it was fair for Amtrust to decline the claim without having seen the 
damage. Mr P reported right from the start that his chimney had defects; Amtrust saw photos 
of the damage, and the report from Mr Ps contractor confirmed existing defects. Visiting Mr 
Ps home would only have confirmed what he had already told it  that the chimney already 
had underlying problems before the storm. So I dont think its failure to inspect the damage 
had a detrimental effect on the outcome to Mr Ps claim. 
In summary, Im satisfied that it was fair for Amtrust to decline Mr Ps claim for storm 
damage because it wasnt the main cause of the damage.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2020.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman