DRN-1428263
The complaint
T, a limited liability partnership, complains that Revolut Ltd didnt agree to open a business 
account for it and wouldnt explain the reason why.
What happened
T wanted to apply for an account. One of its officers said Revolut was asked for help. But 
that T was just told to submit the online application. It was rejected and when T asked why 
Revolut was unhappy with the answers. T says it was initially told that Revolut didnt support 
its specific business type and set up. The officer thought the problem might be that shed put 
her home address abroad and not where T was located. But Revolut said it was nothing to 
do with the form of T. It asked for clarification about the countries T would be doing business 
in. And even though T offered to block business with any that presented an issue the 
application was still declined. T is also unhappy that Revolut wont delete data provided as 
part of the application and which it considers would stop it being able to apply again.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He explained that we 
provide informal dispute resolution and we arent the regulator. So, we dont have a role in 
saying what processes Revolut should follow. We arent a court and we take account of 
relevant legislation or regulations in deciding what is fair and reasonable. Here Revolut had 
made a commercial decision not to offer an account based on its internal criteria. And he 
didnt think it had acted unfairly.
T didnt agree. The officer said that the resolution given here was ambiguous and partial. T 
had been penalised for asking Revolut questions about its application. This service had 
avoided referring to the legal basis of the complaint and that T had a legal right to get a valid 
reason for the account being declined. T considered Revolut had been discriminatory. And it 
wouldnt delete personal data held about the officers.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This is a complaint by T, a separate legal entity and the potential customer of Revolut. So, I 
am not going to be able to consider the personal position of the officers here.
I agree with our investigator that Revolut made a commercial decision about whether or not 
to offer T an account based on the information it had provided. I appreciate that there may 
have been some issues with the initial information. But in the later online chat between T and 
Revolut Ive seen those were covered and the application referred again for review. 
Revolut has established a set of criteria it uses to determine whether an account will be 
accepted. In my view some of those could be commercially sensitive and if disclosed publicly 
liable to potential misuse. Im satisfied here that Revolut applied its normal application 
process and review. So, Ive no basis to find that it treated T any differently to that of any 
other applicant. And its explanation that T didnt meet its criteria is a sufficient one here.
Effectively the officers consented to T providing their details as part of the application for an 
account. Revolut has explained that it keeps details about applications to comply with 
regulatory requirements. I dont have a basis here to find that that is unreasonable or that 
this information should fairly be deleted. I know our investigator has suggested that the 
officers contact the Information Commissioners Office regarding their concerns about their 
own personal data.
I appreciate that the officers of T will remain disappointed by the outcome. If T doesnt 
accept my decision it remains free to pursue this by legal means subject to any relevant time 
limits. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2020.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman