DRN-3162296
The complaint
Miss Z is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc hasnt refunded her after she fell victim to a 
scam. She feels the bank ought to have done more to protect her.
What happened
Miss Z received a call which when answered played a recorded message. It said the call 
was from HMRC and that Miss Z needed to speak to them urgently as she owed money. 
Miss Z was then put through t someone claiming to work at HMRC. They were in fact a 
scammer.
Miss Z was told she had an outstanding tax bill and had to pay £2,200 immediately. She was 
threatened with the need to appear in court and the prospect of going to jail. The caller went 
on to say that a criminal conviction would mean Miss Z would no longer be able to work in 
the UK.
Miss Z has explained how the caller spoke in a threatening tone and kept asking her lots of 
questions, making her feel under pressure. The caller extracted details form her about her 
account holdings, including her Bank of Scotland account and another account held at a 
different bank.
The scammer told Miss Z shed need to make the payment from her Bank of Scotland 
account and that shed be unable to send the required payment from her other account held 
elsewhere. So Miss Z transferred £600 into her Bank of Scotland account and proceeded to 
make three separate payments (£600, £998.20 and £602) to the two sets of account details 
provided by the scammer.
Miss Z realised something wasnt right when the scammer said shed need to pay a further 
£3,000. She tried to contact the bank but her phone stopped working and so she went to her 
local branch. 
The bank tried to recover the money for Miss Z but it had already been removed from the 
recipient accounts, so nothing could be returned to her.
Bank of Scotland went on to consider its obligations under the Lending Standards Board 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code, of which it is a signatory. The Code 
requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP scams like this in 
all but a limited number of circumstances. Bank of Scotland says one of the exceptions in 
the Code applies, in that it believes Miss Z didnt have a reasonable basis for believing the 
purpose of the payments was legitimate. And so it said Miss Z ought to bear some 
responsibility for his loss.
Bank of Scotland recognised that it could have done more to protect Miss Z on the basis that 
it could have given better warnings by the time Miss Z made the third payment. It felt the 
account activity had become unusual enough to warrant a warning at that stage. The Code 
sets out the requirements for an Effective Warning. And because Bank of Scotland felt it 
hadnt given one it refunded Miss Z 50% of the final payment along with interest calculated 
at 8% simple per year.
Bank of Scotland recognised it ought to have reached that outcome sooner and so also paid 
Miss Z £75 in compensation.
Miss Z was unhappy with the banks answer and felt it ought to have done more. She said 
how convincing the scam was and how much pressure she was put under to act. But as the 
bank didnt change its position she brought the complaint to us.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened and felt the bank had acted fairly 
and reasonably. She noted that the first two payments werent particularly unusual and so 
the bank neednt have done more to question them or to provide any more warnings about 
scams than it did.
She also felt that Miss Z didnt have a reasonable basis for believing the payments were for 
legitimate purposes. So she said that Bank of Scotland had fairly applied that exception to 
reimbursement. In summary, she said:
Miss Z had recently received a tax rebate from HMRC which showed Miss Z had 
recently interacted with it genuinely and that it was improbable shed be contacted 
again so soon after with a demand for payment;
Miss Z had her UK citizenship approved the month before the scam. Shes explained 
to us that part of the process included a through review of her financial status, 
including her tax position with HMRC. So our investigator thought the likelihood of 
something being wrong was very small and it was fair and reasonable to suggest 
Miss Z ought to have picked up on that;
Miss Z had genuinely been in contact with HMRC about both the rebate and her 
citizenship application. Shed also been in contact with the Home Office and Miss Z 
said herself that she knew all her tax affairs were in order. The contact that Miss Z 
received as part of the scam came in a different form to hat shed previously 
experienced;
Miss Z acknowledged having her own government gateway account which showed 
the tax she may or may not owe. She was familiar with this service because of her 
recent citizenship application and rebate. But our investigator noted that Miss Z didnt 
check online for any notification of money being owed. Had the online portal been 
checked, the scam would likely have been revealed; 
The scammer told Miss Z she couldnt use her other bank account to make a 
payment. Our investigator thought this ought to have come across as suspicious as 
theres no reason someone wouldnt be able to use an established account to make 
a legitimate payment;
Miss Z discussed the payment with her mother, and she said she didnt need to make 
the payment. And when her mother tried to make a payment on her behalf it was 
declined. Our investigator found these two points ought to have caused further 
concern about what Miss Z was being told.
Miss Z disagreed with the outcome. Shed said she acted as quickly as she could to report 
the fraud. And she thought the bank ought to have done more, given its knowledge about 
scams. She said it must be the case that other banks have better security systems, given the 
scammer told her not to use her other account. She also felt the bank had done little to 
investigate further or improve its systems as she still receives similar scam calls.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Miss Z further but I wont be upholding her complaint, for broadly the 
same reasons as the investigator. I dont doubt that Miss Z is the innocent victim of a scam here and I do sympathise with her. 
Fraud like this is particularly cruel and I know it can have an impact not only financially but 
also mentally and emotionally. 
Im also aware of the pressure scammers put people under in these kinds of situations, 
driving them to act quickly and perhaps without thinking things through as clearly as they 
otherwise might. But I must consider what the banks obligations are here and whether its 
acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances when declining to refund Miss Zs full loss.
Where a customer has been the victim of a scam it may be appropriate for the bank to 
reimburse the customer, even though payments have been properly authorised. Of particular 
relevance to the question of what is fair and reasonable in this case is the Lending 
Standards Boards voluntary Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code), which 
Bank of Scotland has signed up to.
Under the CRM Code, the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who 
is the victim of an APP scam, like Miss Z. The circumstances where a firm may choose not 
to reimburse are limited and it is for the firm to establish that a customer failed to meet their 
requisite level of care, as set out in the Code.
One of the considerations in establishing a requisite level of care is the question of whether 
the payments were made with the customer having a reasonable basis for believing they 
were for legitimate purposes.
Ive set out in the background of the case the reasons given by our investigator for finding 
Miss Z didnt have a reasonable basis for belief. I wont repeat them all again here. And 
Miss Z hasnt said that any of those background points are inaccurate. 
Ive thought carefully about the impact of those circumstances and Miss Zs genuine 
engagement with HMRC. Having done so, Im satisfied that Miss Z ought to have noticed 
that something wasnt right and questioned the situation that was being presented to her. 
There were some checks that Miss Z could have carried out quickly and that would have 
revealed the scam. And so I dont find the bank has acted unfairly when its concluded 
Miss Z lacked a reasonable basis for belief and applied the exception to reimbursement.
I cant then say Bank of Scotland ought now further compensate Miss Z for her loss.
I have also thought about whether the bank ought to have done more to pick up on the risk 
of financial harm to Miss Z and whether it ought to have done more to warn her of those 
risks. But the first two payments made by Miss Z were not particularly unusual or 
remarkable. And so I dont find it would be fair to say the bank ought to have suspected 
something was wrong. It follows that it neednt have given any more warning than it did.
The bank has already recognised that it ought to have done more by the time the third 
payment was made and that is why its refunded 50% of that loss. The reasonable basis for 
belief exception still applies which is why the remaining 50% hasnt been refunded and I find 
that to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Bank of Scotland did otherwise try to recover the money quickly. But the evidence shows 
that Miss Zs money left the recipient accounts within moments. And so it would never have 
been possible for Bank of Scotland to recover the money.
Finally, Miss Z has said that Bank of Scotlands security systems must be lacking, given she 
was told not to make a payment from her other account. Its not possible for me to make 
such a finding. But had I felt Bank of Scotland ought to have done more to prevent the loss I 
would have said as much here. 
As for what the bank has done since Miss Z reported the scam she fell victim to theres little 
for me to comment on. Banks will continually develop their approach to fraud prevention and 
work with law enforcement and regulators to try and protect consumers further. But, sadly, 
scammers will always continue to operate. And theres nothing the bank can do to prevent scammers from contacting Miss Z directly. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint against bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2022.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman