DRN-3597688
The complaint
Ms C complained that UK Credit Limited irresponsibly provided her with an unaffordable 
loan.
What happened
UK Credit provided Ms C with a loan as follows:
Date Loan 
amountTerm 
(months)Monthly 
repaymentLoan status
September
2015£5,000.00 48 £187.67 PAID
The loan purpose was debt consolidation  in other words, Ms C said she would use the 
loan to repay other debt. 
Ms C said, through a representative, that UK Credit didnt properly check that the loan was 
affordable for her prior to lending or assess signs of her over-indebtedness. She told us that 
taking this loan worsened her already poor financial situation.
When Ms C complained to UK Credit it didnt uphold her complaint.
One of our investigators looked into Ms Cs complaint. He felt this was a complaint we 
should uphold.
UK Credit disagreed with our investigator and asked for a final decision from an 
ombudsman. It mainly said that although it should have done more to find out why Ms C had 
recently missed payments on a couple of her accounts, otherwise Ms Cs credit history gave 
no cause for concern. 
This was a guarantor loan which means that someone else had signed up to pay this loan if 
Ms C failed to make the loan repayments. Before agreeing the loan, UK Credit said it also 
found out information about the guarantors financial situation. It said that Ms C lived in her 
guarantors household, so it had insight into their overall shared financial situation which 
allowed it to be confident it had a good understanding of what Ms C would be able to afford 
after taking its loan for consolidation purposes. 
UK Credit didnt feel that our investigator had seen enough information to say that the loan 
wasnt likely to be affordable for Ms C. It was satisfied that, as long as she used the loan for 
the planned debt consolidation as discussed, it looked sustainably affordable over the loan 
term. And UK Credit felt this was borne out by the fact that Ms C made the loan repayments 
seemingly without difficulty until it was paid. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. This should include 
more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that the borrower can 
sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, a 
proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done.
If proportionate checks were done and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think 
about whether there was any other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. 
For example, if the lender shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money 
problems for a borrower already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a sustainable 
way.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact that the 
total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to make 
repayments for an extended period).
Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether UK Credit did what it needed to 
before agreeing to lend to Ms C and thought carefully about the following key questions:
Did UK Credit complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing 
Ms Cs loan application to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way? If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have 
shown?
Did UK Credit make a fair lending decision?
I've carefully listened to the call recording when UK Credit spoke to Ms C about her financial 
situation and discussed her debt consolidation plans.
UK Credit gathered some information about Ms Cs income and expenses before it agreed 
the loan. As well as speaking to her directly, it carried out an electronic income verification check and it also checked Ms Cs credit file to see her existing monthly credit commitments 
and understand her credit history. 
UK Credit was satisfied that its checks showed it could rely on Ms C receiving her declared 
net pay of around £980 per month. Ms C said her guarantor owned the house they lived in 
and was solely responsible for paying the mortgage. The guarantor also covered all the main 
household expenses such as council tax and utility bills. Ms C said that she paid a 
contribution when and where she could from time to time and UK Credit allowed for her 
paying around £100 towards monthly food bills and housekeeping. 
After speaking to her about the planned debt consolidation and talking through the 
information it saw in the credit report it obtained, UK Credit made allowance for Ms C still 
needing to pay her remaining credit commitments after using the loan to repay other debt. It 
worked out that, even after paying for its loan on top of this, Ms C should still have more than 
£200 spare cash left over each month. On this basis, UK Credit concluded that the monthly 
repayments for its loan were affordable for Ms C.
I think that UK Credits income and expenditure calculation was broadly fair and reasonable - 
and on these figures alone, I can see why it concluded that the loan looked potentially 
affordable for Ms C. 
UK Credit still needed to think about the bigger picture. And amongst other things, it saw 
from its own credit checks that there were some recent arrears shown on Ms Cs credit file. 
But it isnt unusual for applicants for this type of high cost loan to have a credit history 
showing other borrowing or an impaired credit record  and these things wouldnt 
necessarily be reasons to prompt a responsible lender to decline a loan application if the 
loan otherwise looked affordable- as it did here. The credit checks UK Credit obtained didnt 
show that Ms C was affected by bankruptcy and there was no record of any county court 
judgement. Her recent arrears on two accounts were concerning  but not enough in my 
view to have put off a responsible lender from providing this loan. 
Bearing in mind that this loan was mainly intended for debt consolidation, I think UK Credit 
was reasonably entitled to take a view that this suggested Ms C was borrowing specifically 
to help her manage her finances more responsibly. 
I think UK Credit took some trouble to ensure that it understood exactly what the impact of 
debt consolidation would be in terms of affordability. 
And I've taken into account that UK Credit warned Ms C that the loan would only be 
affordable if she used it as planned to pay the debts she had identified and discussed with 
UK Credit at some length. I dont think it was unreasonable for UK Credit to accept at face 
value what Ms C said or that it had any reason to think that Ms C wouldnt use the loan as 
discussed.
I've taken into account that even after using the loan for the planned debt consolidation Ms C 
still faced having to pay at least a third of her pay just on servicing debt. That is a large 
portion of her pay and, in other circumstances, I might think it was unlikely that a borrower 
could sustain that level of repayment over a four year loan term. 
But this isnt a particular concern I have in Ms Cs circumstances. I say this because she 
lived effectively free of charge in her guarantors household paying a financial contribution 
only as and when she could afford to. I think its also worth keeping in mind that Ms C received some additional income every 
month. This included payments based on her circumstances and was specifically intended to 
help her meet other costs  not repay additional debt. And UK Credit (fairly in my view) just 
included her pay when assessing affordability. But I think this extra money did allow UK 
Credit reasonably to take a view that it enabled Ms C to have some flexibility in her personal 
finances as it meant she wasnt solely dependent on relying on her pay. And it provided 
some additional reassurance to the lender that the loan shouldve been affordable for her.    
For all these reasons, I dont think the information UK Credit saw was enough in my view 
to warrant refusing her loan application. But given the loan term and amount, and bearing 
in mind that with the monthly repayments Ms C would need to make towards this loan on 
top of her other credit, she would still have to pay a significant proportion of her 
disposable income towards servicing debt, I think UK Credit ought to have had concerns 
about Ms Cs finances. UK Credit has agreed it should have enquired further into the 
arrears it saw on two of Ms Cs accounts. 
Like our investigator, I think UK Credit shouldve been alerted to the need for more in-
depth checking to ensure it had a proper understanding of her finances. 
But thats not a reason for me to uphold the complaint if I cant also point to information that 
UK Credit shouldve found out showing that the loan wasnt affordable for Ms C. 
Our investigator asked Ms C if she could send us bank statements to help me better 
understand her overall financial situation when she took out this loan. Ms C was unable to 
provide those statements.
This means that as Ive not been able to see what better checks would have shown 
UK Credit, on this occasion I havent been able to draw any conclusions about this, other 
than I cant fairly and reasonably say that the loan was unaffordable for Ms C. She couldve 
saved on credit card interest and cleared in full the two accounts showing arrears and the 
loan was enough for her to repay money owed to her guarantor and help out a family 
member with an outstanding bill. 
From listening to the phone call, being able to do all this very much reflected Ms Cs wishes 
and I think, on balance, the debt consolidation could have been helpful. 
And I havent seen enough to make me think that UK Credit acted towards Ms C in any other 
way that wasnt fair and reasonable. 
I appreciate this is a disappointing outcome for Ms C but hope setting out the reasons as Ive 
done will help explain how Ive reached my conclusions.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Through her representative, Ms C told me she accepts my provisional decision and 
UK Credit said it has nothing further to add so I think its reasonable for me to proceed with 
my review of this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint.
Id like to thank the parties for all the information that has been provided about this matter 
and Ms C for letting me know that she accepts what I've said in my provisional decision. 
Given that Ive not received any further evidence or comment that changes my mind about 
this complaint, I confirm the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman