DRN-4076412
The complaint
Miss G complains that Monzo Bank Ltd closed her bank account without notice or 
explanation.
What happened
Miss G had an account with Monzo that opened in April 2020. On 30 May 2022, Monzo froze 
Miss Gs account. Following a review, it decided to close Miss Gs account with immediate 
effect.
Dissatisfied, Miss G complained to Monzo and then referred the complaint to us.
Our investigator looked at the complaint, but didnt think it should be upheld. Miss G didnt 
agree. The complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Financial businesses, like Monzo, are subject to a number of legal and regulatory 
requirements. These mean that they may need to review accounts at any time  and doesnt 
need to give reasons.
The terms and conditions that applied to Miss Gs account also said that Monzo could close 
accounts by giving Miss G at least two months notice, and in some cases immediately.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that Monzo was acting in line with its legal and 
regulatory obligations when it froze and reviewed Miss Gs account. And Im satisfied it was 
acting in line with the terms and conditions when it closed the account immediately.
I appreciate that Miss G would like to know more. But where Monzo closes an account, it 
doesnt need to give Miss G reasons, and nor would it be appropriate for me to tell Monzo to 
give her these reasons.
Id expect Monzo to complete any review in a timely manner. Here Monzo froze the account 
on 30 May 2022, and returned the remaining balance to Miss Gs nominated account on 31 
May 2022. Im satisfied Monzo acted without undue delay.
Finally, I acknowledge what Miss G said about the impact this all had on her. She says that 
because she lost access to her account she fell behind on her payments towards utilities, 
bills, and council tax. I have every sympathy for Miss G and dont doubt shes had a difficult 
time. But as Ive concluded that Monzo was acting reasonably and in line with the terms and 
conditions in closing her account, this isnt something I can tell Monzo to pay compensation 
for.
I understand that 20p remains in the account. Miss G can contact Monzo to arrange for that 
to be paid to her should she want to.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 May 2023.
 
Rebecca Hardman
Ombudsman