DRN-3992826
The complaint
Miss M complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited trading as Moneybarn irresponsibly granted 
her a conditional sale agreement she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
At end November 2019, Miss M signed an agreement to acquire a used car financed by a 
conditional sale agreement from Moneybarn. Miss M paid a deposit of around £595 and was 
required to make 44 monthly repayments of around £174. The total repayable under the 
agreement was around £8,269.
Miss M says that Moneybarn didnt complete adequate affordability checks. She says if it 
had, it would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Moneybarn didnt agree. It said 
that it carried out a thorough assessment which included a full credit check and verifying 
Miss Ms income with a credit reference agency. It assessed her expenses based on 
statistical data and said based on its checks the agreement was affordable.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought Moneybarn didnt 
act unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
Miss M didnt agree and said that Moneybarn shouldnt have provide the finance given the 
level of her other debts at the time. She noted that she had a previous agreement to finance 
a car from Moneybarn which following contact with the Financial Ombudsman Service she 
had been able to return.
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Moneybarn will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
Miss M has noted a previous complaint she had upheld. I have noted this but I assess each 
complaint based on its individual merits and my decision is based on what I consider fair and 
reasonable given the unique circumstances of the complaint. 
Moneybarn has said its credit check showed that Miss M did have defaulted accounts, the 
most recent being three months prior to the application but no county court judgements, or 
insolvency records. It noted Miss Ms level of borrowing and monthly repayments. I havent 
seen a copy of the credit report Moneybarn received at the time and so Ive considered the 
information Moneybarn provided alongside the copy of the credit file supplied by Miss M. 
Although Miss Ms credit report is more recent, I think this still gives a good indication of 
what Moneybarn would likely have seen. At the time of the application, it shows that Miss M 
had a number of historic defaults from 2015 and 2016 and a default from three months prior 
to her lending application (as noted by Moneybarn). I think this ought to have indicated that 
Miss M was likely to be struggling financially. It therefore would have been proportionate for 
Moneybarn to have got a more thorough understanding of Miss Ms financial circumstances 
before lending.
Moneybarn noted Miss Ms monthly income as £1,344. It has explained that it verified this 
income through a credit reference agency check. Moneybarn says it calculated Miss Ms 
expenditure using statistical data. The regulator has said firms can estimate expenditure 
unless it knows or there are indicators to suggest an estimate is unlikely to be accurate. The 
credit check Moneybarn completed showed that Miss M was likely to be struggling 
financially. In those circumstances I think it would have been reasonable and proportionate 
to have understood Miss Ms specific financial circumstances, rather than relying on an 
estimate for her expenses, and to have verified her income.  
At the time Miss Ms income was recorded as £1,344 however having looked through her 
bank statements these show an income of over £1,600 when her benefits (excluding housing 
benefit) are included and around £2,000 if housing benefit is included.
I cant be certain what Miss M would have told Moneybarn had it asked about her regular 
expenditure. I dont think Moneybarn needed to request bank statements, but in the absence 
of anything else, Ive placed significant weight on the information contained in Miss Ms 
statements as an indication of what would most likely have been disclosed. 
Ive reviewed three months of bank statements prior to the application. These show that 
Miss Ms regular committed monthly expenditure for costs such as rent, council tax, utilities, 
and insurance payments at the time was around £1,000. Additional to these costs Miss M 
was paying £52 a month towards a debt management plan and was also making payments 
towards another credit facility. While the amounts she paid towards the credit facility varied, 
as our investigator has noted, we have to consider what it is reasonable to take into account 
based on what was likely to have been identified had further checks taken place. In this case 
I think it reasonable that an amount to reflect the average minimum repayment for the credit 
facility is included. After including these amounts, it appears to show the agreement was 
affordable to Miss M. For this reason, Im not persuaded that Moneybarn acted unfairly in 
approving the finance. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 May 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman