DRN-4200372
The complaint
Mr Y complains about the quality of a used car that was supplied through a conditional sale 
agreement with Vauxhall Finance plc (Vauxhall). 
What happened
In November 2021, Mr Y acquired a used car through a conditional sale agreement with 
Vauxhall. 
The car was about five years and four months old and had travelled 53,481 miles when it 
was supplied to Mr Y. The cash price of the car was £7,742. Mr Y paid a deposit of £99, so 
the total amount financed on this agreement was £7,643 payable over 60 monthly 
repayments of £157.
The history of this complaint is well known to both parties, so I dont propose to rehearse it 
here, but in summary, Mr Y experienced issues with the car soon after acquiring it. He 
complained to Vauxhall at the time and ended up bringing the complaint to our service. In 
October 2022, a final decision was reached by one of our ombudsmen which upheld Mr S 
complaint. The final decision included an instruction for Vauxhall to arrange for repairs to be 
carried out to the spark plug/ rocker cover gasket at no cost to Mr Y.
However, Mr Y contacted our service again to inform us that he was still experiencing 
problems with his car which included overheating. Mr Y explained the car also broke down 
and failed to start. Mr Y brought his car to a third-party garage who advised the engine 
needed to be stripped to assess the extent of the damage. 
Mr Y complained to Vauxhall in December 2022 about the issue with the cars engine. In 
February 2023 Vauxhall issued their final response to Mr Ys complaint, which they didnt 
uphold. Vauxhall explained that as the current issues occurred more than six months after 
the car was supplied to Mr Y, the onus was on him to provide evidence that the issues were 
present or developing at the point of supply. They also said that due to the age and mileage 
of the car, they didnt think it was reasonable to expect the car to be of the same standard as 
if it was new. 
Unhappy with their decision, Mr Y brought his complaint to our service for investigation. 
Having reviewed all the information on file, our investigator recommended that Mr Ys 
complaint should not be upheld. Our investigator acknowledged there were faults with the 
car but concluded there was no evidence to show that the issues were present or developing 
at the point of supply. 
Mr Y didnt accept our investigators view. He said the car had been presenting problems 
from the start and doubted the initial repairs were successful. So, he asked that his 
complaint be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
The agreement in this case is a regulated conditional sale agreement. As such, this service 
is able to consider complaints relating to it. Vauxhall is also the supplier of the goods under 
this agreement, and is responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant in this case. It says that under a contract 
to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory, fit for 
purpose and as described. To be considered as satisfactory, the CRA says the goods need 
to meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, considering any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. The CRA also 
explains the durability of goods is part of satisfactory quality. 
So, it seems likely that in a case involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court 
would consider might include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the 
vehicles history. 
My starting point is that Vauxhall supplied Mr Y with a used car that had travelled around 
53,000 miles. With this in mind, I think its fair to say that a reasonable person would expect 
the level of quality to be less than that of a brand-new car with lower mileage; and that there 
may be signs of wear and tear due to its usage. It would also be reasonable to expect the 
car would require some level of maintenance or repair sooner than if it was less road worn.
From the information provided Im persuaded that there was a fault with the car. This is due 
to the email from the third-party garage advising that it was highly likely the engine has 
severe internal damage. Having considered the car has a fault, Ive considered whether it 
was of satisfactory quality at the time of supply. 
Mr Y complains that the engine of his car was faulty when it was supplied to him, and he 
believes that it should have been picked up when the dealership initially looked at his car for 
the issues relating to his initial complaint.
In their final response, Vauxhall confirmed that the dealership identified issues with the car in 
November 2022, around six months after supply. The issues as confirmed by the dealership 
were relating to excess oil, insufficient coolant, a leaking water pump and shock absorbers.  I 
note from an invoice provided by the third-party garage also in November 2022, that the 
mileage was in excess of 59,000 which means Mr Y had travelled around 6,000 additional 
miles since being supplied the car, which in consideration of the timeline could be 
considered as reasonable usage.
I acknowledge the dealership identified some issues with the car, however, Ive seen no 
evidence that they were present at the point of supply. The third-party garage carried out 
repairs as recommended by the dealership in November 2022, to the shock absorbers, water pump, drive belt and rocker cover gasket, (as directed by our ombudsmans decision 
at the time). However, theres no comment or diagnostic relating to the condition of the 
engine which is the current issue.
What I have seen, is an email from the third-party garage suggesting severe damage has 
been caused to the engine. But what it doesnt say is how this was likely to have been 
caused or for how long the issue had been present or developing. 
In addition, I think its unlikely Mr Y would have been able to travel 6,000 miles had the 
engine been at a severely damaged stage at the point it was supplied. 
Vauxhall said they feel its reasonable that Mr Y should prove the issues were present when 
the car was supplied to him. And, Although the CRA doesnt specifically say that faults 
discovered after six months means the onus is on the consumer to prove the issues were 
developing; in the circumstances of this complaint, I think its reasonable to expect Mr Y to 
do so. I say this because hes had continued usage for around six months and had driven it 
around 6,000 miles, which I think is a fair amount of usage for an issue to develop. In 
addition, I think its reasonable to consider that a car with the age and mileage of Mr Ys car, 
is more likely to experience maintenance issues than if it was less road worn or newer.
In his reply to our investigators view, Mr Y said he believed all the issues hes experienced 
with his car since being supplied it, were all connected; and I recognise his strength of 
feeling about this. However, the issue regarding the replacement rocker gasket was already 
addressed by our service, so I wont be revisiting that in my decision; and as explained 
above, as Ive not seen any evidence pointing to the current issues being present when the 
car was supplied to Mr Y, for example in the form of a specialist report or expert commentary 
or advice, Im unable to conclude that the problems with the engine were present or 
developing when the car was supplied to Mr Y.
As Ive concluded that the problems with the cars engine were not present at the point it was 
supplied, I dont require Vauxhall to take any action in respect of this complaint. 
My final decision
Having thought about everything above along with what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances I dont uphold Mr Ys complaint about Vauxhall Finance plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2023.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman