DRN-3498511
The complaint
Mr R complains that Arval UK Limited replaced his alloy wheel without informing him it would 
do so and then charged him for this.
What happened
Mr R entered into a 36 month hire agreement which included a maintenance contract with 
Arval in September 2018. In August 2021 he says the car went in for a valve inspection and 
change but instead of the valve being changed under the maintenance contract he was 
charged £356 for an alloy wheel change. Mr R says that the valve had eroded due to wear 
and tear and the issues with the curbing were nothing to do with the valve leaking. He said a 
previous valve had been changed with no issues. He says this happened while he was still 
hiring the car and he should have been told it was going to happen before the wheel was 
changed rather than being billed after.
Arval says that Mr Rs maintenance contract didnt cover the cost of damage. It says that its 
technical team had confirmed that the alloy wheel was corroded and was causing a leak due 
to curb damage. It said that damaged items were chargeable and the cost for this work was 
below the authorisation limit. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He said that the photographs provided from the 
inspection showed damage to the wheel which he said fell outside of the British Vehicle 
Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA) wear and tear guidelines. He noted Mr Rs 
comments about not being notified of the charge and said that a letter was sent on 1 
September 2021 which provided a breakdown of the damage charges and explained that 
£356 would be collected by direct debit on or immediately after 15 September 2021.
Mr R didnt agree with our investigators view. He reiterated that the charge wasnt applied at 
the end of the agreement but while he was still hiring the car and that he wasnt made aware 
before the wheel was changed that this was going to happen. He said the valves had a 
lifespan of around three years and the leaking valve was due to wear and tear not any 
issues with damage to the wheel and so the valve should have bene replaced under his 
maintenance contract. He says the wheel was replaced unnecessarily.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr R was upset when he received a charge for £356 which he wasnt 
expecting. However, for me to uphold this complaint I would need to be satisfied that Arval 
had done something wrong or applied the charge unfairly.
Mr R entered into a hire agreement for a car. The agreement was for 36 months with a 
monthly rental charge which included an optional maintenance charge. The details in the 
hire agreement say that reasonable costs incurred by the hirer in respect of tyre 
repairs/replacement due to fair wear will be reimbursed subject to certain conditions but that 
the maintenance charge doesnt cover the cost of maintenance cost arising from neglect,
abuse and/or an accident with the vehicle.
In this case Mr R has explained that the car went for an inspection for the valve. He says a 
previous valve issue had been resolved through his maintenance contract. However, the 
alloy wheel was then replaced without him being made aware of the repair. I have looked at 
the photographs provided, and these clearly show the damage to the wheel alloy. I accept 
that this damage would fall outside of the wear and tear guidelines if an inspection was 
undertaken at the end of the lease term. However, Mr Rs complaint is that this repair wasnt 
needed at this time as the hire agreement hadnt ended. I note the agreement would have 
been due to end around a month later based on a 36-month term starting in September 
2018. Given this I have considered whether it was reasonable that the repair took place. 
Mr R has accepted that there was a leak. I note Mr Rs comments that he has been told the 
curb damage wouldnt have affected the valve and that the valve leaking was normal wear 
and tear. However, the Arval technical team have said that the alloy had corroded because 
of the damage caused to the wheel. It said that the valve wasnt faulty but that the corrosion 
meant it wasnt sealing to the alloy and so a new alloy and consequently new valve was 
needed. I understand that Mr R doesnt think this was necessary but given the information 
provided showing the damage to the wheel and the comments about the leak I do not find it 
unreasonable that the repair took place.
I have then considered whether the charge was one that Mr R should have been liable for. In 
this case the damage was due to curbing and as already mentioned I think this falls outside 
of what would be considered normal wear and tear. Given this I think it reasonable that this 
damage was considered as accidental damage and therefore fell outside of the cover 
provided by the maintenance charge.
Mr R has said that he wasnt made aware of the repair before it took place and he should 
have been notified. Arval has said that the repair took place as it was needed and that it 
wasnt required to gain authorisation from Mr R before doing this. While I understand why 
Mr R is upset that he was charged for the new wheel as I do not find that I can say Arval was 
wrong to carry out this repair and I have nothing to show it was required to get this 
authorised before taking the action it did, I do not find I can uphold this complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman