DRN-1565592
 
The complaint
Ms H is unhappy with how U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has handled a claim made under her 
car insurance policy.
What happened
In September 2019 a tree branch fell and caused damage to Ms Hs car, and a claim was 
made to UKI. Repairs were carried out and UKI contacted the third party they believed was 
responsible for the tree and their insurer a number of times to accept liability. 
Ms H was unhappy with the amount of time the claim was taking and felt UKI werent 
chasing liability frequently enough. She was also unhappy that the claim was recorded as 
fault whilst it was outstanding, and that this had meant her no-claims discount (NCD) had 
been reduced at renewal. So she complained to UKI.
UKI didnt uphold the complaint. They felt theyd chased the third party proactively and said it 
was correct that the NCD was reduced, and the claim recorded as fault, whilst it was still 
ongoing.
As Ms H was unhappy with UKIs response, she approached this service. 
Our investigator looked at the three issues which Ms S said were still in dispute, but he didnt 
uphold the complaint. He felt it was reasonable for the claim to be recorded as fault whilst 
UKI hadnt made a recovery, the no-claims discount being reduced because of this, and he 
also felt UKI had chased the third party a reasonable amount of times.
Ms H didnt agree with our investigator and asked for a decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not upholding the 
complaint and Ill explain why.
Firstly I should note that Ms H raised a number of concerns with UKI, for example repairing 
rather than writing off her car, and the communication throughout this time. And UKI 
addressed these earlier in the claim. 
Our investigator confirmed with Ms H that the only parts which she remains unhappy with, 
and that she wanted this service to look at, were how UKI had chased the third party to 
accept liability, how the claim was recorded and the reduction in her NCD whilst it was 
outstanding. Ill consider each separately below.
UKI chasing the third party for liabilityI understand a tree branch fell on Ms Hs car on 3 September 2019 and this was when she 
reported the claim to UKI. I can see that UKI approached the third party and its insurer as 
follows:
Contact with Third Party Contact with Third Party Insurer
3 September 2019 6 September 2019
5 September 2019 9 October 2019
24 September 2019 11 November 2019
 23 November 2019
 2 December 2019
 4 December 2019
 12 December 2019
 
UKI has contacted the third party and their insurer proactively, and on a number of 
occasions. And whilst the third party and their insurer may have caused delays by not 
responding or accepting liability, I cant hold UKI responsible for this. Whilst the claim was 
taking some time, I understand that UKI started its litigation procedure in an attempt to move 
it forward.
What I would expect UKI to be doing is regularly chasing the third party (and their insurer), 
and attempting to move the claim forward, and thats what theyve been doing. So I dont 
think UKI has done anything wrong chasing liability in the time period outlined above.
How the claim is recorded
Ms H is unhappy the claim has been recorded as a fault claim whilst UKI is chasing liability. 
I can appreciate why Ms H may feel like this, as a tree branch fell and landed on her car.
But whilst its recorded as fault, this doesnt mean Ms H is to blame for the tree branch 
falling on her car. Rather its recorded this way as UKI has been unable to recover costs 
from the third-party insurer (so far). So whilst its noted as fault, this indicates whether UKI 
has made a recovery, rather than who is to blame. As UKI hasnt yet made a recovery, I 
dont think its unreasonable recording it this way.
I also note that in the original renewal documents this was described as You hit third party 
vehicle/object  claim made Sep 19, however this was later changed to say Third party 
vehicle/object hit you  recovery o/s Sep 19. Whilst the description wasnt correct initially, 
after being updated, this is an accurate reflection.
 
 
Ms H made our investigator aware very recently that the she believes the third party has now 
disputed liability. If Ms H is unhappy with how the claim is ultimately settled then she needs to raise this with UKI in the first instance, as the overall claim outcome isnt something which 
Ive considered here. Ive only looked at whether it was reasonable to record it in this way 
whilst is was ongoing.
Reduction in NCD
Before the incident Ms H had five years NCD, which was due to be six at renewal. And 
because of the tree branch falling on her car, and a recovery not yet being made (and it 
consequently being noted as a fault claim as explained above), this has been reduced to 
three years.
Ive looked at the terms of Ms Hs policy. And these say that if you have five or more years 
NCD at the start of the policy year and a claim is made, this will be reduced to three years. 
UKI has explained, in the same way as it has for how the claim has been recorded, that if it 
makes a recovery from the third party, this will be amended and the NCD reinstated. So Im 
unable to say at this stage reducing the NCD is unreasonable or outside of the terms of
Ms Hs policy as UKI hasnt yet made a recovery.
My final decision
It is my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2020.
Callum Milne
Ombudsman