DRN-2115238
The complaint
Miss B says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What Ive decided  and why
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 1998 in one of the banks 
branches. The policy was taken out at the same time as Miss B applied for the credit card. It 
gave her protection against accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here. 
Lloyds cant confirm the exact price of Miss Bs policy but it has given a range (from £0.59 to 
£0.79 per £100 of outstanding balance) and I have used the higher cost for my analysis. 
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Bs complaint because:
Miss B says she was asked to sign the credit card application that the adviser had 
completed for her without being told PPI was being added, or that it was optional. I cant 
know what was discussed in the meeting, but Ive thought carefully about Miss Bs 
comments and looked at the available paperwork from the sale.
I can see PPI was selected on Miss Bs application form, and it was listed in a section 
headed Optional Features. I know Miss B has said the bank completed the form, she just 
signed it. But I think its reasonable to expect she would have read the form carefully before 
signing it. It was an application for credit in her name. And the form made clear the PPI was 
optional.
Overall, I think the balance of evidence shows Lloyds made Miss B aware the PPI was 
optional, and she chose to take it.
 
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Miss B, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable for her 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. Miss B says she was entitled to 
six months sick pay from her employer plus statutory sick pay, but the PPI wouldve paid out 
in addition to this and for up to 12 months. It also gave her up to 12 months redundancy 
cover. Miss B also says her parents would have helped but thats not suitable alternative 
protection  its not guaranteed, and peoples circumstances can change. So, overall, I think 
PPI wouldve been useful to Miss B if she lost her job or was sick and unable to work.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Miss B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But it seems Miss B chose to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted 
this type of cover. She wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations and the policy 
was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely Miss B wouldve 
made a different decision if better information had been provided. On balance I think she 
would still have taken out the policy.
It follows I dont think Miss B has lost out because of any problems with the sale.
My final decision
My decision is I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 December 2020.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman