DRN-3386487
The complaint
Ms B complains that Inter Partner Assistance SA (Inter Partner) gave her incorrect advice 
in relation to a home emergency claim.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties. So, Ive summarised events.
In December 2021, Ms B made a claim on her Inter Partner home emergency policy.
Ms B says she was advised by Inter Partner on several occasions that the policy 
would provide £250 per night of alternative accommodation (AA). Ms B says she 
incurred costs of around £1,600 for 11 nights as a result.
Inter Partner didnt agree to cover these costs and said the policy limit overall was 
£250 for AA. It listened back to the calls it had with her and said it had correctly 
advised her of this. It paid the £250 and offered £100 compensation for the engineer 
not attending her property on the day of the event.
The complaint came to this Service and one of our Investigators looked into things. 
She said the policy limit was £250 for AA. She detailed the calls between Ms B and 
Inter Partner and said its agents couldve been clearer in places, but it had never 
advised her the policy would pay £250 per night. She explained Inter Partner had 
increased its offer to £500 for AA alongside its offer of £100 compensation which she 
felt was fair in the circumstances.
Ms B disagreed and said Inter Partner had multiple opportunities to correct her 
misunderstanding of the policy. And she reiterated her strong feeling that Inter 
Partner had acted unfairly. The Investigator looked again but didnt change her mind.
So, the complaint has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Ms Bs home emergency insurance cover has a policy limit of £250 for AA.
Our Investigator has detailed each of the calls in question, so I wont repeat these 
here. But Ive listened to the calls in question and Im satisfied Inter Partner didnt 
misadvise her about the level of cover that she had. That is to say, the agents never 
told Ms B the policy would pay her £250 per night for AA, and they did tell her the 
policy limit was £250.
The calls do suggest in places Ms B may have a different understanding of the level 
of cover she had. And while I think the agents tried to clarify this, it seems this wasnt 
successful. I accept this matter may have been resolved earlier had the agents 
pushed on this point further  but in the circumstances Im persuaded the attempts 
they made were reasonable.
Inter Partner has offered an additional £250 towards the AA costs following the 
involvement of this Service. And Im satisfied that is a fair and reasonable resolution 
in the circumstances alongside the wider offer of compensation made for service 
issues. I say this as I dont agree Inter Partner mis-advised Ms B, and it has offered 
to settle this matter for a sum above the policy limit. 
My final decision
Inter Partner Assistance SA must pay Ms B:
£500 for the costs incurred related to alternative accommodation (it may deduct any 
sums already paid in this regard);
£100 in compensation for service issues (if not already paid).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman