DRN-2179462
The complaint
Mr Ks unhappy that PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA wont refund a number of payments 
from his account to an online trading platform that he says he didnt make.
What happened
In March 2020, Mr K contacted PayPal to report a series of 17 disputed payments.  The 
payments were all made to the same trading platform between July 2019 and February 
2020. In March 2020, Mr K received a refund of US$880 from the trading platform. But he 
says hes still out of pocket. 
PayPal considered Mr Ks claim, but it decided not to refund him the payments as it thought 
hed made them himself. 
Unhappy with PayPals response, Mr K brought his complaint to our service. Mr K told our 
investigator hed never had any genuine dealings with the trading platform. He also 
confirmed that the trading platform had agreed to refund a small number of the disputed 
payments. But that the majority of the funds still hadnt been paid back to him.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ks complaint was upheld. He thought that the 
disputed transactions were more likely than not authorised by Mr K. 
Our investigator said several things in support of his opinion:
the payments were made from devices and internet protocol (IP) addresses that were 
associated with genuine transactions carried out by Mr K. His report of the disputed 
transactions to PayPal was also made from the same device that most of the 
payments were made from;
all payments were completed after a password or fingerprint/face ID verification 
process was completed. This included a few withdrawals that were made to a third-
party bank account in Mr Ks name. Mr K has confirmed those transactions were 
carried out by him after he got some money back from the trading platform following 
a previous incident; and
theres no explanation how anyone else could have obtained all the things required 
(device, passcode, passwords, fingerprint/facial ID) to make these payments on all 
the separate occasions over many months.
Mr K disagreed with our investigators view. So, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The law relevant to this complaint is the Payment Services Regulations 2017. Theres no 
need for me to go into specific detail here. But in summary they provide when a customer 
will be responsible for transactions which happen on their account. This is typically when the 
transactions have been authorised by the customer. And where theres a dispute about 
whether a customer has authorised transactions or not, the business would be expected to 
provide evidence showing why theyre holding the customer liable.
So, I need to decide, on the basis of the evidence available to me, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened. And whether I think its fair for PayPal to have held Mr K 
responsible for the disputed transactions. Just because I find that something is more likely 
than not to be the case, that doesnt mean that I can be 100% certain of that. So, there is 
always the possibility of there being another explanation. And Mr K may of course disagree 
with me. But for the purposes of reaching my decision, this is the evidential standard I must 
use.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr K but I wont be upholding his complaint, and for substantially the 
same reasons as our investigator. Ill explain why below.
PayPal has provided evidence that the disputed payments were made across two different 
devices (mobile phones). And Im satisfied that these were more likely than not under Mr Ks 
control. PayPal has been able to evidence that the first device (used to make the initial 
payments) had been registered/recognised on Mr Ks account as far back as September 
2018  some time before the disputed transactions started to take place. And it had been 
used on multiple occasions before the first disputed transaction happened. 
When that first device was used for the first few disputed transactions, PayPal has also 
evidenced that both a password and fingerprint verification process were completed in order 
to access the account. 
For the remaining payments, a different device was used. The evidence supports that this 
second device more likely than not also belonged to Mr K. This is because PayPal has 
evidenced some withdrawals made by Mr K (which took place during the same period as the 
disputed transactions), which were actioned on the same device. That device was then also 
used when Mr K reported the disputed transactions to PayPal in March 2020  and also for 
additional communication after then as well. When Mr K has carried out these activities, 
PayPals records show the account was accessed in an identical way to most of the 
remaining disputed transactions (via fingerprint/face ID verification).
As Im satisfied that both devices most likely belong to Mr K. Ive thought about how 
someone other than him could have made the payments. So, another person wouldve 
needed both of Mr Ks devices, his PayPal account access details and also details of his 
bank card (which was registered on the PayPal account minutes before the first disputed 
payment). Mr K has previously told our service that hes never shared his security details 
with anyone  so its not clear how someone else wouldve been able to successfully obtain 
all these things.
Ive also thought about the other information weve been provided. This includes Mr Ks 
comments that hes never had any genuine interaction with the trading platform. But its not 
clear then why Mr K didnt report his concerns to PayPal much sooner  considering that he 
received two separate payments from the same platform in October 2019. And these 
apparently related to previous disputed payments as well. Mr K transferred those funds he 
received from the trading platform into a separate bank account, which also appears to have 
belonged to him. And if the money used for the disputed transactions was taken from his 
bank card to fund his PayPal account, Id have expected him to have noted this earlier and 
raised his concerns with PayPal too.
I know Mr K will be disappointed with my decision. But I hope the reasons Ive set out above 
help to explain why I think its more likely than not that the payments were authorised by him 
 meaning I cant say that PayPal has acted unfairly by not refunding them. My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 April 2021.
 
James Kennard
Ombudsman