DRN-2485005
The complaint
Miss B complains that the charges applied by Startline Motor Finance Limited at the end of
her hire purchase agreement are unfair and shed now like them waived.
What happened
This complaint is being brought by Mr B on behalf of Miss B but for clarity Ive referred in my 
decision to Miss B.
In November 2016 Miss B acquired a used car with the benefit of a hire purchase agreement 
from Startline Motor Finance (SMF). At the time the car was approximately four years old 
and had done 76,000 miles.
Miss B ended the agreement in 2019. Following an independent inspection of the car on its 
return, a significant number of repairs were noted. The value of these repairs was £2,464.50.
SMF reviewed the charges and agreed to reduce them to £812.37 made up as follows;
 £42.50 for soiled headlining
 £33.52 for missing cigar lighter
 £140.25 for scratches to quarter panel R
 £213.12 for missing load security cover
 £129.68 for uneven wear to front tyre L
 £21.25 for misaligned front bumper
 £49.30 for scuffed front bumper
 £140.25 for chips to front bonnet
 £42.50 for soiled upholstery
Miss B objected, saying the cigar lighter, security load cover and front bumper corner werent 
in the car when she acquired it and she didnt feel it was fair for her to be expected to pay for 
their replacement. The damage to the rear quarter panel had also been present in November 
2016 and she wasnt responsible for this and the chips to the bonnet were part of general 
wear and tear for a car of this age. Miss B accepted a new tyre was required but felt the 
charge for a replacement tyre was excessive when compared with tyre prices online.
A first view issued by our service recommended a reduction in the charges from £812.37 to 
£310.05. This was on the basis that there was nothing to show the cigar lighter or security 
load cover had been present at the point of supply so it was unreasonable of SMF to charge 
Miss B for the cost of their replacement and that the inspection report hadnt been sufficiently 
clear about the condition of the near side front tyre to justify its replacement.
SMF said it had already made a significant reduction to take into account the cars age and 
mileage and it didnt agree any further reduction was reasonable.
In a second view issued in September 2019, our investigator considered that, under the 
British Vehicle Rental & Leasing Association (BVRLA) Guidelines, some of the damage 
identified in the inspection was chargeable. This included the damage to the rear quarter 
panel and the scuff to the front bumper as it was probable these had happened after Miss B 
had taken possession of the car. In addition, there was nothing to show the cigar lighter and 
security load cover hadnt been in the car on delivery to Miss B so our investigator couldnt 
agree that it was unreasonable of SMF to charge for these.
However, there wasnt enough evidence to show that the marks to the upholstery, the worn 
tyre and the marks on the bonnet were more than the usual wear and tear for a car of this 
age. Further, although the car had sold in 2019 for less than might have been expected, this 
was due, in part, to the fact SMF hadnt had the repairs carried out and, for that reason, it 
wasnt fair for Miss B to be entirely responsible for the shortfall. Our investigator 
recommended the charges payable be reduced from £812.37 to £436.19.
SMF remained unhappy with this, saying it wasnt relevant as to whether the reported repairs 
were actually carried out as the charges reflected the reduction in the cars value as a result 
of the damage. It said it was clear in the agreement signed by Miss B that the hirer was 
responsible for any repairs required on the vehicles return and this was supported by 
section 100(4) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, that stated:
 if the debtor has contravened an obligation to take reasonable care of the
goodsthe amount arrived at under subsection (1) shall be increased by the sum required
to recompense the creditor for that contravention..
In this case SMF felt Miss B hadnt taken reasonable care of the car and she was liable for 
the cost of the damage. It said it had already reduced this to £812.37 and didnt agree that 
any further reduction was required. 
On 25 November 2020 I issued a provisional decision and made the following points:
Miss B had decided to bring her hire purchase agreement to an end in June 2016 by 
way of voluntary termination. On return an independent inspection of the car was 
carried out that identified a number of repairs. Under the BRLA guidelines, SMF 
considered some were chargeable and had invoiced Miss B for their cost. Miss B 
disagreed and the question therefore was whether the charges billed by SMF were 
correct.
There was limited information on some points but where there was no evidence on 
any particular point, or the evidence available was unclear or disputed, I would make 
my decision on the balance of probabilities, in other words whats more likely than not 
to have happened taking into account the circumstances of the case.
Id reviewed the hire purchase agreement, in particular section 10. Section 10.1.3 
stated that the hirer was required to ensure that, the vehicle was returned in good 
condition and in a state which shows you have complied with your obligations to 
maintain it under the agreement.. Section 10.1.6 went on to say you will pay us 
the cost of repairs needed to put the Vehicle into good repair and condition
The inspection report in this case had been prepared in accordance with the British 
Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA) guidelines. These are the industry 
accepted standards for assessing wear and tear and damage so it was reasonable to 
place considerable weight on its conclusions. However, it was also relevant that, at 
the time of the inspection, the car was 6 years old and had done 105,000 miles. 
It seemed inevitable that an older car with a high mileage was unlikely to be in the 
same general condition as a newer car, or even one with a much lower mileage and, for that reason, I considered the inspection report, and the repairs identified, had to 
be seen in that context. I noted SMF had already made a significant reduction to the 
charges as listed in the inspection report after taking the cars age and mileage into 
account However, that had still left charges of £812.37 to be paid and it was some of 
those that Miss B was objecting to. I dealt with these in turn:
Missing cigar lighter and security load cover
While I could see Miss B didnt agree these had been present at the point of supply, 
they were standard items so if they werent present, Id have expected this to have 
been picked up at the time. There was nothing to show this had been raised in 2016 
and without that, I felt it reasonable for SMF to bill for their replacement.
Damage to rear quarter panel and front bumper
The inspection report showed there was significant damage to these. If that was the 
case in 2016 it seemed probable Miss B would have raised it at that time. She hadnt 
and on balance, it seemed more probable this damage had occurred after that. It was 
clear the damage fell outside of the BVRLA guidelines for wear and tear, and was 
therefore, chargeable. However, as the bumper hadnt been repaired before sale. I 
proposed SMF should deduct the cost of refitting this (£21.23) from the charges.
Replacement tyre
In her submissions Miss B had accepted that a new tyre was required but that she 
felt the cost being charged was excessive. Miss B provided evidence that a good 
quality tyre for this car could be obtained for £65. In the circumstances I didnt 
consider it reasonable for Miss B to have to pay significantly more than a tyre would 
actually cost and recommended the cost for this should be reduced by 50% to £65 
including vat.
Cleaning of the upholstery and headlining
The pictures on the report showed that there was significant staining to the interior 
carpet. While it was fair to expect some marks in a car of this age and mileage, this 
did appear to be outside of what would be reasonable. For that reason, I couldnt say 
SMF was unreasonable tin charging for the cleaning of the carpets. However, the 
staining to the headlining seemed minimal and not outside of what would be 
considered wear and tear and, on that basis, I proposed waiving the £42.50 billed for 
this.
Chips to the bonnet
The BVRLA guidelines state:
Chips of 3mm or less in diameter are acceptable provided they are not rusted. A 
maximum of four chips on any panel, six chips per door edge and eight chips on any 
forward facing panel is permitted. 
The guidelines were precise but the report hadnt made clear how Miss Bs car fell 
outside of them on this and it wasnt clear therefore that this repair was chargeable.
In summary, I proposed that the charges payable by Miss B should be reduced to 
£543.69 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I can see Miss Bs accepted the recommendation in my provisional decision although she 
has asked that any adverse information put on her file by SMF as a result of the time taken 
to resolve this charge should be removed. 
I agree that it would be unreasonable for Miss Bs credit file to be adversely affected by this 
issue, not least as Miss Bs complaint has been upheld in part. However, Im pleased to see 
that SMF have already agreed that the default had been applied incorrectly due to a systems 
error and have confirmed it is now being removed. 
With regard to the original complaint, I explained in my provisional decision why I considered 
that Miss B was not responsible for the cost of some of the repair charges billed by SMF. 
While the inspection report was detailed it had to be taken in context, which was that, at the 
time of its return, Miss Bs car was almost 7 years old and had done 105,000 miles and it 
was only reasonable to expect this would be reflected in the cars overall condition.
The report hadnt made clear why the chips to the bonnet fell outside of BVRLA guidelines or 
why the marks on the headlining wouldnt be considered to be wear and tear. For that 
reason, I didnt consider it fair that Miss B should have to pay these costs. In addition, the 
bumper hadnt been refitted so it was reasonable to deduct the cost for this repair as well. 
And although Miss B accepted that new tyre was needed, shed also provided persuasive 
evidence as to probable cost of a replacement and it was only reasonable to take that into 
account in the amount that she should have to pay.
With regard to the other charges, these did fall outside of the BVRLA guidelines for wear and 
tear and for that reason, I couldnt agree SMF was entitled to bill Miss B for those repairs in 
line with the terms and conditions of the hire purchase agreement.
Putting things right
For the reasons set out above, I consider that Miss B should be responsible for the cost of 
the following items of repair but not for anything else:
Replacement of cigar lighter £33.52
Replacement of security load cover £213.12
Replacement tyre £65.00
Repair of damage to rear quarter panel £140.25
Repair of damage to front bumper £49.30
Soiled upholstery and carpet £42.50
This reduces the charges payable by Miss B from £812.37 to £543.69. In addition, if it hasnt 
already done so SMF must remove any adverse data on Miss Bs credit file relating to this 
agreement and the settlement of the charges.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold Miss Bs complaint in part and direct Startline Motor 
Finance Limited: 
a) to reduce the post return charges billed to Miss B from £812.37 to £543.69 and 
b) to remove any adverse credit data recorded on Miss Bs credit file relating to this 
agreement or the settlement of the charges.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 February 2021.
 
Cerys Jones
Ombudsman