DRN-2926397
The complaint
Ms B complains that Fairmead Insurance Limited unfairly declined a claim and avoided her 
home contents insurance policy.
Ms B is represented in this complaint, but I will refer to Ms B for ease of reading. 
What happened
Ms B contacted a broker, recommended by a friend, to take out a home contents insurance 
policy in 2018. The broker discussed the policy with her over the phone. She was asked 
questions during the call to assess her needs and to obtain the information necessary to 
progress the application. 
The application was accepted, and cover was put in place from October 2018. Two claims 
were made against the policy in the first year. It was renewed in October 2019 for another 
year.
Unfortunately, Ms Bs home was burgled in December 2019. She made a claim to Fairmead 
and it appointed a loss adjustor. The loss adjustor contacted Ms B to discuss her claim and 
produced a report. Within this it said she had mentioned a previously undeclared insurance 
claim she had made in 2016. Ms B explained she had been staying at a friends home in 
France and some items had been stolen. 
Ms B had travel insurance with her bank in place in 2016 and this covered £2,730 toward the 
loss she had incurred. Fairmead explains that the travel insurance claim from 2016, together 
with the two claims made during the policies first year, meant its underwriting criteria 
wouldnt allow it to offer cover at the renewal date in 2019. Because of this Fairmead 
declined the claim, avoided the policy and cancelled the insurance. 
The company says it was a misrepresentation on Ms Bs part not to have declared this claim. 
It refers to the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) in 
support of its decision to avoid the policy and decline Ms Bs claim for her loss from the 
burglary.    
Ms B says her broker told her only UK claims were of relevance when she was asked about 
previous claims. As the claim in question took place in France, her understanding was this 
wasnt relevant to the home insurance application. Fairmead didnt change its decision and 
so Ms B referred her complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into the matter. He decided not to uphold the complaint. He 
says it was Ms Bs responsibility to ensure accurate information was provided to Fairmead 
when the policy was taken out. One of the questions Ms B was asked in her application for 
insurance says:
Full details of all claims in the last 6 years, including travel and legal protection insurance.
Please note date, circumstances and value of claim. If you have taken measures to prevent
further occurrences, please describe them. 
Ms Bs response was recorded as, none meaning, she had made no claims in the past six 
years. Our investigator says Fairmead made its decision to provide cover based on the 
information provided to it. As it was not aware of Ms Bs full claims history until after the 
claim in the second policy year, it acted reasonably in avoiding the policy, returning the 
premiums and declining the claim. 
Ms B disagreed with this outcome. She queried whether Fairmeads underwriting manuals 
had been examined by the investigator to determine if it wouldve declined cover at the 
renewal had the 2016 claim been declared. 
Ms B also disputes that the broker had been acting on her behalf. She says there was a 
close relationship between it and Fairmead. She thought its actions were more reflective of it 
acting as an agent for Fairmead. She says the broker was acquired by another business in 
April 2019, and that Fairmead is part of that group.  
Our investigator provided a second view following Ms Bs comments. He said he was 
satisfied the company had demonstrated its underwriting practice, and this supported its 
stance that cover wouldnt have been provided at the renewal in 2019. 
He said the brokers acquisition didnt take place until the year after Ms B obtained insurance 
with Fairmead. He didnt think itd been shown that the broker was acting as Fairmeads 
agent as opposed to it acting on Ms Bs behalf. 
As the policy was agreed through the broker our investigator explained he couldnt consider 
what happened during the sales process. Ms B would need to raise a separate complaint 
about this. He then maintained his view that Fairmead hadnt done anything wrong. 
Ms B disagreed with his findings and asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. 
The case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold Ms Bs complaint. I appreciate this will be 
disappointing for her, but I will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
Firstly, Ms B says there was a close relationship between Fairmead and her insurance 
broker. Prior to the brokers business being bought in April 2019 she says a closeness must 
have developed between it and Fairmead. I understand from her comments that she thought 
this close relationship existed at the time she applied for insurance in October 2018. 
I understand the point Ms B is making, which is that the broker was acting as an agent for 
Fairmead. But I dont think this has been shown to be the case. Based on the evidence 
provided the sale was conducted by the broker on behalf of Ms B. It provided information to 
Fairmead for it to consider terms for Ms Bs contents insurance policy. My focus is therefore 
on whether Fairmead treated Ms B fairly based on the information it received. 
The actions of the broker are to be reviewed separately and dont form part of my 
considerations here.   
CIDRA is the relevant law in this case. This requires consumers to take reasonable care not 
to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. If a consumer fails to do this, the insurer 
has certain remedies provided the misrepresentation is what CIDRA describes as a 
qualifying misrepresentation. 
For it to be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer must show it wouldve offered the 
policy on different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was considered deliberate, reckless, or careless.
When the policy application was made, Fairmead was provided with information confirming 
Ms B had made no claims in the last six years, including any relating to travel insurance. But 
when Ms B spoke to Fairmeads loss assessor, after the burglary in December 2019, she 
declared a previously undisclosed claim from 2016. She had been staying with a friend in 
France when the loss occurred. Ms B made a claim to her bank under this insurance and 
received a payment circa £2,700 in relation to this loss. 
This claim was unknown to Fairmead in October 2018 when the policy was put in force. Ms 
B made two claims under her policy in the first policy year. When the policy came to renew in 
October 2019, cover was provided, albeit with an increased premium to reflect these claims 
from the previous 12 months. 
When Fairmead became aware a claim had been made in 2016, it explained its underwriting 
criteria meant it wouldnt have provided cover for Ms B at the time of the renewal.
We asked Fairmead for information to support its underwriting process. Ive looked at the 
information it supplied. This shows that in Ms Bs circumstances the matter will have been 
referred to its in-house underwriters for consideration. This is assuming the claim in 2016 
had been made known to it. Based on this information Im satisfied Fairmeads underwriters 
will have declined to offer cover because of the number of claims. 
Information relating to an insurers underwriting criteria is commercially sensitive. So, I cant 
share the information Fairmead provided. But Im satisfied from what it provided that Ms B 
will not have been offered cover had the claim in 2016 been declared.  
The information Fairmead based its decision on when initially agreeing cover in 2018 was 
misrepresented in that it didnt include the claim Ms B had made in 2016. The business 
treated Ms Bs misrepresentation as careless under CIDRA, as opposed to deliberate or 
reckless. The remedy in these circumstances, given that Fairmead confirms it wouldnt have 
offered cover at all, is that the policy is avoided, the claim refused, and premiums refunded. 
This is what happened here. 
I have thought about whether its reasonable to consider the misrepresentation as careless. 
From what I have read I dont think its fair to say it was the result of a deliberate or reckless 
act on Ms Bs behalf. However, Fairmead has shown that had Ms B told it about the 2016 
claim, this wouldve made a difference to its decision to renew the policy in 2019. Having 
considered this, I dont think Ms B acted with reasonable care to ensure she informed 
Fairmead about her previous claims as she was required to do. So, I think Fairmeads 
assessment that this was a careless misrepresentation on Ms Bs part is fair.   In conclusion, although I sympathise with Ms B for the loss she has incurred, I think 
Fairmead has treated her fairly when relying on its policy terms, declining the claim and 
avoiding the policy under the CIDRA rules. Premiums have been refunded back to the 
renewal date which I think is fair so, I cant reasonably ask Fairmead to do anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman