DRN-3740935
The complaint
Ms J complains about QIC Europe Limited (QIC) who declined her claim under her home 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Following a named storm, Ms J contact QIC to make a claim for damage to her roof. In order 
to protect her property, a temporary protection was erected. QIC sent a surveyor to assess 
the damage. Following his assessment and report, he concluded that the roof had reached 
the end of its life span and declined cover on the basis of wear and tear. And that the storm 
had merely highlighted the issues of the roof and wasnt the cause of the damage to the roof. 
Ms J complained to QIC. She said that the surveyor failed to carry out a comprehensive 
assessment of the roof and wouldnt go up to inspect the roof (even though there was 
scaffolding erected and a ladder that meant that it was safe to closely inspect the roof). 
Instead the surveyor had asked the roof contractor to take photos. She felt that there was no 
basis on which the surveyor, from his limited inspection of the roof couldve determined that 
on the date of the storm damage that the roof was at the end of its life span.
Ms J also believed that QIC poorly handled the claim as there were avoidable delays. She 
said that QIC had all the evidence it needed to make a decision but delayed making a 
decision until around six weeks after the surveyor had attended, before it sent out a letter to 
decline the claim. 
In its final response, QIC accepted that there had been storm conditions present. But relied 
upon the surveyors report and images that concluded that parts of the roof were rotted, and 
the roof had come to the end of its lifespan. It also relied on the exclusion clauses within the 
policy and considered if there were any other terms within the policy, that could be applied. It 
concluded that there were no other conditions within the policy. So, it maintained that the 
claim would be declined. 
Ms J was given her referral rights and referred her complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators considered the complaint. She thought that QIC had fairly declined the claim 
regarding the external damage to the roof on the basis of wear and tear. But she felt that 
QIC had been unreasonable to decline the internal damage caused as a result of the storm. 
She said that as QIC had accepted that the internal damage was caused by a storm and that 
there was no evidence of any other cause of the damage, QIC ought to reconsider the 
internal damage under the policy terms and conditions and also pay Ms J £100 for the 
delays caused in dealing with the claim. 
Ms J didnt accept the view. She said that the surveyor didnt carry out a thorough 
examination of the roof, due to his failure to inspect it. The surveyor didnt take any photos of 
the roof, Ms Js contractor supplied those to him. She felt that the roof wasnt in a poor 
condition before the storm and provided evidence to show that the flat roof part had been 
constructed in 2015. And at the time the roof was inspected, and some minor repairs were 
carried out. So, she asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
QIC also didnt accept the view. It said that as the damage to the flat roof wasnt due to a 
storm, then the internal water couldnt be covered, as it was a direct cause of the damage to 
the roof. It did accept there were storm conditions. But as Ms J didnt have accidental 
damage cover, the damage couldnt be considered under the policy. It also asked for a 
decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I will partially uphold this complaint. But for much the same reason as our 
investigator, and I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this 
decision.
The main issues of this complaint are whether QIC fairly declined the part of the claim that 
dealt with the flat roof, for the reason of wear and tear.  And whether QIC were reasonable to 
decline to cover the internal damage. 
Dealing with the flat roof, our approach when assessing complaints where storms are said to 
be the cause of the damage, we take into consideration three questions, when determining 
whether an event can be classed as a storm. These are: 
Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main cause of damage? 
If any of the answers to the above questions are no, then an insurer can reasonably decline 
a claim. 
Both parties appear to agree that there were storm conditions around the time of the event. 
So, the first answer to the first question is yes. And this leads to question two, is the damage 
claimed, consistent with damage a storm typically causes. 
As we are not experts in what damage could be caused to the roof during a storm, we would 
look at the reports from experts. Ms J was asked whether she wanted to provide me with any 
further evidence, which couldve included any evidence from an expert that supported her 
position. But nothing further was received. So, the only expert evidence that I have, comes 
from the surveyor who attended, on QICs instruction to assess the damage. 
The report found that there had been gradual deterioration to the edge of the flat roof and 
noted that there was poor workmanship evident on the roof. It said that the flat roof felt had 
come off and was in the garden. And that the roof had detached from the decking. There 
were also photos taken of the roof and what Ive seen was that the edge of the roof was 
rotten, and pieces of the rotten wood were missing. The surveyor explained that in his 
opinion the roof had come to the end of its life span. He concluded that the dominant cause 
of damage to the roof, was due to wear and tear as well as poor workmanship. As wear and 
tear and poor workmanship are specifically excluded from cover, and in the absence of any 
contrary expert evidence from Ms J, I cant agree that QIC were unreasonable to rely on the 
surveyors findings and decline this part of the claim. I have next looked at the internal damage. Both parties agree that there was water ingress, 
cracks in the ceiling, as well as staining on the ceiling and walls. And that the affected areas 
would require redecoration. Having reviewed the surveyors report I note that he concludes 
that there wasnt any pre-existing or ongoing internal defects or issues that werent peril 
related. So, I think that QIC has accepted that the internal damage was due to the storm. But 
it said that as Ms J didnt have cover for accidental damage on her policy, it couldnt cover 
the cost of repairing the internal damage. 
Ive thought carefully about this. As there isnt any suggestion that water had been getting in 
over time, it seems that the damage was as a direct result of the storm. Our approach is that 
where a roof is deemed to be damaged due to wear and tear and there hasnt been any 
previous issues (as confirmed by the surveyor), then the internal damage, provided that the 
cause was a storm, the insurer should cover the costs of the repairs. 
As QIC accept there was a storm and as Ms Js policy covers for storm, and as the surveyor 
confirmed that there was no prior or on-going damage, then Im satisfied that QIC ought to 
have covered the cost of the internal damage repairs. And I find that it unreasonably 
declined to cover those costs. 
Given the delays that appear to have been avoidable. For instance, the delay in reporting the 
declined claim tor Ms J and that Ms J had to chase QIC for updates. I do think that it should 
recognise the impact of this and the impact of unfairly declining the internal damage repair 
costs on Ms J. And in the circumstances, I think its fair and reasonable for QIC to pay 
compensation of £200, for the trouble and upset caused. 
Putting things right
Whilst I understand that Ms J may be disappointed with this outcome, I do think that this is 
fair and reasonable outcome in the circumstances of this complaint. And I think that QIC 
Europe Limited should put matters right, as I direct below. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I partially uphold Ms Js complaint. 
To put matters right, QIC Europe Limited to:
Cover the repair costs of the internal damage caused by the storm.
Pay Ms J £200 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
QIC Europe Limited must pay the amount within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Ms J 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the amount 
from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
If QIC Europe Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Ms J how much its taken off. It should also give 
Ms J a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or reject my decision before 15 November 2022.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman