DRN-3358533
The complaint
Mr B complains about St. Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc (SJP) as he says their 
admin centre were inactive after his adviser stepped down. 
What happened
Mr Bs financial adviser worked for a firm which was an appointed representative of SJP. 
SJP are responsible for this complaint.
Mr B was going through a divorce which included settling financial assets. Mr B and his ex-
wife both had separate advisers working at the agent firm. In June 2020, the advisers 
decided to step down. 
Mr B withdrew funds from his stocks and shares Individual Savings Account (ISA) at a time 
when he didnt have an appointed adviser. He complains that he had to make this decision 
without advice and had to contact the admin centre a number of times. Hes unhappy 
because he said he wasnt aware of the consequences. 
SJP responded to the complaint but didnt accept they were responsible for any financial 
loss. They offered £250 to recognise the inconvenience Mr B experienced in bringing 
matters to their attention. Mr B remained unhappy and asked our service to investigate. Our 
Investigator issued a view explaining why he felt SJPs offer was fair and reasonable in all of 
the circumstances. Mr B didnt agree. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent commented on everything Mr B has said, but Id like to reassure him that Ive 
looked at everything hes submitted, and further highlighted. If I dont mention a specific 
point, its not because Ive not thought about it, its simply because I dont think I need to 
comment on it to reach the right outcome in this particular case. But I do want to 
acknowledge the time and effort he has put into his complaint. 
Ive reviewed the telephone note provided by SJP from March 2018. The adviser noted Mr 
Bs comments about the conflict of interest. She explained they were able to manage the 
conflict because they had two separate advisers. Also, they hadnt experienced a problem 
previously. So, I can see Mr B did raise his concerns, but they were dealt with sensibly as 
the advice could be provided separately. Mr B continued instructing the adviser and Im 
satisfied he found this acceptable at the time. 
On 1 June 2020 the adviser emailed Mr B. She explained both herself and the other adviser, 
felt their position had become untenable in the circumstances so had decided to step down. 
Ive seen email correspondence from the time which details the ongoing negotiations 
between Mr B and his ex-wife. In these circumstances, Im satisfied the decision to step 
down was made and communicated fairly. 
In the email, the adviser explained shed notified SJP, and the admin centre would be in 
touch. She provided the contact information for the business manager in the event any 
issues arose.  So, Im satisfied Mr B was provided with a contact. 
Mr B has explained the admin centre did not contact him. Instead, he had to contact them on 
many occasions. He says he was told he needed to contact his adviser. At the time, he 
needed funds to secure a property. So, I can appreciate the inconvenience here. 
Mr B went on to withdraw funds from his ISA (around £55,000 on 14 July 2020 and £40,000 
on 1 September 2020) without advice. He said he didnt appreciate the consequences or 
other options available to him. He now has a lump sum from the divorce settlement, and he 
cant invest a significant proportion of this within the ISA. 
However, his adviser had already provided contact details of the business manager and it 
would have been reasonable for Mr B to contact him in light of the issues. I can see when 
the business manager was involved from January 2021, SJP arranged for a new adviser to 
be appointed. Ive seen no evidence Mr B contacted the business manager any sooner. I 
think he could have also contacted his old adviser to resolve the issues with the admin 
centre. These would have been reasonable steps to take if he sought advice on withdrawing 
funds.
 
Mr B has said he didnt contact his old adviser or the business manager because he didnt 
want to continue the conflict of interest. He thought it was only his adviser that was stepping 
down and the other adviser was going to continue to provide advice to his ex-wife. However, 
I think the email is reasonably clear  both advisers are referred to in respect of stepping 
down. And Im not persuaded the recipient details on the email confused things as both Mr B 
and his ex-wife received the email. He might also have sought advice elsewhere. 
Mr B has explained he didnt have time to find an adviser. He needed funds urgently for the 
purchase of a property. However, over a month passed between his adviser stepping down 
and his first withdrawal. So, Im satisfied there was sufficient time. In any event, Mr B 
understood hed need to purchase a property much sooner than June 2020. For example, in 
his email on 13 November 2019 he explained he was looking to purchase a property. So, 
there was ample time to seek advice about raising the funds. 
 
Overall, I agree Mr B has experienced inconvenience. However, I dont accept SJP are 
responsible for any financial loss, or the consequences Mr B faces as a result of having 
withdrawn funds from his ISA. Ultimately, when Mr B withdrew the funds, he did so of his 
own accord and understood he hadnt been advised. If Mr B wanted advice prior to 
withdrawing the funds, I would have expected him to reach out to the business manager who 
could have found him an adviser at SJP or try and obtain advice elsewhere. 
 
Putting things right
SJP have already offered £250 to recognise the inconvenience caused to Mr B in raising the 
complaint. Im also mindful of Mr Bs comments about the inconvenience he experienced 
when contacting SJPs admin centre. And Im satisfied this offer is fair and reasonable in all 
of the circumstances of the complaint.
 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, St. Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc should pay Mr B 
£250.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
Laura Dean
Ombudsman