DRN-3430029
The complaint
Mr C complains about the service he received from The Co-Operative Bank Plc in relation to 
a payment he intended to make from his current account. 
What happened
Mr C called the bank to find out what protections were in place for transactions made online 
 particularly in relation to situations where goods or services were not received. Mr C spoke 
to two different people at the bank  but didnt find either of them helpful. So he complained. 
The Co-Operative said they felt their staff had done their best to help Mr C but as his 
question related to a payment that hadnt yet been made, it was difficult for them to have 
provided any further detail as it would depend on the circumstances. 
Mr C wasnt happy with this response so referred his complaint to our service. An 
Investigator considered what had happened. She said, in summary, she felt the information 
Mr C had been given during the call with the bank was correct and they couldnt be more 
specific in the circumstances of Mr Cs query. 
Mr C didnt accept the Investigators findings. He said he still felt the calls hadnt been 
handled appropriately, the bank hadnt provided sufficient information on the chargeback 
process (which he had discovered separately) and they could do more to reassure 
customers in these circumstances. 
As Mr C didnt agree, the complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Generally, wed expect financial businesses to provide clear and accurate information in 
response to queries from customers. Ive listened to the calls Mr C had with the bank. 
I agree that it seemed the first person Mr C spoke to didnt understand his query and he 
didnt put Mr C through to someone else the first time he asked. However, I dont think this 
person was being intentionally unhelpful and Im satisfied he was trying to help Mr C. Within 
a few minutes though, he had apologised and passed Mr C to someone else, as hed asked, 
so I find that was appropriate in the circumstances.
 
When speaking to the second person, Mr C spent the first few minutes discussing the 
complaint he wanted to raise  which was set up during the conversation. Mr C then went on 
to explain his query  that he wanted to know whether he could cancel a payment made 
online or what he could do to get a refund if items purchased online werent received. The 
second person told Mr C that a payment couldnt be cancelled once it had been authorised 
but, if he didnt receive the goods, he could raise a dispute with the bank and they would 
look into it. The second person explained that this wouldnt guarantee Mr C would receive a 
refund  as it would depends on the circumstances of what had happened.
 
Mr C wasnt happy with this explanation and pressed the second person to provide him with 
full details of the criteria that would be used to decide a dispute. She said she couldnt do 
that as it would depend on the circumstances and so wouldnt be something she could 
explain there and then. I dont think thats unreasonable in the context of Mr Cs query. She 
did try to get some further details from a colleague to help Mr C. And, on the advice of a 
manager, suggested that general information was available on the internet and suggested a 
particular personal finance website Mr C might find helpful on this topic. Again, I dont think 
this was unreasonable given what Mr C was asking.
 
I understand Mr C expected the bank to provide him with far more detailed information. 
However, I dont think The Co-Operative could provide the level of detail Mr C wanted in 
what was at this point a hypothetical situation. Nor would I expect The Co-Operative to 
reassure Mr C that he would be able to get his money if something went wrong, in relation to 
a transaction that hadnt yet taken place. So, in the circumstances, I think the general 
information the bank gave Mr C was appropriate and while I understand his frustration that 
they couldnt provide him with what he wanted, I dont think they had an obligation to do so.
 
Mr C was also unhappy with how his complaint was handled. But, his complaint was logged 
during the call and he was able to speak to a manager about it the next day.
 
Overall, Im satisfied The Co-Operative treated Mr C fairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman