DRN-2437954
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that he wasnt able to access his Santander UK Plc through online banking 
for several weeks.
What happened
On 4 March 2020 Mr H was unable to log into Santanders online banking. And when he 
tried to order new access credentials, Santander flagged that hed entered his date of birth 
incorrectly.
Because Mr H needed to order a statement, he visited a Santander branch on 5 March 2020 
to do this. While he ordered the statement, he felt the branch staff were rude, unhelpful, 
disinterested in him trying to demonstrate to them that their system wasnt working, and only 
interested in ordering his new access credentials. 
After he got home, he phoned Santander to complain about how hed been treated in the 
branch. He was told that new access credentials had been ordered and would be sent to him 
by post. But he wasnt told not to attempt to login to online banking until hed received these.
Mr H continued to try and access online banking using his old details and, because of this, 
when he received the new access credentials they didnt work. He phoned Santander to 
complain, and he was able to order new access credentials directly.
Santander responded to Mr Hs complaints. They didnt uphold his complaint about how hed 
been treated at the branch. But they agreed they shouldve told him not to attempt to logon 
again until the new access credentials had been received. Santander paid Mr H £30 
compensation for this, which he didnt think was enough  he thought £100 would be more 
appropriate. And he asked the Financial Ombudsman Service to investigate.
Our investigator understood that Mr H believed hed entered the correct details to access his 
account through online banking, but Santanders systems didnt show this was the case. And 
there were no reported problems with Santanders online banking at the time Mr H couldnt 
access it. She also said that, when Santander asked for a date of birth to order new access 
credentials, this was asked for in the format month-day-year. But Mr H had entered his date 
of birth as day-month-year. Which is why Santander had said his date of birth was wrong.
The investigator also said that the testimony offered by the branch staff differed to how Mr H 
remembered the encounter. And Mr H was able to obtain the statement he needed and 
order new access credentials. So she didnt think the branch staff had acted unreasonably. 
But the investigator said Santander had made a mistake by not telling Mr H not to attempt to 
logon before he received the new access credentials. And this delayed the period Mr H was 
without online access to his account. She also thought the £30 Santander had offered to 
compensate Mr H for this was fair. And she didnt think they needed to offer more.
Mr H didnt agree with the investigator. And hes asked for an ombudsman to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the evidence I agree with the investigators findings on this complaint for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
Mr H attempted to access his online banking on 4 March 2020 and was unable to. While he 
believes that he entered the correct details, Santander have said he entered the requested 
password incorrectly on three consecutive occasions. And this locked him out of his account. 
Santander have provided a log showing Mr H attempted to logon to online banking on 4 
March 2020, and this confirms the time and date of each attempt. It also shows the 
subsequent times and dates Mr H unsuccessfully attempted to logon. However, because the 
basic facts that Mr H was unsuccessful when attempting to logon to online banking arent 
disputed, Ive not relied on this log when reaching my decision.
When Mr H phoned Santander to complain on 5 March 2020, the complaint handler 
investigated why he couldnt access online banking. And in a call with the access team, the 
complaint handler was told that the password Mr H was using (an alphanumeric password 
containing both letters and numbers) wasnt needed to the access online banking from the 
screen Mr H was using  he only needed to enter his personal ID and security numbers.
Ive also seen a screenshot of Mr Hs attempt to reset his password on 4 March 2020. He 
was asked to enter his User ID and date of birth. Under the date of birth box Santander 
stated e.g. 10/23/1980 which showed they wanted the format month-day-year. The 
screenshot also shows that, despite this, Mr H entered his date of birth in the format day-
month-year. So, while Mr H had provided his correct date of birth, because he didnt enter it 
in the requested format, Santander were unable to do a password reset.
I appreciate that Santander were asking for the date of birth in a non-UK standard format. 
But, because theyd given a clear example of how they wanted the date entered, I cant say 
theyve done anything wrong by asking for month-day-year rather than day-month-year.
Ive not seen anything to show me there was a problem with Santanders online banking 
system on 4 March 2020. While Mr H was most probably putting in the correct alphanumeric 
password (I dont know Mr Hs password, or exactly what he entered, so I cant say for sure), 
its more likely than not that he was putting in what he thought Santander were asking for  
the alphanumeric password  not what they were actually asking him for  his security 
number. And this is also what happened when he entered his date of birth in the format he 
thought Santander wanted, not the format they were actually asking for.
And by entering the alphanumeric password, instead of the security number, three times, 
this locked his account. And once the account was locked, the old access details wouldnt 
work  new ones would need to be ordered. Based on what Ive seen Im satisfied this is the 
most likely explanation for Mr Hs access problems.
As part of his complaint, Mr H has said that he had to do a 30-mile round trip to visit a 
Santander branch (in the rain) to sort this out and to order his statement. I appreciate this is 
quite a distance to travel to a branch. But Ive looked at the branch locator on Santanders 
website and seen there were a number of other Santander branches nearer to Mr Hs home. So, while having to visit any branch would be inconvenient in the circumstances, I think it 
was Mr Hs decision to visit this particular branch, rather than a nearer one. So I dont think 
the distance of this particular branch from Mr Hs home needs to be considered when 
looking at what is fair and reasonable compensation.
I appreciate that, when Mr H visited the branch, he thought the staff there were rude and 
disinterested when he tried to show them their system wasnt working. But it wasnt disputed 
that Mr H couldnt access his account through online banking. And the branch staff wouldnt 
know what his access details were. So Mr H trying to demonstrate how he couldnt access a 
locked account, using access credentials the branch staff wouldnt have been aware of, 
would only have shown what was already known  Mr H was locked out of his account. 
I wasnt there when Mr H spoke to the branch staff. But, in a telephone conversation with the 
investigator, Mr H has said he was frustrated that the branch staff wouldnt admit their 
system was wrong or accept any responsibility for their system errors  they were only 
interested in putting things right and resetting his access credentials. Hes also said that he 
had to speak to a second member of staff, because the conversation hed had with the first 
member of staff resulted in them walking away in tears.
The recollections of the conversation provided by the Santander staff are different from Mr 
Hs recollection. But they all agree this was clearly a difficult conversation. Mr H wanted 
Santander to admit to something  a fault with their system  Santander didnt think was the 
case. And he felt it was Santanders role to help him. But, by arranging for new access 
credentials so he could use online banking again, and by providing him with the statement 
he wanted, Im satisfied that Santander were trying to help him.
I also dont think that Santander telling Mr H that him not being able to access his account 
was due to a system fault (and I havent seen anything to show me this was the case) 
wouldve moved things forward. Santander would still have needed to order new access 
credentials to restore online banking access.
But I do agree that, once the new access details were ordered, Santander shouldve told Mr 
H not to attempt to logon until hed received these, because trying to use the old access 
details would only invalidate the new ones. And I dont think it was reasonable for Santander 
to assume Mr H would know this to be the case. So, when Mr H tried to access his account 
online using the old access details, he invalidated the new ones. And this delayed when he 
actually gained online access again.
I appreciate itd be frustrating for Mr H because he couldnt access his account online. But 
he was still able to access banking services at a branch, by phone, or at an ATM. So he 
wasnt completely without access to his account. And I havent seen anything to show me 
that Santander were at fault for Mr H being locked out of internet banking in the first place, 
only for extending the period of the lockout by a few days. 
For these reasons, I think the £30 Santander paid Mr H was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. And I wont be asking them to pay anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint about Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2021.
 Andrew Burford
Ombudsman