DRN-4051048
The complaint
Mrs D complains as trustee of the JN discretionary trust about advice Tait Conisbee 
Seymour Life and Pensions Limited (TCS) gave to her predecessor trustees.
What happened
TCS advised Mrs Ds predecessor trustees about how to invest the JN trusts money. This 
led to some bonds being taken out in 2007.
The bonds were all set up with Mrs Ds mother  JN  as the only life assured. That meant 
that when she died in October 2018 the bonds  three in total at that point  came to an end. 
That in turn created a chargeable event for tax purposes.
The tax owed was initially calculated against the trustees, and paid by them in 2021. But it 
seems that was a mistake. Mrs Ds shown us a tax calculation from 2023 showing the gains 
for the bonds factored into JNs personal income tax return for the year in which she died. 
I understand JNs estate plans to have the tax cost its to pay reimbursed in some way by the 
trustees of the JN trust. Exactly how thatll be done will be a matter for JNs estate, the 
JN trust and HMRC to agree. 
Mrs D complains TCS should have advised the trustees about setting the bonds up with 
more than one life assured. She believes this would have meant there was less tax to pay, 
and would have saved the trust the costs associated with reinvesting the money.
TCS responded to the complaint by explaining the history of their advice. They felt their 
recommendations had met the objectives of JN and her family. And they said the options 
and tax positions had been explained at the time.
Mrs D brought the complaint to us. Ive made a couple of provisional decisions, as the tax 
situation has been adjusted. My most recent provisional decision is the important one now.
In that, I explained that I intended to uphold Mrs Ds complaint. While there was evidence of 
TCS explaining that the bond would come to an end when JN died and tax could be payable, 
there was no evidence they discussed other options with JN or the trustees. I considered it 
likely that if having different lives assured on the bonds had been discussed, the trustees 
would have chosen to have ones that would help the bond to stay invested after JN died.
I also explained how I intended to have TCS put the matter right. I said they should 
reimburse the trust for the tax it could show it had paid as a result of the bonds ending when 
JN died. I also said interest should be paid on that amount, from the point the trustees 
provided proof of what had been paid to the point the reimbursement was made. And I said 
TCS should separately pay the trustees £1,200 to acknowledge the trouble and upset 
caused by this matter. 
Mrs D responded with a screenshot showing some tax paid in 2021. I believe this was being 
put forward as the proof of payment that I mentioned in my provisional decision. However, I 
believe that relates to the incorrect payment that was made when the tax was worked out 
against the trustees. It doesnt seem like it could relate to the accurate tax picture, which 
appears to have been calculated in 2023. 
TCS disagreed with my provisional decision, and provided some further copies of documents 
they considered relevant to the case. They raised points that can be broadly split between 
disagreeing with my intention to uphold the complaint, and disagreeing with the award I 
intended to make to put things right. Ill add to what I wrote last time to show how Ive 
factored those comments into this, my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ds complaints. Ill explain why, and set out how 
this leads me to my remedy for the case. 
As I wrote last time, the notes and the correspondence we have showing the advice TCS 
gave the trustees are extensive. TCS have commented that this doesnt include a full record 
of the advice taken by the trustees when setting up the trust. But Im not directly considering 
that here. Im looking at the advice the trustees received from TCS when setting up 
investments to hold money the trust would receive from JN. 
Ive noted that in TCSs March 2021 complaint response they felt [a]ll of the details for these 
investments were included in the [September 2006] suitability report issued to [the 
trustees] In April 2007 a further meeting took place with the Trustees A similar Suitability 
Report to the one issued in September 2006 explaining in detail why the Investment Bonds 
were recommended was issued to the Trustees.
Ive seen those reports, and notes from the meetings at the time. So Im satisfied Im working 
with a full picture of TCSs investment advice to the trustees. 
I cant see any direct reference to TCS discussing what having more than one life assured 
on these bonds could achieve. 
Looking generally at the type of bond used, it appears there was an option to have more 
than one life assured on them. 
TCS have questioned who I would recommend should have been used as the alternative 
lives assured. That goes beyond the scope of my decision. But typically, younger family 
members could have been added alongside JN, with the expectation they would live longer 
than her. That would allow the bond to remain invested after JN passed away. 
Doing that wouldnt appear to have affected the bonds ability to be invested for growth, or its 
ability to provide an income for JN while she was alive. And it wouldnt have reduced JN or 
the trustees control over the bonds during her lifetime. The life assured doesnt  as far as I 
can see  gain any influence over the decisions about when to encash the bonds or over 
making payments from the trust to its beneficiaries. 
The only difference it appears to make is to increase the flexibility for the trustees when JN 
died. The bonds wouldnt have to end at that point  they could have continued. That 
appears not to conflict with JN and the former trustees objectives. And potentially it would 
have appealed to them at the time if the option had been discussed. So I find the use of more than one life assured wasnt covered in TCSs advice when it 
should have been. Had it been discussed, I find it likely the bonds would have been set up 
with more than one life assured. The trust had beneficiaries who could be expected to outlive 
JN, so having the investments continue after she died  rather than ending and creating a 
chargeable event  would have had its appeal.
That in turn would have meant the bonds didnt have to end when JN died in 2018.
Putting things right
Ive thought about what difference that would make to the position the trust is in now.
The trust has paid for advice to reinvest its money. However, Ive seen an email from 2019 
where TCS wrote to the then trustees and offered to reinvest the money with no charge. 
That was enough to put the trust in the position it would have been if there had been more 
than one life assured on the bonds  that is, still invested in the same bond. So Im not 
directing compensation for the trustees recent advice costs.
Turning to the tax position, the end of the bond created a chargeable event which could have 
been delayed if thered been more than one life assured. It now appears that although the 
trustees paid this at the trustee rate, corrections are being made. The income tax should  
apparently  have been calculated against JNs other income, as she was the settlor of the 
trust and was alive in the tax year that the bond ended.
The new calculation Ive seen shows encashing JNs investments when she died created a 
tax liability of over £77,000 after various reliefs were applied. Three of the investments 
appear to be held by the trusts Mrs D is trustee for. I understand that the tax rules may allow 
JNs estate to claim back the tax costs from the trustees.
Remedying this is complicated by the fact better explanation of the lives assured wouldnt 
guarantee no tax would need to be paid. It would just have helped the trustees try to manage 
the bonds in a way that minimised the tax payable. 
TCS have commented that this is me saying some tax would always have been payable. 
Thats not what Im saying. The issue is I need to consider what could have happened and 
compare that to what did happen. 
Im conscious that the trusts beneficiaries dont appear to have been in a rush to have all of 
the money they were entitled to. They appear to have reinvested the trusts money for 
example, rather than distributing it to the trusts beneficiaries. That tells me significant 
flexibility could have been applied to the timing of encashments, to help reduce the tax bill.
In my provisional decision, I put forward a remedy where TCS would reimburse the trustees 
for any tax cost that arises for the trust because of the trusts bonds ending when JN died. 
TCS have said thats unreasonable, as it means the trust achieved a gain without having to 
pay any tax. 
But Im satisfied that could have been achieved, by effectively choosing when to encash the 
bond and which beneficiary to direct the proceeds to. Use of a discretionary trust coupled 
with the use of more than one life assured could have achieved that. 
TCS have also commented on the errors that seem to have been made in paying the tax to 
date. I appreciate that concern, as work still needs to be done to establish the final position. I 
cant direct or advise the trustees or JNs estate on how to get to that point. But I can 
account for that when directing a timescale for TCS to carry out the remedy here.TCS have said they would like proof from the trustees not just of the amount of tax that 
theyve paid, but also the calculation of that amount. I agree thats reasonable in this case. 
Id expect the trustees  or their accountant  to be able to explain how the tax burden for 
JNs estate has been calculated, and why thats then become an unavoidable expense for 
the trustees. 
Until TCS are provided with that sort of evidence, they wont have to pay the tax 
reimbursement that Im directing. But that shouldnt create an undue burden on the trustees. 
It should be enough for them to show the work of their accountant or confirmations from 
HMRC to satisfy this requirement. 
Last time I said the reimbursement wouldnt include tax already treated as paid on the 
investments. TCS asked for clarification on this. This was a reference to my understanding 
that onshore bonds are treated by HMRC to have already had income tax deducted at the 
20% rate. This cant usually be reclaimed, even where the recipient of the bonds funds 
doesnt have to pay UK income tax. 
As this part of the tax cost couldnt  as far as Im aware  have been avoided, it cant be 
traced back to TCSs omission of information about using more than one life assured. It 
follows this part alone of the tax doesnt need to be factored into this remedy. 
I appreciate that the trust has already paid something to HMRC. But that seems to have 
been an error in their accounting, rather than being caused by a failing by TCS. So TCS 
dont need to try to compensate the trust for the loss of use of that money to date.
But once the corrective action by JNs estate and the trustees has been completed, the trust 
will truly experience a lost opportunity to make gains on the amount of tax paid. To 
acknowledge this, the tax reimbursement paid by TCS should include simple interest at 8%. 
This will need to run from the time TCS is presented with accurate evidence that the trust 
has paid the correct tax amount to either HMRC or JNs estate. TCS have commented that 
theyd like some time without interest being incurred to check the evidence they receive for 
errors. Ive considered this, and will allow a week for TCS to check the figures. After that 
week, interest should begin being calculated and added to the reimbursement. 
That interest will then run until the date TCS send the reimbursement to the trustees. Tax 
may need to be accounted for on this payment. If TCS apply a tax calculation to the interest, 
they should share the details of that with the trustees. 
As well as the financial cost for the estate, there has also been the upset and inconvenience 
caused for Mrs D. Ive decided compensation should be paid by TCS to acknowledge the 
non-financial impact on Mrs D and the trustees.
This matter affects the legacy JN was hoping to leave for her family, making the upset all the 
more disturbing for Mrs D as JNs daughter. The work needed to put things in a suitable 
position has been  and continues to be  complicated and laborious. To fully acknowledge 
that impact, TCS should pay the trustees  via Mrs D  £1,200. 
Thats not a significant amount in terms of the size of the trust. But it reflects our services 
approach to this compensation in cases where the factors mentioned above are present.
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ds complaint about Tait Conisbee Seymour Life and Pensions 
Limited. Tait Conisbee Seymour Life and Pensions Limited should take the following actions to put this matter right:
Reimburse the trustees for the confirmed tax amount theyve had to pay as a result of 
the trusts bonds ending in 2018.
Pay simple interest at 8% on that amount from one week after the trustees provide 
proof of its payment, to the time the reimbursement is sent to the trustees.
Separately, pay the trustees  via Mrs D  £1,200 compensation to acknowledge the 
emotional impact this matter has had on them.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman