The complaint
Mr F complains that Clydesdale Bank plc caused him to go into an unauthorised overdraft 
when he transferred funds from his current account. 
What happened
Mr F had a current account with Clydesdale. He says he transferred £138 to his currency 
account held with another provider on the evening of 7 May 2019. He says the credit was 
showing in his currency account. He said he checked the balance of his Clydesdale account 
on the next morning before making a payment to his father by standing order. He said he 
transferred £375 to his father because the account showed there were enough funds in his 
account.
He said he received a text message on 9 May 2019 from Clydesdale telling him he was now 
in an unauthorised overdraft. He says he thinks this happened because Clydesdale had 
reversed the payment, and paid the money back into his account - after he'd seen it leaving 
his account. He says he wouldn't have transferred as much to his father if he'd known the 
£138 hadn't been debited from his Clydesdale account.
He complained to the bank, and it gave him an overdraft facility whilst it was dealing with his 
complaint.
Clydesdale responded to his complaint in July 2019. In its Final Response Letter, it said the 
requested funds were "set aside" whilst it waited for the retailer to submit the actual 
transaction. It said that retailers can take up to 48 hours to claim the payment once it's been 
authorised. So it removed the "set aside" funds from the account to prevent the withdrawal 
happening twice.
It said that because some retailers take longer than 48 hours it can appear that the customer 
has more money in the account than they thought. It also said that card payments can be 
debited at any time during the day, and up to six months after you make the payment.
One of our investigators looked into his complaint but didn't uphold it. She found no evidence 
the transaction had been reversed, and felt that Clydesdale had acted fairly by waiving the 
overdraft fees. Mr F disagreed and asked for an ombudsman decision.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F says that he transferred more money to his father than he would have, because his 
account was showing he had this amount in credit. The issue I have to consider is 
whether or not it was a mistake by Clydesdale that caused him to be overdrawn. 
DRN-1462625Mr F provided two screenshots: one from his currency account with another provider, 
showing a transfer in made on 6 May 2019; and another from Clydesdale showing the 
money leaving his account on 8 May 2019.
Mr F says that his Clydesdale account showed the money leaving on 6 May 2019. He said 
Clydesdale must have reversed the transfer of funds on 7 May 2019, as he said this was 
why he thought the balance showing was available to him. 
The terms and conditions of Mr F's account say that it can take one to ten days for a card 
transaction to be debited from his account. And Clydesdale has explained how the money is 
"set aside" until the retailer - in this case the currency account provider - processed the 
transaction. This is done to stop the amount of the transaction being removed from the 
account twice.
I've looked at Mr F's statements and these show the amount leaving his account on 8 May 
2019. The screenshots provided by Mr F also confirm that the money was not debited from 
his account until 8 May 2019. So I can't see that Clydesdale has done anything wrong.
I've also considered what I would've expected to have happened if I felt that Clydesdale had 
made a mistake. I would've expected it to alert Mr F that he was overdrawn, and then to 
allow him time to put his account back into credit. It did both of these things - it sent him a 
text message telling him his account was now overdrawn. And in line with the terms and 
conditions, it gave him time to clear the overdraft.
It also refunded the initial unauthorised overdraft fee it charged him, and it allowed him an 
overdraft facility whilst it investigated his complaint so that he wouldn't be charged further 
fees.
And if I had found Clydesdale had done something wrong, I wouldn't have asked it to repay 
the extra £138 withdrawn to Mr F. This is because he's had the use of the money.
I understand this is not the outcome Mr F was hoping for. I know he feels strongly that he 
was presented with conflicting information. But from the information I've seen, it appears to 
me the funds were not debited from his account until 8 May 2019.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I'm not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2020.
Gordon Ramsay
Ombudsman