DRN-4135939
The complaint
Mr C complains about the worry and distress hes been caused by his home insurer,
Fairmead Insurance Limiteds slow progress with his claim for flood damage to his home.
References to Fairmead include its agents.
What happened
I set out the background to the complaint within my provisional decision and also here. 
Mr Cs cellar was flooded after a storm in May 2019. He said Fairmeads slow response 
over a three-year period has meant he has been deprived of its use and due to the claim
remaining open he was unable to insure his home for a period of time. Mr C has described a
number of problems that occurred with his claim, the effect of which was to delay progress.
Fairmead appointed loss adjusters to manage the claim and they appointed contractors to
dry out the cellar, dispose of the contents and make the repairs and redecorate. The boiler
was found to be the cause of the water damage and the repairs began in July 2019 after the
boiler had been repaired.
The contractors turned off the drying equipment in the cellar in September 2019 and were
meant to dispose of the contents. Mr C said they caused confusion by proposing this before
listing and valuing the contents. Mr C then postponed removal due to concerns about covid
infection. The work was completed in July 2019. Mr C said he made many contacts with
Fairmead and its agents to get the repairs and redecoration under way. He said he was
engaged continuously from May 2019 until February 2022 trying to progress the claim.
In February 2021 the loss adjusters told Mr C that he had to pay for tanking and not to do so
would mean the refurbishment couldnt take place. Alternatively he could accept a cash
settlement. Mr C asked for an explanation of the reason for this and why the decision was
arrived at so long after the made the claim. Mr C and advertised the work in March 2021. It
took until March 2022 for Mr C to get a quote and the payment was agreed that month.
Fairmeads agents said it took some while into the claim to know that the walls had remained
damp, and tanking was needed. It said tanking isnt covered by Mr Cs policy. Mr C didnt
accept that access had been gained to determine this and thought it was a lie to cover up a
mistake. He said while checking the work required, he was told the job had been cancelled.
In January 2022 Mr C said the loss adjuster sent an ultimatum that as he hadnt answered
their previous email it would be assumed he had abandoned his claim, and he should
choose an option. Mr C said the loss adjuster was aware he was bereaved he considered
this to be a malicious attack and an abuse of his authority. Mr C told the loss adjuster he
couldnt take an option without knowing the cost.
Mr C brought complaints to Fairmead. He said his cellar was dried by the contractor, but it
didnt remove his contents for months and spoilt papers that had been soaked. He said the
repairer found the cellar was still wet when they arrived to continue the claim work.
In its response to his complaint Fairmead said it had been difficult to deal with the claim for
various reasons. Fairmead paid Mr C £100 compensation. Mr C wasnt satisfied with
Fairmeads response to his complaint and referred it to our service.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She said the flood was caused by
the boiler, which wasnt an insured item. She said the claim was impacted by some factors
that were outside Fairmeads control, such as the covid restrictions and the personal loss
and illness Mr C suffered.
The investigator said Mr C called Fairmead many times for updates. She said its agents
couldnt start the work as the cellar required tanking and this wasnt covered by the policy. 
Mr C agreed a cash settlement, which Fairmead uplifted by 20% in July 2021 and offered
£100 compensation for his inconvenience. She set out a timeline showing gaps in the
communication with Mr C and recommended Fairmead pay £300 further compensation. She
said she had only taken account of events before Fairmeads response of 22 February 2022.
Mr C disagreed with the investigator and said his complaint merited £800 compensation. He
said his boiler wasnt repaired; repairs began when the water in the cellar was drained. Mr C
said he had no health problems until after the review period in May 2022. He said his failure
to respond to an email about which option he wanted to take about his claim in December
2021 and the new year, didnt delay or prevent Fairmeads agents from doing anything.
Mr C said the 20% uplift provided by Fairmead to the cash settlement allowed for inflation
due to the delayed settlement. He said the £100 compensation was offered to him and
declined. He said the responsibility of Fairmead had been minimised by the investigator.
Mr C said the compensation cant be fair as the investigator repeatedly exonerated Fairmead
and reduced the award for fictitious reasons which she knew were untrue, such as a handful
of emails unanswered. He said this bore no relation to the continual mismanagement he had
to cope with for years. He said the compensation doesnt follow our guidance.
Fairmead agreed the compensation recommended by the investigator, but said its offer of
compensation was due to the tanking not being explained properly to Mr C, not about delays
or non-communication, which it didnt consider to be an issue. Fairmead said that Mr C had
been difficult to deal with throughout and hadnt responded for long periods, but it had taken
all steps to try and assist him. The complaint has been referred for me to provide a decision.
My provisional findings and the parties responses
In my provisional findings I said I intended to uphold the complaint.
There are no remaining issues with the claim, but the time it took caused stress to Mr C. He 
has made a separate complaint about the payment of contractors which I havent considered 
here. I have only considered Mr Cs claim on his building insurance not his contents cover. I 
have thought about whether there has been poor service by Fairmead and if so what the fair 
and reasonable compensation should be.
Mr C has described his claim as falling into three phases and provided a lot of detail about
what took place. The last phase runs from the date of Fairmeads final response to his
complaint, and so this can be the subject of a separate complaint if Mr C so wishes. I have
considered events from May 2019 to February 2022.
From the timeline of the claim I could see that there were periods when progress was 
outside of Fairmeads control, including delays resulting from the Covid restrictions, but more 
periods when Fairmead and its agents caused the delays. I thought the investigator had shown there was fault on both sides, but the greater fault lay with Fairmead and its agents. 
The disagreement with Mr C concerns the assessment of his contribution to the delays.
Mr C said the investigator didnt get the facts right and minimised Fairmeads responsibility. 
He said she referred to his contractors although he didnt have any, and to covid restrictions, 
but these didnt prevent Fairmead from acting. He said the investigator inaccurately referred 
to his health as a factor in the delays, but he said he had been in good health throughout the 
period May 2019 to February 2022.
I accepted what Mr C said about not using contractors in the period. But I didnt agree about 
the covid restrictions having no effect on his claim as all major claims were affected by covid 
in this period. And Mr C acknowledged that he delayed the removal of his contents for two 
months because of covid and this may also have affected the time it took him to get a quote 
for the tanking work. I agreed with Mr Cs point that Fairmead delayed the start of the work.
Mr C suffered ill health in May 2022, and I accepted that this was outside of the period of his 
complaint and that the work on his home continued during this time. He was bereaved during 
the claim and was unresponsive to communications for a few weeks.
Mr C said the loss adjusters abused their authority, made a malicious attack and sent him an 
ultimatum, and Fairmead lied to him. He said the loss adjuster made a false excuse for the 
delay in notifying the tanking requirement and its contractor refused to communicate with 
him and threatened to close his file. Fairmead said it tried to assist Mr C, but found him 
difficult to deal with. I thought Mr Cs comments exaggerated communications that had 
become strained but werent out with what I regularly see in similarly tense claim situations.
Fairmead acknowledged that its agents caused delays. I could see occasions when Mr C 
asked for information or an update that wasnt provided promptly, or at all. And he made 
many calls to Fairmeads agents and sent complaint letters for which he received no 
response. There were also a few emails sent to him by Fairmeads agents which he didnt 
respond to and many requests for him to select which option he wanted his claim to follow.
I saw some delays and poor communications by Fairmead, particularly the time taken to 
identify that Mr Cs cellar was still damp, but I could also see Fairmeads point that it tried to 
assist Mr C. I thought this would have been more effective if it had exercised better control of 
its agents and contractors and ensured that they provided information to Mr C. I also saw 
gaps in the communication from Mr C and his delay of the removal of his contents, and in 
obtaining a quote for the tanking work, which took nearly a year, but I thought these were 
outweighed by Fairmeads delayed or non-responses to his requests for updates.
Mr C described the frustration and difficulties hes been caused by the poor service he
received. Overall and in consideration of the available information and timeline, I thought
that Mr C should receive a total of £600 compensation (including the £100 previously offered
by Fairmead) for the impact Fairmeads delays and poor communications had on him, 
particularly the prolonged disruption to his life. I also said that if it hasnt already, Fairmead 
should make the payment for the 20% uplift of Mr Cs costs that it previously offered.
Fairmead said it would accept the provisional decision, but Mr C didnt respond. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having looked again at the issues associated with Mr Cs complaint, and considering the 
lack of substantive response, I see no reason to change the findings that I reached last 
month. I remain of the view that Fairmead is responsible for the greater part of the delays 
and that these were mainly due to its agents failures to progress the claim. 
I also remain of the view that Fairmead and its agents communicated very poorly with Mr C, 
and this caused him uncertainty and unnecessary stress about the repairs and timeline for 
his claim.
Having thought about the impact of the delays and poor communication on Mr C again, I 
remain of the view that the fair outcome would be for Fairmead to pay him a total of £600 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience he has been caused. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above and in my provisional decision the complaint is upheld.
I require Fairmead Insurance Limited to pay Mr C total compensation of £600.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2023.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman