DRN-4435118
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Fs complaint is about how Aviva Insurance Limited considered their travel 
insurance claim, following another Ombudsmans final decision from the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.
Mr and Mrs F say the amount Aviva have paid them doesnt represent the full amount theyre 
claiming for and they want Aviva to pay all of it.
All references to Aviva in this decision include their claims handlers.
What happened
Mr and Mrs F made a claim on their Aviva travel insurance policy which Aviva declined to 
cover. Following that they made a complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Another 
Ombudsman determined that Aviva should settle their claim for medical expenses and 
related costs in line with the remaining policy terms. 
After asking for further information, Aviva considered Mr and Mrs Fs claim but didnt offer to 
cover all of it. They said a number of items fell outside the policy terms and werent covered 
but they did offer Mr and Mrs F £50 in recognition of the fact that their call wasnt returned 
when it should have been and accepted that better service should have been provided in 
respect of this.
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs F complained again to the Financial Ombudsman Service. They said 
Aviva told them they would cover their claim in full. Our investigator considered Mr and Mrs 
Fs complaint and concluded it shouldnt be upheld. She said the items Aviva hadnt agreed 
to cover fell outside the cover available under the policy. Mr and Mrs F dont agree so the 
matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs F say Aviva agreed to cover their claim in full following the previous 
Ombudsmans final decision. Theyve referred to an email which they say supports this. Ive 
considered that email but theres nothing in it that suggests this was the case. Rather the 
email is from Mr and Mrs F and sets out that the Ombudsman has directed their claim be 
settled. Thats not the same thing as Aviva agreeing to cover the entire claim. And having 
reviewed the claim notes, I cant see that Aviva did endorse the entire claim made by Mr and 
Mrs F in advance, such that they were expecting to be paid for this.
Insurance policies are subject to terms and conditions so whilst I understand why Mr and 
Mrs F might have expected their entire claim to be covered following the previous 
Ombudsmans final decision, that decision did make clear that payment be made subject to 
the remaining policy terms and conditions. Im satisfied Aviva applied those here. In 
particular, they excluded the following claims because there was simply no cover available 
for them under the policy:
Maid service because this isnt considered to be a medical cost;
Mr and Mrs Fs childrens meals incurred during the holiday period. These would have 
been paid for by Mr and Mrs F irrespective of Mrs Fs surgery; 
Mr and Mrs Fs loss of earnings as the travel insurance policy doesnt extend to these 
kinds of costs in the circumstances of this particular claim. Thats because the surgery 
was for the removal of a cyst and not for accidental death or permanent disability;
Original flight costs because Aviva paid for Mr and Mrs F to return them home after Mrs 
F had surgery and Mr and Mrs F would always have incurred return flight costs- so they 
havent paid for these twice.
No further claim beyond 10 days of accommodation costs post-surgery. The medical 
advice Aviva received was that Mrs F was fit to return home after that time. The duration 
excludes the time taken for Mr F and Mrs F to notify Aviva of their claim because Aviva 
arent responsible for this period. Aviva have said that had Mr and Mrs F notified Aviva 
promptly of their claim the medical advice would have been that Mrs F was fit to return 
home after 10 days.
Given the nature of the expenses claimed and what the policy terms extend to, Im satisfied 
that the items listed above simply arent covered. I can see that Mr and Mrs F were paid their 
claim for fuel and taxi costs, however so I wont be addressing this point further.
Ive also considered Avivas offer of £50 in respect of the poor service Mr and Mrs F received 
because Aviva didnt return their call when they should have. I think this is a reasonable offer 
in the circumstances. If Mr and Mrs F havent yet received this amount, they should contact 
Aviva directly if they wish to.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint against Aviva 
Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman