DRN-1613911
The complaint
Mr M and Mrs M are unhappy about the service provided by Nationwide Building Society 
(Nationwide).
What happened
In 2017, Mr M and Mrs M met with an adviser recommended by Nationwide as they wanted 
to increase their investments. A recommendation was given to invest £20,000 each into ISAs 
and to switch their current portfolio model. A fee of 2.5% was charged for the advice and 
Mr M and Mrs M also took out an ongoing service (OS) for an additional 0.5% fee per year. 
This provided, amongst other things, a regular review of their assets with a financial adviser, 
access to a personal financial portal (PFP) and a discount on fees if they were to invest 
further.
In October 2018, a new adviser was appointed and an upgraded platform was brought in 
from 2019. In April 2019, Mr M and Mrs M tried to arrange a meeting to review their 
investments. Mr M and Mrs M were told there would be a four month wait due to demand for 
the advisory service.
Mr M and Mrs M complained to Nationwide about this delay. They felt they didnt have 
access to the service they were paying for and thought the ongoing service had been mis-
sold.
Nationwide disagreed, they said Mr M and Mrs M had access to the PFP, they were 
informed about the change to a new platform and new adviser and had continued to receive 
annual investment reports as part of the OS. Nationwide apologised for the delay 
Mr M and Mrs M had encountered in trying to see their adviser and explained that a mailshot 
sent around the time had caused an additional workload on their adviser team.
Mr M and Mrs M were still unhappy.  They felt that they hadnt benefitted from the OS given 
the most important part of it was access to a review from a financial adviser and waiting for 
four months was too long. They cancelled the OS and would like the fees to be refunded.
Our adjudicator considered the complaint. She thought Nationwide hadnt done anything 
wrong in selling the service and in its provision.  But Mr M and Mrs M ought reasonably to 
have been able to expect to have seen their adviser in less than four months from request, 
particularly as this was around the tax year end.  Our adjudicator thought it was fair and 
reasonable for Nationwide to pay £150 in compensation for the inconvenience this delay 
caused.
Nationwide consider that their apology was sufficient and say there were no set timescales 
given for seeing an adviser.
The matter has now come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
No issue has been raised with the general suitability of the investment advice given, save for 
Mr M and Mrs M questioning whether the ongoing service was appropriate for their needs. 
Ive looked at the suitability letter and documents from the time. The ongoing service gave a 
range of additional benefits including an annual review of the investments, an annual 
customer report, 24-hour access to the PFP and information from an investment committee. 
Mr M and Mrs M also had access to a Nationwide financial adviser, at their request.  The 
terms of the agreement said the service would be available should you wish to review 
your investments, implement any changes or want to discuss any aspect of the advice you 
have received. Mr M and Mrs M had the opportunity to review their investments at any time, 
rather than paying a fixed charge of 2.5% for any changes. Ive seen that Mr M and Mrs M 
were also provided with information about the charges for the service. On balance, I am 
satisfied that the service was appropriate for their needs and I think it was something they 
wanted at the time. 
The review service was available from the time the agreement was taken out and Ive seen 
that when the original adviser was replaced, several contact details were provided to 
Mr M and Mrs M for the new adviser. Mr M and Mrs M did not seek to use this part of the 
service until April 2019. Nationwide were able to provide a review, so I cannot fairly say that 
the service was unavailable. The issue is that the review appointment was delayed. Its clear 
that Mr M and Mrs M were disappointed with the timeframe given until an appointment could 
be arranged and Nationwide accept they were experiencing heavy demand at this time. 
Theyve apologised for the delay. On balance, I agree this was an unreasonable delay and I 
accept that Mr M and Mrs M were caused inconvenience by it. It has not been suggested 
that any financial loss arose.
I have also taken into account that other features of the ongoing service were available. 
Annual reports were sent, Mr M and Mrs M had access to the PFP and would have had the 
benefit of receiving a discount in fees on further investment had they chosen to invest further 
at any point. So, I wont be asking Nationwide to refund any of the fees for the OS.
Putting things right
As Nationwide have fallen short on this occasion, I consider that it would be fair and 
reasonable to compensate Mr M and Mrs M for the trouble and upset caused by the delay. In 
my view, £150 is fair and reasonable for the inconvenience this delay caused. 
My final decision
I am upholding this complaint in part. I direct Nationwide Building Society to pay 
Mr M and Mrs M £150.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 February 2021.
 
Sarah Tozzi
Ombudsman