DRN-4258381
The complaint
Mr A complains that esure Insurance Limited (esure) is responsible for mishandling his 
data in connection with a claim on his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr A had a hatchback car first registered in 2016. For the year from mid-January 2023, Mr A 
had a comprehensive policy for the car. The policy also covered his wife as a named driver.
The insurance company responsible for dealing with any claim was esure. Many of Mr As 
complaints concern acts or omissions of a related policy administrator. Insofar as I hold 
esure responsible for such acts or omissions, I may refer to them as esures.
Unfortunately on about 20 February 2023, Mr As vehicle was involved in an accident.
Mr A complained to esure about delay in providing a courtesy car. On 8 March 2023, esure 
said it was sending Mr A £170.00. 
By about late March 2023, Mr A had complained to esure about a data breach leading to an 
unwanted telephone contact.
By a final response dated 24 April 2023, esure apologised for a delay (in referral to the 
claims validation team) and said it was sending Mr A £100.00.
Mr A brought his complaint to us straight away.
Our investigator thought that several of the complaint points Mr A had raised didnt fall within 
our remit of investigation. Subject to that, our investigator recommended that the complaint 
should be upheld in part. 
She thought that esure shouldve provided better service to Mr A. Specifically, esure failed to 
return his calls. Also, esure shouldve kept Mr A updated about the investigation into the data 
breach. The investigator recommended that esure should award Mr A an additional £100.00 
compensation in recognition of the unnecessary inconvenience and upset caused.
Mr A disagreed with the investigators opinion in part. He asked for an ombudsman to review 
the complaint. He says, in summary, that:
£100.00 isn't good enough for the anguish, wasted time and upset he's been caused. 
He'll raise a complaint with the Information Commissioners Office. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Scope of this final decision
The Financial Ombudsman Service is bound by the Financial Conduct Authoritys dispute 
resolution rules. We can only investigate consumer complaints about regulated activities or 
ancillary activities.
Also, the rules require us to operate a two-stage process under which an investigator gives 
an opinion on a complaint and an ombudsman gives a final decision on that complaint.
Our investigator said that we couldnt investigate some of Mr As complaint points which I 
summarise as follows:
payment of £170.00 promised on 8 March not received promptly;
unexplained payment of £200.00 received 31 March 2023;
unexplained payment of £100.00 received 28 April 2023;
delays in responding to his complaint; 
handling of his complaint.
I agree with the investigators reasons for not giving an opinion on those points  that they 
dont arise out of regulated activities. I cannot make any findings on those points in this final 
decision.
Data breach/ Nuisance calls 
I accept that, following the accident, unwanted callers rang Mr A at work on three or four 
occasions in March, April and May 2023. On two on these occasions the caller claimed he 
was from esure.
Im satisfied that  after Mr A complained to esure  esure carried out a reasonable and 
proportionate investigation. 
I accept Mr As statement that esure could see his telephone number when he rang from 
work. However, Im satisfied that esure didnt hold Mr As work phone number on its systems 
and didnt initiate calls to that number. 
Overall, I dont find any evidence that esure was responsible for giving that number to the 
unwanted callers. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct esure to pay Mr A 
compensation for his upset caused by the calls.
Communication by esure
Mr A asked esure to keep him updated about the investigation into the unwanted calls.
I accept that esure failed to call Mr A back in late March 2023. 
Also, in mid- April 2023, esure didnt handle Mr As call as well as it shouldve. So esure 
didnt keep Mr A updated as he had asked. 
Putting things right
The impact on Mr A was that he felt frustrated. On a few occasions, he had to chase esure 
for information. He had to repeat himself to several of esures call-handlers.Ive taken into account that this went on for about a month. Overall, Im satisfied that an 
additional £100.00 is fair and reasonable compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused to Mr A by the shortcomings in esures communication. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct esure Insurance Limited to pay Mr A  in addition to its previous payments - an 
additional £100.00 compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman