DRN-3297110
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) unfairly declined a claim they made under 
their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S had a home insurance policy with QIC that covered them for loss or damage 
caused by the escape of water. In August 2021 they contacted QIC as they noticed water 
coming through the ceiling beneath their shower room. They called a plumber who stripped 
out the shower and shower tray. The plumber thought the main leak had been caused by the 
waste pipe, which had led to wet rot on the boards and joists. QIC sent a surveyor who said 
the damage had been caused by sealant failure around the edge of the shower and wasnt 
as a result of an escape of water. QIC declined the claim as it said Mr and Mrs Ss policy 
didnt cover them for damage caused by sealant or grout failing to work properly. Mr and 
Mrs S werent happy with this response and so brought their complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt think QIC needed to do anything more. He thought it had acted fairly 
and reasonably in declining the claim.
As Mr and Mrs S dont agree, their complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory (as some of it is in this 
complaint), I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities. In other words, what I 
consider most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and wider 
circumstances.
Mr and Mrs Ss policy covers them for damage caused by an escape of water. But it doesnt 
cover them for damage caused by a gradually operating cause over a long period of time. 
And it specifically excludes damage caused by the failure of sealant or grout.
QIC has relied on the report by the surveyor. He took photographs of the damage and 
inspected the area affected. In his view the damage was caused by sealant failure and not 
as a result of an escape of water as reported. Mr and Mrs S disagree. Theyve relied on a 
report prepared by the plumber who first attended who said the main leak was caused by the 
waste pipe in the shower. The plumber said this had caused wet rot on the floorboards and 
joists over time, and the shower tray had dropped, allowing further water ingress. The 
plumber also suggested the plasterboard around the shower tray had absorbed water 
upwards from the floor and caused marking on the timbers. 
Mr and Mrs S have also relied on comments made by QIC when they first attended the 
property a day after the claim. It appears this was a pre-survey risk assessment. Mr and 
Mrs S said the person doing the risk assessment (the risk assessor) commented that 
moisture level readings were significantly higher around the waste pipe area than around 
any other part of the shower area. 
Having very carefully considered all the evidence available to me, including the photographs 
taken by the surveyor and the risk assessor, Im more persuaded by the evidence provided 
by the surveyor. I know that will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs S to hear but let me explain 
why Ive reached that conclusion. 
The surveyors report is detailed and is accompanied by photographs of the affected area. 
He noted the damp rot to the floor timbers with wet areas on the back wall at shower height, 
with visible signs of leakage from the shower tray down the sides on the floor area. He says 
this is consistent with sealant failure around the perimeter of the shower enclosure/tray over 
a long period of time. His comments are supported by the photographs which show the worst 
area of damage at the edge of the shower tray with little or no sign of dampness around the 
waste pipe.  
The plumber has said the main leak was caused by the waste pipe. But thats not what I can 
see from the photographs. Theyve said the marking on the timbers might have been caused 
by the plasterboard around the shower tray absorbing water upwards from the floor. And I 
accept that. But that would also be the case if the leak was due to sealant failure around the 
edge of the shower tray. And it doesnt explain why there is little sign of damp around the 
waste pipe.
Mr and Mrs S have said the damp areas might have dried slightly by the time the surveyor 
attended. I accept that might be the case but Ive also seen photographs taken by the risk 
assessor the day after the claim and those too dont appear to show any dampness around 
the waste pipe but rather around the edges of the shower tray as the surveyor describes. 
While I dont doubt Mr and Mrs Ss recollection of the comments made by the risk assessor 
who attended the day after the claim, I havent seen any evidence to support those 
comments. The only moisture reading Ive seen is in the surveyors report and that says it 
was 87% at the site of the most severe water damage, which was at the edge of the shower 
tray. 
On balance, Im more persuaded by the evidence provided by the surveyor. And so I think it 
was fair and reasonable for QIC to rely on that evidence to decline Mr and Mrs Ss claim on 
the basis that the damage was more likely than not to have been caused by the failure of the 
sealant/grout. That isnt something thats covered under the terms of their home insurance 
policy.
Im sorry to hear about the problems Mr and Mrs S experienced but, for the reasons Ive 
given, I dont think QIC needs to do anything more.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 May 2022.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman