DRN-3387818
The complaint
Mr R, on behalf of the estate of Mrs R, complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) will not 
refund transactions which took place on Mrs Rs account that he says she lost as the result 
of a third-party scam. 
What happened
Unfortunately, Mrs R passed away before this complaint came to our service, so the 
following information is what her son, Mr R, has provided on behalf of her estate. Despite 
numerous attempts, we were unable to get Lloyds to share a business file on this complaint 
 so weve had to go on the information that we have been able to obtain from Mr R. 
Mrs R fell victim to a romance scam, that Mr R said saw her sending approximately 
£200,000 to a third-party scammer between 2015 and her death in 2019. Mr R has provided 
us with copies of Mrs Rs bank statements, highlighting the disputed transactions. I have 
carefully reviewed these, but decided not to list them in full here due to the volume of 
transactions. But I will talk about the transactions in more detail later in this decision. The 
scam payments took place from her Lloyds account, as well as an account held with another 
bank  but I will just be looking at those payments on her Lloyds account in this decision. 
Mrs R was recently bereaved and suffering with the loneliness that came with it, when she 
met an individual through a friend on a social media site. They formed a relationship which 
grew overtime  though they never met in person. The individual became very important to 
Mrs R. They agreed to meet, set up a home together and start a new life. He asked Mrs R 
for money, which she sent, believing that it was for the flight for him to come over, and 
savings for them to get a home together. He continued to request money from Mrs R, and 
over time the requests turned into demands. He even threatened to end the relationship, or 
to share a sensitive photo of Mrs R on social media sites if she didnt send more money. Mr 
R explained this was a cause of great concern for Mrs R - she had lots of family and friends 
on her social media sites and the embarrassment it would have caused her would have been 
immeasurable. Mr R said if the individual had posted the photo as he had threatened, she 
would have felt unable to leave her home and it would have had a significant impact on her 
well-being. 
Mr R said that Lloyds should have done more to assist with Mrs Rs financial wellbeing  she 
had been a loyal customer, and she was vulnerable due to her age and bereavement. He 
thinks they should have noticed that the payments were unusual as they were being made 
frequently, and for large amounts. He explained that Lloyds never contacted Mrs R, or 
intervened in any way, whilst the scam was going on. So, he thinks that they failed his 
mother and should refund the losses to her estate as a result. 
Lloyds reviewed what happened and declined to refund the transactions. They said that the 
payments were authorised by Mrs R, and that they had spoken to her on some occasions 
about the payments and it was clear she wanted the payments to be sent. They said they 
had tried to get the money back by contacting the receiving banks, but that they were 
informed no funds remained in the relevant accounts. 
Mr R wasnt happy with this response, and so asked us to review what had happened. Our 
investigator reviewed what happened and did not recommended that the complaint be 
upheld. He said he was satisfied that Mrs R authorised the payments, albeit as the result of 
a scam. He said that unfortunately he was unable to confirm exactly which payments were 
made as a result of the scam  the disputed payments included multiple different 
beneficiaries and several cash withdrawals. It would be impossible to determine which 
individuals were genuine and whether these cash withdrawals were used for her own 
purposes or went to the scammer. He said that even if he considered all of the payments in 
dispute as scam payments, he still would not be able to recommend that the complaint be 
upheld. This was because: 
The payments would not have been particularly unusual or suspicious in appearance 
to Lloyds considering Mrs Rs normal account activity. He reviewed her account 
statements between 2015 and 2019 and could see that the first few disputed 
payments were relatively small amounts, which over time built a history of making 
international payments so by the time larger payments were made, international 
payments were normal on her account. There was not a dramatic drop in the 
balances over a short period of time  the reduction took place over the years. There 
were no dramatic changes to the operation of the account. It was still being used for 
daily spend and the number of transfers overseas grew over many months. 
We dont know if the bank did try to speak to Mrs R about the payments in relation to 
the risk of fraud scams  Mrs R is unable to tell us, and the bank have not given us 
this information either; 
Even if they did or had tried to speak to her, it seemed unlikely it would have made a 
difference. He was not persuaded that this is a case where Lloyds should have 
refused to put the payments through, contrary to Mrs Rs instructions. We know she 
was blackmailed, so she may have had a cover story ready if the bank had asked 
probing questions. Prior to this she thought she was in a relationship, so was 
motivated to ensure the money made it to the person. 
So in summary, our investigator thought that the payments werent unusual and 
Lloyds had no obligation to further question Mrs R about them  but that even if they 
had, it was unlikely the scam would have been recognized or that the payments 
would have been stopped. 
He also considered the recovery of funds, but as Lloyds hadnt provided a file it was 
difficult to know exactly what they had done. But given the length of time that had 
passed, the fact the accounts were international, and what we see in these kinds of 
cases, it was unlikely they would have had any success in recouping the funds even 
if they acted as soon as they were informed of the scam. 
Mr R didnt agree. He disagreed with the fact our investigator had reached his conclusions 
without Lloyds providing their file. He felt that Lloyds were negligent with his mothers 
money, and that they let her down. He said regardless of whether the payments were 
authorised, they owed her a duty of care to secure her finances she had entrusted them 
with. 
He said that not only was she being scammed of her money, but her account was used for 
money laundering which they failed to pick up and which he said our investigator failed to 
investigate. He said that he raised the complaint not to be reimbursed with all the amounts of 
fraudulent transactions but to highlight that their banking standards needed to be vastly 
improved so that vulnerable pensioners were protected. He said at best he was hoping for a 
goodwill payment, to reimburse him for the cost of her funeral, headstone and for the added 
mental stress this had caused him as a bereaved son of a lovely, vulnerable lady who was 
left with virtually nothing. 
Our investigator explained that he had to investigate on what he had obtained from Mr R, as 
Lloyds failed to provide the file despite many requests. He said he was unable to draw any 
conclusions about money laundering as we couldnt ask Mrs R whether the funds that were 
sent and received were genuine or not. He said that it was not our role to change banks processes or standards  but instead to review individual cases to see if they followed the 
correct processes and treated their customers fairly. 
He said he could not ask them to offer a gesture of good will as he had not found that Lloyds 
had done something wrong. As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has come to 
me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to start by saying that I do believe that Mrs R was the victim of a callous and cruel 
scam. She was vulnerable due to her age and her recent bereavement, and I was so sad to 
read of what she was put through. I can tell from the evidence we have, and the 
conversations Mr R has had with our service that this had a profound impact on not just Mrs 
R, but Mr R as her son too. The loss of Mrs R and the continuing complaints process no 
doubt continues to add to this distress for Mr R. So Id like to offer my condolences as well 
as my sympathy for this incredibly difficult ordeal. 
Having thought very carefully about what Mr R has told us happened at the time, and Lloyds 
actions, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to hold Lloyds liable for her loss. 
So, having considered everything, Im not going to uphold the complaint of Mrs Rs estate. I 
do appreciate how disappointing this will be for Mr R, but I dont think I can fairly say that 
Lloyds should reimburse the estate with the money that was unfortunately lost to the 
scammers. Ill explain why. 
There is no dispute that the transactions were authorised payments even though Mrs R was 
the victim of a sophisticated scam. She made the payments herself and under the relevant 
regulations, and the terms and conditions of her account, Mrs Rs estate is presumed liable 
for the loss in the first instance. 
But Ive also taken into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. As such I think 
Lloyds should fairly and reasonably: 
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams. 
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer. 
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
This means that, particularly with the increase of sophisticated fraud and scams in 
recent years, there are circumstances where a bank should fairly and reasonably take 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases decline to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm. 
So I must consider whether the payments Mrs R made to the scammer were unusual 
and out of character for her account  and having reviewed Mrs Rs account statements I agree with our investigator that the transactions ought not to have been flagged as 
suspicious by Lloyds. 
Before I explain my reasoning, Id like to note that we cannot say for sure that all of the 
transactions in dispute were part of the scam. There are different payees, and cash 
withdrawals, and we dont have a first hand account from Mrs R due to her passing to 
explain exactly which payments were part of the scam. So Ive considered all the 
transactions that Mr R highlighted to us. 
Whilst the payments were international payments, the payments started with smaller 
value transactions  with numerous payments of under £500. There were other 
comparable and larger payments on the account including transfers and payments 
during this time, so I dont think they would have looked suspicious, such that Lloyds 
should have recognised that Mrs R might be a victim of fraud. The payments varied in 
size through the lifespan of the scam, with some large payments between £6,000 and 
£8,000 and some as small as below £100. I do think some of the larger payments could 
be considered unusual due to the size, but overall I agree with our investigator that by 
the time the payments increased, Mrs R had already used her account for international 
payments and so it would not have appeared strange that she was sending money 
abroad. Whilst the payments added up to large amounts, there wasnt a dramatic 
change to the operation of the account. Mrs R still used her account for daily spending 
and there wasnt a sudden drop in the balance as the payments took place over the 
years. The disputed transactions also do not all go to one payee  they are sent by 
different methods, and to different accounts and some are cash withdrawals. This would 
have prevented Lloyds from being able to see a pattern of spending in the way they 
could have if all the transactions went to one account. So, I would not have expected 
them to intervene before processing her payments.
Having said this, for completeness I thought it would be prudent to consider whether Lloyds 
intervention could have prevented some of Mrs Rs losses. This is because I do think some 
of the larger payments were sufficiently large to be arguably unusual and out of character. It 
is impossible to know what would have happened if Lloyds had intervened  so I have had to 
decide on balance what I think would most likely happened if they had spoken to Mrs R. I 
think it is likely Lloyds did contact Mrs R on some occasions when she was sending funds to 
the scammer. I say this because they refer to Mrs Rs determination to send the funds in 
some phone calls they had with her at the time in their final response letter. But there is not 
enough to conclude that they did any more than simply called to verify that she was making 
the payments and a third party hadnt been making them  so I cannot conclude that they 
would have asked her probing questions about the transactions in any calls they had with 
her. These types of scams  romance scams  are unfortunately very common. And they 
can play out in many ways. Because we dont have a first hand account from Mrs R we dont 
know if she was provided a cover story to tell the bank by the fraudster, and if she was 
provided with one whether it was compelling and sophisticated or one that the bank could 
have seen through. We do know that Mrs R was motivated to get the money to the individual 
 firstly because she believed she had a relationship with them, and later due to the threats 
that they would end the relationship, and finally due to the threats that they would share the 
photo of her. When considering all of this, I cannot say with sufficient certainty that any 
intervention by Lloyds would have prevented Mrs Rs losses, such that I think it would be fair 
and reasonable to hold them liable for those losses. 
Ive also considered Lloyds attempts to recover the funds. Whilst we dont have their 
evidence to see exactly when they tried to recover the losses from the receiving banks, I too 
have considered what we know about how these type of scams work, the fact they were 
international payments, and the time between the payments and the scam being discovered. Having done so, I think that its likely that even if Lloyds acted immediately on the discovery 
that Mrs R had fallen victim to a scam, they would not have been able to recover the funds. 
I appreciate that Mr R feels his mother was let down by Lloyds. Afterall, the account was 
used to send payments to a callous fraudster. I want to stress again that I am very sorry to 
hear about the situation Mrs R found herself in prior to her death, but I dont think her loss 
was caused by any specific failing on behalf of Lloyds and so I cant fairly ask them to 
refund her estate. The fault, and loss, here lies with the fraudsters themselves.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs R 
to accept or reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
Katherine Jones
Ombudsman