DRN-4235763
The complaint
Miss M complained that Aviva Insurance Limited, trading as Quotemehappy.com (QMH), 
failed to provide her with accurate evidence of her accumulated no claims discount (NCD).  
And they charged her a fee for cancelling the policy.
What happened
In 2019, Miss M bought a motor insurance policy from QMH.  At this point, she had 
accumulated a NCD of 15 years.  But QMHs website only recorded a maximum NCD of 9 
years+.
Miss M renewed her policy with QMH in the following two years.  She then sold her car and 
cancelled her policy part way through the cover period.  QMH issued a letter showing she 
had 11 years NCD.
About 10 months later, Miss M bought a new car and again insured it with QMH.  By this 
time, she had 17 years NCD.  But she declared she had 15 years, as this was the maximum 
which could be inputted at the time.  She also declared shed have no claims or accidents in 
the previous five years.
QMH reviewed Miss Ms application because shed said she had 15 years NCD and 
because shed completed the application in various ways, including disclosing two claims 
which werent on her final submission.  QMH said, had they known about the claims they 
wouldnt have offered Miss M cover.  They offered Miss M the opportunity to cancel the 
policy before they did so.  They charged Miss M a fee of £52.50 to do this.  But they 
explained that, if she cancelled herself, she wouldnt have to declare to any future insurer 
that shed had a policy cancelled  which shed have to do if she left them to cancel it.
Miss M opted to cancel her policy.  But she complained to QMH about having to do that.  
QMH repeated that, if theyd known about the claims shed included on some of draft 
applications, they wouldnt have offered her cover.
Miss M wasnt satisfied with QMHs response and brought her complaint to our service.  She 
also told us that she had had 17 years NCD at the point shed cancelled her policy.  But 
QMH had only provided her with proof of 15 years.
Our investigator considered the matter.  She agreed that QMH should have provided proof of 
17 years NCD  but, at the point she delivered her view on the complaint, QMH had 
provided this.  She said they didnt need to do any more about this.  And she concluded 
QMH had handled the cancellation of the policy fairly and in line with the Consumer 
Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA).
Miss M didnt agree with the investigators view and said shed had to pay more for her 
current insurance as a result of not being able to evidence 17 years NCD.  Ive now been 
asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Miss Ms complaint.  Ill explain why.
I understand Miss Ms frustration.  But I can only say QMH should do more to resolve her 
complaint if Im satisfied that they did something wrong  and theres evidence Miss M has 
been adversely impacted by that.
Ive considered the information provided about Miss Ms NCD.  Its a matter for each insurer 
how many years NCD they take into account when offering a policy.  Im satisfied that, when 
she first bought a policy from QMH, the maximum NCD they took into account was nine 
years.  So, while I agree Miss M had more than this, I think it was fair for QMH to have 
applied this figure to her policy.
And I think its most likely that confusion arose because this was QMHs maximum NCD at 
the time.  QMH subsequently changed their criteria.  So, when Miss M renewed with them 
for the following two years without having made a claim, they increased her NCD to 10 and 
11 years respectively.  At the time Miss M cancelled her policy, QMH had 11 years NCD 
recorded.
When Miss M returned to QMH the following year, she said in her application she had 15 
years NCD.  QMH queried this - as well as her declaration shed made no claims in the 
previous five years, which Ill address below.  Miss M contacted them to explain the situation.  
QMH confirmed that their system was wrong and that she should have 15 years NCD.
There was clearly an error here.  But mistakes do happen.  I can see that, once Miss M 
notified them of the error, QMH very quickly corrected their system and sent Miss M proof of 
15 years NCD.  So Im not satisfied there was any adverse impact caused by having only 11 
years NCD recorded.
There was a second error which existed for longer.  After she spoke to QMH and they said 
they would provide proof of 15 years NCD, Miss M emailed them to say she actually had 17 
years.  QMH replied that 15 years+ was the maximum they recorded.  This was incorrect; 
their maximum is in fact 20 years.  QMH provided Miss M with proof of 17 years NCD during 
the course of the investigation.
Again, QMH have admitted they made an error.  I agree thats the case.  But Ive not seen 
any evidence that the delay in correcting that error has had an adverse impact on Miss M.  
Shes said she had to pay her current insurer a higher premium.  But shes not provided any 
evidence from her insurer to support what shes said.  Nor does it seem shes approached 
her insurer (now she has proof of 17 years NCD) to ask if they will recalculate her premium 
on that basis.  In the absence of such evidence, I cant say theres been any adverse impact 
on her.
Finally, Ive considered the cancellation  and specifically the charge that was applied for 
that.  QMH told Miss M theyd decided her policy should be cancelled because shed 
incorrectly declared how many years NCD she had and because shed failed to declare two 
claims.  
During her call to them, Miss M was told by QMH that the claims declaration was what had 
most concerned them.  And that, if theyd known about the claims, they wouldnt have 
offered her cover.  What an insurer should do in this situation is governed by CIDRA.  CIDRA requires 
consumers to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out a 
consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard of care is that of a reasonable 
consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies - provided the 
misrepresentation is what CIDRA describes as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be a 
qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Ive heard a telephone conversation in which Miss M confirmed she had previously included 
the claims on a version of her application, but not on what she finally submitted to QMH.  So 
Im satisfied she didnt take care to complete the application accurately and made a 
misrepresentation.  And Im satisfied the misrepresentation was a qualifying one, because 
QMH have provided evidence that including the claims would have led to the application 
being refused.
QMH havent specifically said how theyve characterised the misrepresentation.  But in their 
final response letter, theyve referred to voiding the policy and retaining the premiums paid  
which is the remedy for a deliberate or reckless misrepresentation.  Based on the phone call 
evidence I reviewed Im satisfied that was fair.
However, QMH didnt apply that option.  Instead they gave Miss M the chance to cancel the 
policy herself.  I appreciate she paid a fee.  But QMH have confirmed she would have paid 
this whether she or they cancelled the policy.  And, by cancelling herself, Miss M was able to 
avoid the situation where she would have had to declare on future applications that shed 
had insurance voided or cancelled.  
I think that was fair.  So I dont think QMH need to do any more to resolve Miss Ms 
complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Ms complaint about Aviva Insurance 
Limited, trading as Quotemehappy.com.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 August 2023.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman