DRN-4307249
The complaint
A limited company, which Ill refer to as S is unhappy with several aspects of the service 
received from Barclays Bank UK PLC surrounding the transfer of a direct debit.
Ss complaint is brought to this service by its director, whom Ill refer to as Mr H.
What happened
In March 2021, Mr H asked Barclays to open a replacement business account for S as he 
was concerned that fraudsters had compromised the existing account. Barclays transferred 
S to a new account as requested, but they didnt transfer the direct debit for Ss Bounce 
Back Loan (BBL) payments that were due to begin in June 2021.
Barclays issued a new direct debit mandate to Mr H in June 2021 so the BBL direct debit 
could be put in place on the new account. But when Mr H returned the mandate, Barclays 
felt that his signature has changed over time and was no longer a match for the signature 
they held for him. Barclays sent Mr H a form to complete to update his signature with them. 
But Mr H wasnt happy about this and felt that Barclays were being unnecessarily 
obstructive. So, he raised a complaint on Ss behalf.
Barclays apologised for not transferring Ss BBL direct debit to the new account when they 
should and offered £100 to S as compensation for any inconvenience that not transferring 
the direct debit may have caused. However, Barclays didnt feel that theyd acted unfairly by 
not accepting Mr Hs direct debit because of the signature concerns they had. Mr H wasnt 
satisfied with Barclays response, so he referred Ss complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They didnt feel Barclays had acted unfairly 
by requiring Mr H to update his signature. But they recommended that Barclays increase 
their offer of compensation to £200. Barclays agreed, but Mr H remained dissatisfied, so the 
matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. Instead, this service is an informal, impartial 
dispute resolution service. And while we do take relevant law and regulation into account 
when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed on determining whether we feel a fair or 
unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial perspective, after taking all the factors and 
circumstances of a complaint into consideration.
Barclays have accepted that they should have transferred Ss BBL direct debit to the new 
account when it was first opened. Barclays have apologised to Mr H for this and agreed to 
pay £200 compensation to S for any inconvenience that S may have incurred as a result. 
This feels fair to me, and Im satisfied that £200 is a fair compensation amount for Mr H 
having to set up a new direct debit to make Ss BBL payments.  
Barclays sent a direct debit mandate to Mr H to complete and return to enable a new direct 
debit to be set up for Ss BBL payments. But when Mr H returned the signed mandate, 
Barclays felt that Mr Hs signature had changed and was no longer a reasonable match to 
what they had on file. As a result, Barclays sent a signature update form to Mr H to complete 
and return, as per their process. But Mr H didnt feel his signature had changed and so didnt 
feel he should reasonably be asked to complete the form. And its my understanding that to 
date Mr H hasnt returned the completed signature update form to Barclays.
But Im satisfied that its for Barclays to decide whether they have concerns about a 
signature match. And Im also satisfied that its for Barclays to decide the process a 
customer must follow to update a signature when its required by them. As such, I dont feel 
have Barclays acted unfairly towards S by requiring Mr H to complete and return a signature 
update form to them.
Mr H has said that hes unhappy with the amount of time and effort that dealing with this 
matter has taken and feels that a higher award of compensation should be merited here as a 
result, beyond the £200 that Barclays have agreed to. 
But I feel that Barclays have already offered fair compensation to S for not transferring the 
direct debit when they should. And I also feel that Barclays requirement for Mr H to 
complete a signature update form is fair, and that Mr S could and should reasonably have 
mitigated against much of the time and effort hes unhappy about expending here by simply 
completing and returning the signature update form to Barclays.  
Mr H is also unhappy about how Barclays have handled his complaint to them about this 
matter. However, as per the rules by which this service must abide  which can be found in 
the Dispute Resolution (DISP) section of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
Handbook  this service is only able to consider complaints about specified activities, of 
which complaint handling isnt one. This means that this aspect of Ss complaint isnt one 
that its within my remit to consider.
Finally, its notable that in the absence of the direct debit, Mr H has been making payments 
on Ss behalf on an ad-hoc basis, but that these payments have been made by Mr H a few 
days late, meaning that S has been receiving missed payment letters. 
Mr H has explained that this is because the BBL instalment amounts change every month 
which means he needs to wait for the letter to arrive to know what to pay. But the BBL 
agreement confirms the instalment amount as being £650 per month. And this is also 
confirmed on the missed payment letters Mr H has himself provided to this service. 
As such, the reason S receives late payment letters with payment requirements that deviate 
slightly from £650 is because Mr H is consistently late with Ss payments, meaning that small 
amounts of arrears interest are accruing. I can therefore only encourage Mr S to update his 
signature with Barclays as reasonably required by their process so that a direct debit for the 
BBL payments can be set up. 
All of which means that while I will be upholding this complaint in Ss favour, Ill only be doing 
so to instruct Barclays to pay the £200 compensation to S that theyve already agreed to
I realise this might not be the outcome Mr H was wanting, but I hope hell understand, given 
what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have. Putting things right
Barclays must make a payment of £200 to S.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Barclay Bank UK PLC on the basis 
explained above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman