DRN-2776621
The complaint
Mr S has complained Santander UK plc wont refund what he paid for physiotherapy 
sessions which he no longer required. Mr S made a claim under section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974.
What happened
Early in 2020 after a referral Mr S paid for a set of six physiotherapy sessions at a clinic (who 
Ill refer to as S). Because of Covid, Mr S ended up getting treatment elsewhere and asked 
for a refund of what hed paid. S offered Mr S the chance to extend the use of his treatments 
or transfer them to a family member. They wouldnt refund him as they said the package 
price he paid was non-refundable.
Mr S complained to Santander as hed paid for these sessions using his Santander credit 
card. They didnt believe thered been a breach of contract under the legislation.
Mr S brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator reviewed the evidence. Overall 
she also believed thered been no breach of contract. 
Mr S has asked an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain 
why.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 allows a customer to submit a claim for breach 
of contract or misrepresentation by a supplier to their credit provider. This applies when 
customers use certain types of credit to buy goods or services. In this case Mr S paid for 
physiotherapy sessions using his Santander credit card.
Its worth clarifying Im not deciding Santanders liability under section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act. We consider the relevant law and that includes section 75. But we decide cases 
by considering what is fair and reasonable, as statute requires us to do. What Im deciding is 
whether Santander did enough in considering Mr Ss complaint. And if they didnt, what else 
should they now do.
If there was a misrepresentation or breach of contract in the supply of the goods that 
resulted in detriment then its fair to ask Santander to put things right. 
I appreciate Mr S believes there was a breach of contract in the supply of goods or services 
but I dont agree. Mr S wanted to cancel his sessions, not S. In fact S was happy to allow 
Mr S to use his sessions over an extended period or to transfer them to another family 
member. So theres no breach of contract here.
Mr S has argued the breach of contract is that the sessions were non-refundable and he was 
unaware of this. S told Santander that their package price (6 sessions for the price of 5) was 
non-refundable. But even if Mr S had been unaware of this at the time, I can see no 
reference to cancellation or refunds on Ss website, their invoice or elsewhere. This means 
this fact wasnt part of the contract. 
I know this outcome will seem harsh to Mr S but Im satisfied there weas no breach of 
contract here. I wont be asking Santander to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given here, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ss complaint against 
Santander UK plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2022.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman