DRN-3766298
The complaint
Miss T complains that MotoNovo Finance Limited irresponsibly granted her a hire purchase 
agreement she couldnt afford to repay. Miss T is represented by a third party but for the 
ease of reference I have referred o Miss T throughout this decision. 
What happened
In June 2021, Miss T acquired a used car financed by a hire purchase agreement from 
MotoNovo. Miss T paid a deposit of £450 was required to make 60 monthly repayments of 
around £298. The total repayable under the agreement was around £18,317.
Miss T says that MotoNovo didnt complete adequate affordability checks. She says if it had, 
it would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. MotoNovo didnt agree. It said that it 
wasnt required to gain Miss Ts annual salary and it relied on the information Miss T 
provided and information obtained from the credit reference agencies to make its lending 
decision. It said following Miss Ts complaint it assessed the affordability of the agreement 
based on her annual income of £20,000 and expenses including other commitments and 
rent and that the agreement appeared affordable. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought MotoNovo didnt act 
unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
Miss T didnt agree and said the view didnt take into account her situation at the time nor 
her current circumstances. She says she sends money overseas to family and the 
agreement wasnt ever affordable. She reiterated that he was taken advantage of as she 
struggled to understand English and so was mis-sold the agreement.
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
MotoNovo will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
MotoNovo says that Miss Ts application underwent credit and underwriting checks, and 
these didnt raise concerns. MotoNovo hasnt provided a copy of the credit check it 
completed. Ive therefore relied on a copy of the credit file supplied by Miss T. I think this 
gives a good indication of what MotoNovo would likely have seen. At the time of the 
application it shows that Miss T didnt have many other outstanding credit commitments and 
those she had she was managing well. Therefore, I do not find that the credit search would 
have raised concerns that meant the lending shouldnt have been provided or that additional 
checks were needed.
While I note the affordability checks MotoNovo undertook as part of its investigation into 
Miss Ts complaint, I havent seen evidence of it gathering income and expenses information 
from Miss T before the agreement was provided. Given the size and duration of the 
agreement and the repayment amounts, I think it would have been reasonable and 
proportionate for MotoNovo to has asked Miss T about her income and expenses before the 
agreement was provided. Without knowing what Miss Ts income and regular committed 
expenditure was MotoNovo wouldnt have got a reasonable understanding of whether the 
agreement was affordable or not. It therefore didnt complete proportionate checks. 
Ive considered what MotoNovo would likely have found out if it had completed reasonable 
and proportionate affordability checks. I cant be certain what Miss T would have told 
MotoNovo had it asked about her income and regular expenditure. I dont think MotoNovo 
needed to request bank statements, but in the absence of anything else, Ive placed 
significant weight on the information contained in Miss T statements as an indication of what 
would most likely have been disclosed. 
Ive reviewed bank statements prior to the application (March and April 2021). These show 
that Miss T was receiving an average of around £1,500 a month from her employment. This 
is in line with the amount MotoNovo noted in its assessment. Additional to this she was also 
receiving regular transfers into her account. Miss Ts regular committed monthly expenditure 
at the time was around £1,000. In calculating this figure, Ive included cost such as bills, 
credit commitments, transport and food. Taking these figures into account, it appears to 
show the agreement was affordable to Miss T. For this reason, Im not persuaded that 
MotoNovo acted unfairly in approving the finance. 
Miss T has also complained that additional extras were added into her agreement and that 
information such as her employment details were recorded in correctly. While I understand 
how upsetting this whole process has been for Miss T, I do not have evidence that the 
agreement was mis-sold and while her employment may have bene recoded incorrectly as 
her monthly income compared to her regular expenses suggested the agreement as 
affordable, I do not find that I can uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman