DRN-2642511
The complaint
Ms K complains as the representative of the executors of the estate of the late Ms K, about 
the way that Allianz Insurance Plc dealt with a home insurance claim for water damage.
What happened
In 2018 (Ms K says 2017) the estate made a claim for escape of water for the house Ms K 
lived in. Negotiations took place over the works and it was ultimately agreed that the estate 
would receive cash payments for the work and items other than the supply and installation of 
carpets. It appears that the overseeing of these arrangements was left to the contractors, 
and three appointments were cancelled, on the first occasion because the payment hadnt 
been authorised by Allianz and on the second and third occasions because the chosen 
carpet wasnt yet available. On the fourth occasion carpet was fitted in the dining room and 
hall but the fitters were only booked for one day, and left with the other rolls of carpet 
stacked up in the house. Fitters returned a couple of days later, but then caused scratches to 
the skirting boards. Ms K mentioned an uneven floorboard and says the fitter caused this to 
break and had to waste time finding a replacement. The fitting couldnt be completed 
because the piano couldnt be moved and the fitters didnt have the necessary equipment to 
move it.
Because of various delays the carpet fitting wasnt completed until eight months later. Ms K 
has had various snagging issues. A cash payment was agreed for the damage to the skirting 
boards. But Ms K says that because of the eight month delay, the later fitted carpet was 
significantly different in shade. She also said there were tracking marks on the carpet where 
she had had to walk over the same part of the carpet for those eight months. And she said 
there were indentations in the carpet caused by heavy furniture having to remain stacked up 
in that time. Allianz said the issues should resolve themselves  Ms K says they arent 
resolving.
Ms K suffers from significant mental health problems which the professionals helping her say 
have been badly affected by the way she was treated during this period, particularly the 
cancelling of appointments, the failure to communicate and the poor workmanship issues. 
She has also suffered physical injury through stepping on exposed gripper rods and staples 
during the delay period. Allianz offered her £300 compensation when it first reviewed the 
complaint issues. It subsequently offered a further £500 compensation in recognition of the 
delays and service failings she had suffered. Ms K has refused the payments.
On referral to this service our investigator explained that as the estate was the policyholder 
and had made the claim, we couldnt award compensation to her personally for distress and 
inconvenience. He pointed out that she has asked for an apology from Allianz, which it had 
provided. Also it had offered £800 in total, which is an award this service couldnt make. 
The matter has been referred to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should first of all reiterate my position and my powers to deal with Ms Ks complaint. The 
estate of her late mother is the policyholder and the executors have made the claim, and 
consented to the complaint. No matter how justified Ms Ks complaint issues are, I have no 
power to make an award of compensation for Ms Ks distress and inconvenience. It doesnt 
matter that Allianz has seen fit to make offers of compensation, it can do this as a goodwill 
gesture whilst still recognising that I dont have the power to do so. If the estate had made a 
financial loss, which does include issues in relation to the work undertaken, I would have 
power to make awards in that respect.
I do understand Ms Ks position and have considerable sympathy for it. The fitting of the 
flooring which should have been a straightforward job, extended over a couple of years or 
more. There were cancelled appointments. If these were to do with the supply of the carpet 
then the evidence is that Ms K wasnt told this until the last minute. Also there were delays in 
arranging fitters and in dealing with the final fitting of the carpets. And damage was caused 
to skirting boards, the photos showing very obvious scratching. 
I further accept that during the eight months it took to fit the new carpets, gripper rods and 
staples were left exposed. Though Ms K was aware of this its not always possible to be 
aware of them at all times. I accept that she would have hurt her feet when accidentally 
treading on them.
No doubt the fitting arrangements also took longer because Ms K had particular 
requirements. And finding the necessary fitters and arranging them during lockdowns 
caused additional headaches to everyone. Ultimately I do recognise that Ms K had a poor 
service from Allianz and some of the contractors it employed. As Ive said I cant award 
compensation to Ms K for this. I do note that Allianz has offered a total of £800 
compensation. If Ms K wants to accept that she should get in touch with Allianz directly. 
outstanding issues
alarm wire
Ms K says the alarm wire was damaged by the fitters. But I can see from the file that it had 
been agreed that Ms K would make arrangements for the alarm wire to be moved. But it 
wasnt moved sufficiently and still ended up being under the carpet. The fitters agreed to 
redo the seam but said they couldnt accept any liability if the wire was damaged while doing 
so. I believe the refitting was done to a good standard, but I cant hold Allianz responsible for 
any problems with the alarm.
floorboard
Ms K says this needs to be replaced with oak. But whilst recognising that the floorboard was 
broken during the fitting, this was because it was uneven and likely already damaged in the 
first place. The fitters supplied a suitable replacement which is now under the carpet. I cant 
say that Allianz is required to do anything further here.
carpet
Ms K says there is a significant difference in shade between the two lots of carpet fitting, due 
to the eight month delay. She also says there are significant dents in the carpet where she 
had to tread on a restricted part of the carpet, and from her heavy furniture being left in place 
during that period.
Allianz has pointed out that the carpet is the same batch number, so any difference in colour 
will fade in time. With regard to the dents it says these will spring back in time. Ms K denies 
that that is the case. Im inclined to accept that, as the carpet was especially chosen to withstand heavy duty wear, the dents in the carpet will likely spring back over time. I 
understand Ms K says they are not springing back, if it continues there might be an issue 
with the actual carpet. But Im not an expert on these matters, as it stands I think it 
reasonable to accept what the fitters say. If Ms K remains concerned I can only suggest she 
takes up the issue with Allianz again.
I realise that Ms K has supplied us with detailed evidence of her concerns and the way this 
has affected her. I wont be going into that in detail, though note that she asked for an 
apology from Allianz, which it gave. As Ive said, I have considerable sympathy with her 
position. But ultimately this service acts an alternative dispute resolution service, to try and 
resolve disputes informally. Where unfortunately that doesnt work, I can only act within my 
powers. And I dont think theres any other action I can take in this case.
My final decision
Recognising that Ms K has been offered compensation by Allianz Insurance Plc, I dont 
require it to do any more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Ms K 
to accept or reject my decision before 22 June 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman