DRN-3782969
The complaint
Mr V complains Sainsburys Bank Plc sent his Data Subject Access Request (DSAR) in an 
unprotected format via email rather than through an online portal with a passphrase.
What happened
On 21 February 2022 Mr V made a DSAR. 
Sainsburys responded in March 2022 saying the information was available via the portal 
and that Mr V could access this with the passphrase included within the letter. However, Mr 
Vs DSAR was sent to him directly via email and the zip attachment with the PDF was not 
protected. 
Sainsburys admitted their error which they said was due to an IT issue. In recognition of the 
inconvenience and upset caused, it offered £75. Our investigator thought the offer was fair in 
the circumstances and didnt ask Sainsburys to do anything further.
Mr V didnt agree. Because of this, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Clearly there has been an error here. Sainsburys have accepted it sent Mr V information 
without it being password protected when it should have been. We arent the regulator so its 
not for me to punish Sainsburys but Ive considered the impact Sainsburys mistake has had 
on Mr V in order to determine whether Sainsburys need to do anything further.
Mr V is concerned his information has been on servers and caches around the globe and 
could be subject to being stolen. He says although no event has arisen immediately or within 
a few months of this incident he says it doesnt mean an event may not arise in the future. 
Whilst I understand Mr Vs concerns and strength of feeling on the matter, it wouldnt be fair 
for me to ask Sainsburys to compensate him for something that could potentially happen. 
And as it stands at the moment, it doesnt seem that anything untoward has happened as a 
result of the email Sainsburys sent to Mr V. So I dont think Sainsburys need to do anything 
further with regards to this.
Mr V is dissatisfied with the lack of detail provided by Sainsburys which explained how the 
error occurred. I appreciate he would like to understand this more, but I think Sainsburys 
have already provided an explanation and I wouldnt expect them to tell us anymore because 
it may be sensitive in relation to their business processes.
I can appreciate that this has been a worrying time for Mr V because of the sensitive 
information that was disclosed without being password protected. However, I have taken into 
account that the information was sent directly to Mr V as the intended recipient and that he 
was the one who correctly received this information. It doesnt seem that this has caused 
any further issues for Mr V or that anything untoward has happened because of the 
unprotected information sent by Sainsburys. Because of this I think that the offer of £75 is 
fair in the circumstances and I wont be asking Sainsburys to do anything further.
My final decision
Sainsburys has already made an offer to pay £75 to settle the complaint and I think this offer 
is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Sainsburys Bank Plc should pay £75.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 
Marie Camenzuli
Ombudsman