DRN-1617288
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K have complained about a mortgage application made to Lloyds Bank PLC. 
They are upset that, after initially being led to believe Lloyds would give them a mortgage, 
their application was declined, and no reason was given for this. 
To settle the complaint Mr and Mrs K want Lloyds to accept that it has let them down by 
failing to keep them informed during the application process and for failing to give them the 
answers they require. Mr and Mrs K also want Lloyds to acknowledge that the bank led them 
to believe there would be no problem in them obtaining the mortgage, which turned out not 
to be the case.
What happened
My summary of what led up to the complaint being brought is brief. There are two reasons 
for this; what happened really isnt in dispute. The history of the matter is set out in detail in 
the correspondence between Mr and Mrs K and Lloyds, and in the email from our 
investigator dated 6 January 2020. This means there is no need for me to repeat all the 
detail here. In addition, our decisions are published, and so I must ensure that I dont include 
in this decision any information which might identify Mr and Mrs K. So for these reasons, I 
will not be setting out the entire history of the events which led up to the complaint being 
brought.
Briefly, in March 2019 Mr and Mrs K applied to Lloyds for a mortgage of £208,000. The 
advisor was optimistic that the application would be successful, even though Mr and Mrs K 
had told Lloyds about an Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA). 
An IVA is an arrangement reached with creditors where more than £15,000 is owed in total 
to one or more creditors and the creditors agree to accept payment of a percentage of the 
debt owed by the debtor, paid by instalments to the IVA administrator and distributed to 
creditors over a period of time, usually five years. It is an arrangement which can allow a 
borrower in debt to avoid bankruptcy. It is noted on the borrowers credit file and is generally 
considered adverse by lenders, as it shows a history of past financial difficulties.
At the point where the IVA was disclosed, the advisor should have referred the application to 
underwriters, but instead proceeded with it. A mortgage illustration was issued on 9 April 
2019, but the application was declined and Lloyds wrote to Mr and Mrs K on 17 April 2019 to 
confirm this, and explaining that this was due to credit scoring.
Another application was made for a lower amount of £138,000. This was declined on 8 June 
2019 and a letter was sent to Mr and Mrs K advising them of this, and again confirming that 
this was due to credit scoring.
Mr and Mrs K were unhappy about this, particularly as theyd been led to believe at the 
outset that there wouldnt be any problem with their application. Lloyds acknowledged that it 
should have managed Mr and Mrs Ks expectations better at the initial stage, and paid £300 
compensation for this.
Dissatisfied with Lloyds response to the complaint, Mr and Mrs K brought it to us. An 
investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He was satisfied 
Lloyds had written to Mr and Mrs K to explain that the applications hadnt passed credit 
scoring. He also thought the £300 compensation was fair and reasonable.
Mr and Mrs K disagreed with the investigators findings. They say that they wanted Lloyds to 
listen and take on board the real reason why they were coming to them, that they had 
exhausted all other options and this was the reason they were sounding them out to see if 
Lloyds could help.
They say Lloyds gave them hope they could get a mortgage, leading them to waste valuable 
time getting paperwork together to accompany the application. Information they sent in was 
refused in the format submitted, which meant they missed the deadline for mortgage deals 
as a result.
Mr and Mrs K say they did receive the letters saying the applications had been unsuccessful 
due to credit scoring, but these didnt explain what the real reason was. They were 
encouraged to try again to see if they could borrow a reduced amount, when all along Lloyds 
knew the real reason the application couldnt go ahead was the IVA.
Mr and Mrs K say that they are now left in a situation with Mrs Ks former husband still on the 
existing mortgage on the property and they cant remove him because the IVA is stopping 
Mr and Mrs K from getting another mortgage. They are also unhappy that they cant write 
their wills, leaving them uncertain of the future.
The offer of compensation was begrudgingly accepted but Mr and Mrs K say they feel 
humiliated by the whole experience. As a result, Mr and Mrs K want to instruct an 
ombudsman to act on their behalf in seeking appropriate redress from Lloyds.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will begin by explaining that the Financial Ombudsman Service is impartial and 
independent of both consumers and the financial businesses about which they are 
complaining. This means that we dont take anyones side or act for either party in a 
complaint. My role is to review the complaint and decide what I think is a fair outcome. 
Ive taken note of everything Mr and Mrs K have said. Ive also looked at the letters they 
were sent in April and June 2019, when their applications were declined. Those letters 
explain that the applications had failed to pass Lloyds internal credit score.
Mr and Mrs K say that the real reason the applications were denied were the IVA, but that 
no-one at Lloyds will say this. But I think its likely that Lloyds will have taken the IVA into 
consideration when credit-scoring the applications. 
Lloyds internal credit scoring is commercially-sensitive and confidential. Theres nothing 
untoward or sinister about that; lenders keep the criteria they use to credit-score applications 
confidential, as otherwise borrowers could temporarily manipulate their finances in order to obtain a mortgage for which they do not actually qualify. (I must make it clear that I do not 
include Mr and Mrs K in this category of applicant.)
Im satisfied it was sufficient for Lloyds to explain that the applications had failed credit-
scoring, without giving further details. I dont require Lloyds to disclose to Mr and Mrs K the 
way their applications were credit-scored.
Im glad to note that Lloyds has acknowledged that its customer service could have been 
better. I think Mr and Mrs Ks expectations should have been managed at the outset, but 
they were given false hope that the bank would be able to give them a mortgage. 
For two months Mr and Mrs K were optimistic that they might be able to have the mortgage. 
Theyve explained theyd exhausted all other options and so I fully understand their 
disappointment when Lloyds told them it couldnt offer them a mortgage, after their hopes 
had been raised. 
In the circumstances, Im satisfied Mr and Mrs K were caused trouble and upset, and some 
inconvenience. What I have to decide is whether the £300 Lloyds has offered for this is 
enough.
If Mr and Mrs K had been told at the outset that the IVA was likely to affect the application 
theyd have known much sooner that Lloyds couldnt lend to them. I accept Mr and Mrs K 
wasted time sending information in to Lloyds. Mr and Mrs K say that Lloyds refusal to accept 
paperwork in the format theyd sent meant they missed the deadline for mortgage deals. But 
given that their applications were declined, I dont think Mr and Mrs K actually missed out. 
I agree though that Mr and Mrs K could have avoided all the effort they went to if theyd been 
told before submitting a full application in April 2019 that they didnt qualify for a mortgage.
Ive noted what Mr and Mrs K have said about their circumstances  with Mrs Ks former 
husband still on the existing mortgage, and Mr and Mrs Ks belief that they are unable to 
make their wills. 
But those arent situations that have arisen as a result of anything Lloyds has, or hasnt, 
done; what the bank did was lead Mr and Mrs K to believe, for two months, that it might be 
able to offer them a mortgage when it should have told them in April 2019 that this was not 
possible. And as a result, Mr and Mrs K needlessly went to the effort of submitting two 
applications. 
In all the circumstances, Im satisfied that the compensation of £300 is fair, reasonable and 
proportionate, taking into account the timescale involved and the overall impact on Mr and 
Mrs K. Consequently, Im not ordering Lloyds to do anything further or pay any additional 
compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 September 2020.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman