DRN-1883236
 
The complaint
Mr W complains about advice given by Barclays Bank UK Plc to invest £60,000 into a BPIM 
portfolio 
What happened
In October 2000, Mr W invested £60,000 into a High Income with Safety Portfolio, on 
recommendation from Barclays. The investment was surrendered in November 2005 and 
Mr W received £47,0361.91.
Mr W believes that Barclays recommendation was unsuitable for him because the level of 
risk was too high for an inexperienced investor, he was advised to invest too much, the 
timeframe of medium to long-term was inappropriate for his circumstances and he had little 
capacity for loss. Mr W also states that he was unwell at the time and made the decision too 
quickly after receiving some funds.
Barclays have upheld the complaint in part and say that on review they consider £50,000 
should have been invested in the BPIM portfolio. They say Mr Ws circumstances meant he 
should have been advised to invest £10,000 less so as to reduce the risk to his funds. Had 
this happened they say the balance of the portfolio would have been suitable for Mr Ws 
needs. Barclays have calculated redress against the Bank of England fixed rate bonds 
benchmark plus interest. Theyve offered £5,939.43 plus an additional £200 for trouble and 
upset caused by delays.
Our investigator considered the complaint. She thought the recommendation by Barclays 
was unsuitable because it exposed Mr W to too much risk. As Mr W had no capacity for loss, 
she thought he should have been advised to invest in the safest option possible. Our 
investigator recommended assessing compensation for the entire amount invested against 
the Bank of England fixed bond rate benchmark plus interest. 
Barclays disagree with the view. They maintain their offer is fair and reasonable.
The matter has now come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W had £92,051 in cash deposits and according to the fact find he was looking to invest 
for high income and capital growth. His attitude to risk was described as medium. But Ive 
also considered Mr Ws circumstances at the time. Its common ground that Mr W was an 
inexperienced first-time investor. The fact find records Mr W as being in reasonably good 
health but it isnt disputed that he suffered from long standing health complications, which 
affected his capacity to work. Whilst he had no dependents, the information from the time 
shows that he was retired with limited disposable income. So, he was not in a position to 
replace lost capital and was going to be reliant upon the funds in the future. In my view 
capital preservation would have been important to him.
Mr W was advised to invest £60,000 into a High Income with safety portfolio. At this time, 
the recommended split of assets was around 39% fixed interest, 52% UK equities, 7% 
international equities and 2% liquidity.
In my view this blend of assets exposed Mr W to more risk than he was willing to take. And
Barclays agree that Mr W ended up taking too high a level of risk overall; he should have
been advised to be more cautious given his circumstances. Barclays also accept they 
advised Mr W to invest too much into the portfolio, they now say only £50,000 should have 
been invested. Taking these factors into account, its clear that the advice given to Mr W was 
unsuitable. So, its fair and reasonable to put things right for Mr W.
Putting things right
Barclays agree they should compensate Mr W. They now say £10,000 should have been 
placed into products with capital protection such as fixed rate bonds. Theyve offered to
compensate Mr W on this sum, using the Bank of England, fixed rate bond index as a
comparator, plus 8% interest. Barclays say this effectively realigns the portfolio and the
investment of the balance of funds in the portfolio was suitable for Mr W. Barclays also say 
Mr W would likely have been told about the importance of maintaining his cash reserve 
outside the portfolio. But I havent seen anything to show that this was discussed at the time.
Im not satisfied that the offer is fair and reasonable. Theres no persuasive evidence that 
Barclays would have recommended this particular approach at the time. 
So, the correct starting point is that the recommendation shouldnt have been made at all. I
think that if the right advice had been given, its likely that Mr W would have invested
£60,000 differently. 
Having read the documents from the time, I consider that whilst Mr W said he wanted to 
achieve a return on his investment, his particular circumstances meant that he wasnt able to 
generate an income to replace any lost capital. So, I agree with our investigator that Mr W 
ought to have been advised to take the least risk possible.
It is not possible to say precisely what he would have done differently. But I am satisfied
that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable given his circumstances and
objectives when he invested.
So, Barclays should make an assessment in respect of the whole £60,000 invested:
Compare the performance of Mr Ms investment with that of the benchmark shown below
and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the investment. If the
actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
They should also pay interest as set out below.Provide the details of the calculation in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Investment 
namestatus benchmark from (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
BPIM 
PortfoliosurrenderedAverage rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsdate of 
investmentdate of 
surrender8% simple 
per year on 
any loss from 
the end date 
to date of 
settlement
actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, you should use
the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months maturity as published
by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous
month. Apply those rates to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investments should be deducted from
the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the
calculation from that point on.
If there are a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, I will accept if
Barclays total all those payments and deduct that figure at the end instead of deducting
periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr W wanted to achieve some income and capital growth without risk to his capital;
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to their capital. It does not mean 
that Mr W would have invested only in a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment 
that would be a fair measure given Mr Ws circumstances and objectives;
The additional interest is for being deprived of the use of any compensation money
since the end date.
In addition to the compensation set above, Barclays should also pay £200 in compensation
for delays (if not already paid).My final decision
For the reasons given, I am upholding this complaint. I direct Barclays Bank UK Plc to put 
things right for Mr W as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2020.
 
Sarah Tozzi
Ombudsman