DRN-3205156
The complaint
Mrs A complains that HDI Global Specialty SE (HDI) has unfairly limited her claim pay-out 
for damage sustained to her home during a storm. And has provided an unrealistic quote for 
the repairs. The policy is in Mrs As sole name, so I have just referred to her throughout. HDI 
is the policy underwriter and so references include the policy administrator. Mrs A has 
complained separately about the comparison website through which she bought her policy.
What happened
In February 2020 Mrs As home was damaged by a storm and she claimed to HDI. HDI 
appointed a loss adjuster who visited the same month and instructed a roof specialist to 
assess the repairs. The loss adjuster said the house wasnt well maintained, with rotten 
window frames and the roof had signs of wear and tear. 
Mrs A obtained three repair quotes which averaged £90,000 - £110,00 and the loss adjuster 
arranged a fourth. She said HDI only agreed to pay on this quote, which it wont share, but is 
costed far less. Mrs A said she questioned the huge difference and said the quoting firm told 
her it wouldn't do the work. She said the quote would be acceptable if it covered all the work. 
HDI made an offer to settle Mrs As claim for about £40,000 + VAT. It said this was adjusted 
for wear and tear, betterment and the lower cost it can obtain the work for. HDI said the 
repair quote came from a firm qualified and able to do the repairs. It said that Mrs A had 
pointed out failed stonework, but this wasnt part of her claim and wouldnt be covered. 
HDI reduced its offer as it said Mrs A was under-insured, having provided a rebuild cost of 
£500,000, whereas its loss adjusters said this is £618,000. It said this is only 81% adequate 
and the policy allows it to reduce the value of her claim proportionately. It said when Mrs A 
obtained her policy, via a comparison website, she was asked for the rebuild cost of her 
home and a professional estimate was provided which could be edited. The site provided 
help text to obtain the correct figure and explained the consequences of not doing so. HDI 
said the onus is on the policyholder to get this right and had this happened it wouldnt have 
offered her cover. HDI offered to appoint an engineer to reconsider the damage.
Mrs A said she cant repair or decorate, and her home isnt watertight and is incurring further 
damage. She said the fuel bills are unmanageable due to heat loss through drafty windows 
and the carpets are damp, affecting her family. Mrs A said she put the rebuild cost at the last 
sale valuation unaware this was incorrect. She said she answered the question truthfully, 
wasnt qualified to know the rebuild cost and didnt know she was only obtaining 81% cover. 
She wants the whole amount of the claim paid and to choose who undertakes the repairs.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She said theres no dispute that the 
storm damaged Mrs As home. And the policy allowed for a proportionate settlement of the 
claim based on under-assessment of the rebuild cost. But she said Mrs A answered the 
questions as well as she could and had arrived at a lower cost when subsequently assessing 
the rebuild cost. And so she thought HDI shouldnt apply a reduced settlement to her claim. 
The investigator said HDI should review the repair quotes as Mrs A had shown she couldnt 
repair her home on its offer, and it should make a revised offer. She said HDI didnt need to 
include a special glass window as it wasnt included within the policy. She said HDI should 
pay Mrs A £200 compensation for the distress caused by its unfair initial offer of settlement. 
HDI disagreed, saying Mrs As husband had said he thought the rebuild cost she had used 
was wrong as it was below the latest valuation. In any event she had been asked to provide 
the rebuild cost, not the sale value and there was no ambiguity in the questions. HDI said if 
Mrs A thought the question was unclear, she should complain to the comparison website. 
As to the quotes, HDI said Mrs As windows could be repaired and this accounted for some 
of the difference - it offered her a choice of engineer to inspect the windows and stonework 
at HDIs expense. HDI said a policyholder cant choose which parts of a building are insured 
and so it would include the special window in the repair costs. As to the compensation, HDI 
said it was too early to know if its initial offer of settlement of the claim was fair or not. 
Mrs A agreed to the appointment of an engineer to assess the damage and repair costs. 
Another investigator from our service reviewed the evidence and decided the damage was 
likely due to a combination of age, poor maintenance and storm. She thought HDIs offer in 
respect of Mrs As windows was fair and the stonework issue wasnt claim related. But said 
the roof estimate of £7,400 should be met in full as well as the estimates for the internals 
and bathroom (as already agreed by HDI). She said HDI should arrange for a further report 
on the ceiling as the evidence is inconclusive.
Mrs A was angry that conclusions had been reached on her claim without sight of the 
engineers report. HDI disagreed that it should pay the full estimate for roof repairs as 
maintenance was required in any event. The complaint was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The complaint concerns two key issues, firstly HDIs assessment of the underinsurance of 
Mrs As home and the consequent deductions made to claims settlement, and secondly the 
amount and cost of the repairs to the storm damage. 
Concerning the potential underinsurance, the policy states that if the sum insured is 
inadequate, any claim payment will be reduced by the proportion which the sum insured 
bears to the full cost of rebuilding the whole of the buildings. I have to consider if HDI has 
acted fairly or reasonably in applying this term and intending to proportionately reduce Mrs 
As claim by 19%. In deciding this I have thought about the information HDI wanted to know 
from the comparison website and why Mrs A provided the information she did.
HDI hasnt disclosed the information it requires of the comparison website and so its unclear 
exactly what it wants from the question. The wording of the question itself and the help text 
is the responsibility of the comparison website.
HDI said the question makes the customers requirements clear. HDI said the sum of 
£500,000 for rebuild is a maximum figure and can be edited. But it also said the insurance 
product automatically gives cover up to £500,000 irrespective of whether a customer 
requires less than £500,000. This default figure doesnt make the information as clear as 
HDI suggests. Also, on the Key Facts document the £500,000 figure is described as cover and buildings sum insured, and on the insurance schedule it refers to this as Buildings 
including accidental damage £500,000. 
I think this leaves room for ambiguity and I find it understandable that Mrs A failed to 
understand exactly what was required of her. Based just on its loss adjusters assessment, 
HDI has said the shortfall in Mrs As cover is 19%. This isnt an exact science and I dont 
doubt that other experts would assess this at variance to HDI, particularly given the changes 
in labour and material costs over time. I think that a variance of 19% is much less than other 
examples of similar problems that we have seen, and I think HDI hasnt shown (as it is 
required to do) that it was unreasonable for Mrs A to have provided the information she did. 
I think Mrs A was offering information that was already present on the screen and which she 
had little reason to doubt would apply in her circumstances. Im aware there was explanatory 
text near the question, which might have prompted her to make enquiries about her 
response, but because she wasnt in any particular doubt, I dont think she felt the need to 
examine the matter further. 
On balance Im prepared to accept that Mrs A wasnt aware that the information she 
provided was incorrect and so I dont think it was fair for HDI to use the average clause to 
address the under-insurance its loss adjuster considers to have been in place. It follows that 
I dont think HDI should apply a proportionate settlement to Mrs As claim. 
I have gone on to consider the cause and cost of the repairs to Mrs As home. So far as the 
damage is concerned theres no dispute about the presence of storm conditions at the time 
of Mrs As claim, though the cause of some of the damage is disputed.
In these circumstances we are guided by the evidence and particularly expert reports. Mrs A 
has obtained quotes but not an expert report about the damage. HDIs loss adjuster had an 
inspection and report carried out by an engineer at Mrs A home in June 2021. This states 
that mortar and sealant was dislodged on most of the windows and that this and the 
distortion of the special window may have been caused by the storm. And also that ceilings 
had become distorted, and cornices damaged by rainwater coming through the roof. The 
report stated that many windows were rotten at the base of the frames but that this wasnt 
due to the storm but due to general decay due to prolonged exposure to moisture. 
 
I can see that wear and tear and gradually operating effects such as rot arent covered by 
the policy as they are maintenance issues rather than storm related. And so I think its 
reasonable for HDI to have made an offer towards the repair of the windows, and should 
cover the full cost of repair of the special window which has bowed likely due to storm winds.
I can see HDI doesnt think it should pay for the roof repairs, but I think the roof would have 
been exposed to damage in the storm and appears to have been damaged to the extent that 
rainwater has entered the house and damaged the ceilings. Mrs As quote does mention 
recent storm damage. The expert report doesnt support evidence of storm damage to the 
stonework, and I dont think HDI has to pay anything for this damage. 
HDI said it is prepared to reconsider the settlement offer in the light of the engineers report 
and that the special window would be included within any assessment of the repairs. I think 
this is a reasonable response to the circumstances of the claim and engineers findings. 
Putting things right
In conclusion and having considered the cause and extent of the damage, I agree with the 
investigator that the damage is due to poor maintenance, age and storm. The expert report 
and photos show that HDIs offer in respect of Mrs As windows is fair and the stonework 
issue isnt claim related. I think that the estimate of £7,400 for the roof repairs should be met in full as well as the estimates for putting right the internal damage and the bathroom (as 
already agreed by HDI). The investigator thought that HDI should arrange for a further report 
on the ceiling as the evidence is inconclusive. I agree with this and think that HDI should 
also consider Mrs A greenhouse claim which she says she has previously raised with HDI.
If Mrs A remains dissatisfied with aspects of the settlement offer or resolution by HDI that is 
not concluded here, she is at liberty to bring a separate complaint about this.
Mrs A is concerned that over two years have passed since her claim and the damage to her 
home hasnt been repaired. I sympathise with her for the delays, and although HDI was 
entitled to question her claim and elements are not covered as set out above, I think HDI 
was responsible for some avoidable delays for which it should pay Mrs A £200 
compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld. I 
require HDI Global Specialty SE to assess Mrs As claim without reference to the terms 
relating to underinsurance in the policy and not apply a proportionate settlement to her claim. 
I require HDI Global Specialty SE to make a fair offer in respect of Mrs As windows, but not 
the stonework. It must pay the full estimate for the roof repairs and the internal damage and 
bathroom. It should reconsider the claim for the ceiling damage and Mrs As greenhouse.  
I also require HDI Global Specialty SE to pay Mrs A £200 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience she has suffered as a consequence of HDIs poor handling of her claim. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman