DRN-2267430
The complaint
 Mrs R says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold her a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy. 
What happened
 This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in April 1997. The PPI policy was 
added to Mrs Rs credit card, but neither party can recall with certainty where it was sold.
Our adjudicator upheld Mrs Rs complaint. Nationwide Building Society disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Rs case.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Rs complaint because:
I dont think the information Nationwide gave about the exclusion for pre-existing medical 
conditions was as clear as it should have been. I have not been able to see most of the 
sales documentation from the sale and neither party can recall where the policy was 
sold. So, I am not persuaded that the terms relating to medical conditions was 
specifically mentioned or brought to Mrs Rs attention when PPI was added to her card.
I think these shortcomings would have mattered in this complaint because Mrs R had a 
medical condition at the time which in all likelihood, she wouldnt have been able to claim 
benefit for. So, she might not have been able to claim on the policy in all the 
circumstances she had expected. 
Ive taken into account all of Nationwides comments about Mrs Rs medical condition. 
But like our adjudicator, I have been persuaded by Mrs Rs recollection of her condition 
at that time that she has provided to our service and the impact it had on her. Nationwide 
has said it would require further evidence about this, but I dont think its reasonable to 
ask Mrs R to obtain evidence to support what she has said, for something that happened 
over 20 years ago. And as I have already said, I am also persuaded by what Mrs R has 
said. Her recollections have been consistent and are plausible. In conclusion, when I 
consider all that I have said, I think Mrs R has lost out as a result of Nationwide's failings 
in this case, because I dont think she would have taken out the policy if shed been 
properly informed. 
It follows that I uphold Mrs Rs complaint and Nationwide should now put things right.
Putting things right
  Nationwide should put Mrs R in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out 
PPI. 
A. Nationwide should find out how much Mrs R would owe on her credit card if the policy 
hadnt been added to it.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
Nationwide should then refund the difference between what Mrs R owes and what she 
would have owed.
If Mrs R made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Nationwide can take off what she 
got for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B. If  when Nationwide works out what Mrs R would have owed each month without PPI  
Mrs R paid more than enough to clear her balance, Nationwide should also pay simple 
interest on the extra Mrs R paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point 
when Mrs R wouldve owed Nationwide something on her credit card. The interest rate 
should be 8% a year.
C. Nationwide should tell Mrs R what its done to work out A and B.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest. Nationwide 
must give Mrs R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
  For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mrs Rs complaint. 
I require Nationwide Building Society to pay Mrs R compensation in accordance with the 
calculation of redress set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman