DRN-2114823
The complaint
Mrs A is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax reviewed and subsequently 
blocked her account. She would like an explanation and compensation to put things right.  
What happened
In June 2019, Mrs A was shopping when her card declined. She said this caused her 
embarrassment. She also heard from family members that they couldnt pay money into her 
account  and she realised she couldnt make any payments out of her account. 
A few days later, Mrs A went to a local branch to check her balance, but her card was 
retained. Mrs A spoke to a member of staff in branch and they told her that her account has 
been clocked due to a processing delay. 
Mrs A asked Halifax if they could provide her with some emergency money from her account 
to allow her to buy food and medication. But they declined. Mrs A says she was told to go to 
a food bank which she was humiliated by. 
An investigator looked into things and said Halifax were entitled to review and block Mrs As 
account. She said they were acting in line with their legal and regulatory obligations and they 
carried out the review in a reasonable timeframe. 
Mrs A didnt agree. She doesnt think Halifax should be able to block an account without 
notice or reason and she said she expected some emergency funding. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigator for broadly the same reasons. I know this will 
come a disappointment to Mrs A, so I've explained my reasons below.
Halifax, like all UK banks, are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to 
meet their legal and regulatory obligations. Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied Halifax 
were acting in line with these obligations when reviewing Mrs As account.
Mrs A has said she was left humiliated when she couldnt pay for her shopping due to her 
card being declined. I dont doubt this would have been really worrying for Mrs A. But a bank 
cant always guarantee that funds in an account are readily available.
I recognise that Mrs A thinks Halifax should have given her notice that they were going to 
review her account  but theyre not obliged to  nor do they have to tell Mrs A a reason, 
despite her wanting to know why they carried out their review. Whats relevant here, is 
Halifaxs statutory obligations allow them to block customers accounts while they review 
things. Its important they carry out their review in a timely manner without any undue delays.
Im aware Mrs As account was blocked on 27 June 2019. The review was completed, and 
the block was removed on 8 July 2019. I find a period of 12 calendar days acceptable for 
Halifax to carry out their review and therefore I cant say theyve acted unreasonably.
I recognise how frustrating it must have been for Mrs A to realise she couldnt use her 
account. Ive thought about what Mrs A has said about asking for emergency money to buy 
food. Shes also said the branch staff told her to visit a food bank which she said she found 
humiliating. I havent been able to see any evidence of this conversation as Mrs A said it 
took place in branch, so it wouldnt be fair for me to make a comment or judgement on it 
without knowing the full facts. However, Halifax were entitled to block Mrs As account. I 
know this would have left her in a difficult position by not being able to access her money, 
but I cant fairly uphold her complaint on this point alone.
Overall, I appreciate how strongly Mrs A feels about whats happened so I know my decision 
will be disappointing for her. But Halifax were acting in line with their obligations when they 
reviewed her account. And Im satisfied they didnt cause any delays, so I wont be asking 
them to do anything differently.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman