DRN-4470673
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Metro Bank PLC wont refund all of the money she lost to a safe 
account scam.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the Investigator for the following
reasons.
- It isnt in dispute that Mrs A has fallen victim to a scam here, nor that she authorised 
the disputed payments she made from her Metro account. And the starting position is 
that banks ought to follow the instructions given by their customers in order for 
legitimate payments to be made as instructed.
- However, Ive considered whether Metro should have done more to prevent Mrs A 
from falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular 
transfer. For example, if it was particularly out of character.
- I appreciate that Mrs A made payments totalling nearly £10,000 in one day, which is 
a significant amount of money. But there were six payments in total, of between 
£1,000 and £2,000 each, four of which were to Mrs As own accounts with other 
banks. And it was not unusual for Mrs A to make regular payments of a similar size to 
her other accounts. The remaining two payments were to an online retailer, and 
again it was not unusual for Mrs A to make that kind of payment. I can also see that 
Mrs A did, on occasion, make multiple large payments on the same day. So the 
overfall pattern of spending was, in my mind, not unusual enough to have flagged to 
Metro that something untoward might be going on.
- I therefore dont think there was anything that ought reasonably to have triggered 
Metros fraud monitoring systems, or that would have indicated Mrs A was in the 
process of being scammed. So, I dont consider there was any obligation on Metro to 
have intervened in the payments being made.
- I note that Metro made the decision to refund the last two payments made  the card 
payments to the online retailer  but given that I dont think Metro should fairly and 
reasonably have been expected to intervene in the payments Mrs A was making I 
wont be asking it to refund any more of Mrs As loss.
- Ive also thought about whether Metro could have done more to recover the money 
after Mrs A reported the fraud. But given that the remaining, unrefunded, amounts, 
were payments to Mrs As own accounts with other banks I dont think Metro could 
have done anything to recover those funds.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman