DRN-3374731
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy that Next Retail Limited reduced his credit limit to £0.
What happened
Mr N had a catalogue shopping account with Next. In November 2021, Next wrote to Mr N to 
let him know that theyd reduced his credit limit from £3,000 to £0. And they explained this 
was because his credit file was showing a default registered by another lender.
Mr N thought this was a mistake, as he hadnt missed any payments or been notified of any 
defaults registered against him. But Next said theyd been provided with information by a 
Credit Reference Agency (CRA). Mr N contacted the CRA, who said there was no default 
registered against him. And Mr N supplied Next with the emails hed had from the CRA 
confirming this. But Next said this wasnt enough for them to change their mind. And Mr Ns 
credit limit remained at £0.
Mr N wasnt happy with this, and he brought his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said the terms and conditions Mr N agreed to when he opened the account 
allowed Next to reduce or remove the credit limit for any justified reason, including where 
theres an indication that payments could become unaffordable. And he thought that a 
default was a justified reason, as missing payments with another lender could be an 
indication of financial difficulties.
The investigator also said hed seen information from the CRA which shows a default had 
been registered against Mr N. And, despite the CRA sending Mr N an email to say this 
wasnt the case, they continued to confirm the presence of a default to Next in their monthly 
updates. So, the investigator didnt think that Next had done anything wrong by not restoring 
Mr Ns credit limit.
Mr N didnt agree with the investigator. He said the CRA had told him there were no defaults 
and my credit score of 999 out of 999 reflected this. And, while he accepted that Next had 
the right to reduce or remove his credit limit, he thought theyd moved the goalposts by not 
acting on the information from the CRA theyd asked him to provide. And hes asked that an 
ombudsman review his complaint and make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the evidence, I agree with the investigators findings on this complaint for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome. 
Its not disputed that Next had the right to remove Mr Ns credit limit under certain 
circumstances. Or that the presence of a default would be one of those valid reasons. So, 
this complaint revolves around whether it was reasonable for Next to believe that a default 
was present, based on the information the that had been provided to them.
Ive seen copies of the emails from the CRA, dated 28 November and 1 December 2021, 
where they tell Mr N I am unable to locate any default on the aforementioned account and 
having checked your records, I am unable to locate any default account. And Mr N had 
provided a copy of his credit report from the CRA, dated 15 March 2022, that doesnt show 
any defaults, arrears, or other adverse credit (either current or historic).
Based on this evidence, Im satisfied that the CRA has confirmed to Mr N that he doesnt 
have a default registered against him.
However, Ive also seen the summary information the CRA provided Next. And this clearly 
shows an External Default  a default that he been entered by another financial business. 
And Next have confirmed that, despite the information Mr N provided to them, the default 
was still being reported to them by the CRA.
Its clear from what Ive seen that the information about the presence of a default being 
provided to Mr N and Next by the CRA is different. However, I dont think that Next have 
done anything wrong by acting on the information theyve been provided with by the CRA. 
And, its not for Next to query this information. If the information being reported to Next is 
different from the information that is being reported to Mr N, then this should be raised with 
the CRA, not Next. And, as such, I wont be asking Next to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I uphold Mr Ns complaint about Next Retail Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman