DRN-2410919
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold him a packaged bank account 
called an Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA). He paid a monthly fee for the URCA 
and received several potential benefits in return. He thinks that Bank of Scotland should 
refund him all the fees he paid, plus interest.
What happened
Mr W has banked with Bank of Scotland for quite a long time. Bank of Scotland has sent us
its record of his account history, which is not in dispute. The record shows that:
in December 2001, Mr W opened one of Bank of Scotlands fee-free accounts,
in October 2009, it sold him the URCA, which replaced his fee-free account and for 
which it charged him the monthly fee.
I previously sent Mr W and Bank of Scotland a provisional decision on this complaint
In that provisional decision, I set out the background and circumstances of the case and I 
explained that I thought Bank of Scotland had mis-sold the URCA to Mr W. I invited both 
parties to make any further comments before I made a final decision. 
Bank of Scotland has told us that it accepts the findings in my provisional decision and has 
nothing further to add. Mr W has also accepted my provisional findings and has added that 
he would now like to switch from the URCA to one of Bank of Scotlands fee-free accounts.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website,
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do about this case. Ive looked into
everything that Mr W and Bank of Scotland have told us or sent us about the complaint, and
Ive decided to uphold it. Ive explained why below; but first, I would like to point out that 
because both Mr W and Bank of Scotland accepted my provisional decision, my findings are 
unchanged and much of what follows is identical to what I said in my provisional decision. I 
would, however, like to draw Mr Ws attention in particular to some new comments I have 
made about switching his account. 
In 2009, Bank of Scotland, along with other banks, was allowed to sell packaged bank
accounts in two ways. It could do so without giving personal advice on an information-only
(or non-advised) basis; or as an advised (or recommended) sale. 
Whichever approach Bank of Scotland used for Mr W, as well as giving him a choice, I would 
have expected it to tell him about the URCAs costs and benefits clearly and fairly; and in an 
advised sale, I would also have expected it to check if he needed the benefits which the 
account could provide before making its recommendation. 
Both parties have said that Bank of Scotland sold the URCA to Mr W during a meeting or
discussion at one of its branches, but they have disagreed about whether it was an advised
or non-advised sale. Mr W has said it was advised and Bank of Scotland has said non 
advised.
As so much time has passed since 2009, I cant tell for sure which approach Bank
of Scotland used. But based on what Mr W has told us, Im satisfied that he certainly
believed that Bank of Scotland advised him to buy the URCA. I have therefore considered
this to be a recommended sale.
In October 2009, the main potential benefits of the URCA were travel insurance, use of a car
breakdown service and insurance for mobile phones. It also provided home emergency
insurance and could offer customers lower interest rates on overdrafts than Bank of Scotland
usually applied to customers with fee-free accounts.
I understand that Mr W very rarely travelled, didnt have a driving licence or own a car and
had only a low-cost mobile phone. So, he seems to have had no need for the main benefits
of the URCA.
Bank of Scotland has sent us copies of Mr Ws bank statements from around the time it sold
him the URCA. These show that he did overdraw his account occasionally. However, Bank
of Scotland has itself described Mr Ws use of an overdraft as minimal and I dont think that
it was in his interests to switch to an URCA due to possible savings on an overdraft. Any
such savings would probably have been less than the monthly fees. I have also seen some
more recent statements and these show that for much of the time Mr W had a very high
positive balance in his account, with little likelihood of needing to use an overdraft.
Mr W has accepted that he may have had a potential need for home emergency insurance
but has pointed out that he had this cover through a home insurance policy, which hes told
us he also bought through Bank of Scotland, and so had no need to buy an URCA to obtain
it. And even without this separate cover, I havent seen anything to make me think that Mr
Ws need for this benefit alone was sufficiently strong to justify Bank of Scotland 
recommending the URCA to him. 
So, it seems to me that as Mr W did not need the benefits that the URCA provided, it wasnt
reasonable for Bank of Scotland to recommend it to him.
Bank of Scotland has pointed out that during 2010 Mr W made a claim on the home
emergency insurance that came with the URCA. Mr W has told us that he made this claim
after a pipe burst in his home, but he thought he was claiming on his other home insurance 
policy as he called a general Bank of Scotland phone number to make his claim. I accept his 
word on this. Furthermore, as I have already found that Mr Ws possible need for home
emergency cover did not justify Bank of Scotland advising him to buy the URCA, the 
existence of this claim doesnt show that Bank of Scotlands advice was fair.
In fairness to Bank of Scotland, I acknowledge that in 2009 it didnt often make
recommendations when it sold URCAs, but usually sold them on a non-advised basis.
However, in this particular case, I doubt that it met its obligation to provide Mr W with fair and
clear information. As I have already mentioned, Mr W does not seem to have had any need
for the benefits of the URCA and if Bank of Scotland had described them to him clearly and
given him a simple and straightforward choice, I can see no reason why he would have
bought the URCA..
Bank of Scotland has said that it is unable to comment on the conversation which took
place in 2009, and I fully understand its position on this as I doubt that it has any detailed
records from that time. However, Mr W has said that Bank of Scotland led him to believe that
it was a privilege to be offered the URCA, that the regulations about current accounts were
changing (neither of which were true) and that the URCA would be the best account for him.
Like Bank of Scotland, I cant be sure exactly what it said, or didnt say, during the 
discussion, but I am satisfied that it misled Mr W in some way into thinking that the URCA
was a good choice for him, probably in a similar fashion to the way he has described.
Bank of Scotland has sent us a copy of a form which Mr W signed in 2009 which shows he
agreed to change accounts. I accept that Mr W signed this form, but it doesnt show that
Bank of Scotlands advice was reasonable or that it described the URCA to him fairly.
Bank of Scotland has also told us that it sent Mr W a welcome pack about the URCA, which
described its benefits and costs. I accept this, but by that time it had already sold the URCA
to Mr W, and I dont think that the welcome pack mitigated its earlier shortcomings.
So, in summary, I think that Bank of Scotland gave Mr W unreasonable advice to buy the 
URCA, and that it failed to tell him clearly about the URCAs benefits, and so misled him into 
buying it. It follows that Bank of Scotland should put things right for Mr W by paying him 
appropriate compensation.
Putting things right
To put things right for Mr W, Bank of Scotland should put him into the financial position he
would have been in if it hadnt sold him the URCA.
.
It should therefore:
refund Mr W all the fees he paid for the URCA,
add interest to each of these refunds at the rate of 8% per year (simple) from the 
date Mr W paid the fee until the date it makes the refund (+).
(+) HM Revenue & Customs requires Bank of Scotland to take off tax from this interest.
Bank of Scotland must give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax it has taken if he asks
for one.
If Bank of Scotland can show that Mr W gained financially from any of the banking benefits
that came with the URCA (for example, he may have saved some money when he overdrew
his account), then it may deduct the relevant amount from the compensation worked out as
above. If it chooses to do this, then it must set out its calculation clearly and simply for Mr W,
so that he can follow what it has done.
Finally, as I mentioned above, Mr W has told us that he wishes to switch from the URCA to a 
fee-free account. However, Bank of Scotland may be able to offer him different types of fee-
free account, and I dont know which type he would prefer; so, I wont try to arrange this for 
him. I suggest instead that he contacts Bank of Scotland himself to discuss his needs.
My final decisionFor the reasons I have set out above, I am upholding Mr Ws complaint that Bank of 
Scotland plc mis-sold him an URCA. It should now put things right for him by paying him the 
compensation I have described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2021. 
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman