DRN-3239626
The complaint
Mr C complains Arrow Global Limited have provided a copy of a credit agreement which 
doesnt include terms its supposed to  meaning the agreement, and the debt they now hold 
for him, is unenforceable. 
Other companies have been involved in this complaint, but as Arrow are responsible for it, 
Ive mainly referred to them in this decision.
  
What happened
I issued a provisional decision, setting out whatd happened, and what I thought about that. 
Ive copied the relevant elements below, and they form part of this final decision. 
Mr C took out a credit card in around March 2005. In January 2012 his credit card debt was 
assigned to Arrow by the original lender. On 2 July 2020 Mr C contacted Arrows agent, who 
Ill call M, and asked them to provide a copy of the original Consumer Credit Agreement 
(CCA) for the credit card  along with a statement of account. Mr C says Arrow have 
admitted to M they cant produce a copy of the agreement.
Mr C says as a result of this, on 29 September 2020 he told M hed be stopping payments to 
the account until they produced the paperwork. M acknowledged this and said the account 
would be placed on hold while they discussed this with Arrow.
On 17 December 2020 M got back in touch with Mr C, and provided a copy of what they said 
was the agreement for the account. Mr C said this was only a copy of a credit check, not a 
true copy of the CCA, statement of account or the terms and conditions.
After M said this is all Arrow gave them, he complained, saying hed like confirmation the 
debt is unenforceable until such time as the documents are provided. He was also unhappy 
his commonly used password was written next to his bank account details and felt theyd 
breached General Data Protection Regulations (GDPR) by not encrypting his password.
Arrow replied to the complaint, explaining they felt theyd complied with the relevant 
regulations as they got a copy of the agreement from Mr Cs original lender. They said by 
providing this to him, they couldnt agree the account should be classed as unenforceable. 
They added that, while the decision about whether the account was unenforceable would lie 
with the courts, theyre unlikely to take legal action in relation to this account. As for 
breaching GDPR Arrow said they got the information from Mr Cs original lender and couldnt 
be held responsible for its contents.
Our Investigator looked into things. He explained we cant decide if an agreement is 
enforceable or not, as thats a decision that can only be taken by the courts. But he felt the 
debt was legitimately owed by Mr C, so Arrow could legitimately ask for repayment of it. As 
for the GDPR issue, our Investigator felt there was no detriment to Mr C, as there was no 
evidence the post had been intercepted.
Mr C didnt accept this outcome. He said his complaint isnt about whether he applied for the 
card and used it or not  he did use it. His reason for wanting the CCA was because there 
have been some issues with the original lender, and he wanted to see if his agreement fell 
into that category. Mr C pointed to rules set out in the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) 
Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC) which, in brief, said if certain information cant be 
provided then the owner of the debt must acknowledge its an unenforceable debt.
In relation to the GDPR concerns, Mr C still felt Arrow shouldnt have provided his password 
next to his bank account details, name, address and date of birth. As Mr C didnt agree with 
our Investigator, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr C is aware of this, but I need to explain it for context. Our service cant decide 
whether an agreement is enforceable or not  only a court can do that. But what I can do is 
look at whether Arrow have acted fairly in their dealings with Mr C.
To do that, Im required to take into account the relevant rules, regulations, good industry 
practice and the law  but my overarching remit is to decide things on a fair and reasonable 
basis.
Turning to the substance of Mr Cs complaint I think its important to firstly explain Ive read 
and taken into account all of the information provided by both parties, in reaching my 
decision. I say this as Im aware Ive summarised Mr Cs complaint in less detail than he has. 
If Ive not reflected something thats been said in this decision its not because I didnt see it, 
its because I didnt deem it relevant to the crux of the complaint. This isnt intended as a 
discourtesy to either party, but merely to reflect my informal role in deciding what a fair and 
reasonable outcome is. This also means I dont think its necessary to get an answer, or 
provide my own answer, to every question raised unless I think its relevant to the crux of the 
complaint.
The crux of Mr Cs complaint is whether the paperwork Arrow sent to him following his 
request for a true copy of his CCA meets the regulators definitions. Mr C is also unhappy 
with how Arrow sent personal information to him.
The CCA
In order to decide whether Arrow have sent Mr C a true copy of the CCA, I need to consider 
what CONC says about this. Section 13 of CONC sets out the following:
13.1.4  The copy agreement:
(1) The copy of the executed agreement should be a 'true copy' of the original. However a 
'true copy' does not necessarily mean a carbon, photocopy, microfiche copy or other exact 
copy of the signed agreement. 
(2) The firm can reconstitute a copy. It can do this by re-populating a template of the relevant 
agreement form with the details of the specific agreement taken from its records. If the 
firm does provide a reconstituted copy, it should explain that that is what it has done, to 
avoid misleading the customer that this is a contemporaneous copy(3) The terms and conditions should be those applicable at the time the agreement was 
executed. The name and address at the time of execution must be included.
(4) The reconstituted agreement should contain a heading prescribed by the (Consumer 
Credit Act) and any relevant cancellation notice.
And in 13.1.6  Failure to comply:
(1) Failure to comply with the provisions means that the agreement becomes unenforceable 
while the failure to comply persists, and the courts have no discretion to allow enforcement.
(2) In such cases, a firm should in no way, either by act or omission, mislead a customer as 
to the enforceability of the agreement.
(3) In particular, a firm should not in such cases either threaten court action or other 
enforcement of the debt or imply that the debt is enforceable when it is not.
(4) The firm should, in any request for payment or communication relating to a payment 
(other than a statement issued in accordance with the CCA or regulations made under it 
which does not constitute or contain a request for payment) in such cases, make clear to the 
customer that although the debt remains outstanding it is unenforceable.
Mr C has received two different responses about whether what hes received is the 
agreement or not. In a letter from M on 12 January 2021 theyve said, Our Client (Arrow) 
has advised that they are unable to provide a duplicate copy agreement due to the time 
which has elapsed on this account. And, in a reply from Arrow directly theyve said Having 
reviewed our records, I have found that we obtained a copy of the agreement from the 
original client By providing this to you, I feel that we have complied with the CCA and 
cannot agree that your account should be classed as unenforceable.
Mr C isnt clear then on whether hes been given what Arrow class as a copy of the original 
agreement or not. Arrow can clarify their intentions if theyd like to in response to my 
provisional decision, but for reasons Ill go on to explain I dont think Mr C has been given a 
true copy of the agreement as required by CONC.
The rules suggest the terms and conditions of the agreement need to be provided, along 
with a specific heading as set out in the Consumer Credit Act and a cancellation notice. 
None of those are present on the document provided to Mr C. 
Given that, its unclear to me whether Arrow have applied CONC or not. As this is a 
provisional decision, when they reply they can explain how theyve done so.
Mr Cs GDPR concerns
I can see our Investigator set out that we cant decide if a GDPR breach has taken place, or 
if Arrows procedures should be amended.
But what I can consider is the impact of Arrows actions on Mr C. In making his complaint, 
hes explained Arrow including his regularly used password in a letter sent by regular post 
made him feel like he needed to amend his existing passwords on other areas  taking 
about half a day to do so.Ive not heard anything from Mr C to say his details were compromised, but I am persuaded 
by his argument that posting out to him his bank account details, name, address, date of 
birth and a regularly used password has caused him distress.
Mr C says he wants Arrow to update their procedures to not do this in future. I cant require 
that of them, but I can award compensation for this kind of issue.
Summary
As Ive mentioned above, Ive not addressed every point raised by Mr C. But I have 
addressed the two key concerns hes raised, and in both of them Ive found Arrow could do 
more to resolve matters.
I cant decide if the account is unenforceable or not, as Ive said above, so it follows I cant 
tell Arrow to say the account is unenforceable in their written communication with Mr C. But, 
as Ive said above, its unclear if Arrow have applied CONC or not.
That, combined with the impact on Mr C as a result of the way Arrow wrote out to him, 
means I think compensation is fair. Ive thought carefully about this. Mr C is clearly someone 
who knows his rights and had been looking at CONC himself  and decided for himself when 
applying CONC his agreement was no longer enforceable. As a result of that he stopped 
payments in September 2020, and in their complaint response Arrow said it was unlikely 
theyd be pursuing this matter further.
So, I think the key impact here is the frustration Mr C has been experiencing  being given 
mixed messages about whether he has or hasnt been given a true copy of the CCA as 
required  along with Arrow not being clear about whether theyve applied CONC and 
sending out personal data in the way they did. 
If Arrow reply and dont explain how theyve taken CONC into account, or Im not satisfied 
they properly have, then Ill likely be awarding Mr C £300 compensation. If Arrow do reply, 
and provide a clear and detailed satisfactory answer, Ill consider whether £300 remains fair.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr C replied, and said he accepted the outcome Id reached.
Arrow replied, providing a copy of their notes showing the transaction log and what they said 
was a copy of agreements received from the original lender. They said in their final response 
they have confirmed theyre compliant with the Consumer Credit Act and believe this would 
satisfy CONC as its a copy of the original agreement. Because of this, they didnt think 
compensation should be provided.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The CCA
In my provisional decision, I said the rules suggest the terms and conditions of the 
agreement need to be provided  along with a specific heading as set out in the Consumer 
Credit Act, and a cancellation notice. Ive pointed out none of those have been provided in 
the documents sent to Mr C.In response to these issues, Arrow have repeated their comments  without directly 
addressing the above point I made. So, although Arrow say theyve applied CONC, I dont 
think I can say Im satisfied theyve properly explained how theyve done so  as they didnt 
answer this point.
Mr Cs GDPR concerns
Mr C accepted the overall outcome I reached and provided no comments on this.
When replying, although Arrow said they didnt think any compensation was due, they didnt 
say anything regarding this point.
Summary
Arrow have replied and not fully addressed the points Ive set out. Because of that, I remain 
satisfied Mr C has been caused frustration by Arrows actions, and that £300 compensation 
is still a fair outcome.
  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Arrow Global Limited to pay Mr C £300 compensation.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman