DRN-2885491
The complaint
Ms W is unhappy with how Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) dealt with 
her claim under her motor insurance policy.
Ms W is represented by her husband Mr W but for ease of reading Ill refer to Ms W 
throughout.
What happened
Ms W had an existing motor insurance policy with Advantage. In October 2020, Ms W 
contacted Advantage to make a claim under her policy for damage to her car from the theft 
of the catalytic convertor. So Advantage arranged for the car to be picked up and stored by 
their storage agents who Ill call C. On 17 October, Advantage decided because of the part 
that had been stolen, and the information Ms W had provided that the claim would be a 
total-loss, so they told Ms W to send C the ownership documents for the car, as it was now 
in Cs possession. 
A few days later, on the 22 October, Advantages engineer reviewed the pictures and 
decided the car was no longer a total loss and should be repaired and returned.  So 
Advantage instructed their approved repairers on 26 October. They also agreed to provide a 
courtesy car from this date as Ms Ws car was now going to be repaired so she would be 
eligible for this service under the terms of the policy. 
Ms W was unhappy with the type of car she was going to be provided with under the policy 
as it wasnt a similar size or style to her own, so on 27 October, Advantage agreed to 
upgrade the courtesy car to a larger model, and this was provided on the 28 October. On the 
same day, Advantages engineer confirmed the car was repairable with an approximate cost 
of around £1,500.
Between 28 October and 11 November, Ms Ws car remained with C and she continued to 
use the courtesy car. On 12 November, the car was moved to the approved repairers with 
the replacement part expected on 17 November. Ms Ws car was repaired, and it was 
returned to her on 19 November, but without the ownership documents which had been sent 
to C. So Ms W was unable to insure the car, so she stored it in her garage in case of further 
damage.
Ms W contacted Advantage as not only could she not insure the car, further damage had 
been done when it had been stored by C. So Advantage instructed their independent 
engineers who agreed this was the case, so Advantage agreed the car was a total-loss for a 
second time. 
From 16 November until 30 November, Ms W contacted Advantage and C about the 
ownership documents for the car as she didnt technically own it during this time. On the 25 
November, Advantage told Ms W that should something happen to the car during the time it 
was at her property, they would still be liable for this.
On 30 November, Ms W bought a new car, so she no longer needed the courtesy car. 
Shortly after, the ownership documents were provided by C and on 2 December, Advantage 
settled Ms Ws claim. 
However, Ms W was unhappy with the service shed received from Advantage, C and the 
approved repairers. She said shed been caused distress and inconvenience from the 
courtesy car issues, the damage to the car after it had been repaired, storing it at her 
property without the ownership documents and the repeated phone calls and emails trying to 
resolve the issues. So she made a complaint.  
Advantage upheld the complaint in part. They said the decision to declare the car as a total 
loss initially had been made based on the pictures provided by C. However when their 
engineer looked at these in more detail a day later, they thought it could be repaired. So 
Advantage then instructed their approved repairs on 26 October which they explained was a 
common practice.
When commenting about the courtesy car and issues around the ownership of Ms Ws car, 
Advantage explained under the terms of Ms Ws policy, she wasnt entitled to a courtesy car 
immediately and shed been provided with the level of courtesy car shed taken out with her 
policy. However, when shed complained theyd upgraded this as a gesture of goodwill. 
Advantage also said based on the timing of the claim, they felt Ms W should have had a 
courtesy car by the 20 October so theyd refund £50 for the five days she was without the 
car as they would have expected, and a further £250 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. Ms W didnt think this was enough compensation, so she asked this service to look 
into her complaint. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint was upheld. She acknowledged the 
business had made mistakes, however she said the impact had been reduced as Ms K had 
the use of another car and wasnt currently travelling to work. She also said Advantage had 
upgraded the courtesy car theyd provided as a gesture of goodwill, and confirmed theyd be 
liable for the car whilst it was stored in Ms Ws garage. 
The investigator also noted Ms W had bought a new vehicle before the claim had been 
completed. So she thought that although Ms W had been caused distress by the errors 
between Advantage and their garage, the impact had been reduced as the claim had been 
completed within six weeks. So she thought the £300 compensation offered by Advantage 
was fair.
Ms W didnt agree. She said she wanted £2000 compensation to reflect the distress and the 
time taken to resolve the issue. She also felt that the use of another car and working from 
home shouldnt have an impact on the complaint. Ms W also said although shed planned to 
get a buy a new car, shed been looking to part-exchange the one which had been written 
off, so shed had to make alternative arrangements. So she asked for an ombudsman to look 
at her complaint.
The investigator acknowledged Ms Ws response and said shed taken all of this into 
consideration before making her view. However, as an agreement couldnt be reached, the 
case has been passed to an ombudsman to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.Ms W has told us at the heart of her complaint, is the decision by Advantages engineers to 
reverse the original decision that her car was a total loss. I recognised this was a frustrating 
time for Ms W, but this is common practice in the insurance industry.
Looking at the timescales involved, Ive seen that Ms Ws car was received by C on 17 
October and the decision by the engineer to repair it was made on 22 October  with four 
working days. I acknowledge Ms W was told by Advantage on 17 and 18 October her car 
would be a total loss. Advantage have told us this initial decision was based on the 
information Ms W gave them initially about the damage to her car, and what its value was 
likely to be. And this is their standard process in these types of cases.  
So I dont think it was unreasonable for Advantage to follow their processes based on the 
information they were given, or for them to get their in-house engineer to take a look at the 
car in more detail before making the decision to repair it. As they need to ensure they are 
making the right decision for both themselves and their policy holder. 
This engineer would also have had more time to review the damage and look into the costs 
involved for repair or total-loss in making their informed decision. Taking into consideration 
the time taken for the pictures to be received and reviewed by an engineer, I dont think 
Advantage have done anything wrong by changing their decision about repairing the car and 
I think they made this decision in a reasonable timeframe and Im not persuaded it had a 
significant impact on the time taken to resolve Ms Ws claim.
Use of the courtesy car
Looking at the Certificate of motor insurance Ive seen it says Courtesy (or replacement) 
vehicles are covered on your policy when supplied to you or any named driver(s) by your 
Insurers nominated suppliers either: 1) whilst your vehicle is being repaired; 2) at your 
Insurers request. There is also further information about the Courtesy car in the policy 
booklet. 
The contents page of the policy booklet lists a specific section called Courtesy car service 
which explains that You wont be eligible for a courtesy car if your car is stolen or 
considered to be a total loss, The service is only available while your car is being repaired 
and The courtesy car will usually be a group A vehicle, such as a Ford Ka. 
I recognise Ms W was unhappy with the type of courtesy car she was initially provided with 
on 27 October, and she was the frustrated it took longer than expected for the upgrade to 
arrive. However, I dont think Advantage acted unfairly by providing the first model of vehicle 
as this was in-line with what was provided under Ms Ws policy. 
I also cant hold Advantage responsible for the courtesy car being delivered a day later than 
planned as they couldnt predict the third-party provider would be closed on 26 October 
when the car was expected. Ive seen that when Ms W complained about the courtesy car 
size and delay, Advantage upgraded her for free for the duration of her claim. So I cant 
reasonably say they treated Ms W unreasonably.  
Ms W is also unhappy with the timeframe she was provided with the courtesy car. She feels 
it should have been from the 17 October, but I dont agree. I say this because Ms Ws car 
was deemed to be a total loss for the first five days, so she wouldnt have been eligible for 
this until 22 October when the decision was made to repair the vehicle. I think reasonably 
the courtesy car should have been provided from the 23 October once it had been confirmed 
the repair was going ahead and hire could be provided. I recognise Advantage have chosen to use the 20 October for the start of the courtesy car 
hire as this was the earliest date, they would have potentially expected to offer it. As they 
have already provided compensation for the loss of use of five days hire, this is inline with 
what Id expect as the courtesy car was eventually delivered on 28 October  and remained 
for the rest of the claim period. So I dont think theyve treated Ms W unfairly here as theyve 
acted inline with the policy terms.
Storage, Ownership documents and further damage
Ms W has told us about the distress and inconvenience caused when her repaired car was 
returned without being able to insure it. I recognise this was a frustrating for Ms W as she 
didnt have the ownership documents for the car, so she couldnt tax or insure it, and she felt 
more damage had been done after it had been collected by C.
However, I have to look at the whole impact here. Although Ms W wasnt able to confirm 
initially who would be responsible for the car as she didnt have the ownership documents, 
she was able to store the car in her garage  which was where she told Advantage it was 
kept when she took out her policy with them. So once it had been moved to the garage, I 
think its reasonable to believe Ms W would have had the same peace of mind about its 
safety that she did before shed made her claim.
Ive also seen that Advantages approved repairers agreed to return the car to Ms W on the 
19 November as she requested. And Ive seen the email from Ms W at 09:11 on the same 
day which confirmed she was aware of these issues and prepared to store the car in the 
garage until the ownership issues were resolved. 
So I think Ms W was aware she was going to be accountable for storing the car from that 
point and the impact this would have on herself and use of her garage. So I cant reasonably 
hold Advantage responsible for a decision taken by Ms W which they were made aware of 
after it had been arranged. 
Ms W has told us she felt C had made it difficult to sort out the ownership of the car. 
However, I havent seen any evidence of this. Ive looked at the information provided by both 
Ms W and Advantage, and although there were some discussions about how to proceed with 
returning the car to a repaired rather than total loss state there appears to be some 
miscommunication about whats required and also an element of letters not being received in 
the post  which I cant say C or Advantage responsible for. 
Ive also seen Ms W was given the correct information shortly after the car was returned to 
her about how she could re-register her ownership. Advantage also confirmed the ownership 
document would be returned to Ms W at the same time. I recognise it took around a week for 
this to be received, but again I cant say this was due to C or the issues caused with post 
due to the Covid pandemic. So I cant reasonably say Advantage did anything wrong here as 
they tried to manage Ms Ws expectations as much as possible and resolve the issue as 
quickly as they could.
When Ms Ws car was returned to her, I understand there was additional damage which 
caused further delays in her claim being processed. Its not in dispute that there was 
additional damage, and this was the reason Ms Ws car was deemed a total loss for the 
second time. Advantage also accepted liability for this and apologised for this. So what I 
need to look at is whether the steps taken by Advantage were reasonable and the impact of 
their actions. 
Looking at the complaint, I can see that Ms W was looking to purchase another car and this 
was impacted by Advantages engineers undertaking a review of the additional damage. But I cant hold Advantage responsible for the inconvenience caused to Ms W because they 
wanted to check they were returning her car back in the state it had been received by C. 
I say this because Advantage are entitled to investigate any claims by their policy holders 
that their property has been damaged whilst in either their possession or the possession of 
their agents. They do this to make sure their claims have been settled fairly and they arent 
liable for damage they havent caused. When Ms W made Advantage aware that damage 
had been caused to her car, I think she ought to reasonably have been aware Advantage 
would want to investigate the matter  rather than just taking her word for it. I also havent 
seen any evidence that a timescale was provided for this. 
However, Ms W took the decision to look at part exchanging the car before the claim had 
been settled and the ownership documents had been returned. I recognise this was a 
frustrating time for her, but I cant hold Advantage responsible because she wanted her 
claim resolved more quickly and they werent able to meet the timescales she wanted. 
Looking at the timescales involved for the claim, there is a total of six weeks from when it 
was initially raised to when the claim was settled  which I dont think is an unreasonable 
timescale  particularly as Ms W noted in her correspondence there was another national 
lockdown taking place due to Covid. So based on what Ive seen I think Advantage have 
dealt with Ms Ws claim fairly and as quickly as they could, given the circumstances. 
Customer service
Ms W has told us shes unhappy with the service she received from Advantage and the time 
taken in calls and emails to resolve the complaint. She also feels the communication was 
poor. But I dont agree. Ive looked at Advantages case notes and based on what Ive seen, 
I dont think they treated Ms W unreasonably. 
There were numerous calls and emails around 27 October 2020 relating to the courtesy car, 
but many of these were about the size and type of car that was provided. As Advantage 
were acting in line with the policy, I cant reasonably say they were responsible for the 
actions Ms W took.
Ive also looked at the overall customer service from Advantage and Ive seen that whenever 
Ms W contacted Advantage, they responded in a reasonable timeframe  often on the same 
day. I recognise there were issues throughout Ms Ws claim from the various parties 
involved, but Advantage have apologised for this and offered Ms W £300 compensation. 
I recognise that Ms W feels strongly about this and shell be disappointed with my decision. 
But based on everything Ive seen, I think Advantage have done enough to put things right. 
So, I wont be asking them to do anything more
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2021.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman