DRN-3234377
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Allegiant Finance Services Limited (Allegiant) failed to inform her 
about an offer which had been made by a lender they were making a claim against. The 
lender then withdrew their offer. 
  
What happened
Mrs B instructed Allegiant  a claims management company - to pursue a claim against 
Lender B for irresponsible lending. Lender B made an offer to refund £4,643.43 to Mrs B to 
settle the claim on 13 August 2020. The final response setting out the offer was sent to 
Allegiant in an email addressed for another customer. This was missed by Allegiant so, 
believing Lender B hadnt responded, they referred a complaint on Mrs Bs behalf to our 
service. Lender B then sent a copy of their final response to Mrs B who decided to accept 
their offer. It was then agreed that Allegiant would withdraw their complaint to our service 
and Lender B would process the refund. Lender B then explained to Mrs B they are unable 
to pay the agreed refund as Allegiant had escalated a complaint to our service. Mrs B felt 
Allegiant were responsible for her missing out on the refund so she complained.  
Allegiant responded and said Lender B sent them an email in August with multiple offer 
letters for multiple customers  and this had not previously been standard practice. The title 
of the email only related to one of those customers. Allegiant said they wouldve had to know 
to scroll down below the fold to realise that more information was contained in the email 
relating to other customers  including Mrs B. Allegiant accepted they couldve noticed this 
at the time so they offered £300 compensation for the trouble caused. And, Allegiant 
accepted they had mistakenly sent Mrs B a letter before action for their fees to be paid even 
though she wasnt in receipt of her refund. Allegiant apologised and offered a further £50 
compensation for the distress caused. Allegiant didnt however feel they were responsible for 
Lender Bs change in stance in relation to the refund. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs B. She thought Allegiants offer of £350 
compensation was fair but didnt think they were responsible for Mrs B not receiving the 
refund, so she wouldnt be asking them to do anything further. Mrs B disagreed so the matter 
came to me for a decision. Following this, and further communication between Mrs B, 
Lender B and our service, Lender B paid the refund to Mrs B on 24 November 2021.  
After considering all of the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to     
Mrs B and Allegiant on 29 November 2021. In my provisional decision I said as follows:   
   
Firstly, Ive looked at the service given to Mrs B. The key facts about the complaint 
arent in dispute. Allegiant have admitted they got things wrong when they missed the 
original final response letter sent to them in August 2020 and they accept they 
mistakenly sent Mrs B a letter before action. I can see Lender B have now paid the 
refund to Mrs B. So, the only issue I have to decide is whether Allegiants offer to put 
things right is fair and reasonable.
I think its right that Allegiant should compensate Mrs B for the upset and worry 
caused by their poor service. Its clear Allegiant did receive the final response relating 
to Mrs Bs claim in August 2020 and this was missed. I acknowledge Allegiants 
position on this and Ive seen the format in which the email from Lender B was sent. 
The email relates to another customer and its only on scrolling down the email that it 
becomes clear Mrs Bs outcome is also within the same email. Allegiant say it wasnt 
standard practice for Lender B to provide outcome responses for multiple customers 
in the same email but they believe its not unreasonable to say their staff couldve 
noticed this at the time. This led to around five months passing before Mrs B is 
informed about the offer. I think its reasonable to expect a business to read any 
incoming correspondence fully and, had Allegiant done so, they wouldve noticed the 
final response to Mrs Bs complaint. 
So, I agree Allegiant have made an error here. This has led to Mrs B having to wait 
significantly longer than she shouldve for her refund to be paid. Its clear from Mrs 
Bs emails to Allegiant, Lender B and our service that she was left very upset by this 
and worried about whether she will now receive this refund. In addition to this, theres 
also the worry and shock of receiving a letter before action when she wasnt in 
receipt of her refund. Taking this all into account, I think the £350 compensation 
offered by Allegiant is fair and reasonable.   
While theres no dispute here about Allegiants error, and Lender B have now paid 
the refund to Mrs B, I think theres still a remaining issue for me to look into. Allegiant 
will be aware of the current position in relation to Lender B as I can see our service 
has written to Allegiant with an update in relation to their complaint about Lender B. 
Allegiant will also be aware about the arrangements concerning Lender B and their 
position on paying any redress. These arrangements came into effect in December 
2020 and meant Lender B wouldnt be required to pay redress while sorting out other 
issues. So, Ive looked at what I think, more likely than not, wouldve happened had 
Allegiant noticed the final response in August.
Theres a period of around four months between Allegiant receiving the offer and the 
informal arrangements for payment of redress then being implemented in December 
2020. This gives four months for Allegiant to communicate the offer to Mrs B, to get 
her decision on the offer, communicate this to Lender B and for the refund to then be 
paid to Mrs B. I believe Mrs B wouldve accepted the offer at that time as she does so 
later without any challenge when shes notified of the offer by Lender B. While I cant 
speculate on exact timeframes and dates for when these steps will have been 
completed, I think its safe for me to say this would all have been concluded within 
two months of Allegiant receiving the offer. The fact that Lender B make an offer, not 
only to Mrs B, but to the other customer referred to in the August 2020 email, shows 
they were investigating complaints with a view to paying redress at that time.          
I can see Lender B email Allegiant in June 2021 and say once a complaint is 
escalated to our service, all work on that case stops. And, the withdrawal of the 
complaint doesnt change Lender Bs position. They say Mrs Bs claim has been 
transferred into a separate arrangement dealing with redress payments. So, had 
Allegiant reviewed the full email sent to them in August 2020, I dont think the 
complaint wouldve been escalated to our service. And, given what I said above 
about the timeline of events I believe wouldve taken place, Mrs B wouldve received 
the refund and her claim wouldnt have ever become part of Lender Bs arrangement. 
So, I think Allegiants error in not identifying the offer for Mrs B in August 2020, has 
led directly to Mrs B not having the refund much sooner. 
So, taking this all into account, I think Allegiant should pay Mrs B 8% simple interest 
on the £4,643.43 refund she has received from Lender B. Ive set out above why I 
believe this refund wouldve been paid to Mrs B within two months of the offer being 
made, by 13 October 2020 at the latest. This means Mrs B has been left without that refund for over 12 months. Allegiant acknowledge that Mrs B is vulnerable and Ive 
also seen testimony from Mrs B about the impact this has had on her and how, not 
having the refund, has caused her significant difficulties. Mrs B has been left without 
these funds for a significant time so I think its fair that Allegiant pay interest on the 
refund to reflect Mrs Bs lost opportunities to save or invest. And, in addition to this, 
its clear from Mrs Bs communication that she has gone without other things she 
really needed or mightve benefited from, because she didnt have the refund.  
So, subject to any further comments from Mrs B or Allegiant, my provisional decision was 
that I was minded to uphold this complaint and require Allegiant to pay compensation of 
£350 to Mrs B as well as interest on the refund. 
Following my provisional decision, Mrs B has responded and agrees with the decision. 
Allegiant have responded to say they dont feel the decision is fair. Allegiant agree in 
principle that Mrs B should receive additional interest for the delay in receiving her refund  
but Lender B should be responsible for this and not Allegiant. Allegiant say Mrs B can 
complain to our service about Lender Bs delay in paying the refund. They say the 
provisional decision departs from the investigators findings and approaches the issue from 
the perspective that Lender B was under no formal obligation to pay Mrs B. Allegiant say, 
contractually, Lender Bs agreement to pay Mrs B in return for her withdrawing her complaint 
about them amounted to a contract of settlement. Allegiant say there was a clear offer and 
acceptance together with an intention to create legal relations so Lender Bs refusal to 
honour this was unsustainable at law. And, Lender B was estopped from withdrawing their 
offer of payment. Allegiant say, even Lender B agree this is the case as they have now paid 
the refund to Mrs B. 
Allegiant say they cant be held responsible for Lender Bs actions and asking them to pay 
interest for the delay in payment creates a break in the chain of causation as it would be 
holding the incorrect business responsible. Allegiant also point out that its draconian to hold 
them responsible for interest on another firms redress award and it also cant be said with 
any certainty that Mrs B wouldve accepted Lender Bs partial settlement offer but for the 
scheme of arrangements later occurring. Allegiant say they stand by their original offer of 
compensation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint for the reasons set out in my 
provisional decision and copied above.
The first point Ill make is that, while Ive carefully considered all of Allegiants points, its not 
my role to determine the legal aspects of whether there has been a breach of contract here 
or whether the principle of estoppel applies. That said, I do understand Allegiants point that 
Lender B agreed to pay the refund to Mrs B on the condition that Mrs B withdraws her 
complaint about them to our service. Its clear that step was taken but Lender B didnt then 
pay the refund to Mrs B at the time and explained Mrs Bs claim now fell within their scheme 
of arrangements. 
I accept Allegiant werent responsible for Lender Bs change in position but I believe the 
delay which followed couldve been avoided had Allegiant identified the original offer. At the 
point Lender B notified Mrs B of their offer, an informal arrangement was already in place in 
relation to Lender B paying redress. And, while its clear there was communication between 
Mrs B, Allegiant and Lender B to try to resolve the issue for Mrs B, the fact is that the informal arrangement and the later scheme of arrangements are factors which delayed the 
refund to Mrs B. 
While I do acknowledge Allegiants points about why they shouldnt be held responsible for 
the delay, Ive already addressed in my provisional decision why, had it not been for 
Allegiants error in not identifying the original offer, I believe Mrs B wouldve received her 
refund in October 2020. More importantly though, in the circumstances of this case, this 
wouldve been before any informal arrangement or scheme of arrangement came into effect. 
While I understand Allegiants point about them being required to pay interest on an award 
made by another firm and the chain of causation, I do think there is a clear link between 
Allegiants error and the delay in Mrs B receiving the refund. 
I understand Allegiants point that Mrs B can complain to our service about Lender Bs delay 
in paying the refund and to seek an award of interest through this route. But, in the 
circumstances of this case, Im satisfied Allegiant have made an error  and that error led to 
Mrs B receiving her refund over 12 months after she shouldve received it. I agree there are 
external factors involving Lender Bs circumstances which account for the delay but, for 
reasons I have already set out, I believe the delay which resulted wouldve been avoided 
had it not been for Allegiants error.  
I note Allegiant believe theres no certainty that Mrs B wouldve accepted Lender Bs offer at 
the time given that the offer related to a refund for two loans out of four. And, she accepted it 
later because of the scheme of arrangement. I believe Mrs B wouldve accepted the offer if it 
had been put to her when it was received by Allegiant as she does later accept the offer 
without challenging the position on the other two loans or raising any queries about it being a 
partial settlement. I acknowledge the informal arrangement was in place at this point but, 
from the information Ive seen, I believe its more likely than not, Mrs B wouldve accepted 
the offer if Allegiant had notified her of it once they had received it. I would also add that Ive 
seen no evidence which persuades me that Mrs B wouldnt have accepted any offer unless it 
was a refund of interest and charges on all four loans.   
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that Allegiant have made an error in not identifying the offer made by 
Lender B and this has led to Mrs B not being paid the refund until 24 November 2021. So, 
Allegiant should pay Mrs B 8% simple interest on the refund of £4,643.43 calculated from 13 
October 2020 to 24 November 2021. Allegiant should also pay Mrs B compensation of £350. 
Allegiant have carried out work on the claim so, had the offer been accepted sooner, I 
believe Mrs B wouldve received the refund and Allegiant wouldve been entitled to their 
fees. I can see Allegiant are still owed their fees so they should deduct the £350 
compensation and the award of interest from the fees owed to them and issue a revised 
invoice to Mrs B. 
Allegiant should provide Mrs B with a certificate showing any taxation deducted, if she asks 
for one.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Allegiant Finance Services Limited must take 
the steps in accordance with what Ive said under Putting things right above.   Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2022.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman