DRN-2877043
The complaint
Mr B complains that a car he got with a conditional sale agreement (CSA) from Moneybarn 
No. 1 Limited is of unsatisfactory quality. 
Mr B was assisted in bringing his complaint by a friend but Ill refer to everything thats been 
said on his behalf as if Mr B had said it himself  to keep things simple. 
What happened
Mr B got this car in mid-December 2018. He saw an engine management light (EML) was on 
the day he viewed the car and he noticed more issues in the week or so after collection. The 
supplying dealer (that Ill call E) checked the car in late December 2018 but found nothing 
wrong. 
Mr B reported more problems over the next few months and E looked at the car again in 
April 2019 but couldnt identify a fault. E replaced the battery in May 2019, at no cost to Mr B 
but he found this didnt resolve things. About a month later Mr B received a safety recall 
notice from the manufacturer about a battery cable. The car was taken to a main dealership 
in July 2019 where the recalled part was replaced at no cost to Mr B. And, after undertaking 
diagnostic checks, the main dealer found three faults relating to the DPF and two sensors. 
The manufacturer wouldnt cover the cost of repairing these (nearly £1,000) and Mr B 
complained to Moneybarn and E. 
Amongst other things, Mr B was unhappy that the car was supplied with the safety recall 
outstanding - he says he would never have accepted it if hed known about that. He thinks 
the car was faulty from the start because of the recalled part. He considers issues identified 
by the main dealer as signs of this faulty part were present when he got this car - given the 
trouble he had from the outset. He reported problems with functions such as stop/start and 
the tyre pressure monitoring system (TPMS) - which he thinks caused tyres to wear 
prematurely. He believes other issues present in December 2018 suggest the DPF was 
already clogged at that stage - and it deteriorated further because his use of the car was 
impaired due to these ongoing issues.
Moneybarn said a safety recall doesnt mean a car is inherently of unsatisfactory quality - as 
vehicles are recalled for all sorts of reasons and sometimes this is just a precaution. E 
offered to cover the cost of a tyre and regenerating the DPF and pay Mr B £150 
compensation, as a goodwill gesture  and Moneybarn didnt think it should have to do 
anything else. Moneybarn considered the recall issue was the manufacturers responsibility, 
it was resolved at no cost to Mr B and any outstanding issues were wear and tear related 
and werent present when the car was supplied.
Mr B referred the matter to our service. He said the recall was issued months before he got 
the car so it should have been actioned pre-sale and the car was faulty at the point of 
supply. He was also unhappy that a two year warranty he discussed with the salesman was 
never provided. He wanted to reject the car and receive a full refund along with 
compensation for distress, inconvenience and financial losses.
One of our investigators considered the evidence. He wasnt inclined to uphold the complaint 
at first. He said a recall notice doesnt, in itself, mean a particular vehicle is unsafe or 
unsatisfactory and goods arent necessarily of unsatisfactory quality at the point of supply 
just because something goes wrong later. He acknowledged a DPF needs maintenance and 
is sensitive to usage  so its more likely to become blocked if a vehicle is used mainly for 
short stop/start journeys and not allowed to regenerate. He thought the DPF and sensor 
problems identified in July 2019 were probably wear and tear related and unlikely to have 
been present at the outset. And he was satisfied the warranty wasnt  included in the finance 
agreement so he couldnt fairly say Moneybarn did anything wrong in this regard.
After Mr B supplied more evidence, the investigator accepted some of the issues reported 
early on sounded similar to symptoms identified by the manufacturer as early signs of the 
presence of the faulty recalled part. He wasnt persuaded that pre-sale checks are likely to 
have been comprehensive enough to show if this fault was present. And, on balance, he 
thought it likely this car had an inherent manufacturing defect - a faulty battery cable  and 
was of unsatisfactory quality at the point of supply. He was satisfied the dealer was unable to 
fix things  despite several attempts  and Mr B probably wouldnt have accepted the car if 
hed known about the outstanding recall. He considered Mr B should have been allowed to 
reject the car in August 2019 and recommended the complaint should be upheld. He said 
Moneybarn should:-
end the agreement and collect the car with nothing further for Mr B to pay;
refund any deposit paid plus 8% interest;
refund monthly payments from August 2019;
remove any adverse information from Mr Bs credit file; and
pay Mr B compensation of £150 for trouble and upset.
The parties didnt agree so the matter was referred to an ombudsman for decision. Both 
parties provided detailed responses and Ive summarised these below. 
Moneybarn says
Mr B referred the car to E in December 2018 because lights came on for the TPMS 
and/or a service, but thats not enough to render the car of unsatisfactory quality;
the fact that Mr B wanted the clutch to be checked doesnt confirm an issue was 
present;
the car went back to E in April/May 2019 in relation to the stop/start function and E 
replaced the battery, which is a wear and tear item, nearly 6 months after supply;
recall issues are the responsibility of the manufacturer not the finance provider; and
its for Mr B to show that the issues identified by the main dealer in August 2019 were 
present at the point of supply, he hasnt done so, theyre probably wear and tear 
related and Moneybarn shouldnt be held responsible.
Mr B thinks he should receive a bigger refund and more compensation for time spent dealing 
with the matter as well as the considerable distress and potential injury/loss of life caused to 
him and his family. He also wants to be reimbursed for lost earnings of about £15,000, 
because he was unable to use the car.  My provisional findings
Having considered all the available evidence I was minded to uphold this complaint. My 
reasons werent the same as the investigators and I was minded to reach a different 
outcome overall so I thought it was fair to let the parties see my provisional findings and 
respond, if they wanted to. I issued a provisional decision on 7 May 2021. A copy of this 
decision is set out below (in italics) and this forms part of my final decision. 
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory  as some of it is here- I reach 
my decision on the balance of probabilities. This means I consider whats most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
I want to assure the parties that Ive taken everything thats been said and sent to us into 
account. If I dont address every point thats been made its not because I havent considered 
it. In this decision Ive focused on what I think are the key issues. Im satisfied that I dont 
need to comment on every single argument to be able to reach what I think is a fair and 
reasonable outcome. The rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service allow me to do this  
and it reflects the informal nature of our dispute resolution service which is a free alternative 
to the courts. 
Mr B brings this complaint about Moneybarn to the Financial Ombudsman Service because 
Moneybarn supplied the car under a CSA. I should make it clear at the outset that I am not a 
regulator. I dont have the power to tell Moneybarn (or any other lender) how to operate its 
business on a day to day basis. Im looking at the individual circumstances of Mr Bs 
complaint. And I am unable to hold Moneybarn responsible for the dealers after sales 
service  or the actions of other third parties, such as the manufacturer.
I make my decision based on what I consider to be fair and reasonable overall. But, I must 
have regard to relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, 
codes of practice and (where appropriate) good industry practice, at the relevant time. Im 
satisfied the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant here. Moneybarn supplied the car 
under a finance agreement and, under the CRA, theres an implied term that it would be of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Quality of goods includes their general state and condition as well as fitness for purpose, 
appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety, and durability. And what 
amounts to satisfactory quality will vary according to individual circumstances. Im satisfied 
this car needed to meet the standard a reasonable person would expect  taking into 
account its age, price and mileage at the point of supply.
The car was around seven years old with about 73,000 miles on the clock and cost 
approximately £5,700 when Mr B got it. I think a reasonable person would accept a car like 
this wouldnt meet the same standards as a brand new vehicle  in that some parts were 
likely to be worn and might need to be repaired or replaced sooner or later. This is reflected 
in the lower price paid for a used car.
what went wrong with this car ?
There seems to be no dispute that Mr B noticed an EML in respect of the TPMS on the day 
he viewed the car. He says he was assured this would be fixed before collection and Im 
satisfied that E agreed to check this. Mr B says he reported more issues when the car was 
booked in for investigation in late December. He had difficulty with the clutch release and he 
felt the engine idle was higher than expected and the car wanted to move quicker than it 
should. I think thats supported by notes on the relevant job card which say investigate 2 
warning lights appeared on dashboard possibly tyre pressure light and service light (?) and Mr B asked for the clutch to be checked.
Its not clear to me what the outcome of Es investigations were exactly. It seems no fault 
was found and Mr B took the car back but he says issues persisted. He told us he thought 
this might be due to his inexperience with this type of clutch and he persevered because 
hed been assured by E in December that nothing was wrong. I think that sounds plausible.
Mr B says more warning lights appeared intermittently and then became more frequent so 
the car went back to E for more checks in April 2019. Ive seen a job card dated 25 April 
2019 which says E was asked to investigate intermittent stop/start issues that were 
increasing and a brake light symbol had illuminated. It looks as if E checked the car again 
but still couldnt identify a specific fault.
I can see that E replaced the battery in May. I think that was probably done in an effort to 
resolve the stop/start issue - a battery thats low on charge can impair this function. Mr B 
found this didnt help. When he received the recall notice a month later that said there might 
be an inherent problem with a battery cable in some cars, he felt certain this defect was 
present in his vehicle and explained the trouble hed been having.
the recall issue
Ive seen the manufacturers recall notice which says (insofar as its relevant here) the plug 
in battery cable on the front power distribution box can become damaged by vehicle 
vibrations and frictional corrosion together with a high load current. As a result damage to 
the plug-in contact on the positive battery cable can impair the power supply. The notice 
goes on to say possible early symptoms include:-
vehicle central locking symptoms failing sporadically
problems starting the engine
flickering of the instrument panel
jerking or momentary power loss whilst driving.
The manufacturer also states that loss of electrical power and cutting out of the engine is 
possible if any of these symptoms are ignored and the car should not be driven if theyre 
experienced.
did Mr Bs car have the faulty recalled part ?
I have no doubt it was upsetting for Mr B to find out about the manufacturers safety recall in 
June 2019, in the way that he did. I can see why he linked this immediately to the problems 
he experienced over the previous seven months. But, I cant reasonably conclude that his 
car contained the defective part solely on the grounds the manufacturer issued a recall 
notice for this particular model. I say this because manufacturers will sometimes issue a 
blanket recall when its been established that some cars may have an inherent 
manufacturing issue. But that doesnt mean every single vehicle made subject a recall 
definitely has the defective part.
Ive considered the available evidence about Mr Bs car in order to decide, on the balance of 
probabilities, if its likely that his vehicle was fitted with the recalled faulty battery cable. I 
understand Mr B considers this part must have been defective in his car because some of 
the relevant symptoms described by the manufacturer in the recall notice were present. He 
thinks issues that he put down to the clutch amount to jerking/loss of power and, whilst he didnt have a problem with central locking, he says the intermittent EMLs were flickering on 
the instrument panel.
I accept several EMLs illuminated over the first six or seven months after Mr B got the car. 
But, for reasons Ill explain below, I think the evidence suggests these probably had a 
legitimate cause  in that they came on because there were issues present with the TPMS, 
brakes and the stop/start function, amongst other things. Im not persuaded that these lights 
are likely to have been the sort of flickering which was symptomatic of the faulty battery 
cable.
I think its reasonable to note the paperwork supplied by the main dealer doesnt mention 
any signs of corrosion or malfunction in the part that was removed when the battery cable 
was replaced. And, having checked the job cards E supplied, Im satisfied these dont 
mention any of the other symptoms  such problems starting the car, momentary loss of 
power, jerking or issues with central locking - specifically. I think the various job cards would 
have been contemporaneous and they seem to document Mr Bs concerns in a fair amount 
of detail. I find it unlikely that issues such as the symptoms described by the manufacturer 
would not have been listed if Mr B had reported these at the time.
On balance, from the evidence Ive seen so far, I am not persuaded that the problems Mr B 
experienced were likely to be symptoms of the presence of a defective battery cable. For the 
reasons Ive set out below, I think its more likely than not these were caused by other faults.
was the car or satisfactory quality when it was supplied?
Im satisfied that Mr B reported several issues with this car within the first week of supply. I 
realise Moneybarn considers these werent sufficient to mean that this car was of 
unsatisfactory quality. But, I think its reasonable to bear in mind that Mr B reported these 
problems within the first 30 days - when he still had the short term right to reject under the 
CRA. I dont think the issues in question were insignificant  a faulty TPMS, for example, can 
cause undue and premature tyre wear and stop/start has an impact on fuel consumption and 
emissions. Im not persuaded it was unreasonable for Mr B to expect E to put things right. 
And I think he probably only agreed to keep the car on that basis.
I appreciate E was unable to identify specific issues when the car was checked in December 
2018 and April 2019. But, it looks as if E acknowledged there was something wrong (with the 
stop/start function at least) when the battery was replaced at no charge to Mr B - even 
though this was outside the three month warranty E says he got with the car. In July 2019, 
the main dealer found start/stop was inoperative (due to vacuum sensor fault) so Im 
satisfied replacing the battery didnt resolve that.
The main dealer also identified a low fuel pressure sensor fault and a problem with DPF 
which would not regenerate. I appreciate Moneybarn considers all three issues were new 
and unrelated to the problems reported previously. But, Im satisfied Mr B specifically 
referred to problems with stop/start in April 2019. I think the issues he had within a week of 
supply suggest the stop/start issue was probably present then. And, looking at some of the 
other issues he reported December 2018  such as rough idling and service lights  I 
consider these could be an early indication that the DPF was already clogged at that point.
Moneybarn has highlighted the importance of usage on maintenance of the DPF. Mr B told 
us he was reluctant to drive the car and drove it less than he otherwise would because of the 
ongoing problems. It looks as if Mr B travelled about 3,500 miles over the first seven months 
after supply. Thats a bit less than the national average and Mr B says its much less than he 
would usually cover over this time period. I think its understandable Mr B would be reluctant 
to take the car on longer journeys in this situation. I cant reasonably exclude the fact that impaired use may have exacerbated an existing DPF issue. And I think E may have 
recognised that, because it offered to cover the cost of a forced regeneration in August 
2019.
On balance overall, I think theres enough evidence to show that this car had faults present 
when it was supplied. I think a fair minded person would consider these to mean the car was 
of unsatisfactory quality at that point. Im satisfied that Mr B reported these issues to E very 
soon after supply and I dont think he would have accepted the car at that stage if he had not 
been told these would be fixed. Im satisfied that E did try and fix some things but these 
repairs were unsuccessful. Its clear that Mr B wanted to reject the car by August 2019. And I 
dont think its reasonable to expect him to wait any longer for the car to be fixed in these 
circumstances. Im minded to agree with our investigator that Moneybarn should end the 
CSA and arrange to collect the car from Mr B at no cost to him.
redress
We would usually say any deposit or advance payment should be refunded in this situation 
but no deposit was paid here, according to the CSA. If thats not right the parties should let 
me know in response to this provisional decision.
Working out whats fair in these circumstances isnt an exact science. Im not certain when 
Mr B stopped driving the car exactly. He told us Moneybarn agreed he shouldnt use it during 
a telephone conversation in August 2019. Ive listened to a recording of the relevant call. I 
think the call handler was sympathetic and understanding. I accept he told Mr B he shouldnt 
drive the car for the time being if he had safety concerns and I dont think that was 
unreasonable. Im satisfied the call handler also made it clear that this depended on the 
outcome of Moneybarns investigation of Mr Bs complaint and Moneybarn rejected the 
complaint a few weeks later.
From the information I have I think Mr B must have carried on using the car after that. Im 
satisfied hed covered about 3,500 miles by the time the main dealer checked the car in July 
2019 and the most recent odometer reading (from early 2020) was over 80,000 miles. This 
suggests he was able to drive the car another 3,000 miles or so. And, based on his previous 
use, I think Mr B probably carried on using the car until the end of 2019 or thereabouts - 
which seems consistent with the time he made his last finance payment, in January 2020.
Im minded to find it is fair that Moneybarn should waive any payments due from (and 
including) February 2020 when Mr B stopped using the car. I realise Mr B would like a refund 
of all his finance payments from the start of the CSA but I am not persuaded thats fair. Im 
satisfied he had some use of this car and I think it is reasonable he should pay for that. I 
accept its likely Mr Bs use of this car was impaired somewhat and Im minded to find 
Moneybarn should refund 20% of each monthly payment Mr B made to reflect that.
Ive seen some reference in the paperwork to Mr B being charged for investigations and 
diagnostic tests. In view of my findings above, I think it is fair that cost should be refunded if 
Mr B was required to meet these charges. Mr B should provide evidence of any costs 
incurred and/or relevant proof of payment if he wants me to include these in my final 
decision.
I have considered what Mr B says (and the paperwork he submitted) about lost income. If I 
understand Mr B correctly, I think he says he was unable to use the car, and had to turn 
down work, because it was faulty. Amongst other things, he refers to using the car for work 
as a taxi driver. Im satisfied thats prohibited specifically under the CSA (at paragraph 6.14 
so Im not persuaded its relevant here.I think a range of factors probably affected Mr Bs ability to work during the relevant time  
including the impact of the Covid 19 pandemic. Im satisfied he had some use of the car, in 
spite of the issues present. From the evidence Ive seen, Im not persuaded that any income 
lost can reasonably be attributed directly to the fact the car had some faults. And, I cant 
fairly require Moneybarn to provide a refund in this respect.
I appreciate it must have been unsettling for Mr B to find the recall work hadnt been 
attended to pre-sale. I can see he feels aggrieved and upset about the very possibility that 
he - or a family member - could have been injured as a result. Im unable to order 
Moneybarn to compensate third parties (such as family members) for distress and 
inconvenience - because theyre not Moneybarns customers. For the reasons Ive set out, I 
am not persuaded that this car contained a faulty battery cable. And, whilst I dont doubt Mr 
Bs strength of feeling on this point, I cant reasonably require Moneybarn to pay 
compensation for events that havent actually occurred.
I understand Mr B feels he should be paid compensation at the more severe end of our 
award scale for distress and inconvenience. I accept he experienced some inconvenience - 
in that he had to take the car back several times for checks and repairs due to faults. And I 
think its understandable he was worried and distressed when he realised the car had an 
outstanding safety recall. But, taking everything Ive seen into account, and considering the 
award Im inclined to make overall, Im minded to find it is fair for Moneybarn to pay Mr B 
£250 compensation for his distress and inconvenience.
I invited both parties to consider my provisional findings and let me have any further 
comments or evidence by 21 May 2021. 
The responses received from the parties
Both parties were disappointed by my provisional findings. Moneybarn accepts what Ive 
said but queries the use Mr B may have had of the car after February 2020. It asked for the 
current mileage and evidence the car hasnt been used since that time. 
Mr B provided very detailed submissions. And I hope hell understand Ive had to summarise 
those here - but that doesnt mean I havent taken what he said into account. I have read 
and considered this carefully. 
Mr B feels that some key issues and facts - which he went to some time and trouble to 
highlight - have not been addressed. He says his main complaint is that the car was sold 
with an outstanding safety recall. He considers this fact alone means the car was of 
unsatisfactory quality and unsafe to drive when it was supplied. Hes unhappy that I focused 
on the individual faults he reported in my provisional decision - rather than the safety recall 
and the question of whether the car should have been sold in the first place. 
Mr B acknowledges I was minded to find the car was of unsatisfactory quality at the point of 
sale for reasons other than the safety recall. But, he thinks these were almost side issues 
and hes unhappy that I didnt concentrate on the outstanding recall. Mr B refers to 
comments made by trading standards and the DVSA and hes also unhappy with the redress 
proposed. He says I accepted Moneybarn said he shouldnt drive the car due to safety 
concerns in August 2019 but I didnt consider the fact that Moneybarn then closed his 
complaint without undertaking a proper investigation. He thinks I misunderstood his loss of 
earnings claim  in particular, he says he was engaged as a security operative in March 
2020 not a taxi driver. And I failed to address his ongoing transport problems and loss of 
earnings properly. 
Mr B considers a more reasonable outcome (insofar as this differs from my provisional conclusions) would be for Moneybarn to refund 80% of each monthly payment from the point 
of supply and reimburse his lost earnings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank the parties for their responses. I can see that Mr B, in particular, has gone to 
some trouble to provide very detailed replies. l understand hes disappointed that I havent 
made more specific findings about Moneybarns obligations in respect of the outstanding 
safety recall. Ideally, I think Mr B would like me to answer every question and respond to 
every point he raised. But, as I explained, in my provisional decision thats not my job here. 
This service provides informal dispute resolution between financial businesses and their 
customers. And my role is to look at what I consider is relevant and material to reaching a 
fair and reasonable outcome - in all of the circumstances of this individual complaint. Whilst I 
must take relevant law (amongst other things) into account  and I have done so here - this 
isnt a court. And its not for me to make legal pronouncements  or penalise any financial 
organisation or its employees.  
For the reasons Ive set out already, Im not persuaded its likely this car had the faulty part 
that was recalled by the manufacturer. But Im satisfied, on balance, that its more likely than 
not the car was of unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied. Nothing the parties have said 
has changed my mind about this and I remain of the view Mr B should be allowed to reject 
the car and receive a refund and compensation. 
Putting things right
I find it fair that that Moneybarn should end the CSA and arrange to take this car back at no 
additional cost to Mr B. There was no deposit paid so theres no refund due in that respect. 
But, I understand Mr B feels Moneybarn should have to provide a larger refund of monthly 
payments. 
As Ive explained already, I think it is fair that Mr B should pay for the use he had of this car. 
Im satisfied he was able to drive it several thousand miles after supply. I accept this use was 
impaired to some extent, but Im not persuaded its reasonable to require Moneybarn to 
refund as much as 80% of each monthly payment - taking into account the award Im making 
overall. 
Mr B says Moneybarn agreed that he should stop driving the car in August 2019 for safety 
reasons. But, as Ive already explained, I cant reasonably find Moneybarn told Mr B he 
shouldnt drive the car from that point. I have some sympathy for Mr Bs argument that 
Moneybarn should perhaps have done more to investigate what was wrong with the car then 
 in which case it might have agreed he should be entitled to reject at that stage. But, this 
doesnt take away from the fact Mr B was able to drive the car about another 3,000 miles or 
so after August 2019  and the recalled part had been replaced by this time so that should 
no longer have reasonably been a concern for Mr B. 
Moneybarn asked for evidence of the use Mr B had of the car and Mr B sent us a screenshot 
of the odometer that shows the current mileage is about the same as it was in early 2020  
just over 80,000 miles. I think this supports my provisional finding that Mr B probably 
stopped using the car by February 2020. I remain of the view that its fair for any payments 
due after January 2020 to be waived (or  for the avoidance of any doubt if any payments 
were made after that time - refunded) in full. And, for the reasons Ive given, I find it is reasonable for Moneybarn to refund 20% of each monthly payment Mr B made before that - 
to reflect his impaired use, from the start of the agreement until February 2020.
I have given some thought to what Mr B says about lost income. Hes told us that he was 
offered work but couldnt take it due to lack of transport  and that work, in security, would 
have continued throughout the pandemic and any lockdowns. I still think there are many 
factors that are likely to have affected Mr Bs ability to work during the relevant time. From 
the evidence Ive seen, I cant reasonably conclude that the issues he had with this car were 
the sole cause of the income loss he describes  or that Moneybarn should reasonably have 
known such a loss of income was likely. 
Im satisfied Mr B was obliged to mitigate his losses in this situation. It looks as if he was still 
driving the car until early 2020 and I think it would have been open to him to take public 
transport after that, in these particular circumstances. Taking everything into account, Im not 
satisfied there are sufficient fair and reasonable grounds to require Moneybarn to provide an 
additional refund in this respect. 
Having considered all the information and evidence available, including the submissions 
made by the parties in response to my provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from 
my provisional conclusions. I realise this decision is likely to come as a disappointment to Mr 
B. But he doesnt have to accept what Ive said, in which case it remains open to him to 
pursue the matter by other means, should he wish to do so.    
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my decision is I uphold this complaint and require 
Moneybarn No.1 Limited to:-
1. end the CSA and collect the car from Mr B, at no additional cost to him;
2. waive (or refund) any monthly payments due from (and including) February 2020 
- when Mr B stopped using the car
3. refund 20% of any monthly payments Mr B made before that, for impaired use;
4. refund the cost of relevant investigations and diagnostic checks - upon provision 
of proof of payment or appropriate evidence that this cost was incurred by Mr B;
5. pay interest on the refunds above at 8% simple a year from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement; 
6. pay Mr B £250 compensation for distress and inconvenience; and
7. remove any adverse information recorded about the CSA from Mr Bs credit file.
If Moneybarn considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from the interest, it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It should also give him a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2021.
 
Claire JacksonOmbudsman