DRN-3985994
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Crowdcube Capital Limited (trading as Crowdcube) mis-sold her an 
investment she made into a crowdfunding opportunity. She says her investment was sold 
without her knowledge and consent.  
What happened
Crowdcube operates a crowdfunding platform  this allows investors like Mrs H to invest in 
shares of what are generally small or start-up companies, with Crowdcube arranging their 
investment.
In May 2017, Mrs H invested £200 in one such opportunity on Crowdcubes platform to 
purchase shares in a company. She says she was a long-time champion, user and 
purchaser of the companys product. She received an invitation to invest and was directed to 
Crowdcubes website to review the investment pitch. 
 
She completed an application and received an investment certificate in June 2017. In May 
2018, she received an e-mail from Crowdcube telling her the shares had been sold along 
with a proceeds cheque for £15.93  a significant loss of her original investment. 
She complained to Crowdcube that she wasnt made aware that her investment could be 
sold without her knowledge and consent. She was also unhappy about the way the 
investment was sold to her. She said she didnt believe that all the relevant details in regard 
to companys financial state were supplied to her before investing and unfavourable
facts were withheld. 
Crowdcube responded to the complaint. It said it understood Mrs H was referring to a bank 
loan breach when she mentioned that unfavourable facts were withheld. It said it was 
explained in an explanatory note, that was made available to all investors on the pitch, the
financial covenants of the loan were in the process of being amended and would be finalised 
prior to the completion of the investment round. It said it received evidence to ensure the 
terms of the loan covenant were finalised, with no punitive impact on the company and, as a 
result, its investors. In respect of Mrs Hs complaint about her investment being sold without 
her knowledge and agreement. Crowdcube said there was a drag along procedure 
including in the companys Articles of Association. This meant that the majority shareholders
can force the other shareholders to sell their shares on the same terms  and this is what 
happened with Mrs Hs investment. 
Mrs H referred her complaint to our service for an independent review. I issued a Provisional 
Decision in January 2023. This is what I said:
It isnt in dispute that Crowdcube promoted the investment Mrs H, and that it arranged it for 
her. Neither party contends that Crowdcube shouldnt have promoted the investment to Mrs 
H, or that this wasnt an appropriate investment for her. 
To be clear I can only consider the obligations Crowdcube had towards Mrs H as an investor 
when arranging the investment. I cant consider any actions of the company that she 
invested in. With this in mind, Ive considered Crowdcubes obligations. At the time of 
promoting the investment opportunity, Crowdcube was authorised and regulated by the FCA. 
The relevant rules and regulations FCA regulated firms are required to follow are set out in 
the FCAs Handbook of rules and guidance.
The FCA Principles for Business (PRIN) set out the overarching requirements which all
authorised firms are required to comply with. PRIN 1.1.1G, says The Principles apply in
whole or in part to every firm. The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. The
most relevant principles here are:
-PRIN 2.1.1R (2) A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
-PRIN 2.1.1R (6) A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and 
treat them fairly.
-PRIN 2.1.1R (7) A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, 
and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
Crowdcube was also required to act in accordance with the rules set out in the Conduct of
Business Sourcebook (COBS). And the most relevant obligations here are:
-COBS 2.1.1R (1) A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with the best interests of its client.
-COBS 4.2.1R (1) A firm must ensure that a communication or a financial promotion 
is fair, clear and not misleading.
So before approving the pitch, Crowdcube needed to satisfy itself that the information 
contained within it was fair, clear and not misleading. And it also needed to be satisfied that 
by approving the promotion and allowing its customers to invest in, it would continue to be 
acting in its clients best interests.
In order to satisfy itself of the fair, clear and not misleading nature of the claims or assertions
made in the pitch, Crowdcube would need to carry out reasonable checks. What these
reasonable checks involve, or indeed what they might be in any given case, is something
which is very much left to each platform to determine and would vary according to the
particular circumstances. Its clear that it wasnt the regulators intention to provide a set of
tick boxes which needed to be completed for a promotion to be approved.
I note that in its policy statement PS14/4 the FCA said of the due diligence expected of 
crowdfunding firms (my emphasis): we expect sufficient detail to be provided to give a 
balanced indication of the benefits and the risk involved, including whether or not any due 
diligence has been carried out on an investee company, the extent of the due diligence and 
the outcome of any analysis. In 2015 the FCA issued a review of the regulatory regime for 
crowdfunding where it said: Firms need to provide investors with appropriate information, in 
a comprehensive form, so that they are reasonably able to understand the nature and risks 
of the investment, and, consequently, to make investment decisions on an informed basis. 
One of the areas of concern the FCA identified was a situation where a platform provided: 
Insufficient, omitted or the cherry-picking of information, leading to a potentially misleading 
or unrealistically optimistic impression of the investment. 
This all means, Crowdcube needed to ensure any information it gave Mrs H that was fair, 
clear, and not misleading, and enabled her to make an informed decision whether to invest, 
armed with knowledge of the nature and risks of an investment into the company.
Information relating to the companys financial statusMrs H has referred to information being withheld about the companys financial state. Its not 
in dispute that Crowdcube knew about a covenant breach on a loan facility, so the question 
is whether Crowdcube ought to have included that information in what it told Mrs H about the 
investee company. 
Crowdcube provided Mrs H with a financial snapshot document as well as an explanatory 
note with more information about the company. The explanatory note says the company has 
an agreement to borrow a total of £3.5million from its bank. At the time of the crowdfunding 
raise, it had drawn down £2million of the facility, with the rest available to be drawn down 
some months later. The note goes on to say this second tranche is dependent on the 
company meeting revenue targets. It also says there are financial covenants in the loan 
agreement relating to cash and revenue, and that these covenants are in the process of 
being amended. Similarly, the financial snapshot mentions the covenants and says the 
company needs to hold particular levels of cash. 
I do have concerns that potentially misleading information was provided. For example, in my 
view, going into detail about the covenants in place, and the fact they were being 
renegotiated  but failing to say why, or that theyd previously been breached  failed to give 
a full and clear picture of the loan arrangement. The documents give no indication that the 
company was concerned about its ability to meet the loan covenants, and says it thinks the 
crowdfunding raise should give them enough cash to meet their debt covenants for some 
time. Im satisfied the notes let investors know of the loan arrangements with the bank and 
that they were subject to covenants on the company. But there was no information provided 
about how the company had performed against those covenants in the past. So, its unclear 
Mrs H did have all of the information she should have. 
Having said that, even if I were to make a finding that Crowdcube did provide misleading 
information, this doesnt necessarily mean I think the complaint would be upheld. I need to 
decide whether clearer information about the circumstances surrounding the covenants and 
the loan arrangements would have made a difference to Mrs Hs decision to invest. Ive 
thought very carefully about this, but on balance, Im currently persuaded she would have 
still invested despite Crowdcubes potential failing. Ill explain why Ive reached this 
conclusion.
Mrs H has been clear in her submissions about her reasoning for investing. I note she has 
said she had been following the company for eight years, so did not consider them new to 
business. She has told us she considered herself a long-time champion, user and purchaser 
of the companys product before investing. She also said she had every faith in what she 
saw as a brilliant product. She was a follower of the brand and was already aware of the 
business plans, so raising funds to forward these goals seemed reasonable. She understood 
the investment to be long term and said she was aware the value could go up or down, or 
indeed be lost completely should the company fail. All of this supports that she had 
confidence in the overall financial prospect of the business and accepted the risk of losing 
her money because she believed in the project. This leads me to the conclusion that she 
wouldve invested, even if she had been told the full picture about the covenants and loan 
arrangements.
So, taking into account all of the above, I havent found evidence to persuade me that 
clearer information on this point would have changed Mrs Hs decision to invest.
Not being aware the investment could be sold without consent
Ive also considered the points Mrs H makes about her investment being sold without her 
knowledge and consent. As mentioned above, Crowdcube was responsible for the arranging 
and promotion of the investment opportunity. Once the investment had been made, Crowdcube didnt have any responsibility for the decisions made by the company to sell Mrs 
Hs investment. So, I cant look at the actions of the company from this time as part of the 
complaint about Crowdcube. But I have considered the information Mrs H was given prior to 
her investment. 
Crowdcube explained that the process the company followed to sell the investment was 
known as drag along procedure and this possibility was including in its Articles of 
Association. Crowdcube say this procedure is designed to ensure that minority shareholders 
cannot block an exit by the majority  and generally this allows the majority shareholders
to force the other shareholders to sell their shares on the same terms, to the same buyer. 
And due to the size of Mrs Hs investment, she was considered a minority shareholder  and 
this is why her investment was sold without her consent. Ive looked at the available 
evidence to establish whether it supports the explanation given by Crowdcube. 
The pitch explains that investments of £10+ (but less than £20,000) would be classed as B 
investment shares and investments over £20,000 would be classed as A ordinary 
shareholders. It also confirms that B shareholders do not have any voting or pre-emption 
rights. As Mrs H invested £200, she was classed as a B investment shareholder. The pitch 
also provided a link to the Articles of Association. And Crowdcube says, prior to funds being 
drawdown, it sent Mrs H an email, advising her to read the attached Articles of Association 
carefully as they set out her rights as a B Investment shareholder and form the company's 
constitution. The email said If you have any questions, concerns, or if you no longer wish to 
proceed with your investment please reply to this message before 5pm on 24th May 2017. 
At this time, unless you have emailed us beforehand to cancel, your order will be accepted 
by [the company] and your subscription will be legally binding. It said Mrs H did not respond 
with any queries. Ive reviewed the Articles of Association and note that there is a section 
that explains the inclusion of a Drag along option. This supports the information Crowdcube 
has provided on the reason why Mrs Hs shares were sold without any required consent from 
her. 
Having considered, this part of Mrs Hs a complaint, I havent found that Crowdcube are 
responsible for failings that led to her entering an investment she wouldnt have otherwise. It 
provided details of the information about her rights as a shareholder and provided her with 
information to understand and query anything she was unsure of before deciding to invest. I 
havent seen evidence to suggest that Crowdcube mis-led or provided unclear information 
about this issue.
Mrs H responded to the provisional decision. In summary she said:
Crowdfunding platforms promote themselves as a means for ordinary people to 
invest in up and coming companies. But she thinks that platforms do so on the basis 
that investors like herself wont employ specialist legal and financial experts to 
scrutinise all of the detail of the investment opportunities. 
If the fact her investment could be sold at any moment, without her knowledge, 
consent or wish had been presented to her plainly, within the pitch, with the same 
sort of emphasis as the long term investment, value can go up & down elements, she 
definitely would not have invested. She didnt find out about the drag along clause 
until she questioned why her shares had been sold. 
If the reason for fund raising had been pitched not, as it was, for expansion and 
development but as a means to shore up the company until a buyout could be 
completed, she also wouldnt have invested. Rather she may have donated in order 
to save the product but not through a crowdfunding platform.
Crowdcube hasnt provided any further arguments or evidence for me to consider. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the further comments made by Mrs H, but Ive not found reason to change 
the outcome I set out in my provisional decision. While I understand her disappointment with 
what happened with her investment, I havent found that Crowdcube at fault for this. I also 
appreciate that Mrs H says she wouldnt have invested had she known what she knows now. 
But in order to uphold the complaint I need to be satisfied that it was something Crowdcube 
did or failed to do that led her to invest in this opportunity when she wouldnt have otherwise. 
And I need to do this without the benefit of hindsight of what went wrong.
I acknowledge the point Mrs H makes about the reason given in the pitch for the fund 
raising. I havent found that this was misleading, despite the later events that led to the sale 
of the company. And as previously explained, Im satisfied she was provided with sufficient 
information about her rights as a shareholder. 
For the reason given in my provisional decision and those above, I dont find that Mrs H has 
been treated unfairly in the circumstances, so I dont require Crowdcube to do anything 
further. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2023.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman