DRN-3072967
The complaint
Mr M complains that National Westminster Bank Plc failed to refund several transactions he 
didnt recognise making from his account.
What happened
Mr M has said that he received a notification by text from NatWest about a new payee being 
set up on his account. Because he didnt recognise this activity he tried to access his mobile 
banking app and log in to online banking, both of which failed. He then called NatWest who 
told him that several payments had left his account to a new payee. 
Mr M explained that when he eventually gained access to his account, the first payment he 
saw was an incoming payment, which was subsequently removed from his account. Several 
further transactions were made from his account totalling £6,000.
Mr M confirmed to NatWest that he still had his debit card and he hadnt provided his online 
banking details to anyone else or entered them into any texts or emails. Mr M said during his 
first call to NatWest that he hadnt used his mobile banking app for a few days.
Mr M asked for a refund because he told NatWest that he hadnt made any transactions, but 
NatWest declined his request. They told Mr M that the new payee was arranged through 
online banking and had to be confirmed through the use of his genuine debit card and his 
card reader. NatWests audit data confirmed this information and they explained that it 
couldnt be made without the genuine card, which Mr M still had in his possession. 
Mr M continued to deny that hed made any of these transactions and thought he may have 
been hacked. He complained to NatWest who, after their investigation, continued to believe 
that Mr M was responsible. Mr M was unhappy about how theyd handled the investigation 
and brought his complaint to our service for an independent review.
It was looked into by one of our investigators who explained that Mr M had successfully 
logged on to his mobile banking less than 20 minutes before the disputed transactions 
started and there were no records showing unsuccessful login attempts by Mr M. Because 
the transactions needed Mr Ms physical card to be used, and it was still in Mr Ms 
possession, our investigator thought it was reasonable for NatWest to hold Mr M liable for 
the transactions.
Mr M didnt accept the investigators outcome and asked for a further review. He said he had  
witnesses who were with him at the time of the transactions and NatWests records were 
wrong. Mr M also couldnt understand why NatWest hadnt tried to retrieve his funds.
The complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. The 
basic position is that NatWest can hold Mr M liable for the disputed payments if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that he made them or authorised them.
Coming to the question of authorisation, this is made up of two parts. Authentication and 
consent. Authentication is usually referred to as the technical evidence and in this case, 
NatWest have supplied evidence that shows Mr Ms online banking was successfully logged 
into and his genuine card was used to confirm the payments using a card reader and 
Personal Identification Number (PIN). These were used to set up a new payee and make the 
first transaction. The other transactions no longer required the card reader but were similarly 
recorded in the audit. So, Im satisfied that the evidence shows all the disputed transactions 
were authenticated.
Consent refers to the way in which NatWest and Mr M agreed to use the various devices 
and security information for transactions. For example, when using online banking, together 
with the genuine debit card/PIN and card reader, NatWest agree to accept that this is a 
legitimate payment instruction made by the cardholder or another approved user and make 
the payment on their behalf. The transactions in this case used online banking, the genuine 
card and the correct PIN, which generated a specific code to authorise the setting up of a 
new payee and the first payment to the new account, so Im satisfied that consent was given 
and the disputed transactions were authorised. But, there are exceptions where it wouldnt 
be appropriate for NatWest to hold Mr M responsible, for example if the payment was set up 
without his permission.
Mr M thought that a payment was received into his account before the disputed transactions 
were made. I can understand why Mr M thought that because thats how it looks on the 
statement. Having looked at the data relevant to the payments, the first disputed transaction 
was set up for a larger amount  this was the payment that Mr M referred to and was 
returned from the receiving bank, although I dont know the reason for its return. So, it wasnt 
a payment into the account, it was the first disputed transaction being rejected by the 
receiving bank. The rest of the transactions were then made for smaller amounts.
Mr M has explained that he was at home with other persons when he received a notification 
from NatWest about the new account that had been set up. He then tried to log in to both his 
mobile banking and online banking but was unsuccessful. Mr M told the NatWest call 
handler that he hadnt used his mobile banking for a couple of days. This call took place less 
than ten minutes after the series of disputed transactions were completed. Ive closely 
examined the audit data related to the activity on Mr Ms mobile and online banking activity 
and can see that Mr M was using it with his phone less than twenty minutes prior to the 
disputed transactions being set up. So, I would have thought that Mr M would have 
remembered this as his phone was logged in about 40 minutes earlier.
Mr Ms online banking was successfully logged into with the proper security details less than 
20 minutes after using his mobile banking app, this included the validation from a One Time 
Passcode sent to Mr Ms mobile. NatWests records confirm that Mr Ms mobile has been 
registered with their mobile banking for some time. Mr Ms genuine card and the card reader 
were then used to set up the new payee which requires the use of Mr Ms PIN to generate a 
specific code to authorise the new payee and then used again to authorise the first payment. 
The additional payments were then made without the need of the card reader.
Mr M thinks NatWests data is wrong and that he may have been hacked. Whilst that is a 
possibility, I dont think its the likely explanation here. The procedure required to log in to 
NatWests online banking and set up a new payee has several stages, requiring Mr Ms customer number and online banking PIN to access the website. It then needs Mr Ms 
genuine debit card which contains a chip. That chip is then read by the card reader after the 
PIN for the debit card is entered. Because a successful code was then entered into the 
online banking, which is generated by the card reader, its unlikely this could be created by 
anything other than the genuine card, which Mr M confirmed was still in his possession and 
the PIN, known only to him. 
Ive also considered the possibility of the card being cloned, but based on what our service 
has seen, and the industry guidance available to us, we have yet to see a complaint where 
the Chip on a card has been cloned. So, Im satisfied Mr Ms card wasnt cloned and it was 
Mr Ms genuine card that was used to set up and make the payments.
It is a possibility that if this information was given to someone else, along with additional 
security information to log in to the online banking, then that could account for the 
transactions. Mr M has explained that he hadnt been contacted by anyone else or given any 
details to a third party. So, based on what Mr M said, I dont think the explanation for the 
transaction lies with a third party. I realise thatll be a difficult message for Mr M, but its what 
the evidence leads me to conclude when looking at all the circumstances objectively here.
Mr M also complained that NatWest didnt follow up with the receiving bank. When they 
investigated the transactions, NatWest believed Mr M had authorised them and as there was 
no indication of a scam, they didnt follow this up. I dont think this was an unreasonable 
position for them to take considering they believed Mr M had made the payments himself.
Whilst Im sure Mr M will disagree with me, the evidence that Ive considered leads me to the 
conclusion that, on the balance of probabilities, it was more likely than not that Mr M 
authorised or allowed his banking details to be used to make these payments. I say that 
because the authorisation process requires the genuine card to be used to generate a code. 
That code is unlikely to be replicated by anyone else and Mr M confirmed he still had his 
card in his possession. So, taking everything into account, I think it is fair and reasonable for 
NatWest to hold Mr M responsible for these transactions and I dont uphold this complaint.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman