DRN-2110483
The complaint
 Mr A says Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 Money) lent to him irresponsibly.  
What happened
Mr A took out an 18-month loan for £1550 on 11 May 2019. The monthly repayment was 
£169.22 and the total repayable was £3045.96. He says 118 118 Money didnt carry out the 
correct checks before lending to him.
Our investigator upheld Mr As complaint. She said under the relevant rules a lender must 
not accept an application for credit if it knows or suspects the applicant has provided false 
information. And that was the case here so 118 118 Money didnt make a fair lending 
decision.
118 118 Money disagreed saying as it had copies of Mr As bank statements it was able to 
check the loan was affordable for him. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when 118 118 Money lent to Mr A. 
Its rules and guidance, set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), obliged 118 118 
Money to lend responsibly. Amongst other things, 118 118 Money was required to carry out 
a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether Mr A could afford to repay what he 
owed in a sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment 
or an affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So 118 118 Money had to think about whether 
repaying the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr 
A. In other words, it wasnt enough for 118 118 Money to simply think about the likelihood of 
it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr A.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required
to make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether 118 118 Money did what it needed to before 
agreeing to lend to Mr A, and have considered the following questions:
 
did 118 118 Money complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing 
Mr As loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a
sustainable way?
if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
did 118 118 Money make a fair lending decision?
did 118 118 Money act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
118 118 Money asked for some information from Mr A before it approved the loan. It asked 
for details of his income, his monthly living costs and his existing credit commitments. It 
asked about his employment and residential status. It checked his credit file to understand 
his credit history and asked for copies of recent bank statements. It also asked about the 
purpose of the loan which was other. From these checks combined 118 118 Money 
concluded the loan was affordable for Mr A.
I think these checks were proportionate but, like our investigator, I dont think 118 118 
Money reacted appropriately to the information it gathered. The lender knew from the credit 
report it obtained that Mr A was making loan repayments that he hadnt declared in his 
monthly expenses. And CONC 5.2A.36(R) clearly sets out: 
A firm must not accept an application for credit under a regulated credit agreement where 
the firm knows or has reasonable cause to suspect that the customer has not been truthful in 
completing the application in relation to information relevant to the creditworthiness 
assessment.
I note 118 118 Money argues that as it had copies of Mr As bank statements it was able to 
verify the loan was affordable, but this doesnt change my conclusion. The above rule makes 
very clear what a lender should do if it discovers false or incomplete information has been 
submitted as part of a credit application. 
In addition to having evidence that Mr A had not been truthful in his application, I also think 
118 118 Money should have been concerned that as it was increasing Mr As monthly credit 
commitments to just under half of his declared net income there was a risk he would be 
unable to sustainably repay this loan. I accept this was short term noting the end dates of 
Mr As other loans, but this doesnt remove a level of risk.
I have also looked at whether 118 118 Money acted unfairly or unreasonably in some other 
way. I havent found any evidence that it did. 
Putting things right
Its reasonable for Mr A to have repaid the capital amount that he borrowed as he had thebenefit of that money. But he has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt have
been given to him. So he has lost out and 118 118 Money needs to put things right.
It should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges on the loan and treat all the payments
Mr A made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Mr As loan account results in him having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then 118 118 Money should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date 
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr As credit file in relation to the
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires 118 118 Money to deduct tax from this interest. 118 118 Money 
should give Mr A a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one. 
 
My final decision
I am upholding Mr As complaint. Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 Money) must 
put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman