DRN-2084993
The complaint
Mr M complains Capital One (Europe) plc wont refund a transaction on his credit card that 
he authorised but which turned out to be part of a scam. 
What happened
Mr M was contacted by someone claiming to be from a claims management company. They 
said they could help Mr M recover money hed previously paid toward a PPI policy. He was 
told that hed need to pay an upfront fee of £576 in order to release the funds.
Mr M decided to proceed and was given instructions of how to pay the upfront fee. He went 
on to make a payment of £585 (the £576 requested plus a £9 transaction charge) using his 
card details  and confirmed using a one-time passcode  to a money transfer service. The 
funds were subsequently collected in cash by an individual.
Mr M was contacted a second time by the same people. He was told hed need to send more 
money to release the funds. He did so using a different card held with a different firm. That 
transaction doesnt form part of this complaint.
When Mr M didnt receive any money and couldnt get in touch with the claims management 
company he realised hed fallen victim to a scam. He notified Capital One and it investigated 
his fraud claim. 
Capital One told Mr M it was unable to help. It said hed authorised the transaction and so he 
was liable for it. It said it couldnt raise a chargeback claim against the money transfer 
service as there was no valid reason to do so.
Mr M was unhappy with Capital Ones response and so brought the complaint to our service. 
One of investigators looked into what had happened and found Capital One had acted fairly 
and reasonably. She couldnt see there were grounds to say Capital One ought to have 
refunded Mr M and didnt believe there was a valid chargeback claim.
As Mr M disagreed with our investigators findings the case has been passed to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint for broadly the same reasons as the investigator. Ill 
explain why.
It is the case that Mr M authorised the transaction in dispute and thats accepted by all 
parties. And under the Payment Service Regulations 2017 that means Mr M is responsible 
for it. That remains the case even though Mr M was the unfortunate victim of a scam. 
There are times when I might expect a bank to question a transaction, even though it may 
have been properly authorised. Broadly speaking, firms like Capital One have certain 
obligations to monitor accounts and protect customers from fraud.
But I dont find the transaction subject to this complaint was so unusual or suspicious that 
Capital One ought to have stepped in to question its legitimacy. Although it is a lot of money 
for Mr M to have lost, the transaction isnt for such a high amount that I think Capital One 
ought to have realised Mr M was at risk of falling victim to a scam. And there werent 
significant other factors at play that change my view of that, even when considering it wasnt 
a typical transaction for Mr M to have made using his card. So I dont find Capital One acted 
improperly in following Mr Fs instructions to make a payment.
There are other methods available to card holders that might be used to try and recover 
money lost to scams. One such method is for the card issuer to raise a chargeback on 
behalf of its customer. I can see Capital One did consider this option but realised it wouldnt 
have been possible. Our investigator thought the same and I agree. 
Thats because Mr M has essentially paid the money transfer company for a service: the 
sending on of funds. That service has been provided. And so, even though the reason for 
the payment turned out to be a scam, Mr M has no valid chargeback claim against the 
money transfer company. Its provided the service it was paid for.
Mr M might have also had a claim considered under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act. 
This offers consumers some protection from breaches of contract or misrepresentation on 
the part of a merchant. But any such claim here would have failed for the same reason as a 
chargeback. And so Mr M is not due a refund under these considerations either.
I know this must be very frustrating for Mr M and I do sympathise with him. But I dont 
believe Capital One ought to have refunded him or pursued his claim in a different way.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2020.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman