DRN-3802699
The complaint
Mr H complains that Blue Motor Finance Ltd irresponsibly granted him a hire purchase 
agreement he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In May 2017, Mr H acquired a used car financed by a hire purchase agreement from Blue 
Motor Finance. Mr H was required to make 60 monthly repayments of around £303 with a 
final payment of around £453. The total repayable under the agreement was around 
£18,665.
Mr H says that Blue Motor Finance didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if 
it had, it would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Blue Motor Finance didnt agree. 
It said that it carried out a thorough assessment which included a creditworthiness check 
using credit reference agency information. It said this showed defaults on Mr Hs credit file, 
but these were reducing and that his other credit commitments were being managed well. It 
said that based on Mr Hs stated income the repayments werent considered excessive and 
based on his employment details it considered these sustainable. 
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. He thought Blue Motor Finance 
ought to have realised the agreement wasnt affordable to Mr H.
Blue Motor Finance didnt agree. It said that Mr H had made paid his instalments and the 
agreement was closed. It said Mr Hs affordability was correctly assessed and his credit file 
showed no concerns. 
Mr H said that he had to take out further credit to maintain his repayments and this resulted 
in him going into a debt management plan.
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Blue Motor Finance will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice 
we consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
The credit check Blue Motor Finance completed showed that Mr H had previously defaulted 
on accounts and had several credit cards with balances nearing their limits as well as other 
credit commitments outstanding at the time. I think this ought to have indicated that Mr H 
was likely to be struggling financially. It therefore would have been proportionate for Blue 
Motor Finance to have got a more thorough understanding of Mr Hs financial circumstances 
before lending.
Blue Motor Finance gathered details about Mr Hs employment and his monthly income. This 
was recorded as £1,354. I cannot see evidence that Mr Hs income was verified and given 
the overall size of the borrowing, the monthly repayments and the term of the agreement, 
and noting Mr Hs previous credit history, I think it would have been proportionate for Blue 
Motor Finance to have done so. I also think that Blue Motor Finance should have asked 
Mr H about his expenditure. Although it did complete a credit check, this wont have 
indicated what Mr Hs regular living expenses were. Without knowing what Mr Hs regular 
committed expenditure was Blue Motor Finance wouldnt have got a reasonable 
understanding of whether the agreement was affordable or not. It therefore didnt complete 
proportionate checks. 
Ive reviewed three months of bank statements leading up to the lending decision. I think 
these give a reasonable indication of what Blue Motor Finance would have found out had it 
verified Mr Hs income and asked about his expenses. These show that Mr Hs monthly 
income was below the amount recorded, being just over £1,100. His expenses for items 
such as rent and bills, other credit commitments, food and transport averaged at around 
£1,200. This demonstrates that Mr H didnt have enough disposable income to afford the 
additional borrowing. Blue Motor Finance therefore didnt act fairly by approving the finance.
Putting things right
As I dont think Blue Motor Finance ought to have approved the lending, I dont think its fair 
for it to be able to charge any interest or charges under the agreement. Mr H should 
therefore only have to pay the original cash price of the car, being £9,974. Anything Mr H 
has paid in excess of that amount should be refunded as an overpayment. 
To settle Mr Hs complaint Blue Motor Finance should do the following:
Refund any payments Mr H has made in excess of £9,974 representing the original 
cash price of the car. It should add 8% simple interest per year* from the date of 
each overpayment to the date of settlement.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Hs credit file regarding the 
agreement.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Blue Motor Finance to take off tax from this interest. Blue 
Motor Finance must give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if Mr H asks 
for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Blue Motor Finance Ltd to put things right in the manner 
set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman