DRN-4107889
The complaint
Mr B and Ms C complain that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited will only pay 
£100 per hour for the solicitors costs to pursue a claim under their legal expenses insurance 
policy.
Whilst the policy is in joint names, Ill mainly refer to Mr B as this is his claim. 
What happened
Mr B made a claim under his legal expenses insurance policy to pursue an employment 
dispute. DAS agreed to cover the claim and offered to appoint one of its panel firms of 
solicitors. Mr B has opted to use a solicitor of his own choice, which DAS has agreed to  but 
it says the most it will pay under the policy is £100 per hour.
Mr B doesnt think this is fair because his claim is complex, high value, and of a sensitive 
nature  which is an opinion supported by his solicitor. He says his solicitor is a grade A fee 
earner with an hourly rate of £261, who is unwilling to act for £100 per hour and he cant find 
anyone that can. He complains that the hourly rate renders his freedom of choice of solicitor 
meaningless.
DAS didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint, on the basis that the policy is clear about the level of 
cover available. It said Mr B could; 1) pay the difference between the £100 per hour offered 
by the policy and the solicitors hourly rate; 2) find an alternative solicitor that can act for 
£100 per hour; or 3) use a panel solicitor who has already agreed to act for £100 per hour. 
As Mr B remained unhappy, he brought his complaint to our service. 
Our Investigator upheld the complaint, as she was satisfied Mr B had proven that his claim 
was too complex to be dealt with under the usual policy rates. She recommended that DAS 
pay the county court rates for a grade A fee earner. But DAS didnt agree and provided 
statements from its panel solicitors that the claim wasnt so complex that a higher rate was 
justified. 
As such, the complaint was passed to me to decide and in April 2023, I issued the following 
provisional decision.
My provisional decision
The terms and conditions of Mr Bs legal expenses insurance policy says:
We will pay an appointed representative, on your behalf, costs and expenses 
incurred following an insured incident, provided thatthe most we will pay in costs 
and expenses is no more than the amount we would have paid to a preferred law 
firm. The amount we will pay a law firm (where acting as an appointed 
representative) is currently £100 per hour. This amount may vary from time to time.
Insurers must provide information thats clear, fair, and not misleading. Where theres a 
significant limit on cover, such as an hourly rate lower than the amount the policyholder 
might pay their own solicitors, the insurer needs to make this clear; policyholders should 
know at the outset what cover theyre getting. 
As the insurer that will be paying the legal costs, its reasonable for DAS to have a say in the 
amount being charged by the policyholders solicitor. Im satisfied the policy is clear that the 
rate DAS will normally pay is £100 per hour. This is the level of cover provided and for which 
Mr B has been charged a premium. So, the starting point is that this is what Mr B can 
expect.
Mr B and his solicitor argue that the claim is complex so a higher rate should be offered. And 
theyve provided information detailing why. 
But whilst his employment dispute involves a number of issues, DAS panel firms have 
teams of lawyers who are used to dealing with employment disputes like this. Two different 
panel firms of solicitors have confirmed that the case isnt so complex or unusual that they 
wouldve charged a higher rate than the £100 per hour offered by the policy, had they been 
instructed on the claim. 
Based on the information provided, I dont think its unfair for DAS to apply the policy terms 
and conditions to Mr Bs claim. Whilst I appreciate Mr Bs chosen solicitor is unwilling to act 
for the hourly rate of £100, this doesnt mean his freedom to choose his own solicitor is 
rendered meaningless. Im satisfied DAS has provided Mr B with three suitable options to 
pursue his claim under the policy and I dont intend to direct it to anything more. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr B didnt agree with my provisional decision. He has, through his legal representation, 
raised the following points:
The claim is complex and high value.
His claim falls within the 2021 to 2022 policy period, where there is no specified 
hourly rate within the policy terms and conditions. 
The change to the policy terms to include the hourly rate of £100 at his renewal in 
2022 wasnt brought to his attention. 
Case law supports that the restriction on hourly rates render his freedom of choice 
meaningless. 
The rate of £100 per hour is unreasonable.
DAS didnt respond to my provisional decision. But Ive asked it to consider on the points 
raised by Mr B above, and it has provided the following comments:
The date of occurrence for this claim is September 2022, which is confirmed by Mr 
Bs solicitor in the claims management report they completed (a copy of which Ive 
been provided). As such, the policy wording applicable to the claim is the one which 
was in force at that time  which is the one issued to Mr B in August 2022 at the 
renewal of his policy.
DAS only became the legal expenses provider for this policy at the renewal in August 
2022. As such, it cant provide cover under the previous years policy as it wasnt the 
underwriter at that time. If Mr B wishes to make a claim under the August 2021 policy, hed need to contact 
the underwriter and claims handler for that policy; but he should be aware that the 
previous policy was a claims made policy and therefore its likely any claim made 
now would be declined on that basis, leaving him with no cover at all.
Mr B was provided with the new policy documents at his renewal in August 2022, 
which included the hourly rate of £100 per hour.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the information available, I can see that Mr B was made redundant in 
September 2022. And this is the date that DAS considers to be the incident date. Mr Bs 
solicitor also selected this date as being the incident date, when completing DAS claims 
management report.
However, during the initial assessment of Mr Bs claim, DAS queried whether Mr B had a 
policy prior to August 2022 and Mr B  through his legal representation  allege that this 
means the claim falls within the previous policy year. But I dont agree. And Ill explain why.
Whilst Mr Bs redundancy is the subject of his employment dispute, he says he was 
unlawfully selected as part of detrimental treatment arising from protected disclosures hed 
made. Therefore, its clear the redundancy was a result of an ongoing series of events. As 
such, DAS wouldve needed to establish that Mr B had legal expenses insurance from the 
start of the series of events, to ensure he didnt specifically take out the policy in order to 
make this claim. That doesnt necessarily mean the start of the series of events is the 
incident date.
In any event, DAS has explained that it didnt underwrite the policy prior to Mr Bs renewal in 
August 2021. So even if I agreed that the claim fell within the previous policy year, Id have 
to conclude that DAS need not take responsibility for the claim at all.
Mr B also argues that the change in policy terms wasnt brought to his attention at renewal. 
As Ive explained in my provisional decision, Im satisfied the policy terms set out the 
information regarding the hourly rate clearly. However, any complaint regarding the renewal 
of Mr Bs policy and the information given to him at that time would need to be directed to the 
business that sold the policy to him. DAS didnt sell Mr B the policy or renew it, rather it is the 
underwriter of one section of the policy. So I can only fairly hold DAS responsible for the 
information it provided  which is the information set out in the legal expenses policys terms 
and conditions. 
Mr B  through his legal representation  refers to the Court of Appeal decision in Brown-
Quinn, which I have taken into account. The court said if the standard terms of appointment 
were referred to in the policy, that was enough to bring them into the contract terms. The 
court also said that when a policyholder claims that the rates offered are so low as to make 
their freedom of choice meaningless, its up to them to prove this. Mr B hasnt done that here 
 rather hes shown that his preferred solicitor cant act for these rates which isnt enough to 
determine that he doesnt have a sufficient choice of other firms.
As I explained in my provisional decision, DAS has provided confirmation that two panel 
firms can deal with the claim under the hourly rate of £100 per hour. And I havent seen 
anything about the case that persuades me its so complex it cant be handled by another firm for that rate. As such, I dont agree Mr Bs freedom of choice has been rendered 
meaningless. 
In summary, whilst Ive considered the points raised by both sides, I remain of the decision 
that DAS hasnt acted incorrectly or unfairly here, and I dont uphold the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Ms C to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 June 2023.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman