DRN-1745711
 
The complaint
Mrs C complains that AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
AXA, as the insurer, has taken responsibility for this sale, so Ill refer to it as the seller in this 
decision.
What happened
Mrs C took out a store card in 1994. At the same time she was sold a PPI policy which 
wouldve helped cover her repayments on the card for up to 12 months at a time if she 
couldnt work. It also provided purchase protection insurance and life cover for the balance.
Mrs C says that the PPI wasnt mentioned to her. She says there was no discussion about 
the PPI. She says she wasnt given a choice about having it and wouldnt have taken it if she 
had a choice.
The adjudicator thought that Mrs Cs complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mrs C disagrees, so her 
case has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken 
this into account when deciding this case. Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
Mrs C applied for the store card in an application completed in store. AXA has supplied a 
copy of the application form. Theres a separate section for the PPI which makes clear 
theres a choice about the cover. Theres a tick in the box to accept it and Mrs C has signed 
the form. Mrs C indicates that she was told what she had to fill in and which boxes to tick. I 
cant know with any certainty what happened over 26 years ago, but if this was the case it 
was up to Mrs C to read and check what she was signing. The application form was a single 
page and not complicated. There were other additional products on the form offered in a 
similar way which werent selected.
Mrs C says it was late in the day and she felt rushed and under pressure. But I cant safely 
uphold Mrs Cs complaint on this point given the length of time which has passed since then 
and I cant say on balance that AXA did anything to make Mrs C feel that way. 
.
So although Mrs C doesnt remember it now, Im satisfied on the balance of probabilities that 
she bought the PPI knowing she had a choice about it.
AXA didnt make a personal recommendation to Mrs C about the PPI so it didnt need to take 
reasonable steps to make sure it was suitable for her. But it did need to make sure it gave 
her all the information she needed to make her own decision. I dont think AXA did this well 
enough. For example, theres no mention of what the exact benefits were. 
But looking at Mrs Cs circumstances I dont think more information wouldve changed her 
mind about buying it. I think its likely Mrs C understood the policy would pay a benefit if she 
wasnt able to work. And as I think Mrs C chose to take out the PPI, it seems she was 
interested in this type of cover. 
It doesnt look like Mrs C was affected by any of the terms which mightve made it more 
difficult for her to make a successful claim, such as those related to existing medical 
conditions or self-employment  so it wouldve been useful for her if something went wrong. 
Mrs C has told us about a medical condition she has, but this was diagnosed many years 
after she took the PPI. Mrs C has also told us about hereditary conditions which run in her 
family. But as Mrs C didnt have any symptoms of such a condition before she took out the 
policy she would still have been able to make a successful claim for those conditions. They 
were not excluded from the cover. 
Mrs C was entitled to some contractual sick pay and she had some savings  although I 
havent seen any evidence of these. But the policy wouldve paid out in addition to any sick 
pay and savings and potentially for longer than her full sick pay would have lasted. Similarly, 
it would have paid out in addition to any redundancy pay. So, I think the policy offered Mrs C 
a useful benefit.
The policy was flexible as it could be cancelled at any time without a financial penalty. And I 
havent seen anything to suggest the PPI was unaffordable for Mrs C at the time she took it 
out. 
On balance, I dont think Mrs C lost out as a result of anything AXA did wrong.
My final decision
Im not upholding Mrs Cs complaint, so it follows that AXA France IARD doesnt have to pay 
any compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2020.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman