DRN-2596301
The complaint
Mr E is unhappy that the dimensions of a Metro Bank PLC safety deposit box werent 
accurately portrayed online.
What happened
Mr E wanted to rent a safety deposit box to securely store some items. Mr E paid a visit to 
Metro Bank to arrange this, having previously checked the dimensions of the safety deposit 
box on Metro Banks website.
When Mr E inspected the safety deposit box, he discovered that the dimensions posted on 
Metro Banks website were incorrect, because they didnt take account of an opaque plastic 
insert designed to ensure that the contents of the safety deposit box werent visible. This 
meant that the items that Mr E wanted to store in the safety deposit box wouldnt fit. Mr E 
wasnt happy about this, so he made a complaint.
Metro Bank looked at Mr Es complaint, but they didnt agree that the dimensions of the 
safety deposit box had been misrepresented online, so they didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr E wasnt satisfied with Metro Banks response, so he referred his complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They noted that the dimensions of 
the safety deposit box posted on Metro Banks website didnt include the plastic insert, but 
that the plastic insert was optional and could be removed. They also noted that larger safety 
deposit boxes were available if Mr E wanted to use them. So, they also didnt uphold the 
complaint.
Mr E remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that Mr E has made a number of detailed points, which I have read and considered. I 
hope the fact that I dont respond in similar detail here will not be taken as a discourtesy. As 
an informal dispute resolution service, were tasked with reaching a fair and reasonable 
conclusion with the minimum of formality. In doing so, it isnt necessary for me to respond to 
every point made, but to concentrate on what I consider to be the crux of the issue.
Its not in dispute that the safety deposit box of the size that Mr E initially intended to use 
wont accommodate the items he wishes to store if the plastic insert is used with the box. 
However, Im not convinced that it follows that an unfair outcome has resulted here because 
of this.
The plastic insert is optional and can be removed. And if this is the case the dimensions of 
the safety deposit box are as advertised on Metro Banks website.
Mr E has stated that he is unwilling to do this, because it may be the case that his insurance 
policy would be invalidated if the contents of the safety box are visible, and therefore known 
to Metro Bank staff. But there are other ways to ensure that the contents of the safety 
deposit box arent visible, such as placing the items in an opaque bag before placing them in 
the box, that would appear to provide a solution to Mr Es needs here.
I must also note that even if I were to concede that the smaller size safety deposit box isnt fit 
for Mr Es needs, it doesnt follow from this that I would uphold this complaint in the manner 
that Mr E is seeking. I say this because larger safety deposit boxes are available. 
And if the smaller safety deposit box isnt fit for Mr Es purpose because of its size, then it 
was never the case that it would have been fit for Mr Es purpose. And I dont feel that it 
would be reasonable to ask Metro Bank to compensate Mr E for the difference in prices 
between the different sized safety deposit boxes. Because Mr E would always have had to 
use a larger size box.
So, its difficult for me to conclude that Metro Bank have acted unfairly or unreasonably here. 
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr E was wanting, but it follows that I wont be 
upholding this complaint or asking Metro Bank to take any further action at this time.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman