DRN-4076905
The complaint
Mr K complains Nationwide Building Society is asking to him a repay a debt he considers he 
doesnt have to. 
What happened
Mr K had a debt relief order (DRO) approved on 20 September 2021. Included within the 
creditors listed on the DRO was Nationwide, for £300. This was Mr Ks overdraft limit with 
Nationwide.
When Nationwide was notified of the DRO Mr Ks account was in credit. Nationwide wrote to 
Mr K on 22 September 2022 to say as his account was in credit, he could continue to use it. 
But it would be downgrading it and withdrawing the overdraft in seven working days. 
Mr K continued to use the account and on 28 September 2022 spent/withdrew money, taking 
the account £300.01 overdrawn. Since then, Nationwide has been asking Mr K to repay the 
overdraft and it has recorded adverse information on his credit file. Mr R consider this unfair. 
Nationwide didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint. It said, in summary, the overdraft didnt form part 
of the DRO because the account was in credit at the time it was approved. Mr K didnt think 
this was a fair outcome, so he asked our service for an independent review. 
The Investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She accepted Nationwides 
reasoning for why the debt wouldnt form part of the DRO - given it had been accrued after 
the DRO - and she spoke to The Insolvency Service which confirmed the same. 
Mr K didnt accept the Investigators recommendation. He made specific points about DROs, 
such as that the debt is based on the date of application rather than the date of approval, 
and that Nationwide didnt object to it. The complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the outcome the Investigator recommended, and her reasons for it. While I 
accept Mr K has specific points, The Insolvency Service is the authority in this area, and Im 
satisfied its position supports Nationwides. It follows I dont uphold this complaint.
Mr K has more recently said its unfair for Nationwide to ask him to repay the debt because 
he is a vulnerable adult. This didnt form part of Mr Ks complaint to Nationwide, so I wont 
comment on it here. Mr K will need to raise it directly with Nationwide in the first instance.
 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2023.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman