DRN-3785069
The complaint
Mr B has complained that esure Insurance Limited failed to provide a replacement car when 
he made a claim under his car insurance policy. He says the compensation it paid for loss of 
use isnt enough to resolve his complaint. 
What happened
Mr Bs sister, a named driver under his policy, was driving the car when it was stolen from 
her. She reported the carjacking to the police and the insurer, esure. 
Mr B complained to esure as it failed to provide a replacement car in line with his cover 
under the policy. 
Esure said it was unfortunate that it didnt have Mr Bs phone number to pass to the car hire 
company. So it said it emailed his sister with details of the car hire company. Once it passed 
Mr Bs phone number to the car hire company, esure said the car hire company told it theyd 
tried to call Mr B several times but wasnt able to speak to him to arrange a replacement car. 
So the car hire company closed its file. 
For the period of time Mr B was without a replacement car - up to the maximum limit under 
the policy - esure paid £200 based on a daily rate for loss of use at £10 a day. 
Mr B asked us to look at his complaint. He said £200 wasnt enough compensation for loss 
of use. He said his sister used the car to take their elderly mother to hospital and doctor 
appointments and they had to make alternative arrangements. 
Mr B said esure had his phone number from the outset. He said the car hire company didnt 
contact him until he called them. He said the car hire company told him they didnt have a 
contact number for Mr B and had called esure several times to request it without success. 
Mr B wanted additional compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by esure. 
Mr B raised concerns about the possible cancellation of his policy. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. She thought esure had 
done enough by paying Mr B £200 for loss of use. 
Mr B didnt agree and said there were inaccuracies in the Investigators view. She asked Mr 
B to provide details of the inaccuracies - and explained she would pass the case to an 
ombudsman. 
As the deadline to provide further comments has passed - and Mr B hasnt provide further 
details - the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to read of the circumstances of the theft and the impact this has undoubtedly had 
on Mr Bs sister. 
My role is to look at the actions of esure in its handling of the claim in their role as Mr Bs 
insurer.
Theres no dispute that Mr B paid for additional cover under his policy with esure to be 
provided with a replacement car in the event of a theft. The policy said it will aim to provide a 
replacement car within 48 hours. 
It seems there was an error on esures part in either obtaining Mr Bs phone number - or 
passing it to the car hire company. Email exchanges with the named driver, Mr Bs sister, 
show that esure told her it had passed her details to the car hire company to contact her. 
Where an insurer has failed to provide a replacement car when we think it should have, we 
generally ask a customer to provide further information. We ask if they had access to 
another car, what the impact was and proof of costs otherwise incurred in the form of 
receipts for alternative transport. We ask for these things when considering whether a loss of 
use claim is reasonable. 
However, in this case esure agreed to pay the amount of £10 a day in line with our approach 
and the rate that courts use - and paid £200 as per the limit set under the policy. So I think 
esure acted fairly and in line with our general approach to these types of complaints. 
I can only look at complaints Mr B raised which esure responded to in their final response 
dated 2 July 2022. esure said it would be happy to reinstruct the hire car company on receipt 
of a contact number from Mr B. 
I can see that Mr B responded to their letter but didnt provide a contact number. This is what 
esure needed to reinstruct the car hire company. 
Mr B is unhappy esure have said it may cancel the policy. Ive seen emails in which esure 
said it needed an additional payment as some of the information it had been given when Mr 
B bought the policy wasnt correct and had changed. This information came to light while 
dealing with the claim. It seems that esure didnt receive the additional premium and so it 
has advised of cancelling the policy. 
This is a separate issue which Mr B will need to raise with esure, so it is given the 
opportunity to respond. If Mr B remains unhappy once he receives a response from esure, 
he can bring a new complaint to us. 
My final decision
I understand Mr B will be disappointed with my decision. But for the reasons Ive given 
above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I think esure has done enough 
to put things right for the complaint esure responded to on 2 July 2022. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman