DRN-4343758
The complaint
Mr B complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) have failed to refund 
money that Mr B lost as part of an investment scam. 
What happened
Mr B was contacted by someone who said they worked for a Bitcoin trading company that I 
will call B. From what I understand he made the following payments the first payment seems 
to have been for a trading course which was made via debit card and the remaining 
payments were transfers to Foris Dax Mt Limit which trades as Crypto.com. My 
understanding is that the funds were used to buy cryptocurrencies and were then forwarded 
onto B.
The transactions made were as follows;
Transaction 
NumberDate Merchant Amount Running Total
1 03/05/2022 Traderschool £210.44 £210.44
2 09/05/2022 Foris Dax Mt Limit £900 £1,110.44
3 24/05/2022 Foris Dax Mt Limit £5,000 £6,110.44
4 13/06/2022 Foris Dax Mt Limit £3,200 £9,310.44
5 13/06/2022 Foris Dax Mt Limit £1,870 £11,180.44
After seeing his balance with B increase for a few weeks to around £28,000 Mr B attempted 
to withdraw some of the funds but was told that he had to pay additional money in order to 
do this. At this point Mr B realised that he had been scammed.
Mr B raised a complaint with Halifax as he believed that Halifax should have stopped him 
from making the payments in question.
One of our investigators looked into this matter they decided that the transactions were not 
sufficiently out of character to warrant an intervention by Halifax and that there was no other 
means of Halifax recovering the funds.
Mr B did not agree with this and therefore his complaint was passed to me to issue a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
It isnt in dispute that Mr B authorised the disputed payments he made to firstly to the 
Traderschool using his debit card and subsequently to Crypto.com. The payments were 
requested by him using his legitimate security credentials provided by Halifax, and the 
starting position is that banks ought to follow the instructions given by their customers in 
order for legitimate payments to be made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether Halifax should have done more to prevent Mr B from 
falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should reasonably 
have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. For example, 
if it was particularly out of character. However, having taken Mr Bs account activity and 
limited payment history into account, I do not think the payments he is disputing should have 
been regarded as particularly unusual.
The payments were not of such a large amount that they would represent a significant 
deviation from what would be considered as usual activity. I say this because I can see a 
number of large transfers from Mr Bs account prior to the scam transactions, such as 
£8,500 in November 2021, a few transactions of around £5,000 in the months prior to the 
scam and a transaction of £4,000 just before the transaction on 24 May 2022.
So, having considered the payments Mr B made, Im not persuaded there was anything that 
ought reasonably to have triggered Halifaxs fraud monitoring systems or that would have 
indicated he was in the process of being scammed. I therefore do not consider there to have 
been any obligation on Halifax to have intervened any further.
I do note that the second transaction did trigger Halifax to issue an online warning as the 
money was being transferred to an institution that did not participate in Confirmation of 
Payee but given the above Halifax did not need to do anything more than this.
Ive also thought about whether Halifax did enough to attempt to recover the money Mr B 
lost. In relation to the first payment as this was made with a debit card there are some 
circumstances where a chargeback would be successful.
But in this case, I do not believe that a chargeback would not have been successful, as the 
transaction Mr B used his debit card for was to pay Traderschool to register for its trading 
platform. Mr B has not provided anything that demonstrates that he was not provided with 
the service he paid for.
In relation to the transfers the Contingency Reimbursement Model (CRM) does not apply to 
transfers made to an account in the customers own name and in this instance Mr B was 
transferring funds to an account with Crypto.com that was in his own name.
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr B, and Im sorry to hear he has been 
the victim of a cruel scam. However, Im not persuaded that Halifax can fairly or reasonably 
be held liable for his loss in these circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman