DRN-2828868
The complaint
Ms Cs representative, a claims management company (CMC), complains on her behalf that 
she was given unsuitable investment advice by Santander UK PLC (previously Abbey 
National).
What happened
In November 2006, Ms C met with a financial planning manager as she had savings she was 
looking to invest. In January 2007, Ms C was advised to invest £10,206 in an Open-Ended 
Investment Company (OEIC)  invested in the Multi Manager Balanced Portfolio and 
£4,000 in an Individual Savings Account (ISA) - invested in the Multi Manager Equity Fund. 
In May 2007, a further £10,000 was invested in the OEEC and £4,000 in the ISA. The 
investments were to be held for the medium to long term, in accordance with Ms Cs 
objective for capital growth. She surrendered her investment slightly earlier than planned in 
2011 and suffered a small loss of around £360.
At the time of investing Ms C was 56, widowed with no financial dependants. She was 
working full time and had no outstanding debts. Ms C had a monthly disposable income of 
£700 and over £100,000 spread across other investments including funds and shares and 
accessible savings accounts. It was recorded her objective was capital growth, over the 
medium term and that she was prepared to take some risk, over at least a five-year period, 
in the hope of better returns. Overall, she was identified as a medium to high risk investor.
In 2019 Ms C complained. She said shed been advised to invest too much of her available 
savings. She also thought her investments exposed her to too much risk  more than half of 
her money in the OEIC was in equities and the entirety of her ISA was in equities too, with 
the added risk of half of them being in overseas funds. 
Santander said the complaint had been brought too late. It said Ms C should have been 
aware of the risks associated with her investments in 2011 when she encashed her funds at 
a loss. After the case was referred to our service, Santander agreed the case had been 
brought in time, however it didnt agree the advice it had provided was unsuitable.
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. Based 
on the available information, he considered the investments Santander had recommended 
were suitable, because they provided the opportunity for Ms C to meet her objectives, while 
taking a level of risk he thought she was willing and able to accept. He also thought Ms C 
had been left with enough cash reserve. The CMC disagreed, so the matter has been 
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. I 
understand this will come as a disappointment to Ms C, but Ill explain my reasons why.
The documents from the point of sale record that Ms C had surplus income and wanted to 
save over the medium to long term, with the potential to achieve better returns than a 
deposit-based cash account. The fact-find recorded she was a medium to high risk investor, 
which meant the potential for greater returns in investments that could go down as well as 
up and is not guaranteed at any time. The final cash-in value may be less than your original 
investment.
Between January and May 2007, Santander recommended a total of £20,206 to be invested 
in an OIEC along with a further £8,000 in an investment ISA. These were split as 25% in 
bonds and 75% in both UK and overseas equities.
I've considered whether the advice to invest was unsuitable because the funds over exposed 
Ms C to risk-based investments. The CMCs argument in support of the level of risk being 
unsuitable is largely based on Ms Cs lack of investment experience. Taking what we know 
about Ms Cs circumstances and objectives into account, I dont think Ive seen enough to 
persuade me that investment advice given here was unsuitable. Although Ms C hadnt 
invested to the same degree of risky products before, this doesn't automatically mean she 
wasnt able to take more risk with some of her money. Indeed, the fact find suggests she 
expressed a willingness to take greater risk than she had previously, in the hope of a better 
return.
Santanders recommendation exposed Ms C to the risk of financial market fluctuations  
75% of her money was to be invested in equity-based products. This was higher risk than 
her existing investments because performance was linked to the performance of financial 
markets, with no protection of her original capital. Specifically, this portion of the investment 
was put into stock market tracker funds, where performance would be linked to how well 
larger and established UK and foreign companies performed. The remainder of the funds 
were put into bonds, representing a lower degree of risk to her money. 
From everything Ive seen, Im satisfied the range of investments provided Ms C the 
opportunity to meet her objective of higher growth through its exposure to the performance 
of bonds and the stock market. But that it exposed her to a level of risk she was willing and 
able to accept.
Ms C had expressed a medium to high approach to risk with this money, which Im satisfied 
accurately reflected her risk appetite for this portion of her wealth. She was investing about 
30% of her savings, and Im mindful the bulk of her other money was in funds, shares and 
deposit-based savings accounts. I dont think exposing this amount of her money to this 
degree of stock market risk was outside the tolerance she had for risk overall and provided 
an opportunity for a portion of her money to grow by a greater degree.
In addition, Ms C had not voiced any short term need for the money. Instead she had 
expressed an interest in investing over the longer term  this meant it was more likely shed 
have been able to tolerate some of the fluctuation, without the need to access her money at 
a certain point. 
The CMC has referred to Ms C being left with too little as a cash reserve. Evidence from the 
January and May 2007 fact finds show Ms C had around £48,000 and £34,000 respectively 
in current and instant access accounts and approximately £39,000 and £33,000 in funds and 
shares. The amount invested formed a little over a quarter of her overall funds. She had no 
dependents, owned her property outright and had a disposable monthly income of around 
£700 from full-time work. Ms Cs application form shows her listed outgoings as £6,000 per 
annum. Ms C didnt want to make any withdrawals, so this would suggest the cash reserves 
she had was more than enough to cover her outgoings for at least the five-year period she was investing for. It also meant she had the ability to replace losses without a material 
impact to her standard of living. Taking account of Ms Cs circumstances, I'm satisfied the 
amount invested was suitable when considered in the context of her overall financial 
position.
From everything Ive seen, I dont consider the advice Santander gave to Ms C was 
unsuitable. It follows that I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021. 
Farzana Miah
Ombudsman