DRN-2281429
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy about the way Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) have handled 
their travel insurance claim.
All references to URV include its representatives and cost containment agents. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs B bought a travel insurance policy underwritten by URV to cover a trip to the 
United States (US).
They went to Florida in 2018 where Mr B had to attend the emergency department of a 
hospital (the healthcare provider) as a result of stomach pains. He was in hospital for around 
5 hours, had a scan and was diagnosed with cholecystitis. He was prescribed medication 
and asked to attend a follow up appointment on the next day.
Mr B made a claim when he returned home. He had paid some of the bill directly to the 
hospital. 
URV has partially settled the invoices as it says the medical costs are unreasonable, but it 
has made payment in line with the US Congressional guidelines. 
URV has made part payment towards the following invoices:
Bill for $36,493  URV has paid $1,622.73
Bill for $1,786  URV has paid $268.60
Bill for $204  URV has paid $89.90
Mr B has been chased for payment of the full outstanding amount by debt collectors. URV 
has told Mr B that he isnt liable to pay the remainder but Mr B has continued to receive 
correspondence from the debt collectors. And he says this has affected his health. 
Mr B also had a holiday booked to the same area which he cancelled due to the worry that 
he would be refused treatment if he needed it again. He had to pay £60 as a result of the 
cancellation.  
Mr B continues to receive correspondence from the debt collectors and complained to URV. 
Unhappy with URVs response, Mr B referred his complaint to this service. 
URV offered Mr B £50 in vouchers for the delay in handling his complaint but the vouchers 
were never sent. URV has increased its offer to £75 in vouchers as a result of its mistake.
Mr B says he is extremely stressed by the actions of the debt collection agency and wants 
URV to resolve the matter so he can travel back to the US without the worry of not being 
able to access medical treatment, if required. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt think URV had provided clear evidence 
to show that the costs claimed were unreasonable or excessive. She recommended the 
following:
For URV to pay Mr B £400 compensation for the stress and inconvenience caused to 
him
For URV to settle the outstanding bill in full or reach an immediate agreement with 
the hospital with the effect that settlement is agreed within 28 days 
For URV to reimburse Mr B for the payments he made directly to the hospital of 
$267.90 and $204. It should add interest at 8% simple from the date he made 
payment to the date of settlement
For URV to pay Mr B £60 as a result of the cancelled trip
For URV to pay £75 in vouchers for the delay in dealing with the complaint 
URV hadnt responded to the investigators view.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 23 September 2020. Ill repeat my provisional findings 
here:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I think Mr Bs complaint 
should be upheld. Ill explain why.
As a matter of general legal principle, URV is bound to indemnify Mr B against losses 
covered by the policy as and when the amount of his loss (here the amount of Mr Bs liability 
to the healthcare provider) has been ascertained. That may be by agreement, by court 
judgment or by arbitration. So URV has a commercial interest in being able to take over the 
defence and settlement of such claims in Mr Bs name. 
URVs policy terms say it can:
take over and deal with in your name the defence/settlement of any claim made 
under the policy.
In effect, this means URV has the right to take over the conduct of a claim  defending or 
settling it  in the name of Mr B. But that isnt an unqualified right. 
Legally, in situations where URVs interests conflict with Mr Bs, URV has a responsibility to 
act in good faith when it takes over the defence/settlement of a claim  having regard to Mr 
Bs interests as well as its own commercial interests. URV isnt entitled to act arbitrarily in the 
way it goes about declining to pay the full amount of the invoice and contesting the 
outstanding amount. In deciding whether  and how  to settle or defend claims against Mr 
B, URV is required to base its decision on the circumstances of Mr Bs individual case. 
The applicable regulations lead to a similar conclusion.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook sets out a number of Principles for 
Businesses, which URV must follow, including:
Principle 6  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.Principle 8  A firm must manage conflicts of interest fairly, both between itself and its 
customers and between a customer and another client. 
The relevant regulations also include ICOBS 8.1.1R which says an insurer must:
(1) handle claims promptly and fairly; 
(2) provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate 
information on its progress;
(3) not unreasonably reject a claim (including by terminating or avoiding a policy); and 
(4) settle claims promptly once settlement terms are agreed.
The Regulatory Guide, published by the FCA, entitled: The Responsibilities of Providers and 
Distributors for the Fair Treatment of Customers (RPPD) includes the Regulators guidance 
on what the combination of Principles for Businesses (the Principles) and the detailed rules 
mean for providers and distributors of financial services. The RPPD explains that firms 
should consider the impact of their actions, or inactions, on the customer throughout the life-
cycle of the service being provided.
I also find it appropriate to take into account what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time of the claim. This was for underwriters of travel insurance  and their 
agents  to engage diligently with healthcare providers to try to resolve disputes over 
medical bills by actively seeking a compromise or adjudication of their bills. That includes 
actively engaging in negotiation. 
Ill now explain what this means for Mr Bs complaint. 
URV says the USA government annually issues the congressional guidelines which 
set out suggested rates of payment for medical procedures and treatment. URV uses 
these guidelines to decide what a reasonable charge would be and then pays a 
certain percentage above this, which its disclosed to our Service. 
URV accepts responsibility for the sums properly due. It hasnt said any of the items 
listed by the hospital shouldnt have been charged. It has said the amounts charged 
are unreasonably excessive and has relied on the guidelines referred to above to 
part pay the bills.
Our investigator asked URV to provide evidence of its contact with the hospital to see 
whether there had been any negotiation or engagement but URV didnt respond with any 
more information. 
So Ive considered whether URV has done enough to deal with Mr Bs claim promptly and 
fairly. Im aware of the guidelines URV has referred to. But I havent seen any evidence that 
URV has considered the cost of treatment in Florida. 
I cant say whether the amounts paid were reasonable  the guidelines are extensive and 
technical. But it is clear that the sums paid by URV were far below what the providers were 
charging. 
I can understand that URV doesnt want to pay exaggerated costs. But URV would have 
been aware that it was unlikely that the providers would accept those payments in settlement 
of their invoices and so I would have expected to see evidence that URV attempted to carry 
out cost containment negotiations. But there is no such evidence here. 
Alternatively, URV could have sought to have the proper amount of the bill ascertained by a 
dispute resolution service such as by mediation, arbitration or litigation. Again, there is no 
evidence that URV has taken any steps of that kind. It was aware the total settlement was approximately 5% of the amount invoiced but still appears to have considered the matter 
settled. 
Mr B has sent numerous letters to URV since submitting his claim, asking it to deal with the 
matter to stop the debt collectors from harassing him. He has suffered stress and health 
problems and has cancelled a holiday as a result of concerns that he wont be able to 
access treatment if he requires this again. URV has provided Mr B with some assurances 
but he is still worried about the consequences of the unpaid bill which is affecting his ability 
to travel to Florida again. 
The policy allows URV to take over and deal with the defence/settlement of any claim. But I 
expect it to do so in a fair and reasonable way. I must have regard to the law, the relevant 
industry rules and regulations, and good practice. URV has a duty to deal with claims 
promptly and fairly and to act with due skill, care and diligence, paying due regard to Mr Bs 
interests and treating him fairly. I dont think it has done that in this case. 
URV took a unilateral decision to only pay part the invoices. I havent seen any evidence that 
it discussed this approach with Mr B. I havent seen any evidence that URV has attempted to 
negotiate with the hospital or the debt collector. 
Whilst nobody could suggest that negotiation will lead to a reasonable settlement being 
achieved in every case, in many cases it may do so; and Ive seen nothing to suggest that it 
couldnt have been productive in this case. Before negotiation is abandoned in a case like 
this, I would normally expect to see an insurer explain and justify its position by reference to 
the particular items in dispute, take on board any response it receives and advance 
arguments addressed to the particular issues in dispute to try to persuade the healthcare 
provider to accept the sum being offered, or reach a mutually acceptable compromise.
I havent seen any evidence that URV has attempted to negotiate with the hospital or the 
debt collector. URV doesnt have the absolute right to partially settle or defend a case in 
accordance with its own practices or interests  it still must act fairly and reasonably when 
doing so  and must have regard to the interests of the policyholder. 
I find the fact that URV made no attempt to negotiate with the hospital or its agent and no
other attempt to have the amount of the debt ascertained by any form of dispute resolution
process, contrary to both the regulatory guidance and good industry practice.
URV needs to act fairly in each individual case. It also has a duty to fairly manage any 
conflicts between its own interests and those of Mr B. I dont think it has had due regard to 
Mr Bs interests here. And I think it has unreasonably put its own commercial interests above 
his without considering his specific circumstances. I dont think URV has considered the 
impact of its actions on Mr B, as it is required to do. As noted above, this caused Mr B 
distress.
putting things right 
DISP 3.7.1R says that where a complaint is determined in favour of a complainant the 
ombudsmans determination may include a direction to the respondent, which in this case is 
URV.
DISP 3.7.11R also provides that a direction may require the respondent, here URV to take 
such steps in relation to the complaint as the ombudsman considers just and appropriate 
whether or not a court could order those steps to be taken. 
Whilst I have seriously considered directing URV to pay the hospital bill in full, so as to bringthis matter to conclusion, I am conscious that the bill is a sizeable one and that it may be that
URV has grounds for obtaining a significant reduction (although it hasnt provided anything
like enough evidence supporting its position for me to reach any finding to that effect). 
On balance, I dont think that the stage has yet been reached in URVs handling of this claim
where I should direct it to pay this bill in full. I consider that it is fair and reasonable to give
URV a further opportunity to handle the negotiation or ascertainment of the debt more
appropriately than it has so far in order to fix and pay Mr Bs liability. So I intend to limit my 
award in respect of URVs mishandling of the matter up to the present date to monetary 
redress for the damage and the costs Mr B has already paid. I think it was reasonable for Mr 
B to pay the costs that he did and he shouldnt have to wait any longer for reimbursement. 
Im satisfied that compensation is due for the worry that this matter has caused Mr and Mrs
B. I think the sum of £400 fairly compensates them for the trouble and upset caused to them
by URVs handling of the claim so far  that is for its conduct up until the date of this
decision. 
However, URVs duties in relation to its handing of Mr Bs claim dont end with this decision,
as the matter of the outstanding bills remains live. The hospital will doubtless continue to
seek payment of its bill and it remains URVs responsibility to take active steps to resolve
this matter quickly and in a manner that has due regard to Mr and Mrs Bs interests and
treats them fairly. In the interests of all concerned, I urge URV to take its continuing duties to
Mr and Mrs B very seriously.
Because URVs duties continue, the manner in which it handles the claim hereafter may give
Mr and Mrs B grounds for a further complaint to this service.
In particular, if after the date of this decision URV doesnt take active steps to ascertain the
amount of the debts and discharge any outstanding bills in a fair and reasonable manner,
such future unreasonable conduct is very likely to result in further worry for Mr and Mrs B
and in a further complaint to this service. (Any such further complaint would have to be
based upon URVs conduct of the claim after the date of this decision, as opposed to during
the period that I have considered.) I hope that this will not occur, as the intention behind my
decision is to give it another chance to prosecute its settlement or defence of the debts
diligently. If there are further failings, URV may be at heightened risk (amongst other things)
of receiving a direction to pay the bills in full. But that would be a matter for a different
ombudsman to decide in all the circumstances.
Within 28 days from the date on which we tell it that Mr B accepts our final decision I direct 
URV to:
Pay Mr B £400 compensation for the stress and inconvenience caused to him
Reimburse Mr B for the payments he made directly to the hospital $267.90 and $204, 
minus any excess, if applicable. It should add interest at 8% simple from the date he 
submitted his claim to URV to the date of settlement 
Pay Mr B £60 as a result of the losses he sustained for cancelling his trip
Pay £75 in vouchers for the delay in dealing with the complaint 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both sides have accepted my provisional findings, which I adopt as part of this final decision. In light of both parties acceptance of the redress I proposed and URVs acceptance and 
stated intention to contact the medical providers and negotiate the bill, I see no reason to 
depart from my provisional findings. I consider its fair and reasonable for URV to pay Mr B 
£400 compensation for his stress and inconvenience but I emphasise, that award is for the 
manner of URVs handling of the claim so far (by which I now mean, up to the date of this 
final decision). 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is to uphold this complaint. I direct Union 
Reiseversicherung AG to:
Pay Mr B £400 compensation for the stress and inconvenience caused to him
Reimburse Mr B for the payments he made directly to the hospital $267.90 and $204, 
minus any excess, if applicable. It should add interest at 8% simple from the date he 
submitted his claim to URV to the date of settlement 
Pay Mr B £60 as a result of the losses he sustained for cancelling his trip
Pay £75 in vouchers for the delay in dealing with the complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 November 2020.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman