DRN-2783255
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B have complained about Loan.co.uk in relation to the arrangement of a second 
charge secured loan. Specifically, they complained to Loan.co.uk about the following:
poor customer service in relation to the way information was communicated to them;
a lack of transparency regarding the valuation of their property; and
information provided to them concerning the lenders credit search.
To settle the complaint, Mr and Mrs B would like Loan.co.uk to pay compensation.
What happened
In 2019 Mr and Mrs B wanted to arrange a secured loan of £74,000 to clear their credit cards 
and other unsecured debts. They contacted Loan.co.uk (via one of its affiliate businesses) to 
broker the loan for them. 
Unfortunately, although a lender was sourced, it wasnt ultimately possible for Loan.co.uk to 
arrange a loan for Mr and Mrs B and so the application never proceeded to the stage where 
an offer was issued. This was due to the valuation of Mr and Mrs Bs property  on a desktop 
valuation  falling short of the figure needed for an 85% loan-to-value ratio (LTV). 
Loan.co.uk told Mr and Mrs B they could have an in-person valuation carried out. There was 
confusion over who would pay for this, as Mr and Mrs B were initially told that Loan.co.uk 
would bear the cost of this. But, due to the valuation being, in Loan.co.uks opinion, 
borderline, the business later said that Mr and Mrs B would need to pay for this themselves, 
with the cost being refunded if the valuation led to the application proceeding.
Mr and Mrs B decided not to go ahead. They were unhappy at the service theyd received 
from Loan.co.uk and complained about it. 
Loan.co.uk acknowledged, in its final response letter, that its customer service could, and 
should, have been better. It accepted that Mr and Mrs B had been given misleading 
information at various stages, and acknowledged that this shouldnt have happened. 
With regard to the valuation, Loan.co.uk explained that, in order to qualify for the loan, 
Mr and Mrs Bs property would have needed to be at the upper end of the desktop valuation 
of £400,000-£415,000 and that this would need to be assessed by a valuer appointed from 
the lenders panel of surveyors. 
Loan.co.uk clarified that, although it had taken a business decision not to pay for the 
valuation, this hadnt been clearly communicated to Mr and Mrs B. It was also accepted that 
information about the valuation options and pricing also hadnt been given to them. 
As far as credit searches were concerned, Loan.co.uk said that it had been given consent by 
Mr and Mrs B for a soft credit search (which doesnt leave a footprint on their credit files). 
When the lender assesses the application a hard credit search is carried out, but 
Loan.co.uk explained that it had no control over this, as this was down to the lender.
Loan.co.uk apologised for its poor customer service, but didnt offer any compensation.
Dissatisfied with Loan.co.uks response, Mr and Mrs B complained to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.   
In addition to the issues Loan.co.uk had addressed in its final response, Mr and Mrs B were 
also unhappy that they hadnt been given an illustration of the loan they were applying for, 
and about the time Mr B had had to spend on dealing with the application. In addition, 
Mr and Mrs B were also unhappy about Loan.co.uks response to a data subject access 
request (DSAR) which Mr and Mrs B said was incomplete, and about receiving marketing 
material from Loan.co.uk when they had chosen to opt out of this.
An investigator looked at what had happened, and listened to all the phone calls. He noted 
mistakes had been made, particularly around poor communication. The investigator 
explained to Mr and Mrs B that, because it appeared to Loan.co.uk that Mr and Mrs B may 
not be eligible for the loan (due to not meeting the lenders LTV criteria), Loan.co.uk had 
followed regulatory requirements by not providing an illustration. 
The investigator was satisfied thered been no errors about the credit searches or the 
valuation. But for the poor communication and customer service issues, the investigator 
asked Loan.co.uk to pay compensation of £100, which it agreed to do.
Mr and Mrs B didnt accept that £100 compensation was fair. They said that the investigator 
failed to address issues which had been included in their original complaint, including: 
the amount of time theyd had to spend on providing information for the application, and 
in dealing with the complaint;
the time taken to obtain information from Loan.co.uk through a DSAR and the fact that 
data was missing when the DSAR was received;
Loan.co.uk continuing to send them marketing material;
the level of anxiety and distress they had suffered.
Although on their complaint form Mr and Mrs B originally said they wanted compensation of 
£300, they said they thought their claim was worth £500, but would settle for £400.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I confirm Ive listened to all the telephone calls between Mr and Mrs B and Loan.co.uk (a 
total of 19 calls), and Ive read and taken note of everything Mr and Mrs B and Loan.co.uk 
have said.
Mr and Mrs B say that issues included in their original complaint to Loan.co.uk havent been 
addressed by the investigator  specifically Loan.co.uk continuing to contact them with 
marketing materials when they had opted out of this, and about missing data from their 
DSAR.
Under our rules, before we can look at a complaint, the business complained about has to 
have the opportunity to address the complaint and issue its final response. Mr and Mrs B 
received a final response letter from Loan.co.uk in October 2019.In its final response letter Loan.co.uk sets out the issues Mr and Mrs B had complained 
about, as follows (and I summarise):
poor customer service in relation to the way information was communicated to them;
a lack of transparency regarding the valuation of their property; and
information provided to them concerning the lenders credit search.
I can see nothing in the original complaint to Loan.co.uk about a DSAR or about marketing 
materials. It doesnt appear Loan.co.uk has had the opportunity to look into Mr and Mrs Bs 
concerns about those matters. Before the Financial Ombudsman Service can address those 
issues, Mr and Mrs B will need to raise them with Loan.co.uk. However, given that both 
issues relate to the use of Mr and Mrs Bs data, the Information Commissioners Office is 
probably the more suitable avenue to address their concerns about this.
Turning now to the issues which Loan.co.uk was asked to address by Mr and Mrs B, I note 
that its acknowledged that the service Mr and Mrs B received wasnt up to the standard 
expected and that things could have been done better. 
Details on the application form needed to be corrected, but it appears this was information 
Mr and Mrs B had provided during the fact-find. But its not unusual for further clarification, 
information or documents to be needed during the course of preparing the documents for 
submission to the lender. There was also confusion over who was going to pay for the 
valuation, and the information Mr and Mrs B were given about this was contradictory. 
However, I dont think it was unreasonable for Loan.co.uk to reject Mr and Mrs Bs valuation 
of their property, based on the photographs they provided, given that the LTV margin was 
tight. 
Im satisfied Loan.co.uk did nothing wrong in relation to credit searches. Im not persuaded 
Loan.co.uk carried out a search on Mr and Mrs B which affected their credit files, or that it 
misled Mr and Mrs B about the searches the lender would do as part of the application 
process.
 
Putting things right
Because Loan.co.uk has acknowledged its customer service errors, I dont need to go into 
detail about precisely what happened or why. All I need to decide is what needs to be done 
to put things right.
Mr and Mrs B have told us that, although they think their claim is worth £500, they would 
agree to accept compensation of £400 to settle the complaint. Our investigator thought 
compensation of £100 was fair, and Loan.co.uk agreed to pay this.
Im satisfied an award of compensation is justified in this case, and Im glad to note 
Loan.co.uk has accepted that more than just an apology is due to Mr and Mrs B. 
Communication could have been better, and I think Mr and Mrs B were given false hope that 
their application was likely to succeed, when this wasnt the case. I can see how frustrating 
this was for them. 
Whilst Ive taken note of everything Mr and Mrs B have said, Im satisfied compensation of 
£100 is fair and reasonable, and proportionate to the errors made by Loan.co.uk in respect 
of its poor communication, particularly in relation to the valuation, and customer service 
failings. 
Because Im satisfied there were no errors in relation to the decision that a physical valuation 
would be needed, or in respect of the credit searches, there is no award of compensation for those matters. And, as I said above, the issues relating to missing data from the DSAR and 
Mr and Mrs B receiving marketing material were not included in the original complaint to 
Loan.co.uk and should be referred instead to the Information Commissioners Office.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that Loan.co.uk must pay Mr and Mrs B compensation of £100 in full and 
final settlement of this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 June 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman