DRN-3902324
The complaint
Miss J and Mr S are unhappy Great Lakes Insurance SE turned down a claim they made on 
their wedding insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss J and Mr S took out wedding insurance with Great Lakes to cover a wedding originally 
scheduled for August 2020. The date had to be moved a number of times because of the 
Covid-19 pandemic but was rearranged for September 2022.  
In February 2022 the Planning Inspectorate upheld an enforcement notice requiring the 
removal of the marquee where the wedding was due to take place. It gave a six month 
period for compliance. The venue sought to extend that in discussion with the local council 
which issued the notice but was unsuccessful. It told Miss J and Mr S in March it couldnt 
hold their wedding and wasnt in a position to refund the money theyd paid.  
Miss J and Mr S made a claim on their policy. Great Lakes turned this down. It said in order 
for there to be a valid cancellation claim one of the reasons for cancellation set out in the 
policy needed to apply. And while the policy did cover closure by the relevant authority, their 
venue wasnt closed; it had just been notified marquees couldnt be used. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He was satisfied the venue for the wedding was the 
marquee. And the relevant authority had ordered its removal. The venue hadnt offered an 
alternative and while it appeared they did have a separate house this was fire damaged and 
so wasnt available in any case. He thought Great Lakes should reconsider the claim under 
the cancellation section of the policy. And he said it should pay Miss J and Mr S £300 in 
recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused by the incorrect decline of their claim. 
Miss J and Mr S agreed with what he said. Great Lakes didnt respond. So I need to reach a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say Great Lakes has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Ive looked first at the terms and conditions of Miss J and Mr Ss policy. This does cover 
irrecoverable losses where a wedding has been cancelled for one of the reasons set out in 
the policy. The relevant one in this case is:
the booked venue for the wedding or wedding reception being unable to hold your wedding 
due to an outbreak of infectious or contagious disease, damage to the venue, murder or 
suicide at the premises or closure of the venue by the relevant authority
Great Lakes has suggested the venue in this case wasnt closed. But I dont agree. I 
appreciate the site where the wedding was due to take place has a number of different 
wedding locations; I understand there were in fact three separate marquee type areas and a 
house. 
But I think its reasonable to say the venue for Miss J and Mr Ss wedding is the one 
specified in their hire agreement. That agreement is for the use of the Lakeside Marquee. A 
map which forms part of the agreement delineates the area they are able to use which is 
limited to the marquee and the immediate surrounding area. Thats also the venue 
referenced in their policy schedule. 
The Planning Inspectorate subsequently upheld an enforcement notice issued by the local 
council requiring the removal of that and the other marquees at the site. I think its 
reasonable to say requiring the removal of a venue equates to closing it (at the expiry of the 
period for compliance). But to meet the policy terms that also needs to be done by the 
relevant authority. That isnt defined in the policy but I think a local council  which has 
statutory powers to take action - would reasonably constitute a relevant authority. And it was 
the enforcement notice it issued which led to the removal of the marquees. 
In addition, even if Great Lakes are right to suggest the venue for the wedding was the 
broader site (which I dont think it is) its clear there was a serious fire at the house in 
February 2022. Local press coverage shows extensive damage to it and led to the 
immediate cancellation of weddings that were supposed to take place there. The repair work 
is ongoing at present. So it wouldnt have been able to hold Miss J and Mr Ss wedding 
because of damage to the venue which is one of the cancellation reasons listed in the policy. 
For the reasons Ive explained my view is that Great Lakes didnt correctly turn down this 
claim so Im upholding the complaint. 
Putting things right
Im satisfied an insured event has taken place here. So Great Lakes will need to reconsider 
the claim against the remaining terms and conditions of the policy and pay any amounts due 
to Miss J and Mr S. 
I also agree the rejection of their claim following on from the cancellation of their wedding will 
have exacerbated a difficult situation for them. And I think the £300 our investigator 
recommended is the right amount to recognise that. So Great Lakes will also need to pay 
that sum to them. 
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Great Lakes Insurance SE will need to put things right 
by doing what Ive said in this decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 March 2023.
 
James Park
Ombudsman