DRN-4233889
The complaint
Mr D complains that Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) were unfair in their 
cancellation of his extended warranty policies.
What happened
Mr D has a premium credit card account with a UK bank. This allows him free protection of 
various household appliances, subject to terms and conditions.
D&G considered Mr D to have fallen outside of the eligibility criteria for cover and so 
cancelled the policies. They said, the household appliances all needed to be registered at 
the same address  but Mr D had six registered across three addresses, which he rented 
out.
Mr D didnt think that was right, so he asked for our help. An investigator here looked into the 
matter and felt there were several reasons why Mr D didnt qualify for cover, and so 
concluded that it was reasonable for D&G to have cancelled the policies.
Because Mr D didnt agree, the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree that Mr D wasnt eligible for the cover, on account of him registering appliances at 
multiple addresses. The extended warranty terms and conditions stipulate that:
All products must be registered to the same address.
It seems to me that D&G dont intend for policies to be set up in the way Mr D wanted, i.e. to 
cover appliances at multiple rental properties.
I appreciate there has been reference to whether or not Mr Ds properties would be 
considered as commercial  another of the eligibility criteria  but I dont think thats the 
overriding reason for their cancellation, so doesnt require further consideration.
And while I note Mr D says he wasnt aware of the eligibility criteria, I am satisfied from what 
I have seen that it exists. Overall, D&G are entitled to set such criteria and while they initially 
allowed the policies to be set up it was reasonable for them to be cancelled once it was clear 
Mr D wasnt eligible.
If Mr D would like to set policies up in future he may wish to double check in advance with 
D&G, so as to avoid this situation reoccurring. Especially as some literature suggests that 
policies should be registered to the home address, i.e. not those rented out.
My final decision
It is my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2023.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman