DRN-1699136
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 1998. 
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. Nationwide disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive considered what Nationwide has said, but Ive still decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Ws 
complaint. This is because I dont think Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs W clear enough 
information about the policy. I say this because there is a restriction in the policy which 
means you cant successfully claim for disablement benefit arising directly from a medical 
condition you were aware of at the start of the PPI policy.   
I think this would have mattered to Mr and Mrs W because, 14 years before, Mr W had 
suffered a serious illness which led to him having surgery and 8 weeks off work. He hadnt 
had a recurrence, but it is the type of serious illness that most people would fear recurring at 
some stage; and, once aware of the policy term, they might expect an insurer to link any 
similar illness to it, saying it was the same underlying disease. 
Nationwide didnt make a recommendation of the PPI to Mr and Mrs W, in the sense of 
assessing their individual needs and telling them the PPI suited those needs. But it did have 
to give Mr and Mrs W information that was clear, fair and not misleading; this is so Mr and 
Mrs W could make an informed choice. Despite what Nationwide has said, I dont have good 
evidence it did this. 
Nationwide has pointed to the wording of a leaflet about PPI, which it says it would a have 
given to Mr and Mrs W. 
I dont know if it did give them that leaflet when selling the PPI. But even if it did, I dont think 
the wording is clear enough for such an important limitation in the policy. The leaflet says, on 
page 5, under the heading Pre-existing medical conditions:
You can still have a PaymentGuard policy if you've suffered a specific illness in the 
past - or if you have an ongoing or recurring medical condition. These illnesses or 
conditions will be excluded, but that won't affect any future claims for disablement or 
unemployment by other causes
In my role as an ombudsman I have, over many years, read many such terms of insurance 
policies. But I had to read that paragraph twice before I grasped what it was saying. The 
whole thrust of the two sentences appears to be that you will be covered: it says that if 
youve suffered from an illness, you can still have Payment Guard and, unless you read it 
carefully, the illness wont affect any future claims. 
I do know what excluded means  but I think very many people, even if they understand 
the technical term excluded, would have got confused about the overall meaning. It seems 
almost to have been hidden in obfuscation, rather than simply saying something like 
Warning  you will not be covered for an illness youve already got, or have had in the past. 
I dont think Mr and Mrs W would have bought the policy if theyd understood this term of the 
policy. I think theyd have expected to face difficulties, if they needed to make a disablement 
claim; and theyd have imagined Mr Ws medical condition would be quite likely to require a 
further significant absence from work, if it recurred. 
Putting things right
Nationwide should put Mr and Mrs W in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Nationwide 
should:
Pay Mr and Mrs W the amount they paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr and Mrs W made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Nationwide can take 
off what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Nationwide Building Society to take off tax from this 
interest. Nationwide must give Mr and Mrs W a certificate showing how much tax its 
taken off if they ask for one.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. 
I require Nationwide Building Society to pay Mr and Mrs W compensation in accordance with 
the calculation of redress set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 8 June 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman