DRN-1397421
 
The complaint
Mr T complains that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited declined his claim unfairly. 
 
What happened
Mr T has private medical insurance with his employer and AXA is the provider. Mr T's cover 
began on 1 April 2019. He began to suffer with severe mental health problems a few weeks 
later, which included depression and anxiety, and was admitted to a specialist hospital for 
treatment in July 2019. He submitted a claim for AXA to cover the cost of his treatment but it 
was declined.
AXA said it declined Mr T's claim because it believed he'd suffered with symptoms of 
depression previously in December 2018. It noted Mr T's GP said he'd suffered with 'low 
mood' amongst other physical issues back then and that this is a symptom of depression. 
AXA said that because of this, it was entitled to decline his claim as he'd not been symptom 
free for two years - as defined by its moratorium clause.  
Our investigator thought AXA had declined Mr T's claim unfairly and so she upheld his 
complaint. She said Mr T had suffered with a physical ailment in December 2018 which was 
accompanied by low mood and therefore should not be considered as part of Mr T's 
downward turn in mental health. She also highlighted that it was confirmed by Mr T's 
specialist in July 2019 that his depression symptoms began after the policy had started. 
AXA disagreed with this. It acknowledged Mr T suffered from a rash and other physical 
symptoms back in December, but maintained its terms are clear in that should there be a 
symptom previously experienced by a consumer within two years, then this would be 
classified as a pre-existing condition and therefore not covered. AXA also added:
 
The medical information form completed by Mr T's GP suggested he'd suffered with 
low mood since December 2018;
 
There didn't need to be a diagnosis of depression back in December 2018, rather, 
there simply needed to be evidence of Mr T suffering with symptoms;
 
There shouldn't be as much reliance placed on the specialist's report because this 
simply recorded Mr T's self-reported version of events. AXA also explained that 
should the ombudsman place more weight on this piece of evidence, then he should 
share with it evidence of any conversations between the specialist and Mr T's GP - 
suggesting that this report was not persuasive enough;
 
It placed more emphasis on the medical information form, alongside any 
contemporaneous notes taken at the time Mr T was seen and
 Should the ombudsman not agree with AXA's decision to decline the claim, then he 
must request more information, such as the GP records, and justify his decision 
using this information.  
So it's now for me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm upholding Mr T's complaint. My reasons for doing so are similar to those 
already shared by our investigator, but in summary, I'm not persuaded that AXA has 
declined Mr T's claim fairly. I'll explain why.
AXA's highlighted Mr T's visit to his GP in December 2018, particularly because the GP 
mentioned he was suffering symptoms of low mood. AXA knew this, not because it 
requested to see Mr T's GP records, but because the GP completed the medical information 
form AXA sent following Mr T's claim. AXA has relied heavily on the information included 
within this form as part of its reason to decline the claim. 
But Mr T has challenged the information given in this form and our investigator has also 
highlighted some inconsistencies. Particularly because some answers given by the GP were 
contradictory, including whether Mr T had suffered symptoms prior to visiting the surgery and 
how recently he'd suffered with his symptoms. 
In addition, Mr T approached his GP about these concerns which resulted in further 
clarification from the GP that suggested AXA had misunderstood the information 
provided. The GP's letter dated July 2019 is consistent with the information shared by
Mr T's treating specialist in that the mental health problem of severe depression and anxiety 
began after the policy start date. He did an analysis of Mr T's medical history and confirmed 
the chronology of key medical events, including Mr T's onward set of severe depression and 
anxiety towards the end of April 2019.
I've not seen any evidence to show AXA took reasonable steps to explore this further as I 
would expect it to. Instead, it appears to have relied heavily on the information given by the 
GP in the medical information form. However, the GP has since clarified his position about 
Mr T's low mood in December 2018 and said this was caused by a physical illness that'd 
simply brought his overall mood down. Therefore, I'm not persuaded that AXA took 
reasonable steps to investigate Mr T's medical history further prior to declining his claim as it 
appears to have ignored this and hasn't taken any further steps, like requesting Mr T's 
medical records, to better understand what happened at the time.   
AXA has suggested that the ombudsman should take the time to investigate this further by 
requesting copies of Mr T's medical records, as well as further evidence of any 
correspondence between Mr T's GP and the treating psychologist. But I should remind 
AXA that's not the role of the ombudsman in these particular circumstances. It's 
AXA's responsibility to ensure it's declined Mt T's claim fairly. This would include gathering 
the relevant evidence as suggested by it. 
The test I'm applying here is whether AXA has complied with its obligations under the 
Insurance Code of Business Sourcebook and rejected Mr T's claim fairly. 
AXA's role was to validate Mr T's claim through conducting a fair investigation. Mr T, in my 
view, has successfully shown, with medical evidence, that his depression began after the 
policy started. I think it declined Mr T's claim unfairly for the reasons set out above. AXA has made other arguments about placing further emphasis on contemporaneous 
evidence, that is to say, medical notes completed nearer to the dates in question and after 
physically reviewing Mr T. It's suggested that the medical information form is more accurate 
because it was completed before the GP's subsequent letter of July 2019 and the specialist's 
report the same month. I understand the connection AXA has attempted to make here, but I 
don't think it's persuasive enough in these particular circumstances. 
Further, if AXA is concerned about the reliability of evidence, then I think it reasonable to 
suggest that it should have attempted to obtain this information prior to declining Mr T's 
claim.
Given the GP's effective rebuttal to AXA's arguments about Mr T suffering with depressive 
symptoms in December 2018, I think greater weight should be placed on both letters from Mr 
T's GP and treating psychologist in July 2019. Both of which suggest Mr T's mental health 
problems began after the policy started. 
I accept the medical information form mentioned Mr T experienced low mood in December 
2018, but this was further clarified and there was no evidence to suggest this was anything 
more than that, like a suggestion of depression or anxiety problems. Also, I think it's worth 
highlighting that low mood is such a broad term that it could be attributed to symptoms of 
most illnesses and so it would not be fair to apply the pre-existing medical term in these 
particular circumstances where no further investigation was undertaken, despite the medical 
evidence successfully challenging AXA's position on Mr T's claim.  
 Putting things right
AXA should now look to settle Mr T's claim alongside the remaining terms of the 
policy. It should add 8% simple interest to the settlement amount from the date Mr T 
submitted his claim up until the date of settlement. 
 
AXA must pay Mr T £400 for the overall trouble and upset caused. 
My final decision
I uphold Mr T's complaint against AXA PPP Healthcare Limited for the reasons I've 
explained in my final decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2020.
Scott Slade
Ombudsman