DRN-2763034
The complaint
Miss S says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. AXA France 
IARD, as the insurer, have taken responsibility for the sale. To keep things simple, Ill only 
refer to AXA in this decision, rather than any other business.
What happened
Miss S bought the policy in 1996, at the same time as taking out a store card in the store. It 
covered her in case she was off work sick or lost her job.
I sent Miss S and AXA a provisional decision on 17 March 2021, to explain why I didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Miss Ss store card application had a section for PPI. It gave an overview of what the policy 
was for, and then there was a box which could be ticked if Miss S wanted PPI, or which 
could be left blank if she didnt want it. The box was ticked, and Miss S signed the form to 
confirm her choices. Ive not seen any wider problems with AXAs sales process from the 
time, nor any evidence which would show that Miss S was misled or unfairly pressured into 
having PPI here. So on the balance of probabilities, I think its most likely that AXA made 
Miss S aware she had a choice about buying the PPI, and that she chose it at the time.
AXA didnt give Miss S tailored advice about buying PPI, so they didnt have to check if it 
was right for her. They did have to give Miss S enough information to decide for herself 
whether the PPI was right for her.
Its possible that the information AXA gave Miss S about PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have changed 
her mind. Here, it looks like Miss S chose to take out the policy, which indicates she wanted 
this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look 
like she was affected by any of the policys main exclusions or limitations. And the PPI would 
have paid out on top of her work benefits and offered her more comprehensive cover, 
especially for when her benefits reduced to just a fraction of her normal pay. So the policy 
could have been useful for Miss S in case something went wrong. And the PPI was paid on 
a rolling monthly basis, so Miss S could cancel it at any time without a penalty. Overall, 
I dont think better information about the PPI was likely to have put her off taking it out.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
14 April 2021. But neither Miss S nor AXA sent me anything new to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before  that I have not found this particular PPI 
policy to have been mis-sold.
My final decision
I dont uphold Miss Ss complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 May 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman