DRN-3786756
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Society of Lloyds has increased the cost of his income protection 
policy.
What happened
Mr B has had a Homeowner income protection policy with SOL since 2016. When Mr B 
took out the policy, his premium was £58.67 per month. 
The cost of the policy has increased during the lifetime of the policy: 
In May 2017 there was an increase in Insurance Premium Tax so the cost of the 
policy increased to £59.74 from June 2017
In May 2018, at the annual review of the policy, the price remained the same at 
£59.74
In May 2019, at the annual review of the policy, the price remained the same at 
£59.74
In December 2019 SOL the cost of the policy increased from £59.74 to £68.70 
(effective from January 2020) 
In July 2020 the cost of the policy increased from £68.70 to £75.57 (effective from 
August 2020)
In January 2021 the cost of the policy increased from £75.57 to £132.25 (effective 
from March 2021) 
Following Mr Bs complaint to our service, in July 2021, the cost of the policy 
increased from £132.25 to £204.00 (effective from August 2021). 
So, between December 2019 and January 2021, the cost of the policy increased three times 
from £59.74 to £132.25 per month. 
Mr B complained to SOL, following the increase in price in January 2021. In summary he 
says it wasnt made clear to him that the policy could increase in price so much and the price 
had significantly increased without any justification. SOL said that the amendment had been 
applied fairly to all policyholders and was in line with the policy terms and conditions. 
Unhappy, Mr B referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. He said that in 
the past 12 months his premium had more than doubled from £68.70 to £132.25. Whilst he 
acknowledged the premiums could change, he said the terms didnt make clear that those 
changes were unlimited. He said he accepted the first increase, but the latest increase was 
unacceptable and sharp practice. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold the complaint. He thought
the policy terms were clear, and that SOL was entitled to increase the price of the policy.
Mr B didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. In summary, he says
that if hed realised the premiums could increase by over 200% or that they were unlimited
he wouldnt have taken out the policy. And, he pointed out that the increases have never
been fully explained to him or justified with a breakdown of cost. Mr B also said that he feels
SOL have exploited the situation because there was no alternative policy available on the
market that he could switch to in January 2021.
In August 2022 I issued my provisional decision. I said: 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines
The Principles for Businesses (Principles) are set out in the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) Handbook and SOL is obliged to follow these.
Principle 6 says a firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat 
them fairly.
The Regulatory Guide, published by the FCA, entitled: The Responsibilities of 
Providers and Distributors for the Fair Treatment of Customers (RPPD) includes the 
Regulators guidance on what the combination of Principles and the detailed rules 
require providers and distributors of financial services in certain circumstances to 
treat customers fairly. The RPPD makes clear that firms should consider the impact 
of their actions, or inactions, on the customer throughout the life cycle of the service 
being provided.
Ive also considered what I consider having been good industry practice at the time of 
the claim. Thats for insurers  and their agents  to make clear what the key 
benefits, and significant limitations, of cover are. And, they also need to ensure that 
consumers are given clear information about what changes can be made to the 
policy during its lifetime.
The policy terms and conditions
The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) says on page two:
Cover commences on the date shown in your schedule and will continue each month
on a rolling basis.
The policy terms and conditions say on page three:
The premium will alter if you alter your monthly benefit and/or cover type and 
we can alter your premium at any time provided we let you know 30 days in 
advance.
And:
Your policy is designed to adapt to your requirements and provide the cover 
you want over many years but it is important to note that we can alter the 
terms of the policy, the cover options available and the premiums applicable if we feel it is appropriate. If we feel any such change is necessary we will 
advise you what is to change, why it is to change and we will do this as 
quickly as possible but in any event at least 30 days before the change 
applies.
Have SOL treated Mr B fairly?
Im upholding this complaint and directing SOL to pay Mr B £500 compensation 
because:
Mr B took out a policy to protect him in the event of unemployment. The core 
feature of the product is that its designed to offer Mr B financial stability in the 
event he was unable to work.
I dont think the policy terms and conditions made it clear enough that the 
premiums could increase in the way they did and at short notice. Although the 
policy was described as monthly renewable I dont think that the impact of 
this term was clear to Mr B. The policy terms didnt clearly explain that this 
meant the premium could increase at any time, or more than once within a 
short space of time. I think this was a significant limitation of the policy that 
ought to have been more clearly highlighted in the policy documents. I dont 
think the way this information was presented was prominent or transparent. 
Mr B would have needed to cross refer between the IPID and different 
sections of the policy to work out that his policy could be subject to premium 
increases at any time and that SOL could make unlimited increases in the 
price.
At the time Mr B bought this policy he would have been able to take out 
alternative cover at a similar price. Those similar policies would have only 
been subject to increases in price once a year. I think that such a policy is 
likely to have been more attractive to Mr B as it would have offered greater 
security and stability.
Mr Bs monthly premiums increased from £75.57 to £132.25 within less than 
12 months. Thats an increase of around 75%. SOL hasnt provided me with 
any information to explain why the price increased, or why it increased so 
much. Id expect SOL to be able to demonstrate that any increase in price 
was fair and reasonable. For example, that the price increased because of an 
increased risk. SOL hasnt provided any information to demonstrate thats 
what happened in this case. So, even if all consumers experienced a similar 
increase in premiums, Im not persuaded this was fair or reasonable based on 
the evidence Ive been provided with.
I think that the lack of clarity in the terms about premium increases has placed 
Mr B at a disadvantage and he has lost out as a result. SOL increased the 
premiums significantly after March 2020 when Covid-19 had a significant 
impact on the market. This means it was more difficult, and expensive, to take 
out a new policy. And, Mr B is unlikely to have been able to take out 
comparable cover, due to the impact of Covid-19.
Mr B didnt claim on the policy and he continues to benefit from cover as the 
policy remains in force. Therefore, I think that he has experienced a loss of 
expectation. Thats because he bought a product which was designed to offer 
financial stability during difficult times. But it wasnt clear that this particular policy could be subject to regular and significant increases in premiums. I 
think it caused Mr B distress when he realised this, particularly following the 
impact of Covid-19 which was a time of unprecedented uncertainty in relation 
to job security. I think SOL needs to pay £500 to Mr B to put things right.
Mr B should note that my provisional decision is based on the current 
available evidence. SOL hasnt provided the detailed underwriting information 
Ive asked for. But if they do provide more information in support of their 
position, I may reach a different outcome to the one Ive outlined above.
Putting things right
Im intending to uphold this complaint and direct SOL to put things right by paying 
Mr B £500 for the loss of expectation together with the associated distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Mr B didnt respond to my provisional decision. SOL made a number of further 
representations. In summary they: 
Provided underwriting data which they said demonstrated the increase in risk to the 
insurer 
Set out in detail the increases in prices between the policy inception in 2016 and 
January 2021
Explained that policyholders were notified of an exceptional number of claims which 
outweighed the premiums received and the scheme wasnt sustainable without 
increases to the premiums. They provided some underwriting data which they said 
supported this. 
Said that Mr Bs complaint was about the most recent increase being unacceptable  
historically (between 2016 and 2019) the premiums had increased by £10. They also 
maintained it wasnt fair for me to conclude the policy had been subject to regular 
and significant increases in premium
Said that this was a monthly rolling contract which was mentioned in the Insurance 
Product Information Document (IPID) and subject to an annual review.
So, I now need to make a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I remain persuaded that it is fair and reasonable to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why. 
The increase in risk to SOLIn my provisional decision I set out the responsibilities of the insurer with reference to the 
relevant rules and industry guidelines. I also referred to RPPD which makes clear that firms 
should consider the impact of their actions, or inactions, on the customer throughout the life 
cycle of the service being provided. 
Ive re-considered the information provided by both parties in this complaint and have 
reached the following conclusions:  
In their letters to policyholders SOL said the performance of the Homeowner account 
was regularly reviewed and if there was a negative result this meant the insurer had 
sustained losses. They said the Homeowner scheme had sustained losses and the 
insurer had no alternative but to increase prices. Thats reflected within the 
underwriting data Ive seen but it doesnt mean I accept everything SOL has told us 
about the scheme and the increase in the price of the policy. From the information 
Ive seen, the pressure on the costs of supporting the scheme wasnt directly related 
to the risks posed by the pandemic. 
Bearing in mind the principles Ive outlined in relation to RPPD its disappointing to 
note how the performance of the scheme was addressed and the point at which SOL 
decided to take action to address it. 
In particular SOL has acknowledged the historic performance of the scheme and its 
lack of preparedness of the scheme for a systemic event. In reaching my decision 
Ive taken into account that the failure to address the price earlier meant Mr B had the 
benefit of cheaper cover. But it seems most likely the implications of SOLs inaction 
were compounded by the impact of Covid-19 which led to significant increases in 
premiums over a short period of time for Mr B. 
Has SOL treated Mr B fairly? 
In any event, even if I accepted SOL arguments on the above points, I still think its fair and 
reasonable to uphold Mr Bs complaint because: 
Mr B did complain about the increase in premium in January 2021 when the cost 
rose from £75.57 to £132.25. But, that also has to be considered in the context that 
historically there had been limited, annual increases in the price of the policy since 
inception. I think thats relevant to Mr Bs complaint as the increase he specifically 
complained about followed other recent increases in the price. 
Im not persuaded that the policy terms and conditions made it clear that the policy 
premiums could increase at any time and an unlimited number of times. 
I dont think the IPID adequately highlighted what the impact of a monthly renewable 
policy was. I dont think Mr B understood the implications of this term and how it 
could affect his policy. I dont think it was presented in a way that was clear, fair and 
not misleading. 
Mr B would have had to read the policy terms in detail to understand when and how 
SOL could makes changes to the premiums. Although the policy refers to SOL being 
able to make changes with 30 days notice it doesnt go on to explain that those 
changes could be unlimited both in terms of the size of the increase and the 
frequency with which they could be made. 
I also note that SOL refers to the policy as annually reviewable  thats also reflected within the policy documentation which was sent to Mr B throughout the lifetime of the 
policy. I think thats likely to have further detracted from the implications of holding a 
monthly renewable policy. 
I remain of the view that this was a significant limitation in cover which ought to have 
been more clearly highlighted to Mr B in the policy documentation. This is a policy 
which is designed to offer security and stability during times of uncertainty. Instead, 
Mr B faced significant and unexpected increases in the price of the policy during 
worrying and unstable times. 
I think that caused him distress and inconvenience at a time when he was in a 
vulnerable position. I say that because, as I outlined in my provisional decision, Mr B 
was unable to move to another provider following the impact of Covid-19, which had 
a significant impact on the market. I think had he been aware of the limitations of the 
policy hed have most likely taken out alternative cover elsewhere. So, he was left in 
a vulnerable position because he had to pay a significantly increased premium or 
cancel at a time of substantial instability in terms of the employment market.  
SOL says, in summary, that I unfairly concluded in my provisional decision that there 
were regular and significant increases in premium, particularly as Mr B had only 
complained about the latest increase. But in his complaint to our service Mr B 
referred to the increases in his policy over the 12 months prior to his complaint. Ive 
referred to the historic increases in price as they are relevant background to the 
outcome of this complaint when deciding what is fair and reasonable. And, in any 
event, its for me to decide what evidence is relevant to my decision, bearing in mind 
the Financial Ombudsman Services inquisitorial remit. 
Putting things right
I direct SOL to put things right by paying Mr B £500 for the loss of expectation together with 
the associated distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
Im upholding Mr Bs complaint and direct Society of Lloyds to put things right in the way Ive 
outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman