DRN-2886448
The complaint
Mr C is complaining about Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited. He says 
they mis-sold him whole of life assurance policies which started in 1994 and 1998. Hes 
appointed a claims management company (the CMC) to represent him in bringing the 
complaint to us.
What happened
In 1993, Sun Life sold Mr C a cluster of whole of life policies which started in 1994. These 
policies provided £75,000 life assurance for an annual premium of £10,000. They could be 
cashed in at different times. Mr C surrendered the policies in 1999 for around £67,000.
In 1998, Mr C met with Sun Life again and bought another cluster of policies. These ones 
provided life assurance of £13,500 for a monthly premium of £150. These policies matured 
in 2008 and Mr C received around £20,000 in June 2008.
The CMC complained to Sun Life in 2019. They raised the following main points of 
complaint:
Mr C was single and had no dependents at the time of both sales. So he didnt need 
life assurance.
The advisor didnt extensively assess Mr Cs attitude to risk and Mr C wouldnt have 
wanted to accept any risk with his savings.
The advisor didnt discuss or illustrate fees or surrender penalties, or the fact that 
only a portion of his premium would be invested.
Mr C was an inexperienced investor at the time and reliant on the advice given due to 
the complex nature of the product.
Sun Life told the CMC that Mr C had complained too late. They said the rules required a 
complaint to be made within six years of the mis-sale, or, if later, within three years of when 
Mr C ought to have been aware that something might have gone wrong. Sun Life said theyd 
written to Mr C in 2002 about the potential mis-sale of these policies so he should have been 
aware in 2002 and complained within three years of that date.
The CMC said Mr C was living abroad in 2002 and didnt receive the 2002 letter. They 
werent happy that Sun Life had time barred the complaint so they brought it to our service. 
In doing so, Mr C reiterated that he was single with no dependents at the time so didnt need 
life cover. He said he already had life assurance with other products and was just looking for 
regular savings. And added that the advisor didnt discuss other options but told him these 
were his best option, with no discussion about the potential for the policies to have a 
shortfall.
Our investigator obtained consent from Sun Life to look into the complaint. He then upheld 
the complaint, saying that life assurance wasnt suitable for Mr Cs circumstances at the 
time. He said Sun Life should refund to Mr C all premiums paid towards the life cover, with 
8% interest added on  after taking into consideration the surrender value Mr C previously 
received for the policies.
Sun Life asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. They said they hadnt consented 
to us investigating the complaint and maintained that the time bar should be applied. So it 
came to me. I issued a provisional decision on 20 May 2021. In summary, my provisional 
decision said I thought I could look at the complaint because I was satisfied Sun Life had 
consented to us looking at it and the rules dont allow a business to withdraw consent once 
given.
So I went on to look at whether the policies had been mis-sold. I said:
Sun Life have provided documents from the time of both sales. Although these arent 
complete, they give a reasonable picture of why Mr C bought these policies. And theyre 
signed by Mr C which suggests he agreed to whats written in the documents.
The documents from 1994 say that Mr Cs priority was to accumulate capital to facilitate 
early retirement and to maximise tax free credits. At the time he had significant earnings 
and would have been a higher rate tax payer. The documents also show that Mr Cs 
appetite for risk was recorded as medium. I appreciate Mr C doesnt think his attitude 
to risk was extensively assessed and hes said he wouldnt have taken any risk with his 
savings  but thats not whats documented. Mr C had considerable income and savings 
so theres nothing to suggest he couldnt afford to take some risk.
Whilst I can see Mr C didnt need life assurance, this product did provide what Mr C was 
looking for  the opportunity to accumulate capital in a tax efficient way. Its true that a 
portion of his premiums was used to pay for life assurance, but this wasnt a particularly 
significant proportion and I think its likely the benefit gained from the tax efficiency 
would have outweighed the cost of life cover over the ten-year term of the policy. 
One of Mr Cs complaint points was that fees and charges, including surrender 
penalties, werent discussed. But the documents set out the likely returns which take 
into account any charges. And the charges are detailed in the terms and conditions 
which I think its likely Mr C would have been given at the same time.
Turning to the 1998 sale, the Reasons Why Letter signed by Mr C says that he wanted 
tax efficient savings. The letter says the advisor had discussed a range of products with 
Mr C and that hed recommended this particular product because Mr C liked the idea of 
the flexibility of being able to switch between a wide choice of funds, and because he 
wanted to accumulate capital in a disciplined way. 
Again, I cant see that the product Mr C was sold was unsuitable when considering 
these objectives  whilst Mr C didnt need life assurance, the product did meet his other 
objectives. And, again, the reduction in yield due to the cost of life assurance charges 
wasnt significant and would likely have been offset by the tax efficiency benefits given 
that Mr C would have been a higher rate tax payer.
Taking everything together, Im inclined to say the policies were suitable for Mr C. It 
seems that the advisor discussed with him his priorities and some alternatives and 
advised him on a suitable course of action. I havent seen any evidence that any of 
these policies were mis-sold and so Im not minded to uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Sun Life didnt have any comments on my provisional decision, and the CMC said theyd 
discussed my findings with Mr C and they agreed with the provisional decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any evidence or comments to change my mind, my final 
decision is unchanged from my provisional decision.
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint about Sun Life Assurance 
Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2021.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman