DRN-4117173
The complaint
Mr H complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) have failed to refund over £700,000 
he lost to an investment scam beginning in January 2021.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
not to uphold it for the reasons set out below.
It isnt in dispute that Mr H authorised the disputed payments he made to his account with 
Clearbank or to the crypto wallets in his own name (where his funds were subsequently 
transferred on to the scammers (NC). The payments were requested by him using his 
legitimate security credentials provided by Barclays, and the starting position is that banks 
ought to follow the instructions given by their customers in order for legitimate payments to 
be made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether Barclays should have done more to prevent Mr H from 
falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should reasonably 
have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. For example, 
if it was particularly out of character. 
It isnt in dispute that some of the payments Mr H made were unusual given that they did 
trigger the banks fraud prevention systems and were automatically blocked pending further 
enquiry  such as the £8,000 payment he made on 7 January 2021. Accordingly, its just a 
question of whether the bank went far enough in all the circumstances with its interventions.
When Barclays spoke to Mr H on 7 January 2021, he explained that the payment had been 
flagged as being potentially fraudulent. Prior to this, Barclays had told him to speak to the 
FCA to check whether NC was legitimate. He said that the person at the FCA he spoke to 
said they couldnt find NC or see that it was authorised and told him it had all the hallmarks 
of a scam. So, he reported it as fraud to Barclays as he was concerned he was going to lose 
the £8,000 he had paid.
However, despite initially having such concerns, Mr H continued to make payments to the 
scammers through his accounts/crypto wallets. Barclays called him again on 14 January 
2021 in relation to the £15,000 payment he was making to Bitstamp, where he said he had 
fully researched the company, was paying into his own wallet and was happy for the 
payment to be released. Mr H says he continued to make payments because he had spoken 
to the scammers after reporting the first payment as fraud, who were subsequently able to 
convince him that they were legitimate. They also refunded the previous £8,000 payment he 
had made to further convince him it wasnt a scam. 
So, even if I thought Barclays ought to have gone further with its intervention and asked 
more probing questions when it spoke to Mr H, Im not persuaded that any such intervention 
would have ultimately prevented his loss. The fact that he continued making payments to NC 
after already reporting it as a scam (and even being told it was likely to be a scam by the 
FCA) demonstrates to me that any further intervention or scam warnings Barclays could 
have provided wouldve likely been ineffective. Mr H has explained how he grew to fully trust 
the person at NC he was dealing with, so Im not persuaded Barclays wouldve been able to 
prevent him from making further payments in these circumstances. 
Therefore, I dont consider it would be fair and reasonable to hold Barclays liable for Mr Hs 
loss, because it seems more likely than not that he would have always continued to make 
further payments to the scammers, notwithstanding any intervention made by the bank. 
Barclays are also under no obligation to refund the money to Mr H under the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model either, as the Code does not apply to payments which the payer has 
effectively made to themselves (which would have been the case here given the payments 
were made to accounts/crypto wallets held in Mr Hs name before being moved on to the 
scammers). 
Ive also thought about whether Barclays could have done more to recover the funds after 
Mr H reported the fraud, as in some circumstances the money can be recovered from the 
receiving bank if it still remains in the account. However, I can see that Barclays reached out 
to the beneficiary banks but was informed that no funds remained, which isnt surprising 
given we know they were swiftly transferred out of those accounts to the scammers under 
the guise of an investment. 
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr H, and Im sorry to hear he has 
been the victim of a cruel scam. I dont underestimate the impact this has likely had on him 
and his family. However, while I sympathise with the very difficult circumstances he finds 
himself in, Im afraid Im not persuaded that Barclays can fairly or reasonably be held liable 
for his loss in these circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman