DRN-1632714
The complaint
Ms D complains about how AXA Insurance UK Plc handled her claim for subsidence on her 
home insurance policy. 
What happened
Ms D had a home insurance policy with AXA. In July 2018 she noticed cracks in her property 
and made a claim for subsidence. AXA sent its contractors out to inspect the property at the 
start of August. They identified trees close to the property that they believed were causing 
the subsidence. These were removed the following month.
After the trees were removed AXA said a period of monitoring would be required in order to 
ensure the ground had stabilised ready for repairs. This was completed between January 
and July 2019. 
During this time Ms D reported that the cracking at the property was worsening and had 
appeared in different parts of the house. She also provided a report from her neighbours 
property after they had experienced subsidence, as she felt the circumstances were similar. 
The report said the subsidence had been caused in part by how the property was built and 
warned this could affect other properties in the area that were built at the same time. 
In August 2019 AXA carried out an inspection of the property again and agreed to do further 
investigations into the foundations, to see if the problems experienced by Ms Ds neighbour 
had also affected her property. This work began in November 2019, but while taking up the 
floor in the kitchen AXAs contractors found asbestos and had to stop work.
The contractors said they would need to test other areas of the house for asbestos and then 
carry out work to remove any found. Ms D provided evidence of a medical condition that 
meant she would need to move out of the house during this time. AXA agreed to pay for 
alternative accommodation. 
At this time Ms D made a complaint to AXA. She said her claim had now been open for over 
a year with little progress and no repair work had started. AXA didnt respond to the 
complaint within the required time, so she brought her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator considered all the issues and recommended that the complaint be upheld. 
He said AXA had caused some avoidable delays, particularly by ignoring the report Ms D 
provided about her neighbours property to begin with. He thought AXA should pay Ms D 
£700 to make up for the distress and inconvenience this had caused her. 
AXA accepted our investigators view. However Ms D didnt think the compensation 
recommended was enough to make up for the distress AXA had caused. She asked for her 
complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AXA has accepted it caused avoidable delays throughout this claim and has agreed to pay 
Ms D £700 compensation to make up for this. Ms D doesnt think this is enough to make up 
for the distress and inconvenience it has caused her, so I need to decide what AXA has got 
wrong and whether this is enough to put things right. 
Ms D first made the claim in July 2018. When she brought her complaint to this service, at 
the end of 2019, repair work hadnt yet begun. So I appreciate this is a long time with little 
progress. 
Subsidence claims, by their nature, often take a long time to resolve. There will usually be 
periods of monitoring where it may feel like no progress is being made. When looking at this 
complaint I have considered whether AXA has caused any delays that could have been 
avoided, in order to decide how it should put things right.  
When Ms D first made the claim, AXA and its contractors arranged a visit promptly. Once the 
trees were identified as the probable cause, these were removed quickly. AXA then moved 
to a period of monitoring, which is what I would expect in order to ensure the movement had 
stabilised. 
However during the time between when the trees were identified and removed, and when 
the monitoring begun, I can see there were avoidable delays. Firstly, the company appointed 
by AXA to remove the trees confirmed they would be removing only two trees to begin with. 
However Ms D queried this and provided evidence that there were three further trees in the 
same area. Once received, the company amended their plan to include the additional trees. 
It isnt clear why this was missed, as a visit had been conducted by the company shortly 
before. But this meant Ms D had to take time to provide evidence to show that this would be 
necessary, which would have been inconvenient. 
Further, once the trees were removed in September 2018, there was a period up until 
January 2019 where there seemed to be no progress at all. Once the removal had taken 
place I would expect monitoring to start almost straight away. However this didnt commence 
until January. I can see that AXA had some problems getting hold of its contractor. However 
as its appointed agent, AXA is responsible for their actions. And this lack of action caused an 
avoidable delay of around three months.
After January 2019, monitoring commenced. And I can see this took place throughout the 
next six months. Ms D was regularly updated with the results of the monitoring which is as I 
would expect. 
However Ms D also reported to AXA that the cracking in the house was worsening and that 
there were new areas of damage. But it didnt appear that AXA took note of this. Further, 
before the monitoring began, Ms D provided AXA with a report from her neighbours property 
that had experienced similar subsidence issues. This report outlined problems with how the 
foundations of the building were laid and said other buildings in the area may experience 
similar problems due to this. AXA didnt take action based on this report until nearly a year 
after Ms D provided it. And once these problems were investigated it seems the highlighted 
problems had contributed to the damage. 
I therefore think that the fact AXA initially ignored the report, and Ms Ds report of worsening 
damage, has led to the problem not being addressed sooner and therefore the claim being 
delayed further. This may also have caused the damage to worsen by the time AXA got to 
repair stage. This would have caused Ms D distress, particularly as she felt she was being ignored during a worsening situation. And it may mean that the overall repairs would take 
longer as a result. 
Once work begun asbestos was discovered. This inevitably delayed the claim further as 
work had to stop for further testing and removal. I appreciate this caused further distress due 
to the delay and Ms Ds underlying health problems, however as this wasnt something that 
AXA could control, I cant consider the impact this had as part of the compensation award. 
From considering how AXA handled the claim up until December 2019, I agree there have 
been a number of avoidable delays. The monitoring could have started sooner and problems 
with the foundations could have been discovered and addressed earlier had AXA properly 
reviewed the report provided by Ms D when she first presented it. From what Ive seen I 
think this inaction has led to at least an additional six months delay between September 208 
and December 2019. 
Further AXA have repeatedly disregarded information provided by Ms D which would have 
been distressing for her, especially as she was living in a house that was getting noticeably 
worse, with no action being taken. 
Ms D has also explained that during this time she was going through medical tests and has 
provided evidence from her doctor of a condition that was being looked into. This would have 
no doubt increased the impact of the distress caused by AXAs poor management of the 
claim. 
AXA has agreed to pay Ms D £700 compensation. Considering the distress and 
inconvenience it has caused, I agree this is the right amount. I will therefore require AXA to 
pay Ms D this amount.
Since the complaint has come to this service, I understand Ms D has experienced further 
delays and there has been a disagreement about how the claim is settled. AXA has 
confirmed this will be looked at as a separate complaint, so I havent dealt with those further 
issues as part of my assessment.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay Ms D £700 
compensation to make up for the distress and inconvenience it has caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman