DRN-2305453
The complaint
Miss H is unhappy with the charges FCE Bank Plc applied when she handed back a car 
shed acquired under a hire purchase agreement.
What happened
Miss H says when she returned the car at the end of her agreement, an inspection of the car 
was done in February 2020 and she was charged for some damage to the car. 
Miss H disputes the damage as she says its minimal. Miss H also says the mileage she 
agreed to do when she acquired the car was 48,000 miles. But when she returned the car, 
shed only done just over 39,000 miles. So, Miss H says the amount she paid when she 
agreed to do 48,000 miles should eliminate the cost for the damage to the car.
FCE said Miss H was given information at the start of the agreement which said she needed 
to keep the car in good condition. And that the damage on Miss Hs car fell outside the fair 
wear and tear guidelines. Therefore, Miss H was liable to pay £324 for all of the damage 
caused to the car.
Unhappy with FCEs response, Miss H brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked into Miss Hs concerns. In summary, she said the damage Miss H disputed fell 
outside of the fair wear and tear standards set out in the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing 
Association (BVRLA). And that the terms and conditions of Miss Hs agreement didnt say 
shed be entitled to a refund if there was a difference between the mileage agreed and the 
total mileage done by the time Miss H returned the car. So, she didnt think FCE had done 
anything wrong.
Miss H disagreed. She said the damage was minimal and that the resale value of the car is 
high due to its low mileage. So, the complaint has been passed to me. Miss H has disputed 
one of the damages and clarified that she thinks FCE should offset this charge against the 
mileage she didnt complete. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see an inspection report was carried out on the car in February 2020. And Ive carefully 
looked at the damage Miss H disputes  which shes provided us with a picture of. 
The terms and conditions of Miss Hs hire purchase agreement include a clause which says 
You are also responsible for the repair of all damage which is not a result of normal wear 
and use and If the Vehicle is returned or repossessed and you have failed to keep it in 
good condition and repairyou must then pay the cost of repairing it and restoring it to good 
condition. 
The BVRLA have produced industry guidance to help determine what a finance company 
can charge for when a car is returned. This is the starting point for me as it represents good
practice across the industry and is fairly detailed. So, Ive taken this guidance into account
when deciding whether FCE acted fairly and reasonably in charging for the damage Miss H 
has disputed.
I can understand Miss Hs frustrations  she says a car thats four years old is likely to have 
some scuffs and scratches. But I can see from the evidence provided, the scratch Miss H 
disputes is in excess of the accepted level of damage in the BVRLA guidance. I say this 
because I think this scratch is more than 25mm and it shows the bare metal of the car. I 
know this will come as a disappointment to Miss H, but I think its fair for FCE to charge for 
this damage.
I can see the inspection report provided by FCE notes other damages to the car which 
theyve included in the overall cost for repairs. As Ive explained, Miss Hs agreement 
confirms that she is liable for the cost of repairing the damage to restore it to good condition. 
I note Miss H has said FCE should use the costs in the mileage difference to pay
for the damage. Ive had a look at the terms of the agreement. And I can see they say Miss 
H would be responsible for paying for any mileage she does over the agreed amount. The 
contract makes no provision to offset one set of charges against the other as Miss H has 
proposed. And I have no information to suggest that such an approach was in the 
contemplation of the parties at the time they made the contract. So, for this reason, I wont 
be asking FCE to do as Miss H has requested.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 June 2021.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman