DRN-2943563
The complaint
 Mr A complains that hes been left without access to his money after Monzo Bank Ltd 
decided to close his account. 
What happened
 Mr A held an account with Monzo. In January 2020, following a review, Monzo decided to 
end their banking relationship with Mr A and closed his account.
At the time, Mr A had around £3,600 left in his Monzo account. Monzo asked Mr A for details 
of another account where they could send the money. Mr A supplied Monzo with alternative 
account details on 20 January 2020.
On 18 February 2020, Monzo transferred the full balance from Mr As Monzo account to the 
account details Mr A provided. Unfortunately, the account Mr A provided could only accept 
payments of up to £1,500. As the refund amount was more than this, the third-party bank 
transferred the money back to Monzo.
Monzo couldnt locate the payment which the third-party bank had said theyd sent back to 
them. Monzo carried out their own investigations into where the money was but couldnt 
locate it.
In June 2021, Monzo received confirmation from the third-party bank that the transfer was 
sent back to Monzos holding account on 22 February 2020. Monzo still couldnt locate the 
money so raised this with their payment analysts.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He didnt think it was reasonable that Mr A was still 
without access to his money. And he thought Monzo should have returned the money to Mr 
A while pursuing their investigations into where the refund had gone. Our investigator also 
thought 8% simple interest should be added to the refund amount to recognise the time Mr A 
was without the money. Monzo didnt agree. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
In August 2021, I attempted to resolve things informally by letting Monzo know my initial 
thoughts. In summary, I said;
It seems from the information on file, Monzo had the money back in their holding 
account on 22 February 2020,
While I recognise that Monzo couldnt locate the money, I didnt think that was a 
reasonable explanation as to why Mr A was at a loss;
I think it would have been reasonable for Monzo to refund the money to Mr A while 
continuing to trace the missing payment;
So I thought the fair way to resolve things would be for Monzo to refund the 
£3,605.30 to Mr A, and add 8% simple interest from the date the money was returned 
to them, to the date they refund Mr A;
And I thought Monzo should pay Mr A £250 compensation to recognise the distress 
and delays hed faced.
Monzo responded and didnt agree. They sent evidence of their settlement account to show 
the money hadnt been returned to them. 
As an agreement hasnt been reached, Ive decided to proceed with my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I think Mr As complaint should be upheld. Ive explained my reasons 
below.
The account review and closure
Monzo are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations. Theyre also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of new and 
existing relationships. That sometimes means they need to restrict customers accounts  
either in full or partially while they carry out their review. Having looked at whats happened, 
Im satisfied Monzo was complying with their legal and regulatory obligations when they 
reviewed Mr As account. So, I cant fairly say theyve done anything wrong.
Monzo decided to end their relationship with Mr A in January 2020. Banks sometimes 
choose to end their relationship with customers. This can be due to a number of reasons, 
and a bank isnt obliged to give a reason to the customer. Just the same as if Mr A decided 
to stop banking with Monzo, he wouldnt have to explain why. Monzo can only close 
accounts in certain circumstances and if it is in the terms and conditions of the account. 
Monzo have relied on the terms and conditions when closing Mr As account.
This service wont generally intervene in a banks commercial discretion. Monzo exercised
their right to no longer offer Mr A banking facilities and I've seen nothing to suggest that
theyve made an unfair decision. So, I cant fairly ask them to do anything differently on this
part.
The money left in Mr As account
Monzo asked Mr A for alternative bank details so they could transfer the money left in his 
account back to him. Mr A provided the alternative bank details to Monzo in January 2020.
In February 2020, Monzo transferred the full balance from Mr As account to the bank details 
Mr A provided. The receiving bank couldnt accept the payment as the account had a limit of 
£1,500. The receiving bank therefore sent the money back to Monzo on 22 February 2020.
Monzo have said they havent received this money and have carried out their own 
investigations into where the money has been sent with their own bank provider and the 
third-party bank who sent the money back to Monzo. While I recognise the inconvenience of 
Monzo not being able to locate this money, I cant fairly say this is the fault of Mr A. And it is 
Mr A who has been left without access to the money since February 2020.
I appreciate Mr A gave Monzo bank details for an account which had a limit on it  but based 
on the evidence and arguments Ive considered, I think its more likely than not the money 
was returned to Monzo in February 2020. Therefore, while I recognise Mr A would have 
encountered a delay in receiving the money back because of the account details he gave, I still find it reasonable that once the money was returned to Monzo, it should have then been 
sent on to Mr A.
Monzo have said they cant locate the payment and because of that, they havent returned it 
to Mr A. But the third-party bank has told Monzo they have returned it. Monzo has provided a 
copy of one of their account statements to show that the money wasnt received on the day 
the third-party bank say they sent it. While I cant be sure where the money is now, I am 
confident based on the evidence that Mr A hasnt received it. The money in question 
rightfully belongs to Mr A but he hasnt had access to it for over 18 months. I havent seen 
any rational to satisfy me that Mr A being without his money is reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Putting things right
 I dont doubt being without his money for over 18 months would have had a significant 
impact on Mr A. And as I havent seen any evidence to satisfy me that it is reasonable to be 
withholding this money from Mr A, I think Monzo should give Mr A the amount left in his 
account and continue with their own internal investigations to locate the money to cover their 
own loss. Monzo should also pay 8% simple interest on this amount from the date they 
received the money back  22 February 2020  to the date they refund it to him. 
Ive also thought about the distress and inconvenience this whole situation has caused Mr A. 
I consider a compensation amount of £250 to fairly reflect the trouble Mr A has encountered.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Monzo Bank Ltd should do the following:
Calculate interest at 8% simple per year on the amount they withheld from Mr A. 
They should calculate this from the date the money was returned to Monzo  22 
February 2020, up to the date the refund it.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Monzo Bank Ltd to withhold income tax from the 
above-mentioned interest. Monzo should give Mr A a certificate showing how much is 
taken off if Mr A asks for one.
Pay Mr A £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2021.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman