DRN-1341127
 
The complaint
Mr V complains that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) has turned down a claim he made on 
his buildings insurance policy.
What happened
In April 2019, Mr V made a claim for damage to one of the pillars holding up his veranda. He 
sent photos of the damage to Aviva. After considering the information, Aviva turned down 
the claim. It said it looked like the damage wasnt down to something covered by the policy. 
It thought the damage had happened over time. Mr V wasnt happy with this decision and 
complained.
Aviva appointed a surveyor to inspect the damage. The surveyor thought the damage was 
due to a long-term water leak. Its report stated that the damage had been going on for a long 
time. Based on the report, Aviva maintained its decision to turn down the claim. So Mr V 
asked us to look into his complaint. He said the property had been well-maintained and 
thered been high winds when his tenants noticed the damage.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Vs complaint should be upheld. He acknowledged that 
thered been high winds around the time Mr V made the claim. But he didnt think it was 
unreasonable for Aviva to conclude the damage had been caused over time. So he thought 
it was fair for Aviva to turn down the claim.
Mr V disagreed. In summary, he said the property had been well-maintained. If the damage 
had been down to rot, both pillars wouldve been damaged, not just one. The surveyor hadnt 
properly inspected the pillars; theyd just rubber-stamped Avivas decision. He said the 
prevailing storm conditions had caused the pillar to collapse. 
Mr V told us his builder had said tiles were misaligned and some of the tiles were missing, 
indicating some sort of roof pressure. The builder thought this couldve been down to air 
turbulence or due to flights from a local airport. He felt the decision to turn down his claim 
had been made too quickly.
So the complaints been passed to me to decide.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I think it was fair for Aviva to turn down Mr Vs claim. Ill explain why.
Insurers set out what they do and dont want to cover in their policy terms. For a claim to be 
paid, it needs to be because of something thats covered by the policy  which we generally 
call an insured event. In this case, Mr Vs claimed on his buildings insurance policy for 
damage to a pillar which supports his veranda. Its clear and accepted that there has been substantial damage to the pillar. But for the claim to be paid, Aviva needs to be satisfied that 
the damage Mr Vs claimed for was caused by something the policy covers.
We generally take the view that its for a policyholder to show theyve got a valid claim on 
their policy. But often, an insurer will appoint experts to investigate the cause of damage and 
to assess whether or not a claims covered by the policy. Thats what happened here. 
Originally Avivas claim handlers assessed the claim based on the information Mr V provided 
in support of it. But when Mr V disputed the claims decision, it appointed a surveyor to 
inspect the damage. I think this was a fair and reasonable response to Mr Vs initial 
complaint.
Mr V says the surveyor didnt thoroughly assess the damage and climb onto the roof. He 
thinks the surveyor was simply appointed to rubber-stamp Avivas decision. I dont think this 
is likely. Ive seen the detailed photos the surveyor took and Ive read their report. Im 
persuaded the surveyor did assess the damage fairly.
The surveyors report said that the cause of the damage was a possible leak from the 
guttering and a tile not seated correctly. I know Mr V thinks the damage was down to the 
high winds around the time of the claim, but it doesnt seem as if the surveyor thought a 
storm was the cause. The surveyors report states: 
Having looked at the pillar from underneath, you can see it is rotten. This has been going on 
for a long time and not maintained or repaired.
Ive also considered the photos attached to the surveyors report. These tend to support that 
the pillar looks rotten and that the damage had been ongoing for some time. Its also 
possible that the guttering was only leaking onto one side of the veranda, which might 
explain why only one pillar was rotten.
Aviva thought the damage had been going on for a long time. Damage caused by wear and 
tear, or over a sustained period of time isnt an insured event thats covered by Mr Vs 
policy. Thats because these tend to be maintenance issues, rather than one-off events. 
Having considered the evidence, I think its most likely the damage was caused over a long 
period, rather than being down to something the policy covers.
Mr Vs said his builder had been on the roof and that tiles werent seated properly. This ties-
in with what Avivas surveyor said and reinforces my view that its likely the surveyor did 
carry out a proper assessment. Ive seen a copy of Mr Vs builders invoice, but no report to 
suggest what he thought had caused the damage, or to counter what Avivas surveyor said. 
This means the only expert evidence I have available to help me decide Mr Vs complaint is 
the report from Avivas surveyor. And having carefully considered all Ive seen, I dont think 
the damage to Mr Vs pillar was caused by something covered by the policy. So I think it was 
fair for Aviva to turn down his claim.
 
 
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Vs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2020.
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman