DRN-2256621
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy with the fees charged by Lepus Marketing Limited trading as the PPI team, 
following a successful claim for mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI).
Mr T is represented in his complaint by Mrs M who has enduring power of attorney (EPOA) 
for him and has made submissions on his behalf, for simplicity Ill refer to Mr T in my 
decision.
What happened
In 2017, Mr T said hed asked the PPI team to look into any PPI claims he had with his 
lender, Ill call B. He said the lender had rejected the claim as they said the PPI hadnt 
been mis-sold. The PPI team didnt ask Mr T to pay any fee as his claim was unsuccessful.
But in September 2019, Mr T received an offer of compensation from lender B  because 
theyd now upheld his mis-sold PPI claim. As the claim was now successful the PPI team 
asked Mr T to pay their success fee of 39% plus VAT.
But since 2005, Mr T has had well being issues and his sister had been granted EPOA to 
manage all his properties and affairs. And it was only after Mr T received the compensation 
offer from lender B and was asked to pay their success fee that she became aware of his 
agreement with the PPI team. 
Lender B, on request from the EPOA, sent the letter of authority theyd received which 
showed Mr T had authorised the PPI team to act for him in July 2018.
On contacting the PPI team they agreed to reduce their fee to 20% plus VAT,  in line with the 
fee cap that was introduced for this type of claim in July 2018. But Mr T wasnt happy with 
this response as he didnt known what hed agreed to when he signed the PPI teams letter 
of authority. The EPOA has brought the complaint to us on Mr Ts behalf.
The PPI team havent responded to our investigator. So, on the information our investigator 
has seen she didnt think it was fair for the PPI team to charge Mr T their success fee. And 
said the fee should be waived as he wouldnt have been aware of what he was agreeing to 
when he signed the letter of authority.
As the PPI team havent responded the complaint has been referred to me as an 
ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The PPI team havent provided any evidence, despite being asked to do so. So, Ive based 
my decision on the evidence provided by Mr T only. Having done so Im upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain why.
I can see that Mr T signed a letter of authority in July 2018. This gave the PPI team his 
authority to review a PPI complaint and where appropriate to make and pursue a claim for 
him. And the PPI team was entitled to act on Mr Ts instructions unless and until they knew 
or had reason to believe that he lacked capacity to give such instructions. But there isnt any 
mention in the letter of authority about charging Mr T a fee for doing this.
Lender B in their offer letter say:
I have made my decision after reviewing your application form, the information you
provided, the information provided by The PPI Team and our internal system evidence.
I think this shows the PPI team did act on behalf of Mr T in making the PPI claim as lender 
B saw them as his representative. But I havent seen any evidence of the terms and 
conditions Mr T would have seen or any evidence to show he was properly informed and 
understood the fees the PPI team are asking him to pay.
And since 2005, Mr T has had an EPOA to manage his financial affairs. So, Im persuaded 
that in signing the PPI teams letter of authority in July 2018, he wouldnt have the 
understanding at that time as to what this would mean. And I dont think hed have known 
what he was consenting to or that he could cancel the agreement or that he could be 
charged a fee for a successful claim.
And Im not persuaded his EPOA would have identified or reasonably known they needed to 
take any action until after getting the offer of compensation letter and the invoice from the 
PPI team. I dont think the EPOA would have seen any terms and conditions, so they 
wouldnt have known to contact the PPI team to cancel any claims or to do anything further. 
So I dont think its fair or reasonable for the PPI team to charge Mr T their fee for his 
successful claim. And I ask them to waive their fee.My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And ask Lepus Marketing Limited trading as the PPI team to waive 
their success fee.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 January 2021.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman