DRN-3045557
The complaint
X has complained that he has been charged an unfair amount following his decision to 
cancel his motor insurance policy.
X has also complained that it wasnt made clear to him that he was entering into a credit 
agreement. 
X has made a separate complaint against the finance provider, so this complaint will 
concentrate on the actions of the broker for the policy and credit, My Policy Ltd.
What happened
X took out a mileage-based motor insurance policy through My Policy that started on 21 May 
2020. The policy was an annual policy and covered X to drive up to 3,000 miles. 
My Policy has explained that it made X aware he was entering into a finance agreement 
when he took the policy and that it had charged a fair amount when the policy was 
cancelled.
My Policy has told us that it emailed X on 18 September 2020 as it had predicted he would 
need to purchase an additional 772 miles on top of the 3,000 the policy allowed, and that an 
additional 1,000 miles would cost X an additional £170.
X called My Policy to cancel his insurance on 13 October 2020. My Policy explained that X 
had £469.10 left to pay on his direct debits. As he had driven 2,401 miles under the policy a 
refund from the insurer of £92.78 was due, and My Policy would also charge a £75 
cancellation fee. So, £451.32 was due from Mr X. My Policy explained it could setup an 
interest free repayment plan but if the debt went to recovery an additional £50 would be 
added.
X refused to pay the amount requested by My Policy. X said he had not signed a finance 
agreement and would not pay the debt.
Our Investigator considered the complaint against My Policy and found it had been clear X 
was agreeing to a finance agreement. Our Investigator also found that the cancellation fee 
was reasonable.   
 
As X disagreed this complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
X took out his policy online. My Policy has provided copies of the screens X would have 
seen when he took the policy. When X confirmed he wanted to pay monthly for the policy he 
was presented with a screen that confirmed:
the deposit he would pay
the amount of each monthly payment
the total amount of credit he was agreeing to
the rate of interest
the total charge for the interest
and the total amount that would be payable
When X clicked that he agreed to the information he was presented with he was then 
presented with a direct debit screen to complete which again explained the above details, 
and details of which company was providing the finance.
I think it is clear from this information that X was entering into a finance agreement with a 
separate company to cover the cost of the insurance policy. It is also clear the amounts X 
was going to be paying, and what they related to. While I accept X didnt sign an agreement 
it is clear he agreed to pay monthly for the policy online based on the information he was 
provided. As I am only looking at whether My Policy was clear about the finance agreement, 
I dont think it has done anything wrong here.
Following X taking out the policy there was a verification call. During this call the My Policy 
representative explained that if X was to go over the 3,000 miles, he had declared he would 
need under the policy he could be required to buy additional miles at an additional cost. 
Although this was not always offered, and the insurer of the policy reserved the right to 
cancel.
Based on this call I think X would have been aware that he could be charged more for the 
policy based on the miles he drove. Although the amount charged for the policy is charged 
by the insurer, not My Policy.
My Policy charges fees for the administration work it undertakes when a policy is cancelled. 
On this occasion it has charged £75. This amount is inline with what we would expect and is 
also clearly explained in the terms and conditions of the policy. So, I am not asking My 
Policy to remove this charge. 
The terms and conditions of Xs policy state that the premium refund following cancellation 
would be based on either the time left or the miles remaining, whichever is lowest. 
My policy has provided a copy of the call between itself and X when he called to cancel the 
policy. The My Policy representative was clear about the amount that was being requested, 
and the reasons for the amount. While I appreciate X wasnt expecting to have to pay 
anything following the cancellation of the policy, he had used most of the miles he was 
allotted under the policy and therefore a low refund from the insurer was due. The 
representative also broke down the amount owed and explained he had accepted the 
finance agreement when he took the policy, so even though he hadnt physically signed the 
agreement he was still responsible.
The representative asked X if he still wanted to cancel the policy, which he confirmed he did, 
and My Policy gave an option of setting up interest free repayments, which he refused.
From what Ive seen I think My Policy was clear from the outset that X was agreeing to a 
finance agreement and he was aware his policy was based on the miles he travelled. I also 
think the amount My Policy charged when X cancelled his insurance was reasonable. So, 
Im not going to ask My Policy to take any action to resolve Xs complaint.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2021.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman