DRN-3542170
The complaint
Mr B complains that MBNA Limited lent money to him irresponsibly when it approved his 
application for credit.
What happened
Mr B applied for a credit card with MBNA in 2017 which was subsequently approved. Mr B 
was given a credit card with a limit of £3,900
Mr B then got into financial difficulties and entered into a plan with another organisation to 
help him manage his debts. In doing so, Mr B complained to MBNA.
Mr B complained that MBNA lent to him irresponsibly. He said he had a large credit balance 
with other businesses at the time he took out this credit card with MBNA and said he was 
using credit with one provider to pay off credit with others. Mr B thinks that MBNA giving him 
further access to more credit made this situation worse and says MBNA shouldnt have 
approved his application.
MBNA disagreed. It said when it approved Mr Bs application for credit, he fell well within 
their lending criteria. It said there was nothing available to it at the time of application which 
meant it shouldnt have lent to Mr B.
Mr B didnt think this was fair and brought his complaint to us. He understood hed had use 
of the credit MBNA gave him but thought MBNA should refund all the interest and charges it 
had applied to his account.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Bs complaint and didnt recommend it be upheld. 
They thought MBNA had carried out reasonable and proportionate checks and thought its 
decision to lend to Mr B was reasonable based on those checks.
Mr B disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He said he shouldnt have been 
lent to. He said had MBNA looked deeper it would have seen hed made a number of cash 
advances which would have indicated he was struggling to manage the debt he already had.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. I understand this wont be the outcome Mr B was 
hoping for. Ill explain my reasoning.
When deciding whether or not to lend money to someone, a lender needs to carry out 
reasonable and proportionate checks. It then needs to use the information found in those 
checks to make a decision on whether or not to grant credit, based on its own lending 
criteria. But it also needs to make sure that decision isnt irresponsible.
Here, Im satisfied MBNA carried out reasonable and proportionate checks. Mr B applied for 
and was approved for credit of £3,900. In carrying out tests MBNA looked at Mr Bs credit 
history, which although showed a large amount of existing credit, showed no immediate 
signs he wasnt managing that credit. He was close to, but not over the £34,000 limit he had, 
but there were no instances of missed payments. MBNA also checked Mr Bs income and 
his level of total indebtedness using an industry index  in which Mr B scored relatively low 
and well below the threshold to indicate a need for careful credit management.
Based on what it found, MBNA found Mr B to be well within its commercial risk appetite 
(which is commercially sensitive and cant be shared further), so, decided to lend Mr B the 
money hed applied for.
Im satisfied that decision was reasonable at the time. I appreciate Mr B had difficulty paying 
off his credit, and that his position got worse after MBNA agreed to provide him with this 
credit. But I think MBNAs checks were reasonable and proportionate to the credit he was 
applying for, and I dont find its decision to lend based on the results of those checks was 
unreasonable. I appreciate Mr B had a reasonably large amount of existing credit, but there 
was nothing in the checks that MBNA carried out to indicate he wasnt managing that credit 
at the time it agreed to lend to him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2022.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman