DRN-3412847
The complaint
Mrs W complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc gave her poor customer service on a call she had
with one of their call handlers.
Mrs W is represented by her daughter in bringing this complaint. But for ease of reading, Ill
refer to any submission and comments she has made as being made by Mrs W herself.
What happened
Mrs W tried to use HSBCs telephone banking to obtain her account balance on 29
November 2021. As the security number was entered incorrectly, she was transferred to a
call handler.
The call handler tried to go through the security process to get Mrs Ws account balance,
however, Mrs W was unable to pass their security. Mrs W explained her health issues to the
call handler which affected her memory and she said she wouldnt be able to remember the
amount she had spent at a supermarket. Mrs W was getting very distressed on the call.
During the call, Mrs W received a phone call from her doctor and told the call handler she
needed to take the call.
The call handler explains to Mrs W that if she hangs up her account would be locked, and
shed need to go into a branch with identification. This distresses Mrs W further as she is
unable to leave the house due to medical reasons. Mrs W misses the phone call which leads
to further distress. The call handler explains that as Mrs W failed more than one question
then she would need to send her a new telephone security number. Mrs W says that the call
handler told her it would take seven working days. Mrs W didnt believe she failed more than
one question.
As Mrs W hadnt received her telephone security pack, she rang HSBC again on 8
December 2021. As she was able to pass security, the call handler was able to tell Mrs W
her balance. The call handler explained that the telephone security pack wasnt sent until 3
December, so she should receive it in the next couple of days in order to unlock her account.
HSBC did not uphold Mrs Ws complaint. They explained they could not reset her security
over the phone and that was why a telephone security pack had been sent to her. Mrs W
brought her complaint to our service. She said HSBC didnt address all of her complaint
points in the final response letter, including, but not limited to the situation with her doctor
ringing her and the telephone security pack not reaching her within seven days, prompting
her to make a call back to HSBC.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. She said while the original situation upset Mrs
W, she couldnt say this was the fault of the call handler as she had followed HSBCs
procedures and the call handler had attempted to help her. Mrs W asked for the complaint to
be reviewed by an Ombudsman.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs W has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything
shes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be
focusing on the crux of her complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
As our investigator has explained, complaint handling by a business isnt a regulated activity
and as such, the issues shes raised that relate directly to how HSBC have investigated Mrs
Ws complaint, such as the contents of his final response letters dont come under my
powers to consider. HSBC has said the final response letter is in large print, and the version
they sent this service was in large print. HSBC also showed me system evidence that since
2 June 2019, they have a note on their system to show correspondence needs to be in large
print. Mrs W may wish to contact HSBC if the larger print is not large enough for her, to see if
they can issue correspondence in a larger font than they currently do.
It is not within my remit to tell HSBC what their security process should be, So Ill be looking
to see if the original call handler followed HSBCs process and if this resulted in a fair
outcome, taking into account the individual personal circumstances of Mrs W at the time of
the call. I want to assure Mrs W that Ive read everything shes said about her medical
conditions, so I understand the full extent of her health issues at the time of the call, even if I
dont document the specific health conditions in my decision.
I have listened to the initial phone call in great detail. When the call handler is discussing
security, she asks Mrs W can you tell me about a transaction youve made since your last
statement. Mrs W then talks about transactions she made over the weekend including
supermarket transactions and another company. The call handler then asks how much was
that for, to which Mrs W responded off the top of my head I cant remember. Mrs W then
informs the call handler of a couple of health issues she has which affects her memory.
The call handler then says so you said you did some to a supermarket, which supermarket
was that?. Mrs W then tells the call handler the names of two supermarkets and then the
call handler asks I just need a payment youve done recently, Mrs W says they were
recent payments. Mrs W says three companies shes made a payment to recently and then
she says I dont know the amount of money and she explains she cant get online.
The call handler explains it wont be on a statement. Mrs W explains to the call handler that
shes given her all the information. The call handler explains that Mrs W had just told (her)
several different places but (she) need to check a specific transaction. Mrs W again
mentions one of the supermarkets and the call handler says Ok, so youve confirmed
(supermarket name), how much was spent at (supermarket name). Mrs W says I dont
know.
Mrs W becomes to get very upset at this moment. The call handler tries to calm Mrs W
down. The call handler then mentions another transaction about a different supermarket Mrs
W had previously told her about. Then she asked Mrs W do you know roughly how much it
came to? Mrs W becomes more upset and explains she doesnt know how much it cost.
Mrs Ws phone starts ringing in the background. Mrs W explains shes got to go my phones
ringing. The call handler says ok, Ill just let you know that because we are still going
through the security, Mrs W explains shes waiting for the doctor to call (her), the phones
ringing and (shes) got to go, the call handler says yeah, Ive got to advise you that, Mrs
W again tells the call handler her phone is ringing and asks the call handler to stop talking
to me.The call handler then says Ive just got to advise you that, Mrs W then says Ive missed
the doctor now. The call handler says listen to me, I have to advise you that if you hang up
now, Ill have to set the security to fail and youll have to go into a branch with ID. Mrs W
explains to the call handler shes unable to leave the house and asks the call handler to
please hurry up as she needs to call the doctor back. The call handler says I need you to
confirm a transaction, Mrs W is audibly distressed again and she explains she doesnt
know.
Mrs W tells the call handler it doesnt matter how long we stay on the phone for, I dont
know how much the shopping came to. The call handler explains to Mrs W that she was
unable to verify Mrs W and she would need to reset her telephone banking security number.
Mrs W asks if all of this is because she couldnt tell the call handler how much her latest
supermarket order was for. The call handler says no and from the questions Ive asked
you, some of them have not matched, so the only way we can reset this now, Mrs W says
theyve not matched? The only thing thats not matched is me not telling you a supermarket
(amount).
The call handler explains she has to send out the telephone security pack because Mrs W
had failed security and Mrs W got more than a supermarket amount wrong, which Mrs W
didnt believe the call handler and asks for the call handler to raise a complaint. The call
handler explains to Mrs W what will happen when she receives the telephone security pack.
The call handler says it can take seven working days to come out.
Ive considered what Mrs W has said about the only thing which she got wrong was the
supermarket amount. On the call she had named a specific supermarket. But this wasnt just
what HSBC considered to be incorrect. HSBC considered her having more than one thing
incorrect as she couldnt give the amounts of the three transactions which Mrs W told them
she had used her card for at the weekend. So this would be three questions which wouldnt
be able to be matched up. Mrs W wasnt able to give the specific days the transactions were
made either. Although she had said the transactions were from the weekend, she wasnt
able to narrow down which specific day  and although later in the call, she did say when her
supermarket shopping was delivered, that doesnt mean she had paid for it on the same day
as it being delivered.
So I am satisfied that the call handler was factually correct when she said Mrs W failed on
more than one question, even though Mrs W may think this all has to do with her
supermarket shopping.
Ive then considered what Mrs W has said about the telephone security pack and when this
was sent out to her. Im persuaded there has been a misunderstanding on this issue. I say
this as the call handler says the pack can take seven working days to come out. Strictly
speaking, the pack came out on 3 December, which was within seven working days. But I
think it would have been useful if the call handler explained that while the telephone security
pack would be sent out within seven working days, it may take her longer to receive this. I
can understand why Mrs W would think she would receive the telephone security pack within
seven working days even though this wasnt what the call handler strictly told her.
By not receiving the telephone security pack within this timeframe, this prompted Mrs W to
ring HSBC again. Ive listened to the second call. Its obvious this was a much different
experience for Mrs W. But the call handler does ask Mrs W the same questions as the first
call handler. The main difference here though is that Mrs W is prepared with the specific
details of a transaction. Just as the first caller explained it could be a transaction after a
statement had been sent, Mrs W was assisted by her daughter and they could check specific
details of an online supermarket shop which had been completed after the last statement
was sent. It is for this reason, that Im persuaded Mrs W passed the security protocols asseamlessly as she did.
The second call handler explained he could give Mrs W the balance of her account, but she
would need to wait for the telephone security number for the account to be unlocked. I know
Mrs W was concerned she rang HSBC on 29 November and the pack wasnt sent until 3
December. She thinks HSBC should have acted quicker. But the reality is that the original
call handler raised the request for the telephone pack on the day she said she would. HSBC
have confirmed to me that this goes to a back office to be produced and this is why they give
a timeframe of sending out this pack within seven working days. So although Mrs W
wouldve liked this to be sent out sooner, HSBC have sent this out within the timeframe
given and they would not be responsible for any postal delays, so I cant say theyve done
anything wrong here.
So Ive thought about whether HSBC could have done anything different on the first call. Ive
also considered Mrs Ws individual circumstances at the time and what she told the call
handler. Im persuaded that although the original call handler followed HSBCs security
process and was right to order the security telephone pack, an unintended consequence of
the call handler trying to help Mrs W on the phone led to Mrs W being more distressed on
the call. Im also persuaded that this could have been avoided and Ill explain why.
When the call handler took the call, she would not have been aware of Mrs Ws particular
condition which affects her memory. But based on what Mrs W had told her about not being
able to remember certain things such as how much shed spent online, Im satisfied that the
inevitable outcome of the call would have always been that Mrs W would have failed the
security process as she wouldnt be able to remember the value of a transaction once she
was already on the phone with the call handler. Before the doctor rang Mrs W, she had
informed the call handler on multiple occasions that she couldnt remember the value of
transactions, and each time she was getting more and more distressed by this when the call
handler kept asking her.
So Im not persuaded that keeping Mrs W on the phone wouldve achieved a different
outcome after it was clear she wouldnt be able to give the call handler any amounts of any
shopping shed done, whether it was just over the past weekend or not. I believe it was
obvious in the first 7-11 minutes of the call that Mrs W could not pass security. So Im
persuaded the call handler should have told Mrs W that her account had been locked and
the call handler would need to send the telephone security pack in the post to her,
significantly earlier than she did tell Mrs W this.
While this would have still caused Mrs W distress, Im persuaded it would have caused Mrs
W a lot less distress than to try and obtain details of a transaction that she wouldnt be able
to remember. There is also a chance that she couldve took the phone call from the doctor
when the doctor rang Mrs W.
Although the call handler was trying to explain what would happen if Mrs W hung up the
phone, the reality is if Mrs W hung up, she could have rung back later. While her account
would have been locked, she would have still been able to order a new security telephone
pack and potentially get her balance if she had the assistance of her daughter to help her.
So although the original call handler was trying to help Mrs W, this caused unintended
consequences which impacted Mrs W and caused her distress over and above what would
be normal for someone failing a security process.
So I think what HSBC should do here, is to realise the impact this had on Mrs W and to pay
her compensation. Im persuaded that £100 is fair and reasonable. I say this as Im satisfied
this recognises the extra distress of keeping Mrs W on the phone for far longer than she
needed to be and asking her the same questions about how much she had spent, when itwas obvious she wouldnt be able to pass HSBCs security process. So I intend to ask HSBC
to put things right for Mrs W.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Mrs W responded to the provisional decision and said she accepted the decision. 
HSBC responded and they said on this occasion, they have decided to agree with the
recommendations, as a gesture of goodwill, so the complaint can be brought to a close 
without causing further delay. HSBC wanted to note that they remain of the firm opinion that 
the call handlers intentions were of a good nature in trying to help the customer throughout.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party have provided me with any further information to consider, then my final 
decision and reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
In my provisional decision I said I intend to ask HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay Mrs W £100 for
the further distress caused on the initial phone call she had with them. Im still satisfied this is 
a fair outcome for the reasons given previously.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay Mrs W £100 for distress.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman