DRN-1393656
 
The complaint
Miss C complains that she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
Although the policy was sold by another business, AXA France IARD (AXA) has accepted 
responsibility for the sale and this complaint.
So, Ive referred to AXA during this decision.
What happened
Miss C applied for a store card in November 2002. At the same time she was sold a PPI 
policy. 
The PPI wouldve cost Miss C no more than £1 per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance 
on her account. It wouldve paid a monthly benefit of 15% of the outstanding balance if 
she was unable to work due to ill-health, an accident or if she lost her job. This would 
continue until either Miss C returned to work or the balance was cleared. During the time the 
policy was active on Miss Cs account she was charged £78.30 in PPI premiums.
Our adjudicator didnt think Miss Cs complaint should be upheld.
Miss C didnt agree with the adjudicators opinion so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
The sale of the PPI took place nearly 18 years ago. I will make my decision based on whats 
more likely to have happened, taking into account the evidence available, what both parties 
have told me and what we know about these types of sale.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
AXA had to make it clear to Miss C that the PPI was optional. 
Miss C applied for the store card using a leaflet most likely given to her while shopping. 
AXA has shown us a copy of the original store card application form. I can see that there is a 
section on the form headed, Protecting Your Account. Within this section is the following 
statement:Account Cover (only sign this box if you require Account Cover). Yes, I would like to protect 
my Account with Account Cover (subject to eligibility). Please debit my Account with the 
relevant monthly premium until further notice. 
I can see that Miss C has signed immediately beneath this statement.
There are other options on the form which have not been chosen such as the option to 
purchase a plan to protect against theft and fraudulent use of the card. 
I dont know who completed the application form and it may well have been a member of the 
store staff. But even if it had been, I think it would likely have been completed with Miss Cs 
input as it includes personal information such as her telephone number and previous 
address. And I can see the application has been signed by Miss C.
After taking everything into account I think AXA most likely made it clear that Miss C didnt 
have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although I can understand why she 
cant remember this after so many years.
I dont think AXA advised Miss C to take the policy out. So, it didnt have to take steps to 
ensure the policy was suitable for her. But AXA did have to give Miss C clear information so 
that she could make a choice about whether or not to take the policy out.
Its possible that AXA didnt give all the information it should have done. But thats not 
enough to uphold this complaint. I next need to decide whether or not Miss C would have 
changed her mind about buying the policy if she had been given better or clearer 
information. I cant say she would have done. I say this because.
Miss C was eligible for the PPI based on her circumstances at the time of the sale. 
So, shed have been able to make a claim if she needed to.
 
If Miss C couldnt work due to ill-health the policy wouldve paid out 15% of her 
outstanding balance every month until the balance had been paid off or she returned 
to work. And it wouldve paid the same benefit if Miss C lost her job. 
Miss Cs employer wouldve paid her sick pay if she couldnt work. But the policy 
would pay any benefit in addition to her sick pay. And potentially for longer than her 
full sick pay would last. From the application form I think Miss C was interested in the 
cover it provided. So, I still think Miss C wouldve found the policy useful if things 
went wrong.
The policy had some exclusions and restrictive terms. But Miss C wasnt affected by 
these. For instance, Miss C has told us she didnt have any medical conditions at the 
time of the sale which the policy wouldnt have covered.
So, taking everything into account I think its likely Miss C was made aware the PPI was 
optional and chose to add it to her account. And I think that even if Miss C had been given 
clear information about the policy shed still have gone ahead and bought it. 
 
  
 
 
My final decision
I dont uphold Miss Cs complaint against AXA France IARD. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 March 2020.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman