DRN-1843874
 
The complaint
Mr As complaint is about charges hes been asked to pay by Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc, 
trading as Hitachi Capital Vehicle Solutions Limited (Hitachi).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr A acquired his car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The terms of the finance agreement held Mr A responsible for keeping the car in a 
good condition and explained, if he didnt look after the car properly, he may need to 
compensate Hitachi.
Industry guidelines for what is considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are 
returned at the end of their lease, so that businesses can establish whether they are 
returned in a good condition, are provided by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing 
Association (BVRLA).
Ive considered the photographs of the damage that are provided in the inspection 
report completed at handover. Im persuaded that all of the damage, that Hitachi are 
now making refurbishment charges for, is beyond what would be considered fair 
wear and tear under the BVRLA guidance. 
The front and rear doors and the rear bumper show a rippled orange peel effect on 
the paintwork. I think this is beyond what would be considered fair wear and tear 
under the guidance which says, obvious evidence of poor repair, such asrippled 
finishis not acceptable. So, I think Hitachi have been fair when levying these 
charges.
The nearside C Post is dented and shows some paint damage. The BVRLA guidance 
says dents where the surface of the paint is broken are not acceptable. So, I think 
Hitachi have been fair when making this charge.
The offside C Post is also dented, and I think the dent is bigger than the 10mm 
allowed by the guidance and that Hitachi have therefore been reasonable when 
making a charge for its refurbishment.
Mr A says that Hitachi waived charges for other damage where evidence was equally 
disputable. But, as Ive explained above, I think the damage that they are now 
charging for is fair. And Hitachis decision to waive other charges doesnt change 
that. 
I can see that Mr A was disappointed with the collection process and that he feels a 
further inspection should have been conducted. But Im not persuaded this would 
have changed matters. The damage that is now being charged for is clearly outside 
of the guidance provided by the BVRLA and it would still have been present in any 
subsequent inspection.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman