DRN-4292001
The complaint
Ms R complains that  she  signed up for an active subscription without her knowledge which 
Starling Bank Limited (Starling) didnt consider when it turned down her chargeback request 
for a refund of a fee she had paid. She would like the fee she paid refunded.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
Ms R seems to accept that the initial fee she paid was  non-refundable. The contract 
she signed stated this , and the payment was taken before Mrs R cancelled it . So, 
although we usually consider it good practice for chargebacks to be raised  I think 
Starling were reasonable in not pursuing her chargeback claim. I think , simply based 
on the contract, the merchant would have successfully defended the claim and Ms R 
wouldnt have received a refund of the fee she paid.
I have considered the points Ms  R has made in that she feels she was fraudulently 
signed up for a subscription service, but I dont think this makes any difference to the 
outcome of her chargeback request. There is no evidence of fraud , and consumers 
do have to take some responsibility to ensure they are clear about the  payments 
they are making . I think Starling appropriately considered , and rejected , Ms Rs 
chargeback request.
I appreciate Ms R is frustrated about being signed up for a regular subscription. But 
its not Starlings responsibility to make consumers aware if they are signing up for 
such a service. Starling cancelled the subscription, so  Ms R hasnt made any regular 
payments , other than the initial fee she paid. Considering all the information I have 
seen I dont feel I have any grounds to ask Starling to refund the fee Ms R paid as 
she would like.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman