DRN-3065246
The complaint
Ms L has complained that Nationwide Building Society turned down her request to borrow 
further funds on her mortgage because the survey indicated there was cladding on her block 
of flats and she didnt have an EWS1 form. 
She said valuations had been undertaken when she bought the flat in 2013 and when she 
borrowed further funds in 2016 and neither of those indicated there was a problem with the 
property, and the form wasnt a legal requirement. Ms L felt the information shed provided 
from the architect  in which they said the cladding material included in the design was a 
very high-quality fireproof material  should have been sufficient for the further advance to 
be agreed.
Shes also unhappy that Nationwide initially indicated that there wouldnt be a problem with 
her application and an EWS1 form wouldnt be needed.
What happened
Ms L has a shared ownership property and holds her mortgage with Nationwide. She 
originally purchased a 40% share of the property in 2013, and then took a further advance to 
buy a further 30% in 2016.
The Grenfell Tower tragedy, in the summer of 2017, led to widespread concern about the 
construction of many buildings throughout the country. This led to the introduction of EWS1 
forms, and there was evolving guidance from various different bodies.
In June 2020 Ms L approached her housing association as she wanted to staircase and buy 
the remaining 30% share of her property. The housing association advised Ms L to check 
with Nationwide if an EWS1 form would be needed as at that time it was unable to provide 
one due to it deeming the property low-risk, therefore low priority for it to deal with.
Ms L spoke to Nationwide and was told the form wouldnt be needed and so she made an 
application, paid for an independent valuation for staircasing purposes and instructed a 
solicitor.
Unfortunately, when the surveyor instructed by Nationwide visited the property to undertake 
the mortgage valuation he said that an EWS1 form was needed.
Ms L complained to Nationwide about what had happened. It accepted that it had made a 
mistake initially when it told Ms L that the EWS1 form wouldnt be needed. For that it offered 
her £400 compensation and said it would cover the costs shed incurred as a result of that 
misinformation. However, it said it hadnt done anything wrong with the application and 
valuation as it was entitled to rely upon the professional opinion of the surveyor it appointed.
Unhappy with Nationwides response, Ms L referred the complaint to our service. 
Our investigator considered the complaint and said, in summary, that she didnt think 
Nationwide acted unreasonably in relying on the professional opinion of the surveyor, and 
that the offer made in Nationwides final response letter was fair.
Ms L didnt agree. She said the surveyor was rude and didnt raise any concerns with her 
about the cladding, saying he just left when she said she didnt have the EWS1 form. She 
also said Nationwide didnt realise there was an issue until it was chased by her solicitor, 
and the EWS1 form isnt legally required. Ms L didnt feel it was fair that shed have to pay 
extra rent due to not being able to purchase the final share of the property, and that shed 
not been able to benefit from the stamp duty holiday window.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide doesnt dispute that Ms L didnt receive the standard of service that she should 
when it initially told her that an EWS1 form wouldnt be needed.
Ms L knew she wouldnt be able to get an EWS1 form at that time, so Im satisfied that had 
she been informed correctly that it would be needed (or would most likely be needed) that 
she wouldnt have proceeded. That means she wouldnt have instructed her own 
independent valuation for staircasing purposes or instructed a solicitor.
In circumstances such as this, I would expect that Nationwide would take the corrective 
action necessary to ensure that Ms L hadnt been impacted by that incorrect information. I 
think that Nationwide has done that here as it offered to refund Ms Ls valuation and legal 
costs and it paid her £400 in compensation.
Matters of compensation can be subjective, but having considered the circumstances here, I 
feel that £400 (plus the refund of her costs) that Nationwide has already paid to Ms L 
provides fair compensation for the upset and inconvenience of being given the wrong 
information initially. 
Thats because, whilst Ms L was led to believe for a period of time that she would be able to 
proceed with the purchase of the final share without the need for an EWS1 form, that was 
never the case so I cant award compensation for the costs she incurred due to not being 
able to go ahead with the purchase, just for the inconvenience caused by her making an 
application that she wasnt warned might be unsuccessful at that time. Nationwide couldnt 
have told Ms L upfront that it definitely would need an EWS1 form as that would be a matter 
for the surveyor, but it shouldnt have reassured her that it wouldnt need the form.
Ms L has said the surveyor was rude and disrespectful, and that he just left when she said 
she didnt have an EWS1 form without trying to ascertain what the cladding was. I 
understand Ms L feels that the EWS1 isnt a legally required document, and that the 
information shed provided from the architect and housing association should have been 
enough to proceed.
Nationwide doesnt have the expertise to value property, so it employs the services of a 
surveyor. When doing so, its obliged to instruct a suitably qualified surveyor  a requirement 
that was fulfilled in this case by Nationwide appointing a member of the Royal Institution of 
Chartered Surveyors. 
Nationwide isnt accountable for the conduct of the individual surveyor or any act (or 
omission) by the surveyor or the firm they work for. All I can consider against Nationwide is if 
it discharged its duty in instructing a suitable firm of surveyors and having considered 
everything Im satisfied it did. Ms L provided Nationwide with information from the architect and housing association to see 
if her application could proceed without the EWS1 form. Nationwide provided that 
information to the individual surveyor and the regional valuation manager to see if there was 
anything that could be done, but both confirmed an EWS1 form would be needed from a 
suitably qualified individual. The regional valuation manager explained to Nationwide that 
this was because the EWS1 form doesnt just deal with the actual cladding, it also looks at 
the wall system as a whole (including hidden elements that are behind the cladding). He also 
said that whilst the architect had said what formed part of the design, issues had come to 
light on multiple unrelated buildings that what was specified was not what was 
constructed/installed.
It may be, as Ms L has said, that other surveyors might have taken a different view, but it 
wasnt unreasonable for Nationwide to rely on the professional opinion of the qualified 
surveyor it had retained to advise it about this mortgage application. That opinion was that 
the surveyor couldnt say that the property was suitable security for the mortgage without an 
EWS1 form.
Ms L has said that it was only when her solicitor chased Nationwide that she found out there 
was a problem with the valuation, which she thinks shows Nationwide was happy to go 
ahead with the mortgage and thought it was all going through. Shes said that at no time until 
then did Nationwide believe it wouldnt be providing her with a mortgage.
Having looked at everything I cant see that Nationwide was under the belief this mortgage 
would be going ahead, irrespective of the valuation report. The surveyor had visited the 
property on 7 July and provided his report to Nationwide. It seems Nationwide hadnt got 
round to reviewing that and letting Ms L know about what the surveyor had said. So I dont 
think it was the case that Nationwide thought everything was going through, it simply hadnt 
yet reviewed the valuation report and contacted Ms L with the outcome.
I understand the EWS1 form is now available and that gave a B1 rating, which is that 
combustible materials are present in the external wall, but the professional that undertook 
the check feels the fire risk is sufficiently low that no remedial works are required.
This means Ms L can now go ahead with a mortgage application. I understand why she 
thinks this means that Nationwide acted unfairly. But I dont think the fact that a B1 EWS1 
has now been issued means it was unreasonable to ask for one. The surveyor explained 
that without one he couldnt know whether or not the cladding was safe, and it was 
reasonable for Nationwide to follow that advice.
It is unfortunate that Ms Ls application couldnt be taken forward, but that is always a risk 
with any mortgage application. Im satisfied Nationwide wasnt at fault for Ms Ls application 
being unable to proceed and so I cant find it liable for Ms Ls ongoing rent, or the fact she 
missed out on the stamp duty window.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint in the sense Im satisfied the offer Nationwide Building Society 
made in its response to the complaint was fair and reasonable and so I make no further 
order or award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2022. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman