DRN-4185968
The complaint
Mr V complains that PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA (PayPal) has acted incorrectly in 
how it has administered his account.
What happened
Initially Mr V complained that the account was not his account and that in any event PayPal 
ought not to have assigned the debt to a third party. Nor should PayPal have asked the 
credit reference agencies to register a default on his credit file in relation to this account.
Later, Mr V told us the account is his account, but he did not recognise some of the 
transactions. Then later still Mr V indicated he did not recognise any of the transactions.
As the complaint progressed Mr V clarified his complaint:
My complaint is not to ask for you to be a go-between but force them to explain why they 
sold a portfolio they can't explain to a 3rd party? And if they can't explain it, correct it.
In response to Mr Vs complaint PayPal gave several responses. In response to Mr Vs initial 
iteration of his complaint, PayPal indicated that it had determined to its own satisfaction that 
Mr V had opened this account and used it. Moreover, it was satisfied that the transactions it 
had pursued him for had all been made by Mr V. 
Further, Mr V had agreed to abide by the terms and conditions of the account. Mr V had not 
repaid the debt in line with the relevant account terms and conditions. As a result PayPal 
had ultimately defaulted the account having taken all the steps it was required to take before 
doing this. Moreover, it is entitled, under the relevant terms and conditions, to sell the debt to 
a third party.
Later, at Mr Vs request it provided further details of the transactions on the account. And 
offered further assistance should he require it. PayPal reiterated that it was satisfied that it 
was entitled to hold Mr V liable for these transactions.
Further, PayPal did not agree it had sold an account that it was unable to explain. Rather it 
indicated it had done nothing wrong and there was nothing for it to correct.
For all of these reasons PayPal did not uphold Mr Vs complaint.
Dissatisfied, Mr V complained to our service about both the actions of PayPal and about the 
actions of the third party that PayPal had sold the debt to.
The complaint about the third party was dealt with by our service in a separate final decision.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Vs complaint about PayPal. Our investigator did not 
recommend that Mr Vs complaint ought to be upheld.
PayPal accepted this recommendation, Mr V did not. In brief in rejecting the 
recommendation Mr V indicated that:
This service should have followed Mr Vs instructions about what questions we 
needed to ask PayPal and what information we should have insisted it sent us.
PayPal has an inadequate complaints process and potentially its systems are flawed 
so that transactions that are not his have been attributed to him, and we should have 
pushed it on this point.
PayPal had not given sufficient information to justify its stance that he is responsible 
for the transactions.
PayPal had given information about the transactions which was questionable and did 
not make sense.
PayPal was claiming for transactions that had suddenly appeared and that is why he 
had not queried them at the time, albeit those transactions apparently happened 
years ago.
Mr V asked that an ombudsman review his complaint, which I did. Having considered the 
available evidence, I did not intend to uphold Mr Vs complaint, but my reasons for this were 
not entirely the same as our investigators. As a result, I thought it was fair to let Mr V and 
PayPal see my provisional findings and make further submissions (if they wanted to) before I 
made my final decision. Therefore, I issued a provisional decision and Ive set out below 
what I decided provisionally - and why. This forms part of my final decision.
What Ive provisionally decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here.
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. Rather, Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
This service is independent of both consumers and the businesses they are complaining 
about. This means that we dont act for consumers, nor do we take instructions either from 
consumers or businesses or allow either party to direct the course of our investigations; were 
we to do so, it would compromise our independence and impartiality. Its up to us to 
determine what evidence we need in order to investigate a complaint. So although Ive noted 
Mr V s directions in relation to the information we ought to have sought and how we should 
have conducted our investigation, following those directions is not something that Im able to 
do. Neither am I persuaded that we needed to get more information than we have already 
asked for in order to investigate Mr Vs complaint appropriately, in any event.
Some of Mr Vs complaint relates to his dissatisfaction about the way PayPal has dealt with 
his complaint, However, I must explain that this isnt something Im able to consider. Our 
rules only allow us to consider complaints about regulated activities. Complaint-handling isnt 
a regulated activity in its own right, nor is it one of the specified non-regulated activities that 
Im able to deal with under our compulsory jurisdiction. Its also not an activity thats ancillary 
to a regulated activity, such as account administration or advice. Therefore, a complaint 
about the way PayPal dealt with a complaint doesnt fall within the scope of our rules, and so 
I dont have any legal power to consider Mr Vs dissatisfaction about this aspect of his 
complaint.
Ive already mentioned that there was an earlier complaint which was linked to this one, 
albeit that complaint was against a third party. Further, that complaint has already had a final 
decision. That final decision found, amongst other things, that the third party did nothing 
wrong in pursuing Mr V for the debt as all the information suggested that the spending was 
genuinely Mr Vs. Therefore I cant look again at whether the debt is genuinely Mr Vs.
It follows that the only remaining points I need to look at are whether PayPal provided clear 
information about the transactions and whether PayPal is asking him to pay for transactions that have suddenly appeared. Also, I need to look at whether PayPal acted inappropriately in 
defaulting the account and selling it to the third party.
I realise Mr V has been dissatisfied at times with the format in which PayPal presented the 
information. Mr V is entitled to expect that the information about the transactions should be 
presented by PayPal in a user-friendly manner. But it has provided the information in formats 
that I find are clear, even if Mr V disagrees. It has also offered Mr V further assistance 
should he need it. Therefore I think PayPal has done enough.
Mr V indicates that some of the transactions have seemingly appeared from nowhere. But I 
find PayPal has provided a satisfactory audit trail especially given that the transactions 
happened several years ago. I dont find it likely that these transactions were not reported to 
him at the time. I accept that Mr V might query transactions that he does not remember and 
so these transactions might appear to him to be coming out of the blue. But again some of 
the transactions are so old it is not surprising Mr V might have an imperfect memory of them. 
I also think it is significant that at first Mr V could not remember this account at all. This has 
impacted on the weight I feel able to place on his recollections about this point.
Both parties seem to agree that Mr V did not pay off the debt which caused the default. The 
relevant terms and conditions which Mr V would have accepted when he opened the 
account, (which he says he did) permit PayPal to default his account in these circumstances. 
Therefore I find it is reasonable that PayPal can rely on these terms and conditions.
PayPals records which Ive no reason to doubt on this point, demonstrate it sent Mr V all the 
relevant notices before it defaulted the account. Mr V indicates he never received these. I 
have no reason to doubt Mr Vs statement that he did not receive this information, but I am 
satisfied that it was sent in accordance with PayPals normal process in this situation. So I 
dont think PayPal was at fault if Mr V did not receive this information.
Moreover, even if Mr V had received the information given that his initial stance was that this 
was not his debt, it seems unlikely he would have paid and therefore avoided the default, in 
any event.
For all of these reasons, I have no proper grounds for saying that PayPal must contact the 
credit reference agencies and ask them to remove the default it asked them to register on Mr 
Vs credit file.
Ive looked at the relevant terms and conditions for the account and it appears that the sale 
of Mr Vs account was permitted. Again Mr V accepted these terms and conditions. So it 
follows it is reasonable that PayPal is allowed to rely on them. Therefore I have no proper 
basis to tell it has to correct this as Mr V asks.
For all of these individual reasons I dont propose to uphold Mr Vs complaint.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I dont currently intend to uphold Mr Vs complaint.
Both Mr V and PayPal responded to my provisional decision. 
In summary, Mr V responded that he had not initially denied the account was his to 
obfuscate something. Rather, as soon as he received enough information to identify the 
account to his satisfaction he acknowledged it as his, albeit he thought the balance was 
wrong. 
Also Mr V repeated his stance that the information that PayPal provided about the balance 
was extremely unclear. Mr V told us he had repeatedly questioned PayPal about the 
transactions that made up the balance and it had provided inadequate responses. In 
particular, he indicates that the calculations PayPal sent him dont add up. He repeated that 
the transactions are not his. Mr V then set out the methodology that he thinks we ought to insist that PayPal should use 
to prove that it has provided accurate information about the transactions.
PayPals response was that it had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank both Mr V and PayPal for their responses to my provisional decision. It has been 
particularly helpful that PayPal let me know it had nothing further to add and Mr V took the 
time to set out his view on my provisional decision, so that I have been able to gain a fuller 
understanding of his position and concerns.
Ive thought about the responses I received and also Ive reviewed the file again and 
revisited my provisional decision. Ive not been persuaded by Mr Vs response to my 
provisional decision and therefore I am not upholding his complaint. Ill explain my further 
reasoning below.
I accept Mr V did not try to obfuscate something because he initially said the account was 
not his. I merely set out the history of the complaint in the what happened section of my 
provisional decision. And it is correct to say that Mr V did, at first, say the account was not 
his.
Mr V tells us it is the content of the information that PayPal provided that concerns him not 
the format of that information. Specifically he now talks about PayPals calculations. But I 
note that was not his focus when the complaint started, rather he raised various objections. 
For example, amongst other things, he wanted PayPal to prove hed received the products 
he was being charged for, he was unhappy with the format of the information provided. All of 
his various objections I think though stemmed from a dissatisfaction with being asked to pay 
for a debt he thinks is not his.  Ive already explained why I dont have the power to look 
again at the question of whether this is Mr Vs debt.
In any event, whilst I recognise Mr V remains unhappy with the information PayPal has 
provided, I think PayPal has done enough. It has told Mr V what he is being charged for and 
why and it has offered further assistance on this point should Mr V request it. So I am 
satisfied that PayPal has acted reasonably and need do nothing further in relation to this part 
of Mr Vs complaint.
Its clear that Mr V has strong views about how PayPal ought to have gone about things to 
show the information it has provided about the debt is accurate. He wants this service to 
follow his directions on this point. However, Ive already explained why it would be 
inappropriate for me to follow his directions. Moreover, I have already found that PayPal has 
acted reasonably and need do nothing further in relation to this part of Mr Vs complaint.
It follows that since I have not been persuaded by Mr Vs response to my provisional 
decision, Ive come to the same conclusions and for the same reasons as I set out in my 
provisional decision and in this decision.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Mr Vs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2023.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman