DRN-2948224
The complaint
Miss C complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc disposed of her car without her consent after a 
claim made on her motor insurance policy. She wants financial compensation for the loss 
this caused.
What happened
After an accident, AXAs agent took away Miss Cs car for assessment. The car was later 
deemed to be a total loss. But the agent sold the car before AXA had offered Miss C a 
settlement for her claim. The car was roadworthy, so Miss C missed out on the opportunity 
to retain the salvage. AXA agreed its agent had made a mistake. It paid Miss C £250 in 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused. It offered a further £150 after the complaint 
came to us. But Miss C remained unhappy.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She thought the car 
belonged to Miss C until the claim had been settled. So she thought AXA had unfairly sold 
the car without Miss Cs consent. She thought this had caused Miss C hardship as the car 
was roadworthy and she could have bought it back rather than rely on cars borrowed from 
her family. So she thought AXA should increase its offer of compensation to £500.
AXA didnt reply to the investigators view, so the complaint has come to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach is that when a car is written off and deemed a total loss under a motor 
insurance policy, as Miss Cs car was, the insurer, in this case AXA, becomes the owner of 
the salvage only after the consumer accepts payment of the cars full market value. 
So if the consumer asks to keep the salvage, we would expect the insurer to allow this. The 
car is, after all, the consumer's property and they should have the right to keep it if they wish 
to do so. However, in that event, the insurer is entitled to deduct from its settlement offer 
what it would have been able to sell the salvage for. 
In Miss Cs case. AXA has agreed that its agent made a mistake by selling the car before it 
had agreed a final settlement with Miss C, and without offering her the opportunity to buy it 
back. 
When a business makes a mistake, as AXA accepts it has done here, we expect it to restore 
the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact the 
error had on the consumer. 
AXA said its offer of £400 compensation was to apologise for:
Miss Cs trouble and upset.
The actions of its agent outside its agreement.
Not settling expectations, and
Not providing options regarding the salvage.
But I dont think this takes into account the full impact AXAs error had on Miss C. Miss C 
said shed spent money maintaining her car and would have preferred to buy it back and 
repair it. She said that shes been unable to buy a like replacement with AXAs settlement 
and has had to rely on borrowed family cars. 
AXA has paid Miss C a settlement for the loss of her car. If Miss C is unhappy with its 
valuation, she should firstly complain to AXA. And Im unable to consider that further here as 
its a separate complaint. But I think AXA caused Miss C inconvenience by depriving her of 
the option of buying back her car to stay mobile. 
I can also see that Miss C learned of the cars sale when she received a speeding ticket 
intended for the new owner. Miss C didnt know the car had been sold and so hadnt 
informed the DVLA of the change in ownership. I think receiving the ticket and finding out 
about the cars sale in this way must have been upsetting for her. 
And Miss C had the trouble of making a complaint to AXAs agent, which I cant see 
responded, and to AXA and then to bring her complaint to us. 
The investigator recommended that AXA increase its offer of compensation to £500 in total 
(£250 already paid and a further £250 to be paid). I think thats fair and reasonable to take 
into account the impact the mistake had on Miss C and its in keeping with our published 
guidance.
Putting things right
I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay Miss C £250 further compensation (£500 in total) for 
the distress and inconvenience caused by its level of service.
My final decision
For the reasons give above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require AXA 
Insurance UK Plc to carry out the redress set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 October 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman