DRN-3372966
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund all the money hes lost to a scam.
Whats happened?
Mr M had been communicating with his appointed conveyancing solicitor (the solicitor) via 
email since November 2020.
On 9 March 2021, contracts were exchanged regarding Mr Ms property purchase and he 
transferred a 10% deposit to the solicitor via online banking. On the same day, the solicitor 
confirmed in an email that the house purchase would complete by 31 March 2021, and the 
outstanding balance would need to be paid prior to that date.
On 11 March 2021, Mr M says the solicitor called him to let him know that another of their 
clients had received a scam email asking them to make a money transfer. Mr M says the 
solicitors warning was general and without context.
On 15 March 2021, Mr M received an email requesting payment of the outstanding balance. 
The email appeared to come from the solicitor and followed-on in the same email chain 
between the solicitor and Mr M from earlier in the month. Mr M says the payment request 
was expected, everything looked the same as it had always done, and nothing stood out to 
him as suspicious. Payment of the outstanding balance was the last stage in the process of 
purchasing his house, and everything had gone smoothly so far.
Attached to the email was a letter which cited the account details Mr M should send payment 
to. Mr M says the letter looked official  it contained the correct company logo and address. 
He noted that the letter asked him to pay the outstanding balance to different account details 
than he had used before when hed paid the deposit, but he didnt think anything of this  he 
assumed it was because of the security breach the solicitor had alluded to on                      
11 March 2021.
Mr M made two payments of £50,000 to the account details hed been given. The first 
payment went through successfully, but the second payment was stopped. Barclays 
contacted him and asked him to check the payment details with the solicitor before the 
payment was processed. When he called the solicitor, they said they hadnt requested 
payment of the outstanding balance, and it became apparent that hed been the victim of an 
email interception scam. 
Barclays accepted partial responsibility in this case and reimbursed half of Mr Ms loss - 
£25,000. It said that both of the £50,000 payments Mr M instructed on 15 March 2021 were 
flagged for further checks by its fraud detection system, but its fraud team only called Mr M 
to discuss the second payment. So, it could have done more to protect Mr M from financial 
harm by contacting him to discuss the first payment too. But Mr M:
ignored the relevant scam warning it gave during the payment journey.
ignored the verbal warning that the solicitor gave him on 11 March 2021.
ought to have known about the possibility of email interception due to the nature of 
his employment.
shouldve done more checks before making payment  for example, checking and 
confirming the account details with the solicitor and/or making sure the email hed 
received was genuine. 
Barclays contacted the receiving bank on the day the scam occurred, but no funds remained 
in the beneficiary account to recover.
Mr M would like to be fully reimbursed for his loss, and he has asked this Service to consider 
his complaint.
What did our investigator say?
Our investigator thought that Barclays shouldve fully reimbursed Mr M under the provisions 
of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM Code). Barclays 
didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays is a signatory of the CRM Code, which requires firms to reimburse customers who 
have been the victims of Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams, like the one Mr M has 
fallen victim to, in all but a limited number of circumstances. Barclays has argued that two of 
the exceptions apply in this case. It says that Mr M ignored an effective warning it gave 
during the payment journey and he made the payment without a reasonable basis for belief 
that the payee was the person he was expecting to pay, the payment was for genuine goods 
or services and/or the person or business he was transacting with was legitimate.
The CRM Code says:
SF1(2)(e) As a minimum, Effective Warnings should meet the following criteria
(i) Understandable  in plain language, intelligible and meaningful to the 
Customer
(ii) Clear  in line with fair, clear and not misleading standard as set out in 
Principle 7 of the FCAs [Financial Conduct Authority] Principles for 
Businesses
(iii) Impactful  to positively affect Customer decision-making in a manner 
whereby the likelihood of an APP scam succeeding is reduced. This should 
include steps to ensure that the Customer can reasonably understand the 
consequences of continuing with an irrevocable payment;
(iv) Timely  given at points in the Payment Journey most likely to have an impact 
on the Customers decision-making;
(v) Specific  tailored to the customer type and the APP scam risk identified by 
analytics during the Payment Journey, and/or during contact with the 
Customer. 
Barclays says it gave Mr M the following warning during the payment journey:
House or large purchase
Have you double checked the account details with the person/company youre paying? 
Fraudsters have been known to intercept emails from solicitors and change the account 
details to their own. Thats why we recommend checking the details of where youre sending the money to in person.
Ive considered the warning and, overall, Im not satisfied it can reasonably be said that the 
requirements of the effective warning exception were met. I appreciate that the warning was 
relevant to the type of scam Mr M fell victim to. But I dont think it was impactful enough to 
affect a customers decision making in a manner whereby the likelihood of this scam 
succeeding was reduced. 
It's clear to me that Barclays warning attempts to prevent email interception scams, and 
I think it sets-out the risk quite well. It says that fraudsters can intercept emails and change 
the payment account details and it recommends that customers double-check payment 
account details in person. But I dont think the warning goes far enough to make the risk 
really obvious to customers. It doesnt bring to life what this type of scam looks like, nor does 
it talk about the prevalence of this type of scam or explain how sophisticated the scams can 
be. For example  it doesnt explain that fraudsters emails appear to come from the same 
address as the account theyve hacked, that they can communicate with their victim on a 
genuine chain of emails, that fraudulent emails are usually received when a payment request 
is expected or that fraudsters emails can seem genuine and look the same or very similar to 
the persons theyre impersonating.
Overall, Im not satisfied that a reasonable person would fully understand the scam risk from 
the warning Barclays gave.
The circumstances of this scam made the warning even less effective. Mr M had been 
communicating with the solicitor via email for many months. They were at the last stage in 
the process of purchasing a house and everything had gone smoothly so far  including the 
deposit payment which had been made via bank transfer after receiving payment 
instructions via email. Mr M received a payment request he was expecting to receive, in an 
email which looked the same as the solicitors emails and followed-on in a chain of genuine 
emails. To him, everything looked the same as it had always done, and nothing stood out as 
suspicious. From what Ive seen, I dont think Mr M appreciated the risk that the email may 
have come from a fraudster that was tricking him into making a payment to them. This is 
supported by Mr Ms testimony that he saw Barclays warning and double-checked the 
account number and sort code hed been given against his payment instruction in response 
to it. It appears he thought it was enough to check hed got the payment details right by 
looking at the email hed received. If Barclays had really brought to life what a scam of this 
nature looks like then I think that wouldve been important information in the context of this 
scam that wouldve affected Mr Ms decision making and led him to take additional steps to 
protect his assets  such as telephoning the solicitor to verify the account details, particularly 
as hed noticed theyd changed.
In addition, I note that the first payment triggered Barclays fraud detection system, but it 
didnt contact Mr M to ask him further questions about the payment or advise him of the 
scam risk. If it had done so, I think its likely that it would have asked Mr M to contact the 
solicitor to check the payment details, as it did with the second payment. And Mr M would 
have taken the required action, as he did with the second payment. So, the scam wouldve 
unravelled without the first payment being made and Mr Ms loss couldve been prevented.
From what Ive seen, Im satisfied that Mr M had a reasonable basis for belief in this case. 
He says he had a lot going on at the time  home schooling his children during the pandemic 
and preparing to move house  and nothing about the fraudulent email stood out to him as 
suspicious. From what Ive seen, I can understand why. Barclays has said that Mr M just 
assumed the email was genuine because it looked genuine, and he didnt carry out any extra 
checks. But I dont think this is unreasonable in the circumstances, particularly as Barclays 
hadnt adequately explained the fraud risk to him.I accept that the solicitor warned him about scam emails asking for money transfers. But the 
warning appears to have been general in nature. From what Mr Ms said, it didnt fully 
explain the fraud risk or bring to life what a scam of this nature looks like  for example, the 
solicitor didnt explain that scam emails would look like they came from them. So, I dont 
think its unreasonable that Mr Ms suspicions werent roused when he received the 
fraudsters email. This is particularly so given that the fraudulent email looks the same or 
very similar to the solicitors genuine emails, appears to come from the solicitors email 
address, was sent at a time when a payment request from the solicitor was expected and 
follows-on in a chain of genuine emails between the solicitor and Mr M.
I also appreciate that Mr M noticed he was being asked to pay a different account to the one 
hed paid previously. But I think his assumption about the reason for this was reasonable in 
the circumstances.
Barclays has said that Mr M ought to have known about the risk of email interception due to 
the nature of his employment. Im not persuaded by this argument. I think it is based on a 
sweeping assumption. But in any event, Mr M says Barclays isnt correct about his 
employment role  he actually works in financial services. I dont think theres any indication 
that Mr M ought to have had any special knowledge about the possibility of email 
interception scams. 
Overall, the fraud was sophisticated, and I can understand why it went undetected by Mr M.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and instruct 
Barclays Bank UK PLC to:
reimburse the remainder of Mr Ms loss  £25,000  within 28 days of receiving 
notification of his acceptance of my final decision; plus
pay 8% simple interest per year on that sum from the date of the payment to the date 
of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Kyley Hanson
Ombudsman