DRN-4010901
The complaint
Mr H complains that JP Morgan Europe Limited (trading as Chase) refused to refund him for 
transactions he said he didnt make.
 What happened
On 17 September 2022, four transactions to the same merchant debited Mr Hs Chase 
account. These transactions totalled over £7,000.
Mr H says he didnt make these payments, He says that he was drugged in a nightclub 
overseas and that the payments were made without his permission when he was blacked 
out. He contacted Chase, but Chase said the payments had been authorised using a digital 
wallet on Mr Hs registered device and so Mr H must have authorised them himself, so 
Chase refused to refund the payments to Mr H.
Mr H didnt agree and contacted this service. Mr H told our Investigator that hed been at an 
adult entertainment venue in a foreign country but had become separated from his friends, 
he says he then remembers very little until he awoke in his apartment the next day.
Mr H said that to access his phone, he had face identification and a passcode, which he
hadnt shared with anyone, but he didnt know what might have happened when hed been 
drugged. He thinks that individuals at the nightclub might have used his face to unlock his 
phone when he was drugged, and then made the payments themselves. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. They pointed out that biometric data had
been used for logging into Mr Hs Chase app at the time of the transactions, and noted that 
the funds used to make the payments had been transferred from another account Mr H held 
with a different bank. Overall, they felt it was more likely than not that Mr H had authorised 
the transactions himself or otherwise allowed them to be made.
Mr H wasnt satisfied, so as no agreement could be reached his complaint has been passed 
to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are regulations which govern disputed transactions. The relevant regulations here are 
the Payment Services Regulations 2017. These say that the payment service provider (here, 
Chase) must show the transaction was authenticated. And here, Ive seen the computer 
evidence that Mr Hs genuine card details were used via a digital wallet that he had set up on 
his phone. So the disputed payments were authenticated.
The regulations also say that its necessary to look at whether the card holder authorised the
payments. In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise the payments,
and the customer is liable if they did authorise them. 
The payments were made using a digital wallet on Mr Hs registered device, which could 
only be accessed using Mr Hs face ID biometrics or a PIN. Mr H has said he has not shared 
his PIN with anybody, and it seems likely that face ID was used here as Chase records 
show that Mr Hs Chase app was also unlocked using biometrics during the period of the 
transactions. 
Mr H said that he was drugged, but face ID requires that the individual unlocking the phone 
or app be alert with their face unobscured and their eyes open. Its difficult to see how a third 
party could therefore have repeatedly used face ID to unlock Mr Hs phone, access his 
Chase app, and also make the payments without his knowledge. If Mr H had been drugged 
so severely that he was unaware of anything that was going on, I think its unlikely his face 
ID would have successfully passed the biometric matching test. 
Ive also considered the other transactions that happened around the disputed payments, 
Mr H says that the fraudsters must have transferred the funds from his main current account 
with another bank to his Chase account. But Ive not heard any reasonable explanation for 
why a fraudster would do that. If they had access to Mr Hs main bank account to transfer 
the funds to Chase, then they could simply have made the payments from that account in 
the first place.
I also think I must bear in mind that Mr H has not indicated that he contacted police in the 
country where the payments happened, or sought medical attention after apparently 
believing he had been drugged. So I have no independent evidence to support what he says 
happened. Even the friends he was on holiday with were apparently not with him at the time 
of the claimed fraud, and so are unable to verify exactly what happened in the nightclub.
Taking all these factors into account, I think its more likely than not that Mr H authorised the
transactions himself or otherwise allowed them to be made. And with that in mind, while I 
note Mr Hs comment that he thinks the payments should have been flagged as suspicious, I 
dont think that would have changed the outcome here, as Im satisfied its more likely that 
Mr H did know the payments were being made. It follows that I wont be asking Chase to 
refund them to him.
I also note Mr Hs comments about how his claim was handled, but Im satisfied that Chase 
treated him fairly and reasonably given the circumstances. I dont think there were any 
service failures here that would merit compensation of any kind.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2023.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman