DRN-3068151
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy that Metro Bank PLC closed his account and placed a fraud marker against
his name. 
What happened
Mr F says that in June 2020 he brokered a car for a third-party through a rental company he
had a pre-existing relationship with. The third-party wasnt previously known to Mr F, but he
says he was reassured of his legitimacy by the mention of mutual clients and the supply of a
UK driving license.
Mr F says that the third-party paid for the car via a number of payments to his Metro
account. He says these were paid in instalments as the car was being hired for a music
video, and the third-party had informed him that the money was being raised from numerous
sources at different times.
After the payments were made to Mr F, Metro contacted him and informed him his accounts
would be closed without reason. Mr F wasnt happy about this, so he made a complaint.
Metro issued a response to Mr Fs complaint. It told him that the payments referred to above
were confirmed as originating from fraud. It advised Mr F to speak with the sender of the
funds, if they were known to him, and report the matter to law enforcement if he was a victim
himself. It pointed out that if law enforcement were to investigate the matter and deem him
innocent, he should forward all relevant documentation to Metro for it review the decision.
Mr F supplied documentation to support his position, including an invoice, a hire agreement
and identity documents supplied by the third-party. Metro said that this wasnt sufficient to
explain the multiple payments to his account and the references they were made under; so it
referred Mr F back to its original response letter.
Mr F remained unhappy with Metros response. He also discovered that itd placed a fraud
marker against his name using the Cifas database. Mr F says this caused him severe
financial difficulty as he felt this was the reason why existing financial products were
withdrawn and he was unable to open another bank account. So, he came to our service to
look into things further.
An Investigator at our service looked into the evidence provided by both parties but thought
Metro were fair in closing his account and applying the Cifas marker. He felt that there were
sufficient discrepancies in Mr Fs testimony to satisfy the burden of proof set out by Cifas
guidelines and thought that the account was closed in line with the terms and conditions. So,
he didnt think Metro needed to do any more.
Mr F disagreed with the Investigators findings. He thought that hed provided sufficient
evidence to prove he was an unsuspecting victim and that the Cifas marker was unfair in the
circumstances.
As Mr F disagreed with the Investigators findings, so the matter was passed to me for a
decision.
On 10 September 2021 I issued a provisional decision to both parties and explained why I 
thought this complaint should be upheld. I invited both parties to send any additional 
comments or evidence they wished to make. These findings set out the following:
The bar for applying a Cifas marker is a high one. In order for Metro to do so it must 
satisfy itself that a fraud or financial crime was committed or attempted. Cifas also 
requires that Metros evidence of the subjects conduct must be clear, relevant and 
rigorous such that it could confidently report it to law enforcement. I therefore find it unfair 
to apply such markers based upon mere suspicion.
In the circumstances of this complaint, Mr F has been in receipt of alleged fraudulent 
funds indirectly, commonly referred to as a second-generation recipient. This means that 
Mr F didnt receive the funds directly from the person alleged to have fallen victim to a 
crime. But instead, they have been transferred to him from someone who did.
So, I must be mindful of that fact here. Fraudsters do use funds obtained from crime to 
make legitimate purchases from unsuspecting individuals and businesses to launder the 
criminally obtained funds. And its unfair to place fault on such individuals or businesses 
who are unaware of the criminal origin of these funds. But there are also occasions where 
individuals and businesses are used knowingly to launder criminal assets to help prevent 
detection and disguise these funds; sometimes for financial gain themselves. To 
knowingly do so is considered a criminal act and is commonly referred to as money 
laundering.
Metros position, in short, is that there is sufficient evidence to support more than mere 
suspicion of Mr Fs conduct; and therefore the application of the marker. But Mr F has 
submitted testimony and supplied a number of documents in support of his submission of 
being an unsuspecting recipient of fraudulently obtained funds.
Mr F has told our service that he was a young man at the time of the transactions subject 
to this complaint. Hes told us, and provided supporting evidence, that he intended to 
become an entrepreneur in the car rental industry. Weve also obtained testimony from the 
third-party company that he brokered the car on behalf of supporting this fact and 
evidencing the specific hire agreement which led to him being in receipt of the funds.
Our Investigator was suspicious of the email, which the third-party business sent to our 
service, as Mr Fs email address could be seen below it and the same text was repeated 
below that. Our Investigator thought that this indicated Mr F had sent the email to the 
business for it to forward it to us. But Mr F has pointed out that the business incorrectly 
sent the email to him and that he responded asking it to be sent to our service instead.
While I take on board how the email may be interpreted as suspicious, I equally find the 
explanation from Mr F plausible. Ive also noted that when this was pointed out by the 
Investigator, the third-party business attempted to clear matters up by providing their 
telephone number and asking our service to contact them. I think this goes some way to 
support Mr Fs version of events.
Metro has also pointed out a number of other inconsistencies in Mr Fs submissions 
that it says supports the fact that the Cifas marker should remain. This includes:
The payments were made in multiple transfers to Mr Fs account. It questioned 
why it wouldnt be done in a single payment.
The references for the payments didnt match what Mr F had claimed the payments were for. These were referenced bike and birthday rather than for 
the car rental Mr F claims he was receiving the payments for.
It felt there were discrepancies in the evidence submitted, such as slightly 
differing signatures on the paperwork to the drivers licence. Its also pointed out 
that the fingers holding each of these appeared Caucasian, which didnt match 
the profile of both sending and receiving account holders.
The pricing of the vehicle and brokerage fee appeared to be out of line with 
standard industry expectations.
The destination of the funds once paid into the account didnt appear to marry 
up to where Mr F said they were being paid in for.
While these are legitimate suspicions and concerns, Mr F has provided explanation for 
each of them when given the opportunity.
Mr F has informed our service that payments were made in multiple transfers as the car 
was being rented for a music video. He was told by the sender that money was being 
raised by numerous people participating in it and may come at different times and 
sources. Mr F was unable to explain the reason for the unusual references made in the 
payments, but this isnt something he would necessarily have control over as he isnt the 
person placing the references into the transfer; this would be done by the sender.
Mr F has also explained that as the vehicle was being used for stunts during the music 
video, the pricing cant be compared to industry standards. I feel this is evidenced further 
by the email sent by the third-party business where it points out external and internal 
damage to the vehicle when it was returned.
Mr F has also explained the way in which he paid the third-party company. He says that 
he had cash lying around at home and used this to make the payment. This is supported 
by the third-party business in its submission to our service. He then used the funds 
transferred to his account to make payment to another account in his name. And he says 
he then paid this out to numerous sources including family members who he says he uses 
to save money and prevent him from spending it.
I also dont accept Metros submissions regarding the discrepancies in the paperwork 
supplied in evidence to Mr Fs testimony. Im unaware of the skin tone of both the 
sending bank account holder or Mr F, but having looked at the photographs myself, the 
skin tone of the person holding the documentation is not that of a Caucasian; as 
suggested by Metro. Nor do I think that the signatures on the documentation are so 
different to that held on the driving licence that a reasonable conclusion can be made 
that they are inconsistent. I think its reasonable to expect that handwritten signatures 
would differ slightly each time they are written.
To the contrary, I find it compelling that Mr F has a photograph of the drivers licence 
which holds the same information as the genuine sending bank account holders 
information. And the time stamp of this photograph, along with the photographs of the 
agreement and invoice, appear to corroborate the timeline of Mr Fs testimony. If Mr F 
was used as a knowing money mule in the circumstances, I find it unusual when 
comparing this to general patterns of fraud and money laundering that he would possess 
such documentary evidence to support his testimony. And that the information on the 
documentation and identity matches that of the genuine sending bank account holder.
I do however acknowledge that the combined factors above could be interpreted as 
suspicious. But I think Mr F has provided sufficient testimony and evidence to counteract 
this and support his position. Metro has expressed concern with the fact that Mr F was 
using a personal account for business purposes and that the way in which he conducted himself doesnt fall in line with how a genuine business would operate. But I think its 
important to consider that Mr F wasnt running an established and experienced business. 
He was a young man who says he was attempting to break into this space and establish 
himself. I therefore find it unreasonable to hold him to the same standard of expectations.
I also think that consideration should be given to the origin of these transactions. Mr F 
hasnt received these directly from the individual who has alleged to have been victim of a 
crime. They have been sent to him by a person who he has shown was engaging in a 
genuine business transaction with him; for which the person received the services paid 
for.
Taking all the above into consideration, I dont think Metro have applied the marker 
against Mr Fs name fairly. As such, Ill be asking it to remove the marker.
Ive also considered if Metro were fair and reasonable in closing Mr Fs account in the way 
in which it did.
Metro has told our service that the account was closed in line with its terms and 
conditions. The relevant terms and conditions of the account relied upon are 11.2. 
These set out when Metro can close a customers account and what notice it will 
provide.
These terms say that Metro can close a customers account immediately, or at the end of 
any notice period, if the account is used for any suspicious or fraudulent activity. As Metro 
had been informed that Mr Fs account had been in receipt of second-generation 
fraudulent funds I dont think it was unfair in its decision to close the account under those 
terms considering the risk this posed to both Metro and Mr F. And I must also consider 
that instead of closing the account with immediate effect, it did give Mr F the opportunity 
to find alternative banking and rearrange his financial arrangements by giving seven days 
notice.
For these reasons, I find the closure of the account to be reasonable in the circumstances.
While I understand that Mr F wishes for his account to be re-opened, our service 
cant compel a business to remain in a business relationship with a consumer 
(unless legally required to do so), as much as a consumer cant be compelled to 
bank with a certain provider.
I must also consider the impact the marker had on Mr F when it was applied by Metro. At 
the time Metro was informed of the alleged fraudulently obtained funds entering Mr Fs 
account, Cifas had issued new guidance on dealing with customers that had obtained 
fraudulent funds, but werent considered to be involved in the criminal act that resulted in 
their acquisition. These are commonly referred to as money mules.
In its guidance, Cifas broadly acknowledged that there were circumstances where money 
that had originated from crime was transferred to unsuspecting individuals and 
businesses without their knowledge of its origin. The guidance sets out what Cifas 
members should do to investigate these scenarios and establish the consumers witting 
or unwitting involvement in each case. Ive interpreted that the purpose of this is to 
ensure unwitting money mules that had innocently been involved in the laundering of 
criminal assets werent loaded to the database and impacted by the loading against their 
name unfairly.
Having reviewed this guidance, I dont think Metro followed the investigatory 
requirements set out by Cifas in establishing this difference. I cant see that Metro gave Mr F a chance to defend his position before loading the marker against him. Having said 
this, I can see that it did ask for evidence from Mr F after his complaint about the marker 
and after reviewing this decided to retain the marker. I do think that this immediate action 
without investigation caused Mr F some level of distress and inconvenience as he seems 
to have had to make a concerted effort to prove he was an innocent party in the 
circumstances; after the marker was applied. I think £50 is reasonable to award to Mr F 
to reflect that.
Mr F has said that the impact of the marker was severe as he was unable to open another 
bank account. He also believed a number of his financial products were closed as a result of 
the marker. However, its difficult to prove that the sole reason for this was due to the marker 
Metro placed against him. Furthermore, businesses should be closing accounts or declining 
applications in a fair way; and in line with its own terms and conditions. It would generally be 
deemed unreasonable to close an account solely based upon the application of a Cifas 
marker placed by another business. But Metro cant be held accountable for any errors these 
businesses may have made. Nor have I been supplied sufficient evidence to persuade me of 
a link between these issues and the marker.
Metro didnt provide further comment to the provisional findings made, but Mr F did agree. 
After Mr F agreed, he provided further submissions regarding the closure of his accounts 
held with third-party businesses. He remained of the opinion that these accounts were 
closed as a result of the marker placed by Metro.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont intend to depart from the findings made in my provisional decision. 
Ill explain why.
While Mr F has agreed with my provisional findings and proposed award, hes also provided 
two inserts from previous findings our service has made in relation to other complaints 
against the businesses that have closed his accounts. 
Mr F says hes submitted these as supporting evidence that his accounts held with other 
providers were closed directly as a result of the Cifas marker applied by Metro. Ive already 
covered this element of Mr Fs complaint in my provisional findings. However, to reiterate, 
while the marker placed by Metro likely was a contributory factor to Mr Fs accounts closing, 
it would be unfair to place blame on Metro in its entirety for these closures.
Cifas guidance does stipulate that its members shouldnt close accounts solely on the basis 
of a marker applied. And as Ive outlined in my provisional findings, a business should close 
accounts in a fair way; and in line with its own terms and conditions. So, I cant say with 
certainty that Metro should take full responsibility for the closure of accounts held with other 
businesses considering that there might be other factors involved and individual failings by 
these businesses.
I find that the compensation awarded in my provisional decision would fairly incorporate any 
additional inconvenience caused by the contribution this marker had on those decisions.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint and 
direct Metro Bank PLC to:Remove the Cifas marker placed against Mr Fs name
Pay Mr F £50 for the distress and inconvenience caused
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Stephen Westlake
Ombudsman