DRN-1209975
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited opened the wrong cash ISA account and 
then transferred funds into it from another bank despite assuring her it wouldn't do so.
What happened
In early April 2019 Mrs W applied to Shawbrook to open a new cash ISA account. At the 
same time, she authorised the transfer of about £80,000 from an existing cash ISA account 
with another bank (bank B) into the new account. Shawbrook made a mistake and instead of 
opening the account shed asked for, it opened an account with a lower interest rate. When 
Mrs W realised Shawbrook had made a mistake she asked it to cancel the account and stop 
any transfers of funds. She contacted Shawbrook on several occasions and was assured the 
funds wouldn't be transferred from bank B. But the funds were transferred and when Mrs W 
was given the option of either returning the funds to bank B or opening the correct account 
she decided to do the latter. She says that was only because she was worried Shawbrook 
might make another mistake.
Shawbrook acknowledged it had made a mistake and recognised it hadn't provided a good 
service. It agreed that several errors had caused unnecessary upset and distress and it fully 
upheld the complaint. It apologised for the mistakes it had made and for the way one of the 
calls had been handled. It said it had spoken to the staff member concerned to provide 
feedback on the quality of that call. Shawbrook also opened the correct cash ISA account 
and backdated the transfer to the original date on which the money was received and put in 
the wrong account. And it offered to pay Mrs W £100 in recognition of the upset it had 
caused. 
Mrs W wasnt happy and complained to this service. She said this all took place over a 
six-day period in mid-April 2019 and at a time when she was on a weekend break away. She 
contacted Shawbrook on many occasions over that period and said the whole experience 
had a significant impact on her and her husband.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought Shawbrook had done what wed 
expect them to do by apologising and putting Mrs W back in the position she would have 
been if the error hadnt been made. She also thought the £100 compensation offered to 
Mrs W was fair. 
As Mrs W remained unhappy, the complaint has been passed to me to make a final 
decision. She said Shawbrook had taken her money even though shed told it not to on 
numerous occasions and it had assured her it wouldn't do so. She felt the level of 
compensation offered was inadequate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I realise this will be disappointing to 
Mrs W but, having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator and for 
largely the same reasons.Theres no dispute about what went wrong here. Mrs Ws complaint is that Shawbrook hasnt 
done enough to put things right. I can understand why shes upset with Shawbrook. It made 
a mistake in opening the wrong account and then compounded that mistake by transferring 
funds from bank B even though Mrs W had specifically asked it not to do that and after it had 
reassured her the funds wouldn't be transferred. 
Because Shawbrook backdated the transfer, I dont think shes suffered any financial loss as 
a result of its mistake. Ive therefore focused on the impact the mistake and poor service had 
on her. When were deciding how to resolve a complaint, well consider whether its fair to 
award compensation. Our role isn't to fine or punish a business  which is the job of the 
regulator  but to recognise the impact its mistake or poor service has had on the consumer.
Mrs W was distressed by not knowing where her funds had gone and feels Shawbrook 
misappropriated her money against her express wishes. She was inconvenienced by having 
to spend a significant amount of time trying to resolve the situation. And then by 
experiencing some poor service and lack of empathy from one of the Shawbrooks call 
handlers.
I dont doubt the distress and inconvenience caused but, on balance, I think Shawbrook has 
done enough to put matters right. It acknowledged it had got things wrong, apologised for 
that and took action promptly to put things right. Having carefully considered the 
circumstances of this complaint, I think £100 is fair and reasonable compensation. I dont 
think Shawbrook needs to do anything more.
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs W but, for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. If it hasn't already, Shawbrook Bank 
Limited should pay Mrs W the £100 compensation it offered to her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 January 2020.
Richard Walker
Ombudsman