DRN-3119577
The complaint
Mr O complains TSB Bank plc (TSB) failed to properly carry out its know your customer 
(KYC) procedures for one of its customers, which resulted in a payment sent to that 
customer in error by Mr O, not being recovered. 
What happened
Mr O says he sent a payment for £9000 to one of TSBs customers in error. Mr O says he  
immediately attempted through his own bank, to recover the payment, but because TSB 
hadnt carried out correct KYC procedures on their customer, it prevented him pursuing their 
customer further. Mr O says he is aware the address details TSB hold for their customer, to 
whom he sent the payment are incorrect. Mr O says he visited the address and their 
customer no longer resides there. Mr O maintains if TSB had carried out adequate KYC 
checks, they would have an up to date address, which would have helped him pursue a civil 
claim against their customer  but this has prevented him doing so.
 
TSB says they have robust KYC procedures and controls in place for all its customers, under 
its regulatory obligations. TSB says they had no previous concerns about their customer, so 
there was no reason to prevent the payment Mr O sent, crediting the bank account. TSB 
have told Mr O as he had made the payment in error, they attempted to retrieve the payment 
on receipt of the credit payment recovery request (CPR) from his bank, on a best 
endeavours basis, as this payment hadnt been flagged as a fraudulent transaction. TSB 
says they have done nothing wrong here. 
Mr O wasnt happy with TSBs response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator felt TSB had no reason to have any concerns about its customer prior to receipt 
of the payment sent by Mr O. The investigator felt TSB couldnt be held responsible if a 
customer didnt keep them informed of changes to their circumstances, like a new address 
for example, and they hadnt received any previously returned correspondence. The 
investigator says as the payment was correctly paid into TSBs customers account, albeit 
that was not what Mr O had intended, TSB had done nothing wrong here, and this was now 
a matter for Mr O to take forwards as a civil dispute.
Mr O disagreed with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision.
I do understand this has been an upsetting experience for Mr O and he has questioned 
TSBs actions in applying their own KYC procedures, which he feels has contributed to him 
not being able to trace the individual and recover the monies he sent in error. When coming 
to a full and impartial decision here, I will consider if TSB acted reasonably and carried out 
appropriate customer checks before accepting the payment, Mr O had sent to their 
customers bank account, in error. 
Mr Os issue is that TSB hadnt conducted sufficient KYC checks on its customer who 
received the £9000 payment he had inadvertently sent. Mr O says he became aware their 
customer had moved address and therefore TSBs records werent up to date - a 
requirement of all banks under their KYC procedures. Mr O says as a result of this it has 
prevented him taking any further civil action against their customer to recover his monies. 
While I agree with Mr O, banks like TSB have a responsibility to accurately record 
information they hold, as part of their obligatory requirements, its fair to say they can only do 
that with up to date information provided to them by its customers, when their circumstances 
change. In this case I have been informed by TSB they had no previous concerns about the 
conduct of their long-standing customers bank account. I have also been made aware that 
their customer received online correspondence, and it would only be on rare occasions to 
send written communications. TSB also make the point they havent previously had any post 
returned or any advice from their customer of a change of address. 
Having considered what both parties have said here, I cant say, given theres no evidence 
to suggest there were any issues with their customer, TSB would have been expected to 
know their customer had changed address, unless this information had been provided to 
them. 
It follows, I cant say TSB should have carried out any further checks before accepting the 
payment Mr O sent in error. I say this because the payment they received was directed to 
the correct bank account details under Mr Os instructions. Its also fair to say the payment 
sent wasnt reported by Mr Os bank as fraudulent only that it was sent in error, so I am 
satisfied TSB acted reasonably by attempting to recover the payment as instructed by the 
sending banks CPR. Unfortunately, TSB only managed to recover a modest amount, as 
their customer had already withdrawn the monies from the bank account.
Its also worth mentioning TSB werent part of the confirmation of payee scheme at the time 
the payment was received, so even, for example, if the payees name details had been 
wrong, TSB wouldnt be required to check every individual payment it receives for its 
customers. I say this because TSB would receive a considerable number of payments 
through its bank each day, and in any event, there wasnt anything to flag this particular 
payment wasnt genuine.
Its clear that Mr O has been unfortunate here, as it appears the beneficiary has dishonestly 
taken these monies, but I cant hold TSB responsible for that, for the reasons I have already 
mentioned. I am sorry to say this is now really a civil matter that Mr O may need to explore, 
although I do understand that may prove difficult for him. 
I am aware Mr O feels his own bank are also at fault and he has raised a separate complaint 
with this service, but that will be looked at separately and considered under its own merits. 
While Mr O will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of TSB.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman