DRN-2834486
The complaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) wont refund him after falling victim 
to a scam.
What happened
In April 2020 Mr B found a mobile phone he wanted to buy advertised on an online auction 
website. The phone was listed with a description and a price to buy the phone instantly. The 
description said that the item had to be collected due to the seller having problems with an 
online payment service, but that it could be posted if payment was made by bank transfer. It 
provided the sellers mobile phone number and asked that anyone interested in buying the 
item, who wanted it posted, contact the seller before placing a bid.
Mr B got in touch with the seller and asked what guarantee he had that the item would be 
sent and that it was in the condition listed. He asked this specifically as paying by bank 
transfer would mean that he didnt have the same protection as if he paid via an online 
payment service. The seller told Mr B that they would send proof of postage with a tracking 
number.
On Friday 10 April 2020 at around 2pm, Mr B contacted the seller and confirmed he had 
made payment for the item  being £203.70. At around 3pm the seller told Mr B that they 
hadnt received the funds yet. And that they would have to check to see if the local post 
office was open the following day (Saturday), as their post office was closed on the Monday 
due to a bank holiday.
The next day, 11 April 2020, Mr B saw an identical listing for the same phone with the same 
description posted by the same seller. At this point Mr B believed he had been scammed.  
Mr B contacted the seller at around 11am, voicing his concern that he had been scammed. 
The seller told Mr B that her and her husband both had the same phone and upgraded to a 
new phone at the same time. The seller said the new listing was for her husbands phone.
On the same day Mr B contacted Barclays and raised a fraud claim. As a result of Mr Bs 
fraud claim the sellers bank account was blocked while their bank undertook an investigation 
into the situation. The seller asked Mr B to contact his bank and lift the scam alert, but Mr B 
says he was told by the bank not to do so until he had received the phone.
Mr B and the seller exchanged messages over the next few days. The seller told Mr B that 
as her account was on hold, she didnt have the money to post the phone and said she 
couldnt refund him without having his account information. The seller told Mr B that her bank 
had recommended that she refund him, as if she posted the phone, he could say he hadnt 
received it. Mr B was disinclined to give out his bank account information and wanted to 
speak to his bank before doing so. Mr B did, however, provide the seller with his bank 
account information a few days later.
The purchase was cancelled on the online auction website, but Mr B says he didnt receive a 
refund through them.
Mr B asked Barclays to refund him due to being the victim of a scam. Barclays declined to, 
saying that they believed the matter to be a civil dispute  a matter between the buyer and 
seller. But they offered Mr B £100 as a gesture of goodwill. 
Mr B declined Barclays offer and brought a complaint to our service.
An investigator looked into Mr Bs complaint and didnt uphold it. They felt that the seller was 
genuinely selling a phone, and the matter was a civil dispute which meant Barclays werent 
required to refund Mr B.
Mr B disagreed and the case was passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take in account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
Having done so, Im not persuaded that I can fairly require Barclays to refund Mr B and Ill 
explain why.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that its customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. When Barclays made 
the payment, it was complying with Mr Bs instructions. At the time, Mr B wanted to pay the 
seller and there was no mistake made as the money was sent to the correct account details. 
As I dont think Barclay acted incorrectly by making the payment, Ive gone on to consider 
whether it shouldve refunded Mr B for any other reason. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive also thought about the 
Lending Standards Boards voluntary Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM Code), which 
Barclays has signed up to and was in force at the time Mr B made the payment. 
Under the CRM Code, the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who 
is the victim of an authorised push payment (APP) scam. Ive thought about if the CRM code 
applies in the circumstances of the payment Mr B made and, in particular, whether Barclays 
ought to reimburse him under the provisions of the Code. 
But the Code is quite explicit that it doesnt apply to all push payments. It says: 
DS2(2) This code does not apply to: 
(b) private civil disputes, such as where a Customer has paid a legitimate supplier for goods, 
services, or digital content but has not received them, they are defective in some way, or the 
Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier 
I understand why Mr B feels hes been scammed, but from what Ive seen, I dont think I can 
fairly say that Mr B has been scammed. Although I accept that Mr B hasnt received the item he bought or received a refund from the seller. I think the payment Mr B made forms part of 
a civil dispute between Mr B and the seller, and Ill provide my reasoning for this.
Mr B feels that the seller shouldve refunded him or posted the phone. But because Mr B 
contacted his bank and told them he thought hed been a victim of a scam  the sellers bank 
account was frozen. Meaning they had no access to the money that Mr B had paid them. 
The seller told Mr B that as a result of their account being frozen, they didnt have funds to 
pay to post the phone. And with the seller having no access to her account or the funds in it 
(which is supported by the notes from her bank), then it seems likely that this may well have 
been the case.
And I can see that initially the seller did try to return Mr Bs funds to him.  This is supported 
by contact notes from her bank, which reference her calling and asking to have the funds 
returned to Mr B. The banks notes say they told her that they couldnt do this without her 
having Mr Bs account information. It also references the seller saying she had attempted to 
do a refund through the online auction website.
As well, the seller explained in messages to Mr B that they were concerned Mr B was going 
to get a refund from both the online auction website when they cancelled the sale and from 
the bank. As such they were concerned about posting the phone or making a payment to 
him. 
I also have to take into account that the seller had a profile on the online auction website 
which showed 100% positive feedback with a significant number of reviews. She was very 
upfront in the description for the phone that it was collection only, and that if anyone wanted 
it posted they had to get in touch first and would have to pay via bank transfer. She also 
provided a genuine contact phone number that Mr B was able to use to contact her after the 
sale for a number of days until the relationship broke down. 
Also, her bank has confirmed that they havent had any reports in relation to potential scams 
on her account previously, and that following their investigation they were satisfied that she 
hadnt been involved in perpetrating a scam in this situation. Although we havent seen the 
information or investigation that her bank did which resulted in them reaching that outcome.
I realise that Mr B didnt end up with the phone or his refund, but Im not persuaded that its 
because he was the victim of a scam. I think based on all the evidence in this case, that its 
more likely that there was a break down in communication between the seller and Mr B. Also 
due to the sellers account being frozen, for a period of time she wasnt able to access the 
money hed paid which impacted on her ability to send the phone or refund him. And that 
later the seller was concerned that Mr B could end up with the phone and a refund based on 
the sale being cancelled on the online auction website and Mr B having raised a fraud claim 
with his bank.
As such I think the payment Mr B made forms part of a civil dispute and, as such, is not 
covered by the CRM Code. This means I dont think Barclays is responsible for reimbursing 
Mr B because of any obligation under the CRM Code. 
I can appreciate why Mr B feels he has been deceived, but overall, I dont think Barclays 
treated Mr B unfairly when it concluded this was a civil matter that Mr B would need to 
pursue directly with the seller. For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied Mr B isnt due a 
refund under the CRM Code. Nor can I see there are any other grounds on which I could say 
that Barclays should, fairly and reasonably, bear the responsibility for Mr Bs loss.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2021.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman