DRN-4197554
The complaint
Mrs K complains that eBay Commerce UK Ltd closed her selling account and then took five 
months to release her funds. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
eBay Commerce are regulated as a payment provider only. So, although Mrs K is 
unhappy with her account being closed, as it wasnt eBay commerce that decided 
this, our service is unable to look into this further. 
As Mrs Ks account was limited, eBay commerce was correct to withhold any 
payment until it was satisfied the correct documents had been provided. Im satisfied 
that eBays terms and conditions that Mrs K signed up to allow it to do this.  
On this occasion eBay planned to put a hold on the account for 72 days. This is 
reasonable given it needs to protect itself against disputes raised by buyers. 
eBay have said due to human error, the account was placed on hold for around 40 
days longer than it shouldve been. For this its offered Mrs K a £50 trouble and upset 
payment. At this point eBay also shouldve lifted the hold to allow Mrs K to upload her 
documents. 
Given the length of the delay, that Ive found was the fault of eBays, and the issue 
with uploading her documents, Im satisfied £50 compensates Mrs K fairly for the 
frustration it caused and the time without her funds. 
eBay commerce released the payment two days after Mrs K uploaded her 
documentation. Im satisfied this is a reasonable amount of time to take when 
sending the payment.
In summary eBay commerce were instructed to withhold Mrs K funds until she had uploaded 
identification documents. As I can only investigate the payment eBay made, and not the 
reason for the account closure, Im satisfied the offer eBay have made is fair in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Putting things right
eBay should pay Mrs K the £50 offered in its response to our service. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and instruct eBay Commerce UK Ltd to pay Mrs K £50 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 July 2023.
 
Tom Wagstaff
Ombudsman