DRN-2773520
The complaint
Mrs L complains that FirstRand Bank Limited trading as MotoNovo Finance, unfairly 
registered a default on her credit file, after she had raised a query about the end of 
agreement charges it had invoiced her for following the handing back of a car.
What happened
In December 2015, Mrs L entered into a four-year Personal Contract Purchase (PCP) with 
MotoNovo for a car. There were no issues with the payment history of the account, or the 
quality of the car. 
When the agreement was reaching its maturity, Mrs L told MotoNovo that she intended to 
return the car. MotoNovo sent Mrs L a letter explaining the hand back process and that she 
would be liable for the cost of collecting the car. It also said that if any of the cars 
documentation was missing, if there was excess mileage or if the car was found to have 
damage beyond fair wear and tear, then Mrs L would face end of contract charges.
The car was collected on time in January 2020 and inspected. MotoNovo wrote to Mrs L 
saying she had an outstanding liability under the agreement of £5,011 to clear and that she 
had 30 days to pay this amount. The letter said if she didnt, then it would result in a default 
liability. This letter also set out that these charges arose from an excess mileage fee and 
the condition of the car.
One week after receiving this letter, Mrs L responded to MotoNovo by email querying the 
charges. She said that under the termination clause contained in the agreement if she had 
paid at least half of the total amount payable, and taken reasonable care of the vehicle, she 
wouldnt have to pay more. She said that she had done both of these things, so didnt 
believe she owed more.
MotoNovo responded in February 2020, saying that the outstanding liability had been 
reduced to £3,601, and it was in the process of transferring this amount to a third-part debt 
collection agency to recover the outstanding charges. However, if Mrs L paid this amount 
within 14 days, she would receive a 20% discount on the sum owed and avoid the debt 
being transferred.
Mrs L replied to MotoNovo in the same terms as her earlier response, that is she didnt 
believe she owed any further money under the agreement.
In March 2020 Mrs L received a letter from the third-party debt collection agency saying the 
debt had been transferred to them for payment. Mrs L entered into discussions with this third 
party about the outstanding amount.
In April 2020 MotoNovo wrote to Mrs L and explained that she was liable for the charges, 
which were due because of the damage found on the car, that an excess mileage fee had 
been incurred and there was some missing documentation.
The outstanding amount was later reduced to £1,800 which Mrs L settled in full in June 
2020.
Mrs L discovered that in MotoNovo had registered a default as from February 2020 for this 
account on her credit file and asked for this to be removed.  She complained to MotoNovo. 
MotoNovo didnt uphold her complaint. It said that, although Mrs L had responded within 30 
days of the original invoice/letter to discuss the agreement and the amount owed, this had 
been dismissed as the amount had been correctly charged. Due to the amount not being 
settled within the time frame given, the debt had been transferred, which had resulted in a 
negative impact on Mrs Ls credit file.
Mrs L disagreed with MotoNovos decision and complained to this service. Our investigator 
recommended that Mrs Ls complaint should be upheld. He said that MotoNovo hadnt acted 
fairly in passing the matter to the third-party debt collection agency as, at that time, it had 
been in the process of discussing the charges with Mrs L. He said MotoNovo also hadnt 
explained why Mrs Ls view about owing nothing further was incorrect. Our investigator said 
it would be fair for MotoNovo to remove the default from Mrs Ls credit file.
MotoNovo disagreed with our investigators view. It said the debt had been transferred in 
March 2020, as the debt hadnt been paid within the time frame of 30 days as set out in the 
original invoice letter sent to Mrs L in January 2020.
As MotoNovo didnt agree the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen that there werent any payment issues under the PCP until the car was handed 
back. Mrs L made all the expected monthly payments and handed the car back at the end of 
the agreement.
On handing the car back, it was inspected as to its condition and a report was prepared. This 
report set out that the car had some damage that was considered beyond fair wear and tear, 
that some its documentation was missing, and the agreed mileage allowance had been 
exceeded. An invoice letter was therefore sent to Mrs L to settle these end of contract 
charges. 
Looking at the PCP agreement, I can see that MotoNovo was entitled to charge Mrs L for the 
items raised during the inspection, so I cant say the invoice letter was unfair. I also think Mrs 
L was also entitled to challenge these charges, as she did. I accept Mrs Ls challenge arose 
from a misunderstanding about the termination clause, and that she was wrong in her belief 
that as she had paid over half of the total amount payable, she didnt owe anything further. 
I appreciate that the invoice letter sent to Mrs L in January 2020 set out how the charges had 
arisen, and also gave her a time limit in which to clear that amount, namely 30 days. But I 
think it would have been fair for MotoNovo to have properly addressed Mrs Ls response to 
that correspondence, as I think it was clear she held a mistaken view that she wasnt liable. 
Ive seen that when MotoNovo replied it only said that a lesser amount was now due and, if 
unpaid, that the account would be passed to a collection agency. I think this reply would 
have been likely to just confuse and frustrate Mrs L further. As by not answering Mrs Ls 
question, and simply dismissing what shed said, MotoNovo hasnt assisted Mrs L in 
understanding that she had misunderstood the agreement and her liabilities under it. I think its reasonable to have expected MotoNovo to have told Mrs L why it didnt accept 
what she said, and so, Im not surprised that, in reply to that letter, Mrs L only repeated her 
question about why she was liable rather than making the payment.
I also think it was reasonable for Mrs L to believe that she was still in discussion with 
MotoNovo about the outstanding charges as opposed to being at the end of the process. I 
dont think I can fairly say she was avoiding or refusing payment. Rather, she was querying 
why she responsible for these charges and, had she been provided with an answer, then I 
think its likely Mrs L would have entered into a dialogue about how to pay. 
So, while I appreciate the 30-day time limit was up, I dont think, in these circumstances, that 
MotoNovo has acted fairly in passing this account on to a third party for collection when it 
did. I think its reasonable to consider that at that time it was still in discussions with Mrs L 
about her liability for an end of contract charges.
  
I understand MotoNovo has to report accurate information about the payment of an account 
to the credit reference agencies, but it also has a responsibility to ensure that its acting fairly 
when it does so. Here, I think that as MotoNovo hadnt adequately responded to Mrs Ls 
questions about her liability and had passed her account on for collection when it should 
have still been in discussions with her about the outstanding balance, it would be fair for it to 
now remove the default from Mrs Ls credit file.
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding Mrs Ls complaint.
Putting things right
Im asking MotoNovo to remove the default from Mrs Ls credit file.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im upholding Mrs Ls complaint. Im asking FirstRand Bank 
Limited trading as MotoNovo to remove the default from Mrs Ls credit file.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman