DRN-2008630
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the success fee charged by SN Marketing Services Ltd (trading as My 
PPI Refund) following a successful payment protection insurance (PPI) claim with lender B. 
What happened 
My PPI Refund say following an online enquiry made by Mr H through their website in 
August 2019, they received a signed authority form to pursue potential PPI mis-sale claims 
on Mr Hs behalf. Mr Hs complaint concerns a successful claim against lender B. 
The letter of authority for lender B recorded Mr Hs personal details, including his home and 
email address, and mobile number. An electronic signature was provided next to the caption 
I/We have read and accept My PPI Refund Terms & Conditions and give them full authority 
to make a claim on my/our behalf. You should only sign this document if you have read it 
and agree to its contents.
The terms and conditions explained that if Mr Hs claim was successful, My PPI Refund 
would charge 20% plus VAT on any compensation paid by the lender. The terms and 
conditions also explained once we identify that you have PPI we will submit your 
complaint By completing and returning the Letter(s) of Authority you agree to appoint My 
PPI Refund to provide the PPI check and claim service. 
On 2 October 2019, a representative from My PPI Refund contacted Mr H to discuss another 
claim they were looking into. Mr H answered the representatives questions about this other 
claim, and the representative confirmed My PPI Refund would send Mr H documents to sign 
and return. The representative then asked about home insurance. Mr H terminated the call. 
In January 2020, lender B agreed to pay compensation for Mr Hs claim. My PPI Refund sent 
their invoice to Mr H for this successful claim. Mr H complained to My PPI Refund saying 
that the claim to lender B had been made fraudulently, without his consent. Mr H agreed to 
pay My PPI Refund their success fee, but continued with his complaint. 
My PPI Refund said theyd acted fairly by making the claim using the signed letter of 
authority theyd received. Because of this, they didnt offer any compensation in settlement 
of Mr Hs complaint. 
Mr H didnt agree with My PPI Refunds response, saying that he hadnt signed any 
documents for My PPI Refund. He referred his complaint to the Claims Management 
Ombudsman (a Financial Ombudsman service) for us to investigate.
The investigator found that My PPI Refund had acted reasonably in making the claim, and 
charging their invoice. Mr H said at no stage did he sign a letter of authority, and he definitely 
didnt agree to any terms and conditions. As the complaint couldnt be resolved its been 
passed to me for decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that this has been an upsetting time for Mr H. Having reviewed the case, I 
agree with the investigators findings, for broadly the same reasons, and I wont be 
recommending My PPI Refund do anything in settlement of this complaint. Ive focused my 
comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific point its 
because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
Mr H says he never instructed My PPI Refund to act for him. Mr H feels strongly that even if 
he had provided some details online, it wouldve taken time to read all the terms and 
conditions to fully understand what he was signing up for, and he didnt do this. 
When there are different versions of whats happened provided by a business and a 
customer, we need to make a decision based on what we think has happened on balance. I 
dont doubt that what Mr H has told me is how he remembers it. Having reviewed all the 
evidence, I think its more likely than not that Mr H instructed My PPI Refund to act for him in 
a claim against lender B, as evidenced by the signed letter of authority. 
Mr H has commented on the web journey for My PPI Refund. He says that there wasnt any 
explanation about what he was signing up for. He says he wouldnt have instructed My PPI 
Refund as the fees werent explained. My PPI Refund havent been able to provide the 
screenshots that Mr H wouldve seen when completing the online form. 
Although it wouldve been helpful to see what information was presented to Mr H, I have 
considered the evidence showing what details My PPI Refund were given about Mr H. The 
letter of authority for lender B included Mr Hs previous, and current address. It also included 
other personal details, such as Mr Hs email address and mobile number. These details 
match the information Mr H has provided to this service. I think its more likely than not that it 
was Mr H that provided this information to My PPI Refund. 
The terms and conditions allowed My PPI Refund to find out if Mr H had been mis-sold PPI, 
and continue with the claim once this was confirmed. Mr H strongly disputes being provided 
with terms and conditions that explained that, and say he didnt instruct them to make a 
claim. There evidence isnt clear on how and when the terms and conditions were presented 
to Mr H. So Ive considered the other evidence indicating what happened between Mr H and 
My PPI Refund once Mr H provided details online in August 2019. 
My PPI Refund have provided a call recording of 2 October 2019. Mr H was told during this 
call that My PPI Refund had found PPI in relation to another claim they were looking into. Mr 
H answered the representatives questions about this other claim. I havent seen any 
evidence to indicate that Mr H told My PPI Refund that he didnt want them to act for him- 
either in respect of the claim they were discussing, or any other claim. 
Although this call wasnt about lender B, this evidence shows Mr H was made aware of My 
PPI Refunds involvement in claims that they were dealing with. Mr H feels strongly that he 
didnt return paperwork for lender B because he didnt want My PPI Refund to represent him. 
But I dont think Mr Hs disengagement from the process makes it reasonable for me to say 
that My PPI Refund acted unfairly by continuing with the claim against lender B.Even if I was to accept Mr Hs complaint about the lack of clarity in the online journey (which 
I havent seen documentary evidence of), Mr H did receive notice of My PPI Refund acting 
for him when they contacted him in October 2019. Mr H didnt express any concerns with My 
PPI Refunds involvement at that time. So its reasonable that My PPI Refund continued to 
represent Mr H, as instructed by the letter of authority signed for lender B. 
The offer from lender B was made after the call with Mr H in October 2019. My PPI Refund 
were made aware of the offer directly from lender B. So I dont think it would be fair to say 
that there wasnt an agreement between Mr H and My PPI Refund at the time lender B 
agreed to offer compensation. In line with the terms and conditions agreed to, My PPI 
Refund sent Mr H their success fee invoice, which they were entitled to do.  
Its likely that Mr H didnt respond to further contact from My PPI Refund after his call with 
them in October 2019. But I cant say that the agreement with My PPI Refund had been 
cancelled, and was no longer effective because Mr H chose not to engage. I can appreciate 
it mustve been upsetting for Mr H to receive an invoice, and be asked to pay a success fee, 
when he feels strongly that he didnt instruct My PPI Refund to make any claims for him. 
But the evidence shows that Mr H did provide details to My PPI Refund in August 2019. My 
PPI Refund sent the claim to lender B, which led to lender B becoming aware of Mr Hs 
concerns.
I dont doubt what Mr H has said about disengaging from the process after completing an 
initial enquiry. But he didnt express any concerns with My PPI Refunds involvement with 
any of his claims until after lender B agreed to award compensation. So its fair to say that 
the contract with My PPI Refund was valid at the time lender B made an offer of 
compensation. Because of this, I think its fair that My PPI Refund charge their success fee 
of 20% plus VAT for the compensation paid by lender B. 
My final decision
For the reasons provided I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2020.
 
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman