DRN-2941309
The complaint
Mrs C and Mr C complain that Topaz Finance Limited trading as Rosinca Mortgages 
(Rosinca) unfairly registered missed mortgage payments against their credit files.
What happened
Mrs C and Mr C have two buy to let mortgages (BTL) with Rosinca and in March 2020 they 
negotiated an initial three-month payment deferral and in June 2020 this was further 
extended, until the end of August 2020. Mrs C and Mr C, says they received a letter form 
Rosinca in early November 2020 advising them they had missed September and October 
2020s monthly BTL payments and they were in arrears on both mortgages. Mrs C and Mr C 
says the missed payments have been registered on their credit files. Mrs C and Mr C says 
they dont know why the direct debits werent made and they werent told of any missed 
payments until November 2020 and feel the missed payments registered against them 
should be removed.
Rosinca says it was Mrs C and Mr Cs responsibility to make the monthly BTL payments 
after the payment deferral and they did inform them of this. Rosinca says they have a 
responsibility to report accurate information to the credit reference agencies which is what 
they have done here. Rosinca says they accept they didnt send out an arrears letter to Mrs 
C and Mr C, as they should have when the September 2020 payment was missed and have 
reversed all the arrears charges totalling £160 for both of the mortgages. 
Mrs C and Mr C werent happy with Rosincas response and referred the matter to this 
service.
The investigator looked at all the available information and partially upheld Mrs C and Mr Cs 
complaint. He felt that mistakes had been made by both sides but Rosinca should have sent 
an arrears letter after the September BTL payment was missed, which would have prompted 
Mrs C and Mr C to have made the payments in October. As a result, he felt Mrs C and Mr 
Cs missed payment marker on their credit files for October 2020 should be removed. In 
addition, the investigator recommended Rosinca pay Mrs C and Mr C £100 for the trouble 
and upset caused. 
Mrs C and Mr C accepted that conclusion. Rosinca agreed to pay £100 compensation but 
didnt agree with the investigators view about Mrs C and Mr Cs credit files and asked for the 
matter to be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
I can see that it would be upsetting for Mrs C and Mr C to have missed payment markers 
placed on their credit files, when they believed they had put in place a payment deferral 
arrangement and the BTL mortgage payments would recommence automatically after the 
deferral period had ended. When looking at this complaint I will consider if Rosinca have 
acted reasonably when they marked missed payments on Mrs Cs and Mr Cs credit files in 
September and October 2020. 
When coming to a full and impartial decision here, I need to take into account this happened 
during the Covid pandemic which affected both businesses and customers alike. In March 
2020, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) put in place guidance for mortgage lenders in 
the exceptional circumstances arising out of coronavirus (Covid-19) and its impact on the 
financial situation of their customers. It stated that :
 where a customer is experiencing or reasonably expects to experience payment difficulties 
as a result of circumstances relating to coronavirus, and wishes to receive a payment 
holiday, a firm should grant a customer a payment holiday for 3 monthly payments, unless it 
can demonstrate it is reasonable and, in the customers, best interest to do otherwise.
I have listened to a telephone conversation between Mrs C and Mr C and Rosinca and 
during that telephone call the agent from Rosinca agrees to an initial payment deferral for 
three months commencing April 2020 and tells Mrs C and Mr C to cancel the direct debit 
with their bank. The agent goes on to say Mrs C and Mr C would need to make 
arrangements to reinstate the direct debit at the end of the payment deferral. In the same 
call, the agent tells Mrs C and Mr C if they need any further help over this period, they could 
contact her directly. I have also seen letters from Rosinca to Mrs C and Mr C confirming an 
extension to the payment deferral on both BTL mortgages for a further two months with the 
BTL mortgage payments to resume in September 2020. 
I can also see that Rosinca sent letters and a text message in August reminding Mrs C and 
Mr C the two BTL mortgage payments were to recommence in September 2020, and I cant 
say these notifications wouldnt have been received by them, given other letters have been 
acknowledged, sent with the same address details. 
While I am satisfied Rosinca have provided Mrs C and Mr C with reasonable notice the two 
BTL mortgage payments were due to recommence, what I do have an issue with is Rosinca 
not informing them the direct debit payments had been missed for September. Its 
reasonable to say part of the purpose of arrears letters is, not only to inform customers a 
payment hasnt been made, but to give an opportunity to put things right. Rosinca have 
accepted the letter regarding September 2020s missed payment was supressed, but says 
they issued a letter in November 2020, advising Mrs C and Mr C they were two months in 
arrears on both BTL mortgages. While Rosinca may not agree, the effect of not informing 
Mrs C and Mr C of the missed BTL mortgage payments for September meant they werent 
given the opportunity to rectify matters earlier I say this because as soon as Mrs C and Mr 
C were made aware in November 2020 they were in arrears, they made immediate 
arrangements to pay off the full amount for both months. Its reasonable to say this wasnt a 
case of the BTL mortgage payments being missed due to lack of funds here, simply that the 
direct debits hadnt been reinstated. 
So, while Rosinca have refunded any arrears fees here to acknowledge they hadnt properly 
informed Mrs C and Mr C of the missed BTL mortgage payments in September, I dont think 
this goes far enough and they should remove the missed payment marker on the credit files 
for October 2020 for the reasons I have already given. I am also satisfied the £100 in 
compensation, recommended by the investigator for the inconvenience this has caused Mrs 
C and Mr C as a result, is fair here.
Putting things rightI instruct Topaz Finance Limited trading as Rosinca Mortgages to remove the missed 
payment markers on Mrs Cs and Mr Cs credit files for  their two BTL mortgages for October 
2020. In addition, they should pay Mrs C and Mr C £100 for the trouble and upset caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I instruct Topaz Finance Limited trading as Rosinca Mortgages to remove the missed 
payment markers on Mrs Cs and Mr Cs credit files for  their two BTL mortgages for October 
2020. In addition, they should pay Mrs C and Mr C £100 for the trouble and upset caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 October 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman