DRN-3635589
The complaint
Miss F complains that Monzo Bank Ltd did not reimburse the money she transferred to a 
fraudster.
What happened
Miss F has been the victim of two social media investment scams. The first one happened 
on 26 May 2021 when Miss F received a request to follow a lady who messaged her about 
trading. Miss F has admitted she knew nothing about trading and didnt complete any 
research but agreed to transfer £1,000 to the ladys manager on 26 May 2021. She was 
provided with a link and log in details that didnt work. A little later Miss F was sent a 
screenshot which showed shed made a profit of 18,000 USD and was told she needed to 
pay £5,000 to release it. This figure was later reduced to £3,500.
Miss F had some concerns about the request to pay a release fee. She found another trader 
via social media and asked for guidance. Miss F was told that if she was asked for a 
settlement fee it was a scam. 
On 4 June 2021 Miss F reported the first scam to Monzo. After investigating Miss Fs claim, 
Monzo decided not to reimburse her. It said that it provided an effective warning and that 
Miss F didnt complete any research to ensure the investment was legitimate. Miss F was 
signposted to information to help her protect herself from fraud. Monzo communicated its 
decision to Miss F on 6 June 2021.
The new trader Miss F contacted offered her a new investment opportunity which Miss F 
was keen to pursue to recoup her lost funds, which she says were going to be used towards 
a deposit for a house. Miss F was told if she invested £1,000 the trader would invest on her 
behalf. Later that day the trader told Miss F that if she invested a further £1,250 her profits 
would increase. Miss F was then told shed made a profit of 22,000 USD but in order to 
release the profit shed need to pay £3,900. Miss F made the payment but was told that 
profits had increased by £7,500 and she needed to pay a further fee of £2,500. When Miss F 
explained she didnt have this amount the fee was reduced to £1,900. 
Ive set out below the payments Miss F made in the two scams:
Date Amount Which scam?
26/05/21 £1,000 1
09/06/21 £1,000 2
09/06/21 £1,250 2
09/06/21 £3,900 2
09/06/21 £1,900 2
Total £9,050
Monzo didnt agree to refund Miss F. It said it provided her with an effective warning and 
Miss F didnt complete any checks to ensure the investment was legitimate. 
Miss F wasnt happy with Monzos response and so raised a complaint with this service. Her 
representative has explained that the scam has had a huge impact on Miss F financially and 
emotionally and that it has affected her health. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator concluded that Miss F didnt have a reasonable basis for believing she was 
paying legitimate payees when making the payments involved in both scams. For the first 
scam she didnt consider a warning was required and so Miss F wasnt entitled to a refund of 
the £1,000 she transferred. In respect of the second scam, the investigator felt that an 
effective warning should have been provided for the £3,900 payment. The warning Monzo 
provided was good but not effective as it didnt set out the consequences of continuing with 
the payment. As Miss F confirmed she ignored the warning the investigator didnt 
recommend that Monzo provide a refund under the CRM Code though.
The investigator went on to consider whether Monzo should have done more to protect Miss 
F. She though that the payment of £3,900 should have triggered a conversation with Miss F, 
at which stage the scam would have been uncovered and the loss prevented. This was 
because it was the third payment to a new payee on the same day, the amounts were 
increasing and Monzo was aware that Miss F had recently fallen victim to a scam. The 
investigator asked Monzo to refund 50% of the £3,900 payment and the final payment, plus 
interest. 
Miss F accepted the investigators findings but Monzo did not. It said:
- The CRM Code says it can deny full reimbursement where a customer isnt 
vulnerable, has no reasonable basis for belief or ignores an effective warning. In the 
circumstances, Monzo has fulfilled its obligations under the CRM Code by not 
reimbursing Miss F. A 50% refund under the CRM Code only applies where a firm 
and a customer are responsible, and this isnt the case here.
- The investigators belief the last two payments should have been flagged by Monzo 
is opinion based and outweighed by the CRM Code. She has not provided any 
confirmation of why Monzo should reimburse outside of the CRM Code.
- The CRM Code says Monzo should have a process or systems in place for detecting 
and preventing payments intended for scammers and it has. The CRM Code doesnt 
specify when a payment should be halted for checks. 
The complaint has been passed to me to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered the Lending 
Standards Boards voluntary Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code). Monzo 
hasnt signed up to the CRM Code but has agreed to follow its principles. Ive gone on to 
consider whether Monzo ought to have done more to protect Miss F from the possibility of 
financial harm from fraud. 
Under the CRM Code, Miss F should be reimbursed despite exceptions applying, if she was 
vulnerable to the extent that it wouldnt be reasonable to expect her to protect herself from 
the particular scam she fell victim to. From what Ive seen, I dont think this applies to Miss F. 
I say this because Miss F recognised the scam risk when she was asked to pay an 
additional amount in the first scam and didnt go ahead. Miss Fs messages to the scammer 
in the second scam also show that she was alert to scams. She mentioned to the scammer 
that she wanted to confirm the investment was legitimate and was hesitant as a family 
member had been scammed. Ive gone on to consider Miss Fs claim under the CRM Code. Theres no dispute that Miss F 
was tricked into making the payments. But this isnt enough for her to receive a full refund of 
the money under the CRM Code. The Code places a level of care on Miss F too. 
Under the CRM Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish 
that*: 
 The customer ignored what the CRM Code refers to as an Effective Warning by failing to 
take appropriate action in response to such an effective warning
 The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that: the 
payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for genuine 
goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate
 The customer has been grossly negligent 
*Further exceptions are outlined in the CRM Code but do not apply to this case. 
Did Miss F have a reasonable basis to believe she was making legitimate payments.
Taking into account all of the circumstances of this case, including the characteristics of Miss 
F and the complexity of the scam, I think the concerns Monzo has raised about the 
legitimacy of the transactions Miss F made are enough to support its position that she failed 
to meet her requisite level of care under the CRM Code for the payments she made. I dont 
think she had a reasonable basis for believing the payments were for genuine investments 
or that the people she transacted with were legitimate. This means that Miss F isnt entitled 
to a full refund of her loss under the CRM Code. Ill explain why I have reached this 
conclusion. 
In respect of the first scam Miss F accepted she made no checks at all and referred to the 
fact shed been irresponsible. Miss F was approached via social media, was offered a 
guaranteed rate of return that was too good to be true (a rate of 480% in a day), ignored a 
warning that covered the situation she was in and paid an individual not a company. Overall, 
I dont believe she did enough to meet her obligations under the CRM Code. 
For the following reasons, I also dont consider Miss F met the standard required of her in 
respect of the second scam:
- Miss F contacted the scammer via social media which is not a legitimate investment 
platform. 
- The language used by the scammer wasnt professional and wasnt what Id expect 
of a genuine trader. She used words like hun and sister in her messages.
- Miss F was asked to pay an individual rather than an investment company, which 
isnt what Id expect.
- Miss F didnt complete any research before deciding to go ahead and invest. She has 
explained that she relied on a shared religion. I appreciate this was important to Miss 
F but I dont consider she could rely on this point alone to be satisfied the investment 
was legitimate. 
- Miss F was told after the first scam that if she was asked for a settlement fee it was a 
scam. She was asked for fees in the second scam and so ought reasonably to have 
had concerns about whether what the trader told her was legitimate. The scammer 
also agreed to reduce a fee from £2,900 to £1,900 when Miss F said she didnt have 
enough money. I dont consider a genuine trader would operate in this way. 
- Although Miss F doesnt remember seeing it, Ive seen evidence that she was 
provided with an investment scam warning when she made the first payment. This 
warning wasnt effective under the CRM Code, but Ive considered the impact it had on Miss Fs basis for believing the investment was genuine. The warning said, 
Legitimate investments arent arranged over social media or things like WhatsApp. 
Miss F arranged the investment through social media and WhatsApp so this warning 
ought to have resonated with her. The warning also advised her to check the 
company she was investing with was FCA registered. The scammer didnt claim to 
be from a company at all and there was no mention of authorisation. I think this ought 
reasonably to have led Miss F to question the trader and to complete some 
independent research.  
- The second scam followed the same pattern as the first so I think Miss F should have 
been more alert to the possibility she was being scammed and taken additional steps 
before transferring funds. 
Even though I dont think Miss F had a reasonable basis for belief when she made the 
transfers, she may still be entitled to a partial refund if Monzo didnt meet its obligations 
under the CRM Code. 
Did Monzo provide Miss F with an effective warning/warnings?
The CRM Code sets out standards for firms  that is, what firms are expected to do to 
protect customers from the risk of fraud and scams. Where those standards are not met, the 
firm may be expected to compensate its customer. One of those requirements is that, where 
the firm has (or should have) identified that its customer is at risk from a scam, it should 
provide that customer with an Effective Warning, within the meaning of the CRM Code.
Monzo provided Miss F with a warning when she made the first payment of £1,000 but didnt 
provide scam warnings in any of the other payment journeys. As discussed above, the 
warning Monzo provided to Miss F said that legitimate investments arent arranged over 
social media or things like Whatsapp and to check FCA registration. Whilst the warning 
Monzo provided included relevant red flags and advice on action to take, it didnt set out the 
consequence of going ahead with the payment. This means it wasnt effective under the 
CRM Code. 
Im not persuaded that the £1,000 sent to the first scammer and the first two payments made 
by Miss F in the second scam were out of the ordinary and so I dont think Monzo ought to 
have believed there was a scam risk. The amounts sent werent particularly large and left 
Miss Fs account balance unaltered as the payments followed credits from another account 
of Miss Fs. To Monzo, the transactions appeared to be genuinely authorised payments and 
there was no reason why they wouldnt have seemed genuine. 
I consider Monzo should have provided Miss F with a warning when the third payment of 
£3,900 was made but no warning was given. Miss F had set up a new payee and made 
three payments to the new payee over a few hours. The payments increased in size so that 
by the time she made the £3,900 payment request Miss F was seeking to transfer a total of 
£6,150 to a new payee. Increasing payments like this are a common feature of investment 
scams like this one. Only days before Monzo confirmed that a £1,000 payment made to a 
different payee was made to a scammer.
The investigator concluded that an effective warning wouldnt have made a difference 
because Miss F admitted she ignored the warning she was given but I disagree. Miss F said 
she ignored the investment scam warning she was provided with when she made the £1,000 
payment to the first scammer. But she said she didnt remember being provided with a 
warning when she made any of the payments in the second scam. Overall, I dont believe 
Miss F ignored an effective warning and so Monzo should refund 50% of the last two 
payments Miss F made (for £3,900 and £1,900). Whilst I dont agree with the investigator 
about whether Miss F ignored an effective warning my overall decision is exactly the same 
as the investigators. Should Monzo have done more to protect Miss F? 
When Miss F made the payments, Monzo should fairly and reasonably have had systems in 
place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might indicate that she was at 
risk of fraud (among other things). 
I consider the £3,900 payment was unusual and out of character for the reasons set out 
above. Im satisfied that had Monzo intervened when Miss F made the £3,900 payment as I 
think it should have (for the reasons set out above) the second scam would have rapidly 
been uncovered. Miss F had recently sent funds to a different scammer, found the second 
investment opportunity on social media, communicated via WhatsApp and was promised a 
high rate of return. All of these factors would have been red flags. Given that Monzo could 
have prevented the loss I think it should refund 50% of the final two payments (for £3,900 
and £1,900). Im not asking Monzo to refund the payments in full as I consider Miss F should 
share responsibility (for the same reasons as I set out above when I said Miss F didnt have 
a reasonable basis to believe the investment was genuine). 
Because Ive concluded that Monzo could have prevented the last two payments from being 
made interest should be paid at the rate set out below from the date of loss to the date of 
settlement. 
Im satisfied Monzo contacted the banks that received Miss Fs funds within a reasonable 
time after the scam was reported but only limited funds remained. 
The service provided by Monzo
Monzo paid Miss F £100 compensation because it initially said it would get back to her in 24 
hours but in fact took two days. But Monzo has longer than this to assess a complaint under 
the CRM Code so I consider the only mistake Monzo made was to raise Miss Fs hopes 
briefly. The sum Monzo has already paid to Miss F more than compensates her for this. 
I also consider that Monzo dealt with Miss Fs claim in a timely and empathetic fashion and 
that it offered her appropriate support when she said she was struggling. Monzos request 
for medical evidence was also reasonable. It asked for this evidence so that it could consider 
whether Miss F was vulnerable under the CRM Code. 
My final decision
I require Monzo Bank Ltd to:
- Refund 50% of the last two payments (£2,900);
- Pay interest on £2,900 at account interest rate for the savings account the funds 
were transferred from. Interest should be paid from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman