DRN-3301461
The complaint
Mr D complains that Hastings Insurance Services Limited didnt refer his contents insurance 
claim for theft to the underwriter and that it later directed his claim to a third-party claims 
service.
What happened
Mr D took out contents insurance cover in October 2019 that was arranged and administered 
by Hastings, acting as a broker. He purchased the policy on a price comparison website. 
The policy, though arranged by Hastings, was underwritten by the insurer L. L outsources 
its claims service to a third-party provider, G.
In early 2021, Mr Ds bike was stolen and he made a claim under his contents policy. Mr D 
was unhappy with the handling of his claim and complained to Hastings. Around the same 
time G told Mr D that it was instructed to cash settle his claim up to the policy limit. 
In early April 2021, in response to Mr Ds complaint, Hastings told Mr D that it was standard 
practice for policy holders to be directed to third-party service providers when they made a 
claim. It said that because it was a broker and administrator it couldnt handle claims  that 
fell to L who had, in turn, outsourced it to G. Hastings told Mr D that this was an arrangement 
set up by L over which it had no influence or control. It said the information hed been given 
about contacting L directly had been correct  namely that there was no customer facing part 
of its organisation (that it dealt with brokers and third-party service providers only, not 
policyholders directly). Hastings said itd asked G to respond to Mr D about his complaint but 
had yet to receive an update about how that was going. 
Mr D then referred his complaint to this service. Our investigator contacted Hastings and it 
told us that it was the broker and administrator and that any queries pertaining to cover 
should be directed to L or G. It said that when making a claim, Mr D would need to call the 
number provided in the policy documentation which would connect him directly to G which 
managed claims on behalf of L. So, Hastings said, it had handed Mr Ds complaint to L in 
March 2021. Hastings said it had no influence over the way the claim was handled. 
Our investigator told Mr D what Hastings had said. Mr D said that Hastings was directing 
customers to G disguised as L. He said G had intercepted the claim and it was a scam and 
it had asked him to pay an excess upfront. Mr D said he no written documentation relating to 
any third-party involvement in his confidential claim. He said Hastingss documentation 
portrayed claims as being handled by L, not any third-party. Mr D also said he wanted 
Hastings to provide direct details to L. 
Our investigator told Hastings that Mr D was unhappy that itd passed his claim details to G 
without his written authority and asked it to investigate his complaint. 
Hastings said to our investigator that Mr Ds initial complaint had been about claim issues 
and hed not mentioned that he thought that there had been service failings on its part. It 
said thats why itd forwarded his complaint to L in the first instance. Now it understood what 
Mr D was complaining about it would investigate and issue a final response letter. Our 
investigator asked Mr D to email Hastings directly explaining his complaint. Mr D asked our 
investigator if hed notified the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
about his complaint. He also said that Hastings was the data controller of his personal 
information and was directly accountable to him for it and that he had been in contact with 
the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). He asked our investigator what information he 
could obtain from private and public bodies. 
Our investigator explained to Mr D about GDPR (General Data Protection Regulations) 
which allowed individuals the right to find out what information organisations held about 
them. He explained that Mr D would need to make a SAR (subject access request) to obtain 
such information. Our investigator also explained that a Freedom of Information Act 2000 
(FOIA) request gave the public the right to information held by public bodies. Mr D made a 
FOIA request to Hastings.
Hastings wrote to Mr D in mid-October 2021 to explain that it wasnt a public body and 
therefore, not subject to the provisions of FOIA. Hastings also issued its final response letter 
and said that it was the administrator of the policy and not involved in claims handling at all. 
It said all claims would be handled by the insurer, L, who then passed them on to G. 
Hastings said it was sorry Mr D was unhappy with the handling of his claim but it had 
followed the correct process. It recommended that he contact G for any updates or concerns 
he retained. 
Mr D told our investigator that he wanted us to review his complaint. He said that Hastings 
had clearly stated it was an administrator only and had failed to admit that its delivery 
system had allowed his confidential claim to be intercepted. Mr D said this was a data 
breach on the part of Hastings because his policy schedule stated claims would be received 
by L, not any third-party. He said the policy schedule included a phone number for L when 
making a claim. Mr D also complained that Hastings had facilitated the removal of his cover 
by L at renewal.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ds complaint but didnt recommend that it was upheld. She 
thought Hastings wasnt responsible for any difficulties Mr D had experienced with his claim 
and she thought that it was L, not Hastings, that had passed Mr Ds information on to G so 
that his claim could be dealt with. 
Mr D disagreed with our investigator. He said she had failed to investigate when Hastings 
had changed the recorded information on its phone lines in relations to claims. Mr D also 
said that he thought the fact hed made a complaint had influenced the decision not to offer a 
renewal of his policy. 
The complaint was passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
With regret for the disappointment this will cause Mr D, I cant reasonably uphold his 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
Hastings is a broker. It is responsible for selling, arranging and administering insurance 
policies for consumers. It offers policies from a number of insurers. Mr D took his policy out 
in October 2019 and I can see from the policy schedule that it makes clear the insurer is L 
and that when making a claim it is Ls number thats provided as the point of contact. The schedule says: How to make a claimYou can report an incident, register a claim24 
hours a day. Just call your insurer on [telephone number] [my emphasis]. 
And the policy booklet states too that any claims need to be made by phone to the insurer. It 
goes on to state that the insurers phone number is in the welcome pack and on the policy 
schedule. The booklet also states that by taking out the policy, Mr D is entering into 2 
contracts  one with the insurer named on the schedule (L) and one with Hastings acting as 
agent on his behalf to arrange and administer the policy. The word insurer is specifically 
defined in the policy booklet as meaning the insurer stated in [the] schedule. In Mr Ds case, 
thats L. So, I think it is clear from the policy documentation that Hastings isnt the insurer 
and that its the insurer that handles any claims.
Ive seen no evidence that would allow me to reasonably conclude that Hastings failed to 
follow the correct process in relation to Mr Ds claim. Ive set out above how Hastings made 
it clear that it was L to which claims would be directed. That L then outsourced its claims 
handling to a third-party  G  is not in any way due to any action taken by Hastings. In any 
event, I understand that Mr D has raised a separate complaint about L with this service. And 
I cant look at any complaint Mr D has about the actions of L within the context of this, his 
complaint against Hastings. 
I appreciate Mr D has said that he thinks Hastings has allowed his confidential claim 
information to be intercepted. Im unable to agree. The policy documentation provided when 
the policy first incepted, and at the 2020 renewal, made it clear that it was L, and not 
Hastings, that handled any claims made. If Mr D was unhappy with this arrangement then he 
need not have proceeded with the policy as offered or he couldve exercised his right, under 
the 14-day cancellation period, to cancel the policy. 
Hastings has also explained that its privacy notice is also available online for customers and 
that it explains how it processes and shares personal data. Hastings has specifically pointed 
to section 3.1.3 where it states that it will be shared with insurers. A complaint about the 
processing and sharing of data however, isnt something Im able to look at here as it would 
be more properly directed at the ICO. 
Whilst I note Mr Ds comment about Hastings changing the messaging on its phone 
recordings I cant see that hes raised this issue at any point with Hastings. Hastings must 
first be given the opportunity to investigate any complaint made against it. So Mr D must 
raise this issue with Hastings first, should he so wish, and only after Hastings has had the 
opportunity to investigate it could he then bring a further complaint to this service. 
The decision not to offer renewal terms to Mr D rests with the insurer so any complaint that 
he has about this should be directed at L. At this time Ive seen no evidence that Hastings 
influenced that decision on account of Mr D having made a complaint about it to this service.  
It follows that this is a complaint that Im unable to fairly or reasonably uphold. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2022.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman