DRN-1166733
Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a 
personal loan in 2003. Mr F says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold him the PPI.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Fs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling the PPI, Nationwide had to make it clear to Mr F that he had a choice about it. 
But Mr F says it wasnt made clear to him that the PPI was optional.
Nationwide has said that the loan and the PPI were sold over the phone. And, based on 
what I understand about Nationwides sales practices at the time, I think its likely it was 
made clear to Mr F that the PPI was optional during this call.
Nationwide has also sent us a copy of the loan agreement for Mr Fs loan. This set out the 
cost of the loan both with and without the PPI, and described the PPI as optional.
Based on this, I think Nationwide did make it clear to Mr F that he had a choice about the 
PPI. And that Mr F chose to take it, knowing he didnt have to.
I havent seen clear evidence that Nationwide gave Mr F any personalised advice about the 
PPI. So I dont think it recommended the PPI to him. This means Nationwide didnt have to 
check if the PPI was right for Mr F. But it did have to make sure he got the information he 
needed to decide if it was right for him.
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr F about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But, based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, it doesnt 
look like Mr F was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. And the 
policy couldve paid out for longer than hes told us he wouldve been entitled to full sick pay. 
So it would have been useful for Mr F if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was 
affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put Mr F off taking it 
out.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 February 2020.
Alan MillwardOmbudsman