DRN-2337617
The complaint
This complaint is about two commercial mortgages Mr F used to hold with OneSavings Bank 
plc, under its trading name of Kent Reliance (KR). Mr F is unhappy that when he sold one of 
the mortgaged properties and redeemed the mortgage on it, KR insisted on keeping the net 
sales proceeds to reduce his other mortgage balance. Mr F is seeking compensation for 
what he says are the long-term consequences of KR retaining the equity from the sale.
In the normal course of events, this complaint would fall outside our jurisdiction, due to the 
time limits in our rules. However, KR consented to us setting those limits aside, which allows 
us to consider the complaint on its merits
What happened
The main facts of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
in detail here. Instead Ill give a brief summary (using my own words and rounding the 
figures involved) and then focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention 
something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to 
the outcome of the complaint. 
Mr Fs situation at the beginning of 2012 was that he had a commercial mortgage of around 
£600,000 secured by a charge over property Ill call the Farm; he also had a commercial 
mortgage of around £70,000 secured by a charge over property Ill call the Field. The Field 
was also subject to a second charge in respect of a debt owed to another lender. 
Mr F entered into an agreement to sell the Field, anticipating that after the mortgage with KR 
and the second charge debt had been repaid, hed receive around £40,000 of equity. 
However, KR insisted that the equity be used to reduce the mortgage on the Farm, after a 
recent valuation indicated the value of the Farm had dropped.
The sale of the Field went ahead; a complaint was made about a mix-up over the allocation 
of money between the two mortgage accounts. That was dealt with at the time and isnt part 
of this complaint. Mr F also received a Capital Gains Tax (CGT) bill in respect of the sale of 
the Field.
Mr F says hed needed the equity from the sale (not least to pay the CGT bill) and KR was 
already aware the sale had been agreed when it imposed the restriction. He says he only 
went ahead with the sale to avoid the financial penalty that would arise if he pulled out. Mr F 
also says that KRs retention of the equity would eventually force him into selling the Farm in 
2016, at considerable financial detriment to him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority. We deal with individual disputes between businesses and their 
customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If the available evidence is incomplete (inevitable in this case, given the lapse of time since 
the events complained of) and/or contradictory, we reach our findings on what we consider is 
most likely to have happened, on the balance of probabilities. Thats broadly the same test 
that the courts use in civil cases.
When youre as close to a difficult situation as Mr F has been for so long here, its a natural 
subjective reaction to want to pursue every individual issue with vigour. But I have a different 
remit. I have to be objective, and impartial, and sometimes that means stepping back from 
the fine detail and taking an overview. Having done that, Ive come to broadly the same 
conclusions as the investigator, and for much the same reasons.
Starting with KRs decision to insist on retaining the equity from the Field and using to 
reduce the debt on the Farm, this was an exercise of commercial judgement, and generally, 
its not my role to second guess or otherwise interfere with lending decisions. But I can 
consider whether KRs exercise of commercial judgement resulted in Mr F being treated 
unfairly. Notwithstanding that each property was the subject of a separate and discrete 
charge, Im satisfied that wasnt the case, and Ill explain why.
Where lending is granted for commercial purposes, its customary for lenders to use what is 
known as an all-monies charge; that is, a charge that covers not just the immediate debt 
granted under that charge, but any other liabilities the mortgagor (the borrower) has to the 
mortgagee (the lender) that may be secured by another charge or perhaps not secured at 
all. 
Ive not seen the specific legal charge in respect of the mortgage on the Field (I read nothing 
sinister or detrimental into that  the mortgage was discharged more than eight years ago) 
but on balance, I consider it more likely than not that it would have been an all-monies 
charge. But even if it were not, I still wouldnt regard it as unfair treatment for KR to regard 
the sale on the Field as an opportunity to carry out a holistic review of Mr Fs wider debt 
exposure.
To make that assessment, KR commissioned an updated valuation on the Farm. In doing 
this, KR had a duty to Mr F to ensure the valuer it instructed was suitably-qualified; provided 
it met that duty, KR was entitled to rely on the valuers professional opinion when deciding its 
position on the equity from the sale of the Field. One consequence of the valuation report 
was that KR became concerned that one of the buildings on the Farm was occupied on 
terms that were potentially detrimental to its security. KRs decision to retain the equity from 
the sale of the Field was a way of mitigating that.
Im satisfied KR discharged its duty to appoint a suitably-qualified valuer; the valuer was a 
member of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors. The valuer was employed by a 
third-party firm, independent from KR, over which this service has no jurisdiction. Ive no 
power to consider whether the valuation of the Farm was flawed in any way. My remit is 
limited to the actions of KR, and for the reasons Ive set out, Im satisfied it was reasonably 
entitled to commission the valuation on the Farm, and then to rely on it when deciding the 
fate of the equity from the sale of the Field.I now turn to the timing of KRs announcement of that decision. Mr F says KR was already 
aware hed agreed a sale when it wrote to his solicitors in May 2012 saying it would be 
retaining the equity. Weve given Mr F opportunity to provide evidence from his solicitors 
conveyancing records to corroborate this; none has been forthcoming. Again I read nothing 
sinister or detrimental into that; I reiterate that these events happened more than eight years 
ago. But after giving this great deal of thought, I think the point is moot in any event.
Mr F has referred to having signed the contract to sell the Field; he hasnt said that he and 
the buyer had exchanged contracts. Its only on exchange of contracts that the parties 
become obliged to compete the sale subject to financial sanction if they then dont.
The problem there is that as Mr F is the party bringing the complaint, his version of events 
has to be more likely than the alternative if Im to uphold the complaint. All I can say from 
what both parties have said and provided is that Mr Fs claim that he was committed to the 
sale and subject to sanction if he didnt is, at best, no more than equally likely as the 
alternative. 
Theres another point to make here. Even if I gave Mr F the benefit of the doubt on his claim 
that he was committed to complete the sale, the fact remains that he did complete when he 
could have pulled out. That suggests to me that Mr F may have felt that completing the sale 
was more beneficial to him than aborting it.
To put it another way, Mr F had a choice between two unwelcome alternatives; either abort 
the sale and suffer a known financial impact or continue with the sale and accept a different 
(but still known) financial impact. Mr F took the latter course of action; that was his 
prerogative of course, but it was also his choice, as were the consequences that flowed from 
it. 
But I make this latter point largely for completeness; my primary findings remain that Mr F 
hasnt met the more likely than not test that our rules require me to apply, and that KR 
didnt treat him unfairly in any event.
Mr F doesnt have to accept my conclusions, and if he doesnt, then neither he nor KR will be 
bound by my final decision. Subject to any time limits or other restrictions a court might 
impose, Mr Fs right to take legal action against KR over the subject matter of this complaint 
wont have been prejudiced by our consideration of it.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman