DRN-3561555
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as L, complains that Metro Bank PLC unfairly restricted and 
closed its bank account.
Ls director, Mr S, brings the complaint on the companys behalf.
What happened
L opened a bank account with Metro in July 2020.
Metro initiated a review of Ls account on 9 November 2020. The bank applied a restriction 
to the account while it did so, meaning L couldnt utilise its funds.
Metro completed its review and removed the account restriction on 17 November. The bank 
then wrote to L the following day to advise that it had decided to close the account and 
would do so in 60 days time, on 19 January 2021.
Mr S complained, saying in summary that:
Metro blocked and closed his account without good reason. Having obtained copies 
of the banks records through a Subject Access Request, he understood that the 
banks primary reason was the amount of cash being deposited. But he said that hed 
complied with all their requests to evidence Ls trading activity and explain the 
transactions, so he didnt think this was justified.
The banks requests for information about Ls transactions were excessive to the 
point of causing the company inconvenience and were motivated by a desire to make 
life difficult for him and end the banks relationship with L.
Hed been treated unfairly by various members of staff, who had made him feel 
unwelcome when visiting a branch and made unprofessional comments about him 
and his company over email exchanges. The branch manager had also visited Ls 
business premises without prior notice.
The account restriction had caused the breakdown of Ls relationships with its 
suppliers, leaving it unable to pay them and the companys staff. This had 
jeopardised Ls existence. It had also proved very difficult to open an alternative bank 
account elsewhere once Metro closed the companys account.
Metro said that its actions had been taken in line with the terms and conditions of Ls 
account. This included giving the company 60 days notice of its intention to close the 
account, giving it time to make alternative arrangements. The bank also said it couldnt 
corroborate Mr Ss description of how hed been treated, noting that its employees had 
needed to ask for supporting evidence of certain transactions and that it was entitled to carry 
out site visits. 
Our investigator didnt think that the complaint should be upheld. She said:
Metro had explained that it was complying with its legal and regulatory obligations 
when reviewing Ls account, and she was satisfied this was the case. 
She didnt think Metros enquiries or the branch managers site visit had been 
unreasonable, or that Mr S had been discriminated against as hed described. But 
she did think that some of the banks staff had made unprofessional comments when 
discussing the matter over email. While she appreciated that discovering this 
wouldve been distressing for Mr S, she explained that she couldnt award any 
compensation for this as the complainant for our purposes was L.
Metro closed Ls account in line with the terms and conditions, by providing 60 days 
notice, and wasnt required to provide a reason for its decision.
Mr S didnt accept our investigators view. He still thought that Metro had acted unfairly in 
closing Ls account, as hed complied with the banks requests and hadnt breached any 
terms of the agreement with the bank. He also didnt think the terms and conditions that our 
investigator had quoted applied to Ls agreement with the bank and didnt believe Metro had 
the power to end the agreement in the way it had. 
So with no resolution, the matter was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The review and restriction of Ls account
Metro has a number of legal and regulatory obligations with which to comply in providing 
banking services to its customers. Banks are required to keep accounts and their use under 
review, and may need to suspend access or services in order to do so. They may also 
require further information from a customer about their transactions.
The terms and conditions of Ls account allowed Metro to suspend its services. The bank 
wasnt required to notify the company of this. So it was entitled to take the actions it did. The 
bank has explained that it was doing so in the fulfilment of its legal and regulatory 
obligations  which I can see was the case from the evidence Ive been given. So I dont 
think Metro did anything wrong in restricting Ls account and can see that the restriction was 
removed promptly once the banks review was completed. It follows that I dont think the 
bank needs to compensate L for the consequences of being unable to access its account 
during this time.
Metro made a number of enquiries of L before, during and after the restriction of its account, 
including one visit to the companys premises. I think these were a proportionate and 
reasonable means of the bank fulfilling its legal and regulatory obligations. I dont doubt that 
the various requests wouldve put Mr S and his company to some trouble, but this was an 
unfortunate consequence of the banks legitimate actions. I dont think they suggest a 
deliberate attempt to make life difficult for Mr S.
Mr S has said that the banks actions and the demeanour of its staff more broadly made him 
feel uncomfortable and that he was being victimised. Its very difficult for me to comment on 
the in-person interactions given the lack of evidence I have to confirm what happened, 
especially as Mr Ss comments havent been particularly specific. The limited information and evidence I do have doesnt lead me to think that any of these interactions were so 
unprofessional to the point of being unreasonable, particularly as the nature of the banks 
enquiries would likely have made Mr S feel somewhat uncomfortable in and of themselves.
Like our investigator, I do think there were some instances within Metros internal email 
conversations about its enquiries that were less than professional. Those were disclosed to 
Mr S in response to a Subject Access Request and would understandably have caused him 
some concern and disappointment. And I can appreciate why they wouldve exacerbated 
Mr Ss concerns about the banks actions (and motivations), even though I dont think these 
comments suggest any broader shortcomings in how Metro handled matters. As it is L  a 
limited company  that is the eligible complainant under our rules, I cant award any 
compensation for any upset that this caused. 
The closure of Ls account
Mr S has suggested that Metro didnt have the power to close Ls account in the way it did as 
the terms quoted by our investigator didnt apply to the companys agreement with the bank. 
But thats not the case. The Authorities, Representations and Warranties section of the 
application form that Mr S signed when opening the account said:
You are reminded that the Metro Bank Our Service Relationship with 
Business Customers brochure (the Terms and Conditions)  govern the 
operation and use of Metro Bank Accounts
The form went on to require Mr S to read and confirm, amongst other things, that:
2. By signing this form You agree and, where applicable, represent that:
i) the account(s)  will be subject to the Terms and Conditions 
So it is the terms and conditions set out in the banks Our Service Relationship with our 
Business Customers document that applied to Ls account.
Under those terms and conditions, Metro was entitled to close Ls account. The terms say 
that the bank will give two months notice of such a decision where possible, to reduce the 
inconvenience it will cause. That is in line with standard industry practice.
Metro has acted in accordance with those terms by writing to L on 17 November 2020, with 
notice that it would be closing the companys account on 19 January 2021. So I dont think it 
did anything wrong in how it closed Ls account.
Mr S has queried the basis of Metros decision, as I understand he believes it was only 
entitled to close Ls account in certain, specified circumstances. That isnt the case. In 
addition to the specified instances in which Metro could suspend, stop or reduce services 
(which generally relate to circumstances in which immediate action might be taken by the 
bank), there was also a more general power to close an account and end an agreement. 
Metro has exercised its contractual right to end the agreement and I think it has done so 
fairly by giving L two months notice, allowing the company time to make alternative 
arrangements. The bank wasnt required to disclose the reason(s) for its decision.
I understand this leaves L in a difficult position and appreciate Mr Ss comments as to the 
impact that this has had and may continue to have on the companys operations, particularly 
as hes found it difficult to open a new account elsewhere. But as Ive not found that Metro 
has done anything wrong in closing the account, it follows that there is no basis on which I 
could require it to reverse its decision or take any other action in response to this complaint. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman