DRN-2081917
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Unum Ltd declined to pay a claim he made on his employers 
group income protection policy.
What happened
In December 2018 Mr B became absent from work. He subsequently made a claim on his 
employers group income protection policy. Unum declined the claim in June 2019 on the 
basis that the medical evidence indicated Mr B was experiencing an acute reaction to 
perceived workplace issues and didnt demonstrate Mr B was unable to perform his 
insured occupation throughout the deferred period.
When Mr B made a complaint to Unum they reviewed their decision but concluded that the 
claim had been correctly declined. They said the medical information displayed a clear 
narrative of Mr Bs difficulties at work with regards to an ongoing investigation, as well as 
his requests for a sabbatical and voluntary redundancy having been declined.
Mr B made a complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into what had happened. 
He didnt think the medical evidence suggested that Mr B had met the policy definition of 
incapacity. So he didnt think it was unreasonable for Unum to decline the claim.
Mr B didnt agree. He provided further evidence, including a further letter from his GP. This 
didnt change the investigators opinion and so Mr B asked an ombudsman to make a 
decision. He made detailed representations about his complaint. In summary, Mr B says 
that the medical evidence supports that he met the definition of incapacity set out in the 
policy and that his claim should be paid. He also submitted some further information linked 
to a grievance hed raised at work.
So I need to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Unum has a responsibility to 
handle claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
The policy terms and conditions
Its for Mr B to show that he has a valid claim, not for Unum to show that he doesnt. 
The policy terms and conditions explain that Unum will pay a claim when a member of 
the scheme becomes incapacitated. The policy says:
For Unum to treat a member as incapacitated the evidence provided in 
accordance with paragraph 7.2 (Evidence required for a claim) must enable 
Unum to reasonably conclude, according to accepted medical principles, that as 
a result of an illness or injury, the member satisfied the definition of incapacity at 
the relevant time.
Receipt by a member of medical advice to refrain from work and/or the 
receipt of state benefits does not, in itself, mean the member is 
incapacitated.
The policy says that a member is incapacitated if Unum is satisfied that the member is:
(a)Unable, by reason of their illness or injury, to perform the material and substantial 
duties of the insured occupation, and is
(b)Not performing any occupation
Insured occupation is defined as:
The trade, profession or general role that the member was actively undertaking 
for, or at, the employer immediately prior to incapacity.
Has Unum unreasonably declined Mr Bs claim?
Mr B has made a number of detailed representations about his complaint but Ill only refer 
to those which I think are central to my decision. I dont think Unum has acted 
unreasonably by declining Mr Bs claim for the reasons Ill go on to explain.
As Ive outlined above the policy provides cover for Mr Bs insured occupation. That 
means that in order to successfully claim he needs to demonstrate that he cant do the 
general duties of his trade, profession or general role. Thats different from being unable 
to do his specific job for his employer.
I think the evidence does support Unums conclusion that there was a narrative of work 
place difficulties. In November 2018 Mr B met with lawyers working for his employer and 
it seems likely that at this point he was under some form of investigation. In December 
2018, shortly before Mr B was signed off, hes explained that he had both study leave and 
voluntary redundancy declined by his employer. Its clear that Mr B felt he was being 
discriminated against by his employer and raised a grievance about how he was being 
treated.
Much of the medical evidence in support of the claim focuses on Mr Bs workplace issues 
as the reason for his absence. The GP signed Mr B off because of work related stress. In 
Mr Bs claim form he described suffering from depression, stress and anxiety directly as a 
result of workplace discrimination.
I also think the occupational health reports refer to resolving the workplace issues and, in 
my opinion, strongly suggest that the workplace issues were the barrier to Mr B returning to 
work. For example, in May 2019 the occupational physician said:
the resolution to the anxiety, worry and other symptoms he is experiencing is 
of course not a medical one but lies in the resolution of the current issues and 
a way forward. Overall, there is nothing further to add from the occupational 
health perspective
During the time that Mr B was absent from work the occupational physician reached the same conclusion a number of times in her reports which was that in her clinical opinion, 
with resolution to the causative factors, and with appropriate treatment and support Mr B 
would make a good recovery, with no impact on his ability to perform his current role going 
forward.
Mr B also saw a clinical psychologist. A report from February 2019 explained it was likely 
that Mr B had experienced an acute stress reaction  it talked about his ongoing 
investigation and grievance and Mr Bs worry for the future. It also said there was a clash 
of Mr Bs personal values and that of the work culture and environment. The psychological 
report from July 2019 also refers to an acute stress reaction triggered by workplace 
discrimination as causing Mr Bs anxiety and depression.
I dont think it was unreasonable for Unum to conclude that Mr B wasnt unable, by reason 
of his illness or injury, to perform the material and substantial duties of the insured 
occupation. Thats because the medical evidence suggests Mr B could do the general 
duties of his trade or profession, just not for his employer.
Ive also taken into account the recent letter from Mr Bs GP but it doesnt change my 
thoughts about the outcome of this complaint. The letter says that Mr B was unfit for any 
work, or his specific role. But the GP also links Mr Bs condition specifically to his issues in 
the workplace. And the GP doesnt demonstrate an in depth understanding of what was 
required by Mr B in the workplace. I also bear in mind that the author of the letter is a 
general practitioner, rather than an occupational physician. So this doesnt persuade me 
that it is unreasonable for Unum to decline the claim based on the overall medical evidence 
that is available.
I can see that Mr B and the investigator had lengthy correspondence about the medical 
evidence and the interpretation of it. Mr B questions why the investigator can contradict 
what his GP has said without medical qualifications. But, as Ive outlined above, the key 
issue in this case is whether it was unreasonable for Unum to decline the claim based on 
the available evidence. As Ive outlined above, I think it was because the medical evidence 
supports that there was a history of issues in the workplace and that the policy definition of 
incapacity wasnt met in the circumstances of this case.
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2020.
Anna Wilshaw
 
Ombudsman