DRN-2394488
The complaint
Mr L complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc doesnt make clear that it charges interest on an 
outstanding credit card balance in full unless that full balance is repaid.
What happened
Mr L says he always pays his credit card balance in full every month but made a mistake by 
underpaying the amount he owed by about £6. He says he was charged about £9 interest 
but realised that HSBC charged interest on the full balance and not on the balance he hadnt 
paid. Mr L says HSBC doesnt make that clear in its terms and conditions or on the account 
statements. He says it should make that clear and tell customers that if a payment of more 
than the minimum amount is paid that interest is charged on the full balance and that they 
may be better off just paying the minimum amount. 
HSBC says it didnt make a mistake by charging the interest and has acted in line with 
account terms and conditions and with the information provided on the monthly account 
statement. It says it did refund the interest to Mr L as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr L brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator thought HSBC had acted line with account terms and conditions and with the 
information provided clearly on the account statements. The investigator thought HSBC had 
refunded the interest in any event and it wasnt our role to tell HSBC how it records 
information or that it should change its terms and conditions.
Mr L doesnt accept that view and in summary says HSBC isnt complying with consumer 
legislation and should include this important information on the front of the account 
statements.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that HSBC has dealt fairly with this 
complaint and hasnt made a mistake. I appreciate that Mr L will be disappointed with my 
decision and about how strongly he feels about this issue.
I make clear to Mr L that we are not HSBCs regulator and so its not our role to tell it what 
the terms and conditions ought to be on this issue or what and how it records that 
information on its account statements. I also make clear to Mr L that we are not a court and 
so I cant fairly conclude that HSBC hasnt complied with consumer legislation as he says.
I appreciate Mr L made a mistake by not repaying the credit card balance. I dont think 
HSBC made a mistake by charging interest, but I can see that it has refunded that interest 
as a gesture of goodwill in any event.
I accept that Mr L didnt realise that interest would be charged on the full balance unless that 
full balance was repaid in full. Im satisfied that the account terms and conditions which Mr L 
would have agreed to when the account was opened and the account statements both make 
that clear. I can see that the account statements on page one, in what I think is a prominent 
position, say if a balance is not repaid in full then that can make a significant difference to 
interest. And on the rear of the statement it is clearly set out that interest is charged until the 
balance is repaid in full. I dont think that information is misleading and so I dont think HSBC 
has made a mistake or charged interest in circumstances where it said it wouldnt do so.
Im satisfied HSBC has made clear when it charges interest and that Mr Ls complaint is 
about the wider affect on the public about this issue. I have made clear that is not something 
I can consider and can only look at Mr Ls complaint. Im satisfied this brings an end to what 
we in trying to sort out this dispute informally can do.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 January 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman