DRN-3489460
The complaint
Mr S complains National Westminster Bank Plc unfairly blocked his account and didnt tell 
him why. He says this caused him embarrassment, inconvenience and he felt discriminated 
against. He wants compensation.
What happened
Mr S holds a current account with NatWest. He says the following happened: 
He went to make a large payment in branch to make a payment to a business for the 
purchase of goods, but NatWest refused the payment.
They asked him for information in relation to his account, so he returned to the 
branch that same day with proof and spoke to a member of staff. He says the 
member of staff reviewed his documents and spoke to someone over the phone. The 
staff member returned and said they would make the payment manually. He says he 
was kept waiting until after the branch had closed for the day and he thought the 
payment had been made. 
The above led to him confirming with the payee that the payment had been made. 
However, the next day he discovered his account was blocked and the payment 
hadnt gone through, so he raised a complaint. He wanted to know why his account 
had been blocked and why his payment wasnt made, and a timeframe for when his 
account would be unblocked.
He was spoken to rudely over the phone. 
In their final response letter NatWest apologised for their staff member telling Mr S the 
payment had been made. The letter went on to say his account had been frozen and 
they werent obliged to tell him why. In their response to our service NatWest said they 
couldnt find a record of receiving documents from Mr S in branch, but that even if they 
did, they still needed to carry out further actions before they unblocked the account. 
The account was unblocked after NatWest completed their review and Mr S was able to 
make his payment. 
During the time Mr S complaint has been with our service, NatWest decided to offer 
£100 to settle his complaint, which Mr S rejected. He said the offer didnt reflect the 
impact their actions had on him. 
Our investigator went on to consider Mr S complaint and decided NatWests offer was 
fair. They concluded: 
It wasnt possible to know what happened when Mr S went into branch as 
NatWest had no record of Mr S providing the proof he says he brought in. But 
even if NatWest told him the payment would go through, based on the 
information which was available NatWest didnt need to process the payment and 
it could block Mr S account. On the basis that Mr S was told incorrect information 
£100 was reasonable to compensate him for their error.
NatWest has important legal and regulatory obligations to meet when providing 
accounts. And sometimes it may want to review an account as part of those 
obligations. NatWest could also suspend Mr S account when carrying out the 
review, and it didnt need to tell him their reasons. While this was frustrating for 
Mr S and it may have caused him some financial difficulties, NatWest were able 
to do what they did.
Mr S felt NatWest were discriminatory. But based on all the available information 
NatWests reasons for blocking Mr S account and not processing the payment 
were unrelated to a personal characteristic Mr S held.
On reviewing NatWests actions, Mr S wouldnt have been able to provide 
everything they needed to complete their review. NatWest had followed the 
correct process and they had completed their review when they should have  so 
there werent any unreasonable delays. 
Mr S disagreed with the investigators outcome, so he asked for a final decision from an 
ombudsman. Among other points, he said:
The bank either lied about saying they made a payment in branch or his account was 
unrestricted after he provided proof in branch. If he hadnt provided proof then his 
account wouldnt have been unblocked.
He was fined for not paying vehicle tax because he couldnt access his account. He 
also couldnt make money for his business and he had people who depended on him.
He has changed his life from activities he undertook in the past and being accused of 
being involved in the proceeds of crime was degrading. He had agreed to a voluntary 
interview with the police and they were satisfied with the information he provided.
NatWest blocked his account a further two times, which is the subject matter of a 
further complaint he plans to bring. Mr S complaint has now been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want Mr S to know I have reviewed everything he has said about what he thinks NatWest 
did wrong and the impact they had on him. I have referenced some of his points where I find 
they are relevant to my findings. 
Ive decided that NatWests offer of £100 is fair compensation to resolve Mr S complaint. Ill 
explain why:
NatWest has important legal and regulatory obligations to fulfil when providing 
accounts. Those obligations are ongoing and dont only apply when an account is 
opened. They can broadly be summarized as a responsibility to protect persons from 
financial harm, and to prevent and detect financial crime.
NatWest can review accounts to ensure they are abiding by their obligations, and this can be at any time. And its common practice for firms like NatWest to block access to 
an account when they are carrying out a review. Firms also dont need to tell 
customers their reasons for reviewing accounts.
NatWests reasons for carrying out a review and the actions they took were carried 
out in line with their obligations. Mr S said he felt discriminated against and I believe 
that this is how he felt. If NatWest had treated him differently because of a protected 
characteristic he holds, this would be wrong and unfair. But I dont find the reasons 
behind his account being blocked related to a protected characteristic he holds. 
Neither do I find he was treated differently to how another customer in the same 
circumstances would have been treated who doesnt share his characteristics.
Mr S is certain that NatWest agreed to make a payment in branch after he had 
provided them with proof of payments which had credited his account. He has been 
consistent on this point, and he made the same points over the phone with NatWest 
when he raised his complaint. So, on balance, I am inclined to believe that a staff 
member in branch told him the payment would go through following Mr S presenting 
them with information. 
But I have also considered the wider information available to me, and I can see that 
part of NatWests review was not contingent on any information Mr S may have given 
them in branch. So, I dont find NatWest had to process his payment or that they 
shouldnt have blocked his account because they told him the payment had been 
made in branch.
I agree, however, that being told information which turned out to be incorrect was 
frustrating and likely caused Mr S embarrassment. He said that he had assured the 
payee that the payment had been made as a result of what the staff member had told 
him, and I have no reason to disbelieve him. 
I find £100 is enough compensation here. I dont find Mr S being told incorrect 
information means NatWest were being deceitful. Instead the person he spoke to 
may have thought there wasnt going to be a problem and they were unaware what 
further steps other persons at NatWest were going to take or were considering 
taking. They could also have misunderstood what they had been told, or its possible 
other persons at NatWest changed their position after further consideration.
NatWest should conduct a review and reach a decision without undue delay. After all, 
the longer a customer doesnt have access to funds, the greater the financial harm 
they may suffer. Mr S says he suffered financial loss and distress by not being able 
to access his account, and Ive no reason to doubt that he experienced losses. But I 
have reviewed the reason why Mr S account was blocked for as long as it was, and I 
find NatWest progressed and completed their review without causing undue delay. 
So, I am not awarding Mr S compensation for the impact not being able to access his 
account had on him.
Mr S says the police were satisfied with information he provided following a voluntary 
interview. But I dont find this shows NatWest shouldnt have blocked his account or 
that they should have allowed him to make the payment earlier. Mr S didnt need to 
be found guilty of or charged with a crime for them to block his account and conduct 
a review.Ive listened to the calls Mr S had with NatWest and he was clearly unhappy he 
couldnt access his account, and he wanted to know more information because he 
hadnt done anything wrong. His concern was understandable, as not being able to 
access funds in your account and not being told why can be shocking and 
challenging to hear. 
But I dont find NatWest refusing to provide any information was wrong - they had a 
justifiable reason not to. And, at the time Mr S spoke to NatWest, they would not 
have known how long their review would take or what the result of their review would 
be, so they didnt need to give him a timeframe. I dont find he was spoken to 
unprofessionally. And, I find its unlikely some of the persons he spoke to put the 
phone down on him. Its more likely the calls dropped due to connection issues.
Mr S says he has raised further complaints about problems he experienced with 
NatWest later on. But these complaints are not part of my considerations here, as 
they relate to different events taking place on different occasions.
Putting things right
Subject to Mr S accepting this decision, I direct National Westminster Bank Plc to pay him 
£100 to compensate for telling him that his payment had been made when in fact his 
account was going to be subject to further review.
My final decision
I have decided to uphold Mr S complaint for the reasons I have given above. National 
Westminster Bank Plc need to put things right according to my instruction above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2022.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman