DRN-3632694
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Santander UK Plc having agreed to allow them to port their 
mortgage product wouldnt allow them to do it after the property had been valued. Mr and 
Mrs H want a refund of the valuation fee of £180, a refund of the early repayment charge 
(ERC) and compensation for their distress. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs H had a mortgage with Santander on their existing property and a mortgage 
product with a fixed rate. The mortgage product had an ERC which became payable if the 
mortgage was redeemed before November 2023, but the mortgage product could be ported 
subject to conditions.
Mr and Mrs H were selling a property and buying another property and wanted to port the 
mortgage product. They were downsizing and sold and bought the properties on 31 March 
2022 buying the new property with cash generated by the sale of the old property. So, the 
old mortgage was redeemed but a new mortgage offer hadnt issued for the new property. 
Although a valuation was carried out on the new property, Santander said that the mortgage 
product couldnt be ported to a property that Mr and Mrs H now owned. 
Our investigator didnt recommend than this complaint should be upheld as Mr And Mrs Hs 
porting application didnt comply with Santanders terms and conditions and so, Santander 
could refuse the application. Mr and Mrs H disagreed and asked for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This seems to be a case where a matter of the timing of a purchase meant that Mr and Mrs 
H were deprived of a porting opportunity that would have existed had the purchase coincided 
with their sale and had they a mortgage offer in place at that time.. The question I have to 
look at is whether Santander did anything wrong as this is a complaint against the bank.
Porting is where a mortgage product is transferred to a mortgage on a new property when a 
purchaser buys a new property. That purchase may usually be simultaneous or the lender 
may exercise a discretion to allow the seller to sell and use the product when a new property 
is purchased later usually within a specified period of time with the assistance of a new 
mortgage. This situation is different in that Mr and Mrs H already owned the property and 
werent applying for a mortgage to assist them with the purchase of the property. 
Santander when if offered Mr and Mrs H a mortgage product offer also said Mr and Mrs H 
had a right to transfer the mortgage product subject to the conditions set out in the mortgage 
conditions under Transferring you loan to a new mortgage  which are contained in Section 
19 of those conditions :
19 Transferring your loan to a new mortgage
19.1 This condition applies if you notify us that you wish:
a) to pay off the money you owe us on completing a sale of the property; and
b) at the same time, to complete a mortgage with us under which we will lend you money on
the security of another property that you wish to buy.
Again, this says that the sale and purchase should be at the same time. So, it appears that 
Santander in refusing this porting application was acting within its terms that it agreed with 
Mr and Mrs H. But Mr and Mrs Hs application would also be subject to Santanders lending 
policy at the time of application. I asked for a copy of Santanders porting policy. That says 
that the product cannot be ported to an existing account or a property that the customer 
already owns. So, both the terms and conditions and the lending policy support Santanders 
position that as Mr and Mrs H owned the new property that they were unable to port the 
mortgage product to that property. So, I cant fairly say that Santander acted unfairly as it 
acted within the terms and conditions of the mortgage and its own porting policy. 
Nor can I say that Santander misled Mr and Mrs H. There was a phone call when the adviser 
told Mr and Mrs H that they would have their ERCs refunded if they completed their new 
mortgage within 90 days of repaying their previous mortgage and that would apply if Mr and 
Mrs H used the mortgage to buy their new home. The issue wasnt raised as to the situation 
as here where Mr and Mrs H had bought the new property before they sold the existing one 
and werent using the mortgage to buy their new home. I also cant fairly require Santander 
to repay the valuation fee for the new mortgage application. That was fairly collected as 
Santander was unaware that Mr and Mrs H were already owners of the property on which 
they were applying for a mortgage. So, for the reasons set out above I cant fairly uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 November 2022.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman