DRN-4257851
The complaint
Mrs F complains that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential) provided 
advice based on information that was factually incorrect. She states that she was not 
provided with all the available options and relevant documents and as a result has drawn 
down her pension in a way that has caused her to lose out financially. 
Mrs F also complains that the charges incurred exceeded the amount she was told they 
would be.
 
What happened
In April 2019 Mr & Mrs F had a meeting with an adviser from Prudential. During this meeting 
a fact find was completed outlining Mr & Mrs Fs circumstances and objectives, and their 
attitude to risk was assessed. 
At that time, Mrs F held two pensions  an FSAVC and a Personal Pension both with 
Prudential (worth approximately £2,300 and £60,400 respectively). The fact find states that 
she held £10,000 in cash (jointly with Mr F), and no other investments. Mrs F was stated to 
be self employed, her husband was already retired and in receipt of the state pension. Their 
household income met their expenditure. The file states that Mrs F had confirmed her state 
pension entitlement and that when that commenced, the combined state pensions would be 
sufficient to meet their expenditure. Mr & Mrs F were recorded to have joint objectives which 
were stated to be to access a lump sum from their pensions of £57,731 as they wanted to 
buy a new car (£30,000), finish renovations on their home and for some special holidays. 
A recommendation was made for both of Mrs Fs pensions to be transferred into the 
Prudential Retirement Account policy, invested in the PruFund Risk Managed 2 Series E 
which was a managed fund, designed to limit volatility by the use of smoothing. Mrs Fs 
policies were transferred in line with the recommendation. A proportion was invested in cash 
to allow for the maximum tax free cash to be taken at outset.
In 2020, Mr & Mrs Fs annual review was carried out by a different adviser due to their 
original adviser having left Prudential. During this meeting it came to light that Mr & Mrs F did 
not understand the advice they had previously been given and the charges incurred, both of 
which are the subject of this complaint. 
The complaint was referred to this service and our investigator agreed with Mrs F and 
upheld her complaint. As Prudential didnt agree, this case is with me for a final decision.
My Provisional Decision
I issued my provisional decision on 30 June 2023. It said:
Within Mrs Fs original complaint there were a number of points raised relating to specific 
statements in the suitability report. I do not intend to address each point individually as they 
all pertain to the same ultimate point, that Mrs F believes that the advice she was provided 
was based on incorrect information in relation to her objectives, was unsuitable and that the 
charges applied to her plan exceeded what she was told they would be.
When considering whether the advice to transfer was suitable for Mrs F, I have considered 
what her objectives were most likely to have been at the time the advice was given. In their 
communications after the advice, Mr & Mrs F state that with hindsight they would have only 
taken out the £96K pension pot [this was Mr Fs personal pension plan] as this would have 
released approx. £23k and then continued to be invested, we have discussed this with [the 
new adviser] who agreed this may well have been a better option. I consider this to be a fair 
representation of Mr & Mrs Fs combined need for a lump sum  not least because they 
havent spent the full amount of the tax free cash they accessed. That is, Mr & Mrs F wanted 
to access some of their combined pension assets as tax free cash but they didnt need the 
nearly £60,000 they ended up with.
In coming to this conclusion, I have taken into account the fact find and suitability report, 
which recorded Mr & Mrs F as needing a very specific tax free lump sum (£57,731) and the 
reasons why they needed that amount. Mrs F didnt question this at the time, so I recognise 
this may be a fair reflection of her intentions for her money. But I think, on balance, if the 
adviser had done more to explore Mrs Fs situation, it would have become apparent that Mrs 
F didnt need to access her tax free cash at that point or, for reasons that I will come on to, 
transfer her pensions.
Having considered Mr & Mrs Fs joint objectives and their comments relating to accessing Mr 
Fs tax free cash to support their objectives, I am satisfied that these could have been met 
without Mrs F needing to transfer her pension arrangements. I am not satisfied that it was in 
Mrs Fs best interests to transfer her Prudential personal pension and FSAVC to a Prudential 
Retirement account and take the maximum tax free cash. 
As outlined in the original investigation, the new policy incurred additional charges. There is 
no evidence of alternatives having been considered, including the option of a stakeholder 
plan. Whilst it is accurate to say that the existing plans did not have the same options in 
relation to ongoing advice, drawdown and fund availability as the recommended Prudential 
Retirement Account, there is nothing to indicate that these were required by or important to 
Mrs F at the time of the advice. It is stated in the suitability report that Mrs F did not wish to 
take out an annuity. Whilst it would have been necessary to transfer her pensions in order to 
access her fund flexibly, there is nothing to indicate that it needed to be done at the time of 
the advice  this was an option that would have been available to Mrs F at a later date if 
required. I note that the information recorded at the time of the advice stated that when Mr & 
Mrs Fs state pensions were in payment, this would meet their outgoings.
The recommendation to switch the Prudential FSAVC and personal pension plan to the 
Prudential Retirement account resulted in a more expensive plan. In my view, the reasons 
given for the transfer didnt justify incurring these charges, and I therefore uphold this 
element of the complaint.
Turning now to the level of the advice charge. Mrs F states that the advice charge applied on 
transfer exceeded what she had been told it would be. Having reviewed the file I cannot find 
evidence to support this assertion. The initial brochure provided sets out the charges 
applicable to lump sum investments and transfers, which was applied on a tiered basis. An 
example was included within the brochure based on a £150,000 investment, which although 
higher than Mrs Fs pension arrangements, provided her with an appropriate level of 
information explaining how the charges applied. The personal illustration provided indicates that the initial advice charge would be 2.33% 
which equated to £1,466.88.  Mr & Mrs F state in their complaint that they were told the 
charges would be £3,000 - £3,500 but were charged in excess of £5,000 for the transfer. 
The suitability report does indicate an initial advice charge of £5,294.22, however as the 
report combined both Mrs F and her husbands recommendations, it appears that this was 
the combined advice charge for them both. I do not believe Prudential have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably concerning the level of the initial advice charge applied (although, for the 
reasons given above, I dont think the actual advice was suitable).
Responses to my provisional decision
I have received a response from Prudential which states that they are disappointed with the 
decision and dont have more to add to what had been said previously. They reiterated that 
the advice was given based on what the client tells them at the time, and their position 
remains as previously stated. 
Mrs F has also replied and stated that she has no further comment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having taken into account the response from Prudential, as no new information or 
arguments have been provided I see no reason to change my decision. So I remain of the 
view I set out in my provisional decision  my findings as set out above should be 
considered as part of my final decision. It follows that I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
My aim is that Mrs F should be put as closely as possible into the position she would 
probably now be in if she had been given suitable advice.
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mrs F should be put as closely as possible into the position she would 
probably now be in if she had been given suitable advice.
I think Mrs F would have retained both her previous pension arrangements. I am satisfied 
what I have set out below is fair and reasonable, taking this into account and given Mrs F's 
circumstances and objectives when she invested.
What must Prudential do?
To compensate Mrs F fairly, Prudential must:
Compare the performance of Mrs F's investments with the notional value if they had 
not been transferred. If the actual value is greater than the sum of the notional 
values, no compensation is payable. If the notional value is greater than the actual 
values, there is a loss and compensation is payable.
Prudential should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
If there is a loss, Prudential should pay into Mrs F's pension plan to increase its value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should 
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not 
be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance.
If Prudential is unable to pay the compensation into Mrs F's pension plan, it should 
pay that amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would 
have provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mrs F wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mrs F's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at her selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mrs F is likely to be a nil rate taxpayer at the selected 
retirement age, so no reduction would apply in this case.
If either Prudential or Mrs F dispute that this is a reasonable assumption, they must 
let us know as soon as possible so that the assumption can be clarified and Mrs F 
receives appropriate compensation. It wont be possible for us to amend this 
assumption once any final decision has been issued on the complaint.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Prudential deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mrs F how much has been taken off. Prudential should give Mrs F a 
tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mrs F asks for one, so she can reclaim the 
tax on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
Prudential 
Retirement 
AccountStill exists 
and liquidNotional values 
of the previous 
personal 
pension and 
FSAVCDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final 
decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Notional Value
This is the value of Mrs F's investments had it remained in the previous arrangements until 
the end date. Prudential should calculate this value.Any additional sum paid into the Prudential Retirement Account should be added to the 
notional value calculation from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the Prudential Retirement Account should be deducted from the 
notional value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return 
in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Prudential totals all those payments and deducts that 
figure at the end to determine the notional value instead of deducting periodically.
As the previous pensions were managed by Prudential I see no reason why it wont be able 
to calculate redress in line with the above approach. However, if Prudential isnt able to do 
so, it will  need to determine a fair value for Mrs F's investment instead, using this 
benchmark: For half the investment: FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return 
Index; for the other half: average rate from fixed rate bonds. The adjustments above also 
apply to the calculation of a fair value using the benchmark, which is then used instead of 
the notional value in the calculation of compensation.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mrs F wanted Capital growth with a small risk to her capital.
If Prudential are unable to calculate a notional value, then I consider the measure 
below is appropriate.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to her capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mrs F's risk profile was in between, in the sense that she was 
prepared to take a small level of risk to attain her investment objectives. So, the 
50/50 combination would reasonably put Mrs F into that position. It does not mean 
that Mrs F would have invested 50% of her money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in 
some kind of index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable 
compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return Mrs F could have obtained from 
investments suited to her objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My final decision is that Prudential Assurance Company Limited 
should pay the amount calculated as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2023.
 
Joanne MolloyOmbudsman