DRN-4101660
The complaint
Miss H complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc failed to refund transactions she didnt recognise.
What happened
Miss H explained that she noticed a recurring payment had been set up from the tablet used 
by her child. The payment of £22.49 left Miss Hs account weekly and had been operating for 
about a year.
Miss H attempted to obtain a refund from the merchant (M) who told her they could only 
consider refunds for the previous 120-day period. Miss H notified HSBC about the payment 
who also told Miss H they could dispute the payments, but again only for those that occurred 
within the last 120 days. It was explained that this timescale was related to the Chargeback 
system used by the card operator.
HSBC declined to offer a substantive refund and Miss H asked the Financial Ombudsman 
Service to look into her situation.
Miss Hs complaint was allocated to an investigator who obtained information about the 
complaint from both parties. 
Miss H was asked how the payment information (card details) had been entered into the 
tablet and she explained that in order to obtain services from M, card details had to be 
entered. Miss H said she was unaware that the recurring payment had been made using her 
card and hadnt noticed for about a year. By this time the payments had reached over 
£1,000.
Miss H was asked about whether parental controls were used on the tablet but she couldnt 
be sure. Miss H thought the age of her child would preclude them from agreeing to a 
contract. After reviewing the information, the investigator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss H 
disagreed with this and asked for a further review of her complaint which has now been 
passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. The 
basic position is that HSBC can hold Miss H liable for the disputed payments if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that she made them or authorised them. 
HSBC can only refuse to refund unauthorised payments if it can prove Miss H authorised the 
transactions, but HSBC cannot say that the use of the card details conclusively proves that 
the payments were authorised. 
Unless HSBC can show that consent has been given, it has no authority to make the 
payment or to debit Miss Hs account and any such transaction must be regarded as 
unauthorised. To start with, Ive seen the banks technical evidence for the disputed 
transactions. It shows that the transactions were authenticated using the payment tools 
issued to Miss H. Ill now need to consider the information provided by both parties to 
determine whether theres sufficient evidence to hold Miss H responsible for the disputed 
transactions or not.
From reviewing the evidence its apparent that Miss H enabled a tablet that her child used 
with details from her debit card. This then allowed them to play certain games. Miss H 
explained that the card details were needed even for free games.
Miss H herself doesnt recall setting up a recurring payment for a game her child was playing 
at the time. So, it seems reasonable that someone else set it up.
If her child was able to use them, it seems unlikely there were any controls to the cards use    
(so called parental controls), and Miss H is unsure whether she had any on the account. 
Once those saved details were used to set up the recurring payment, HSBC would make the 
payment based on that instruction. Because it used the correct card details and followed the 
appropriate authorisation procedure, I dont think they had any reason to suspect it wasnt a 
legitimate instruction from Miss H.
The investigator talked about apparent authority in his earlier outcome, and this is where 
the card details are used by someone other than the card holder, but the card holder 
remains liable for the use of the card, even if they didnt make the payment themselves.
I understand Miss H feels that her child couldnt have consented to the contract linked to the 
payment, but unfortunately the test for whether she can be held responsible doesnt take into 
account the underlying contract, only whether she (or someone with her authority) 
authorised the payment. The evidence also doesnt support that it was an unknown third 
party who carried out these payments  as in a thief who stole the cards. 
Here, because Miss H entered those card details onto the tablet and they were then used to 
make these recurring payments, she is responsible for them. I understand the weekly 
payment mounted up over the year it was running and its unfortunate it wasnt spotted 
sooner. But, I dont think that it would be fair or reasonable for HSBC to refund those 
payments when they were authorised by Miss H through the use of them in a tablet that 
hadnt had any additional controls put in place to prevent such use.
Miss H was told by M and HSBC that they could assess payments made in the past 120 
days, which is the time limit for Chargeback disputes. It doesnt appear that Miss H pursued 
this option with either M or HSBC at the time.
Chargeback timescales are strict, so once the 120 days have passed, the payments cant be 
disputed using that system. But, disputed transactions can be raised up to 13 months (and 
sometimes longer) after the event, because these use the regulations rather than 
agreements contained in the payments operators scheme for Chargebacks. 
I understand this will be disappointing news for Miss H, but as Ive already determined that it 
was more likely than not that Miss H authorised them by entering those details into the 
tablet, I wont be upholding the complaint or asking HSBC to make any refund.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept or reject my decision before 21 July 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman