DRN-3549148
The complaint
Mr P complains that Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) provided him with credit he 
couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
Capital One approved two credit cards for Mr P. He was given a Luna card in October 2012 
with a credit limit of £200; the limit was increased on three occasions to £450 in July 2013, 
£1,200 in July 2014 and finally to £1,700 in June 2015. Mr P was also approved for a Classic 
credit card in March 2015 with a limit of £1,000.
Mr P says Capital One were wrong to provide credit as it wasnt affordable for him.
Capital One initially objected to this service considering part of Mr Ps complaint as they said 
it was time barred, but they have now given permission for this service to consider all of the 
lending.
They have said that when they approved each application and each lending decision they 
used a combination of credit reference agency, computer modelling, and self-reported 
information to assess whether the lending was affordable. They say that Mr Ps credit file 
demonstrated he was managing his credit commitments well; defaults were historic and 
there were no signs of current financial stress.  They thought the information suggested the 
cards and limit increases were affordable for Mr P.
Our investigator agreed but Mr P didnt. He said the business were wrong to take his student 
loans into account when they did their affordability calculations and that the defaults on his 
credit file should have been red flags. He said he was always in his overdraft and paying 
interest on that debt, had a history of using pay day loans and was usually only making 
minimum payments towards his cards. He also thought the investigator was wrong to 
consider what reasonable payments would be towards his credit card debt as he said they 
werent loans. 
As Mr P didnt agree the complaint has been referred to me, an ombudsman, for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering whats fair and 
reasonable here. 
Luma card approval and limit increase in July 2013
The information Capital One has been able to provide about these lending decisions has 
understandably been limited by the passage of time. But they have demonstrated they asked 
Mr P about his income level and that they reviewed his credit file and considered his likely 
expenditure.
I think the checks Capital One completed were reasonable and proportionate. But that 
doesnt necessarily mean the lending decision was fair, so Ive thought about what the 
information theyd collected showed them and whether that meant the credit was affordable 
for Mr P.
Mr Ps credit file showed several historic defaults but the most recent was in April 2011 and I 
dont think that would suggest he was experiencing financial stress at the time of his 
application. There were no other debts at the time and Mr P had explained he was earning 
£14,000 a year and was living with his parents. I think the relatively modest credit limit on 
approval of the account would have appeared affordable given the proportionate checks that 
were completed.
When the limit was increased in July 2013 Capital One were also able to benefit from 
reviewing Mr Ps performance on his account. Whilst hed quickly used up the credit limit 
available to him he had been maintaining minimum payments and had not missed any. 
There was no evidence of financial stress and I think the proportionate checks Capital One 
completed would have suggested the additional credit was affordable.
Luma limit increase in July 2014
Capital One say they completed similar checks before approving this limit increase. But as 
the increase was given such a long time ago theyve not been able to provide detailed credit 
file information. As this lending was quite significant in relation to Mr Ps income it would 
have been wise to complete further checks. I dont think Capital One had to ask for bank 
statements but in the absence of other information I think bank statements are the best way 
to clarify if the additional lending was likely to be affordable for Mr P. So, Ive reviewed the 
bank statements Mr P has provided for the three months before this lending decision.
Mr P was earning about £615 net every month and also received some student loan 
payments. His outgoings were in the region of £360 once the minimum payment to Capital 
One was taken into account and even if the limit was fully utilised and the amount repaid 
over a reasonable period I think the statements suggest Mr P would have sufficient 
disposable income to afford to repay it and furnish his expenses though his income and 
student finance. Mr P has explained that student finance shouldnt be considered for taxable 
purposes but, I think it is fair to consider the student loans when thinking about Mr Ps 
income and expenditure as its clear he was using those loans to fund that expenditure, at 
least in part.
So, I dont think Capital One were irresponsible when providing this credit limit increase.
Classic card approval March 2015
Capital One have been able to provide more information with regard to the checks they 
completed before this card was approved.
The credit file showed that Mr P had another credit card with a limit of £800 along with the 
Luma card whose limit was £1,200 at the time of this Classic application. There was also an 
overdraft limit on his current account, and a loan of £20 per month. There were no recent 
defaults on his credit file, but he had taken out a couple of pay day loans since his last credit 
limit increase in July 2014. I think Capital Ones checks werent reasonable in those circumstances and they should have done more to assess whether the additional credit was 
affordable for Mr P given his income of only about £13,000 per year.
Reviewing bank statements would have shown that Mr P was earning about £633 net a 
month and still receiving periodic student loan payments. Expenses were about £250 a 
month. I think reasonable payments on his credit cards would be about £160 a month but 
all told I dont think there is evidence the new credit card wouldnt have been affordable for 
Mr P.
Luma limit increase June 2015
I dont think Capital Ones checks were reasonable and proportionate here either as the limit 
increase was again significant and by this time theyd also approved Mr Ps Classic card. It 
think they should have dug deeper to understand if the credit was sustainably affordable.
Bank statements show Mr Ps situation was similar. He was earning £633 per month and still 
in receipt of student loan payments. His expenditure had increased a little to £345 and hed 
taken out a payday loan a few months earlier and had repaid it the next month. I think, given 
the income, expenditure, and taking account of reasonable repayments towards his credit 
card and credit commitments, the lending was still affordable for Mr P and I dont think 
Capital One were irresponsible extending it.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman