DRN-3919615
The complaint
Mr R complains that Aspen Insurance UK Limited (Aspen) declined a claim on his home 
insurance for damage to a garden fence.
What happened
In March 2022, Mr R discovered two sections of his garden fence had come down. He 
wanted the damage repaired as quickly as possible, so he put the work out for tender on two 
websites. A builder responded. This builder repaired the fences and Mr R paid him £930 
cash for the work. 
Some months later, in August 2022, Mr R realised he had accidental damage cover on his 
home insurance so his insurer might cover the cost of repairing the fence. He made a claim 
to Aspen.
After discussions with Mr R, Aspen declined the claim. It said he hadnt been able to verify 
the claim or show that it should be covered by his policy. Mr R was unhappy with this and 
brought his complaint to this service.  
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Rs complaint should be upheld. She didnt think 
Mr R had provided enough evidence to show that the damage to his fence should be 
covered by his insurance, so she didnt think Aspens decision to decline the claim was 
unfair. 
Mr R disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Like any home insurance policy, an insurer will only pay a claim if the policyholder can show 
theyve suffered loss or damage by something covered by their policy  whats called an 
insured risk. This is set out in pages 9-10 of his policy booklet. 
Thats important in this case because Mr Rs fence was damaged in March 2022, and he 
didnt make a claim until five months later. So Aspen wasnt able to assess the damage 
before the fence was mended. I understand Mr R didnt immediately realise his insurance 
might cover the cost of repairs, but its up to him to show that the damage should be covered 
by his policy.
I think Aspen gave Mr R every chance to prove this. However, Mr R hasnt been able to 
provide sufficient information about the builder or the work he carried out. 
I know Mr R says hes been able to speak to his builder. However, the builder refused to 
speak to Aspen or this service. I might expect Mr R to be able to show screenshots of the 
online conversation he had with the builder via the website he used to put the work out for 
tender, but unfortunately he hasnt been able to show this. This makes it very difficult for 
Aspen to confirm the work that was carried out.
Mr R hasnt been able to show any evidence of payment, for example a bank statement 
showing a cash withdrawal. I appreciate that he said he had this money at home but, again, I 
think this meant it was very difficult for Aspen to validate his claim. I dont think the printed 
invoice with the builders signature is enough to prove payment in this case. 
Mr R sent us photos of the damaged fence. I know he believes it might have been 
deliberately damaged by vandals  so covered by the malicious damage part of his policy  
but, again, he hasnt provided any evidence to support this.
I dont think Mr R has been able to show that the damage to his fence should be covered by 
his insurance. It follows that I dont think Aspen acted unreasonably when it declined Mr Rs 
claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman