DRN-1116169
The complaint
Mr H complains Admiral Insurance Company Limited wont pay out a claim made under his 
motor insurance policy when his car was stolen and subsequently written off. 
What happened
On 5 January 2019, Mr H parked his car outside his property in the evening. The following 
afternoon, when Mr H went to use his car he found it missing. He reported the car stolen and 
was given a crime reference number. He tried to contact his insurer the same day, but the 
claims department wasnt open. 
On Monday 7 January, Mr H contacted Admiral to make a claim. It explained stolen cars 
were treated as a write off and started the claims process. On 8 January, the police 
recovered the car; they had been following the driver who drove the car off-road and 
subsequently absconded. The car had been driven erratically over several roundabouts and 
sustained damage.  The car was taken to an Admiral storage facility where it was inspected 
and agreed the damage meant it was a write off. 
Mr H was questioned about the circumstances of the theft. He said he locked the car, there 
was no evidence the car had been broken into (no glass or debris) or that there had been a 
burglary at his property. When asked about keys to the car, he confirmed possession of the 
main key, and thought he had possession of the spare also but when asked to look for it, he 
couldnt find it. His car had been found with a key in it, and although the police initially didnt 
think the key related to the car, it has since been confirmed the key does operate the car.
Mr H was questioned further. He confirmed that he hadnt seen the spare key for a number 
of years and that no-one had used the spare key. He also confirmed that when he first got 
the car in 2014, his housemate did borrow the car and it was unknown if it was the spare or 
the main key that was used. 
As the car hadnt sustained any theft damage  that is, damage caused in order to gain entry 
to, or drive away, the car  Admiral declined the claim; it hadnt felt Mr H had been honest 
with the circumstances of the theft. It said the key found within the car had been able to 
operate it, but Mr H had said he didnt know the whereabouts of it. Not happy Mr H 
complained. But Admiral stood by its decision to decline the claim; it was still of the view 
he hadnt been honest about how the thief had gained access to the car  for example, the 
key could have been left in the car. 
Our investigator concluded Admiral had dealt with the claim fairly and reasonably and didnt 
make any award against it. Mr H asked for the matter to be reviewed. In summary, he said:
At all times he has confirmed he locked the car and so it was secured. Therefore, an 
insurable event has happened. 
He accepts the recovered key is a key for his brand of car. But he believes the key 
could have been stolen previously as third parties have had access to his properties 
over the years (he has moved twice since buying the car and he rents). 
He has never, and would never, keep his key in the car. As the car never sustained theft related damage, it means the thief had access to the 
spare key which means the key was stolen. 
He provided links to an advert showing cars can be broken into without causing 
damage.  
 
After the complaint was referred to me, I asked for further evidence from the parties. As a 
result I have now been sent:
A report which shows the VIN (vehicle identification number) for both Mr Hs main 
key and the key found with the car are the same. They are also both genuine keys for 
the make of car in question. The main key shows a lot of wear, whereas the other 
key shows minimal wear consistent with that of a spare key. 
Photographs of both keys, including the blades, show the keys match.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would firstly like to reassure both Mr H and Admiral, that although I have summarised the 
events and arguments above, I have read and considered everything provided in its entirety. 
The starting point for Mr Hs claim is his contract with Admiral  the policy of insurance. 
Under section 2 of the policy, Mr Hs car was covered for fire and theft:
1.Cover for your car and its accessories
 
If your car is lost or damaged as a result of fire, lightning, theft or attempted theft, you 
will be covered for the loss or damage to:
your car  
There is no dispute that Mr Hs car was stolen. The police recovered the car following the 
thief absconding and leaving the car abandoned. The car contained some items that didnt 
belong to Mr H; some tools, a charger and a fast food outlet toy.  Although the car was 
stolen, it doesnt automatically follow that Mr Hs claim should be paid. Thats dependent on 
the other terms and conditions within the policy, particularly any exclusions or conditions that 
apply.
I think it fair to say, and Mr H now accepts, that the key found with the car is, in fact, his 
spare key.  The locksmith report obtained by Admiral shows the key is a genuine key and 
the VIN number matched the main key, which Mr H still had possession of at the time of 
theft.  So the question is, how did the thief obtain the spare key. 
Mr H submits that he believed the spare key to have still been in his possession at the time 
of reporting the claim.  During investigations, he has confirmed both that the spare key had 
never been used and that it might have been used by a previous house mate. I dont think 
both statements can reasonably be correct; either the spare key was never used or it was. 
So Mr H hasnt been consistent in his statements, something I need to bear in mind when 
deciding this case. It isnt in dispute that there was no theft related damage to the car  that is, damage caused 
to gain entry to, or drive away, the car. That means that the thief:
had access to the spare key to gain entry and drive it; or
used other means to gain entry and drive the car 
I accept its possible the thief might have used means other than the spare key to obtain 
access to the car. But the type of tools Mr H has referred to wouldnt have enabled the car to 
be driven away. And as we know, there was no damage to the steering lock or mechanism. 
It is possible that a key was cloned, but I would question the presence of the spare key in the 
car, if there was a clone. So the most likely explanation is that the thief had access to the 
spare key, which even if it didnt enable entry to the car, did enable it to be driven away. 
Mr H has made a number of arguments about how the key could have come into the 
possession of a thief. I have considered these carefully, and whilst accepting they are 
possible, I dont find them persuasive or probable. I accept Mr H has moved a number of 
times since he bought the car. He tells us that previous properties had experienced 
burglaries which included car keys being stolen. But if I accept the keys had been stolen 
during previous burglaries, I would also have to accept that an opportunistic thief kept track 
of Mr Hs property moves and decided to steal the car in January 2019, when it could have 
been stolen far sooner. I find such a scenario to be highly unlikely. 
Mr H also said that third parties had access to his property; at the time of the theft he lived in 
rented accommodation which was up for sale, so the landlord and estate agent, amongst 
others, had access. I do accept it is possible that someone who had access to the property 
stole the car keys. But I would need to question why the thief stopped there. An opportunistic 
thief is unlikely to steal just one item, they are more likely to steal as much as they possibly 
can. But Mr H hasnt reported any other items missing/stolen and has confirmed that no 
burglary occurred at his property. So I dont find this suggestion plausible or persuasive 
either. 
I find the most likely explanation is that the spare key was in the car at the time of the theft. I 
know Mr H has argued that it wasnt. But I have taken into account that he wasnt entirely 
sure where his spare key was at the time of making his claim; with documents or in a bag, 
and so his recollections werent clear.  I accept it is possible he didnt recall the spare key 
being in the car, but I think this is the most plausible explanation for how the thief was able to 
drive the car away, even if entry was gained by other means; had the key not been in the 
car, the thief would have needed to damage the steering lock or mechanism in some way, in 
order to drive it. 
Mr Hs policy, in General Conditions at 3. Says:
                Care of your vehicle
                You or any person covered by the policy must:
protect your vehicle from loss or damage
make sure your vehicle is roadworthy
allows us to inspect your vehicle at any reasonable time we ask
remove the keys or secure any device that allows access to your vehicle, if it is left 
unoccupiedIf an incident happens, and you or any person covered by this policy fails to protect 
your vehicle from loss or damage through:
the inappropriate conduct of the driver; or
the condition of the vehicle, caused or contributed to the accident; or
your vehicle being left unlocked or unsecured
No cover under the policy will be provided and instead our responsibility will be 
restricted to meeting the obligations as required by Road Traffic Law. 
Mr H has argued that his car was secured as he had locked it. But the general conditions 
require keys to be removed from the car if it is left unoccupied. When Mr H parked his car, it 
was unoccupied. And I have found above that the most likely explanation for how his car 
was stolen was that he had left the spare key in the car. I therefore find that Mr H didnt meet 
the general condition to remove the keys - and I'm satisfied this means the car wasn't 
properly secured. As per the policy terms, no cover is provided for under the policy. 
I understand Mr H is going to be disappointed with my findings. But I can only ask Admiral to 
pay the claim if I find it was acting unfairly or unreasonably in declining it. Admiral declined 
the claim as it felt Mr H hadnt been honest about the whereabouts of the spare key. I dont 
need to make a firm finding about that, as Im satisfied Mr H hasnt met the general 
conditions. I therefore make no award against Admiral. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2020.
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman