DRN-3448722
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Everyday Lending Limited (EDL) lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in March 2022 that I summarise below.
Mr W was given a loan of £1,000 by EDL in August 2016. This was due to be repaid in 24
monthly instalments of around £105. The total amount payable, including interest, was just
over £2,541. I understand Mr W ran into difficulties repaying the loan and the debt was
eventually sold to a third party.
I explained the basis on which I would decide the complaint, in particular the checks that 
EDL needed to do such as the amount being lent, and the consumers income and 
expenditure. 
I said that EDL needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Mr W 
irresponsibly. And that EDL had to carry out proportionate checks to satisfy itself that he 
could repay the loan in a sustainable way. 
I carefully considered all the evidence, arguments, and information Id seen about this
matter in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
EDL carried out some checks before it lent to Mr W. This included asking for details of his
income and expenditure, carrying out some credit checks and requesting a bank statement.
EDL calculated Mr Ws regular living expenses and assessed his monthly credit
commitments.
Id seen a summary of the information gathered by EDL, including the credit report and
bank statement Mr W provided to EDL at the time. From what Id seen, I thought the checks
that EDL carried out before lending to Mr W were reasonable and proportionate, in the
circumstances.
The credit report acquired by EDL showed Mr W had around three loans with a total loan
balance outstanding of just over £5,822. The bulk of this was related to an HP agreement.
He also had a total outstanding revolving account balance of around £765. There was a
small amount of adverse information on the credit report, but I think a lender would
reasonably expect to see some adverse information, give the type of lending involved.
From what Id seen, EDL was aware from Mr Ws credit report and his bank statements that
he had been taking high cost short term lending and that he had recently experienced some
returned direct debits. The bank statements provided were from the kind of account that
generally came without access to an overdraft which might also have suggested that Mr Ws
finances could be under some strain. But it seems Mr W told EDL that his current financial
issues were due to a timing issue related to being paid weekly. And that he intended to use
part of his EDL loan to pay off some of his payday loans, as well as pay for some car repairs.
On balance, I didnt think EDL ought reasonably to have concluded from Mr Ws bank
statements that there were signs of significant financial distress, such significant bank
charges for unarranged overdrafts or very frequently returned requests for payment, which
might have signalled to EDL that Mr W was experiencing severe financial difficulties. From
what Id seen, Mr W was occasionally transferring sums into and out of his account from
another account - which might reasonably have suggested to a lender that he may have had
access to some other funds and that he was managing his account quite carefully, even
though he was borrowing from high cost lenders.
EDL says that Mr W said he intended to consolidate part of his outstanding debt with the
EDL loan as well as pay for car repairs. I considered whether the extent of Mr Ws
existing credit meant that EDL ought reasonably to have concluded that he would be unlikely
to repay his EDL loan sustainably. But it seemed to me that EDL considered Mr Ws ongoing
credit commitments, the level of his income and his relatively low outgoings from living at the
family home, and it took into account the likely impact of consolidating some of his existing
debt. Mr Ws financial position may unfortunately have been worse than he had disclosed to
EDL. If it was, it didnt seem to me that reasonable and proportionate checks would have
shown this to be the case. On balance, I didnt think that reasonable and proportionate
checks should have led the lender to reasonably conclude that lending to Mr W would be
unfair or irresponsible in some way.
Did EDL treat Mr W unfairly in some other way?
Overall, I hadnt seen anything which made me think that EDL treated Mr W unfairly in
some other way. And from what Id seen, I couldnt fairly say that EDL ought reasonably to
have concluded that it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend to him, in his circumstances.
I asked both parties to send me anything further they would like me to consider. I havent 
seen a response from EDL. Mr Ws representatives told us it is disappointed in my 
provisional decision and it doesnt think that its fair that I reached a different outcome to the 
adjudicator. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for all the information that has been provided about this matter. I 
understand that Mr Ws representatives are disappointed that I have reached a different 
conclusion about from the adjudicator. But as I explained in my provisional decision, I 
carefully reviewed all the evidence provided and I set out why I was not intending to uphold 
Mr Ws complaint. Mr Ws representatives have not provided any new evidence or comment 
that changes my mind about this complaint. I confirm the conclusions I reached in my 
provisional decision. Taking everything into account, I cannot fairly say that EDL lent 
irresponsibly to Mr W.
I know Mr W will be disappointed by my decision. But I would like to reassure him I have 
carefully considered everything that both he and EDL have told us. Having done so, I do not 
uphold Mr Ws complaint.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Everyday Lending Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 May 2022.
 
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman