DRN-3330781
The complaint
Miss K has complained about Capquest Investments Limited contacting her regarding an old 
account.
What happened
Both sides are most familiar with what happened, so Ill summarise things in brief.
This complaint surrounds a credit card in Miss Ks name from 2006, which was sold to 
Capquest in 2007.
In 2021, Capquest sent an annual statement to Miss Ks current address. They also sent her 
two emails about the account on the same day as each other.
When Miss K called Capquest, they werent able to get her through security as the system 
still registered her as being at an old address. 
Miss K complained. She felt this amounted to harassment. She said she didnt recognise the 
account, and this has caused her a lot of distress.
Capquest explained where the debt came from. They didnt agree theyd harassed Miss K, 
but since the debt was so old they decided to close it. They explained that Miss K hadnt 
been able to pass security as thered been an administrative error on their end. They 
apologised for that and offered her £50 compensation.
Our investigator looked into things independently and felt Capquests offer was fair.
Miss K didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly I understand that, separately to this issue, Miss K has been going through a truly 
tough time in general. So she does have my sympathy there. I hope things get better for her.
I also understand that Miss K doesnt remember this account, which is understandable given 
how old it is. But it does appear to be her account. It was set up under her details, such as 
her name and date of birth. It received payments before defaulting. Theres a record of 
Capquest discussing the account with Miss K in 2007 and her proposing a payment plan. 
When Miss K spoke to the original creditor, they confirmed this was a genuine debt of hers 
which theyd sold to Capquest. And Ive certainly not seen anything which makes me think 
this wasnt Miss Ks account.
With that in mind, I dont think Capquest did anything wrong in contacting Miss K about the 
account. Even though the debt was old, it still existed and they were allowed to contact the 
customer whose name it was in. So I dont think they owe Miss K compensation for getting in 
touch or for her efforts that followed in looking into the debt.
Aside from their responses to Miss Ks complaint, I can see that Capquest only sent her an 
annual statement and a couple of emails. And while two emails arrived on the same day, 
I dont think that that alone amounts to harassment. Capquest sent Miss K quite little here, 
and I cant see that they communicated with her excessively or unreasonably.
In any case, Capquest have closed the account. So Miss K will no longer be pursued for it at 
all. I consider that a fair outcome.
The only thing I can see that Capquest got wrong is their administrative error, which meant 
that Miss K was unable to get through security on a phone call. I do understand that this was 
frustrating for Miss K. Its worth bearing in mind that our service is here to resolve complaints 
informally  were not here to punish or fine businesses. And while I know Miss K was going 
through a very difficult time indeed outside of this situation, Capquest werent responsible for 
any of the things happening more widely, and I dont think they could have reasonably 
foreseen that their admin error would cause Miss K that much upset. Our service has 
guidelines about what levels of compensation to award, and we need to be consistent. 
Taking everything into account, I think Capquests offer of £50 compensation was fair here. 
Capquest should pay that to Miss K if they havent already. But otherwise, I dont require 
them to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Miss Ks complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 May 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman