DRN-3781734
The complaint
Miss M complains about the way NewDay Ltd handled a dispute over a holiday villa booking 
which was cancelled during the Covid-19 pandemic.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this case on 14 October 2022, asking both parties to 
provide any further comments they wished me to consider by 28 October 2022.
In my provisional decision I said I was not minded to uphold Miss Ms complaint. By the time 
the complaint had reached me there was only one remaining point in dispute, which was 
whether NewDay should pay additional compensation for customer service failings. 
However, I will briefly outline what the complaint was originally about.
Miss M had used her NewDay credit card to book a holiday villa in Spain via a well-known 
online booking platform (B), for the price of £2,010.90. As a result of the pandemic, Miss M 
had to cancel her booking. Although the booking had been non-refundable, she thought she 
should receive a refund because B had a specific pandemic policy which she believed would 
cover her booking and enable her to obtain a refund.
B refused to refund Miss M however, so she asked NewDay to help. It tried to chargeback 
the card payment, and put a temporary refund onto Miss Ms account while this process was 
ongoing. This left Miss Ms account in credit so she rang up and had the credit balance 
transferred to her bank account. A few weeks later NewDay reversed the refund, leaving 
Miss M with a large debit balance. NewDay then considered whether it should refund Miss M 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) but decided it was not liable to do 
so.
Miss M was unhappy about both NewDays decision not to refund her, and it failing to warn 
her that the refund it had put in her account was only temporary and could be reversed.
In my provisional decision I came to the following key conclusions:
Miss M had made a non-refundable villa booking. Bs pandemic policy was intended 
to cover scenarios where travel to a destination, or staying at a particular 
accommodation, was impossible or illegal due to the pandemic. 
The scenarios contemplated by Bs policy didnt apply in Miss Ms case, as it had not 
been illegal or impossible for her to travel to Spain or use the villa. Shed had good 
reasons for not travelling but they didnt entitle her contractually to a refund.
Because Miss M hadnt been entitled to a refund from B, NewDay hadnt acted 
unreasonably in refusing to pursue a chargeback further than it did, or in turning 
down her section 75 claim.
Miss M had completed and signed a form which warned her that the refund could be 
reversed. The form was not complicated and theres a general principle that when 
someone has signed something theyre taken to have read and understood it. I 
thought she ought to have realised the refund might be temporary.
While NewDays customer services staff hadnt warned Miss M that the refund might 
be temporary when she asked them to transfer the credit balance to her bank 
account, I wouldnt necessarily have expected them to. The department she spoke to 
was unfamiliar with the underlying dispute and there was no suggestion that the 
conversation should have prompted further questioning or a referral to another 
department in relation to the refund.
There had been some errors by NewDay but they had been minor and the modest 
compensation it had already paid (£30) was sufficient to cover these.
NewDay responded to my provisional decision to say it agreed with the findings. Miss M did 
not reply. The case has now been returned to me to review once more.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because neither party has given me any new comments, arguments or evidence to consider, 
I see no reason to depart from the findings and conclusions reached in my provisional 
decision, as summarised above.
As I mentioned in my provisional decision, I dont lack sympathy for Miss M. She, like many 
others who had holidays booked which coincided with the pandemic, has lost a significant 
sum of money. But I dont think NewDay acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining to refund 
her. And this was because Miss M didnt have a contractual right to a refund of her booking, 
in her particular circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Miss Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 November 2022.
 
Will Culley
Ombudsman