DRN-3820584
The complaint
Ms D complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc lent her money through a mortgage, which she 
could no longer repay when she retired. She sold her home, and wants HSBC to refund the 
early repayment charge (ERC) she paid, and to pay her compensation for the cost of selling.
What happened
Ms D told us she took out a mortgage with HSBC in early 2019, which had a 26 year term.
She said she was then in her fifties, and to fully pay off the mortgage she would have
needed to work into her eighties. Ms D said she had never agreed to work for the full lifetime
of the mortgage. She was now retiring, and had to sell her home, because her pension
wasnt enough to meet the mortgage repayments. Ms D said this incurred an ERC. She
wanted HSBC to waive this charge, and pay her extra compensation for the cost of selling
her home.
HSBC said Ms D applied using a mortgage broker, so it hadnt advised her or sold her this
mortgage. It said her application stated she was willing to work until the mortgage was paid
off, and if that wasnt what Ms D had said to her broker, then Ms D would need to discuss
that with the broker.
HSBC said its underwriters considered Ms Ds mortgage application, and they had said they
had no concerns about this. So HSBC didnt think it had done anything wrong.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said Ms Ds mortgage
application, submitted by her broker, confirmed she intended to work until she was 84, which
would take her past when the mortgage would be repaid. Our investigator said if this
information on Ms Ds application was wrong, then that wasnt HSBCs fault. It was allowed
to rely on what was said on her application form. So our investigator didnt think HSBC had
done anything wrong.
Ms D didnt agree. She said HSBC failed to act fairly when agreeing that working to the age
of 84 was reasonable. She said she hadnt told her broker she would work until she was 84,
but even on the basis of what was in the application, she said it couldnt be fair for HSBC to
accept she would work until such an age without further investigation. Ms D noted HSBC
said it had taken the nature of her job into consideration, but it was a predominantly active
role - both physically and mentally demanding  and she said it was inconceivable that
someone would still be able to do this at 84. Ms D felt HSBC acted irresponsibly when
providing the mortgage, so she didnt think it should be able to rely on that agreement to
charge the ERC.
Ms D said she would accept she benefited from the mortgage as it enabled her to initially
buy the property. But she said with imminent retirement shed just been forced to sell it again
Ms D wanted her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for
a final decision. I then reached my provisional decision on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did not propose to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
Ms D told us she had never agreed to work until her mid-eighties. But Ms D didnt have 
this conversation about her anticipated retirement date with HSBC. It understood from 
her application that shed had this conversation with her broker. I think it was reasonable 
for HSBC to assume that what was in Ms Ds application was a fair reflection of her 
intentions at the time.
Ms D says HSBC still ought to have asked further questions about her application, 
because it simply isnt likely that she would be able to continue in such an active and 
demanding job until her eighties. I think there is some strength in the argument Ms D 
makes here. I dont think it was reasonable for HSBC to simply accept without any 
question that Ms D would continue to work to this age in the same job, without any 
further questions, and without checking whether this lending would still be affordable for 
her if she had to reduce her working hours, or retire.
So I dont think HSBC should have reached this mortgage agreement with Ms D without
further questions. 
But our service isnt a regulator, and I dont have powers to punish HSBC for its 
decisions. My duty is to determine a complaint  by reference to what is  fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. So I have to look at all the 
circumstances of this individual case.
I note that, although it may not have been reasonable for HSBC to conclude that Ms D 
would work until her eighties, it may not have anticipated she would be likely to stop 
work before the fixed-rate lending on her mortgage had ended. Ms D has told us she 
chose to retire at 60, because she felt she could no longer work full-time.
I also have to consider the nature of an ERC. Its not just a profit that banks make. An 
ERC has to be a reasonable pre-estimate of the costs a lender faces if a borrower 
repays early. So this is money that HSBC anticipated having to pay, if Ms D wanted to 
bring her mortgage to an end in the first five years, while she remained on a fixed rate.
And finally, I need to bear in mind that Ms D has chosen to move in with a partner who 
is already a homeowner. And that I understand she did make a profit from the sale of 
her former home which had risen quite substantially in value. So it seems likely that this 
profit significantly outweighed the cost of the ERC Ms D herself has accepted that she 
has benefitted from this lending.
I should note here that in other circumstances, the outcome of this complaint may well 
have been quite different. However, in all the circumstances of this particular case, I 
dont think it would be fair and reasonable to ask HSBC to pay back the ERC, which it 
has used to recover the costs to it of bringing this lending to an earlier end. Nor do I 
think its reasonable to ask it to pay Ms D compensation for having to move, when it 
does seem likely that Ms D would always have needed to adjust to a reduced income on 
her retirement. And it also seems likely that those costs will have been covered by the 
return on her home, which does appear to have been a wise property investment.
So, in the circumstances of this case, I dont think that Ms Ds complaint should be 
upheld.I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides replied, to say they had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side has offered any further evidence or argument, and I havent changed my mind. 
Ill now make the decision I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2022.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman