DRN-3038252
The complaint
Mr N complained about advice given to him by one of TenetConnect Limiteds appointed 
representatives in respect of a self-invested personal pension (SIPP). In essence, he felt 
the advisor(s) should:
have drawn his attention to a term in the SIPP which allowed the SIPP provider (who Ill 
refer to as S) to retain some of the interest earned; and/or
have taken this term into account when making their recommendation.
For ease, I will refer to the term in the SIPP that allowed S to retain interest as the interest 
term.
What happened
In 2012 Mr N emailed TenetConnect as hed decided to drawdown the tax free cash he was 
entitled to from his various pensions. He asked what SIPP it recommended for the remaining 
funds, given the following requirements:
a relatively wide choice of what he could invest in  with commercial property being a 
preferred option
a low cost structure  with fixed amounts rather than a percentage of the fund value.
One of TenetConnects advisors replied saying there was a SIPP with S that had been set 
up to facilitate commercial property purchases and had a set menu of fees.
On 2 May 2014 another of TenetConnects advisors detailed her recommendation. She said 
that Mr N was in the process of buying a property and he needed to raise capital to do so 
some of which would be the tax free cash from his pensions. She also said he wanted to 
place the remaining funds in a savings type vehicle, and potentially use them to invest in a 
commercial property at a later point. In respect of her recommendation, the advisor said:
Mr N wanted to use S and hed researched and chosen them
Mr N had instructed her to use S
S was slightly more expensive (compared to two other providers), but their customer 
service was excellent
another provider was more competitive if costs were the main driver.
Ultimately, rather than taking the tax free cash from the pensions, the advisor recommended 
that Mr N use savings and then replenish the savings over time through his disposable 
income. However, she said that if her advice had been different she would have suggested 
that he consider one of the alternative providers as a cost effective alternative.
The advisor amended her advice a few weeks later  because Mr N told her that his savings 
had been earmarked for something else. She said:
she was happy to recommend that Mr N transfer his pension funds to a drawdown 
arrangement
various SIPP providers had been discussed and S was competitively priced
Mr N wished to keep his funds in the SIPP bank account
a SIPP bank account was a good holding place for money pending an investment, but 
over the medium to long term it wouldnt overcome the charges of a SIPP.
Ultimately the advisor said the SIPP carried low charges so she was happy to endorse 
Mr Ns decision to use it, but only on the basis he intended to invest the funds at some point 
in the near future  if he didnt do so the SIPP wouldnt be the most appropriate contract.
Arrangements were then made for the SIPP to be set up, for Mr N to take the tax free cash 
available, and for the remaining funds to sit in the SIPP bank account.
The advisor sent Mr N two emails in July 2014 confirming that his funds were held in the 
SIPP bank account. On 11 July 2014 she also said Mr N wasnt incurring particularly high 
charges as it stood, but his potential for growth was lacking due to the returns on the 
deposit. On 18 July 2014 she also said the SIPP bank account was receiving interest at a 
rate of 0.25% below the Bank of England base rate. Another advisor sent Mr N an email on 
26 September 2014 confirming the same interest rate.
This complaint arose because in 2016 Mr N discovered that some/all of the interest earned 
in the SIPP bank account would be retained by S. TenetConnect investigated and 
responded to Mr Ns complaint. It referred to a personalised illustration and the Key Features 
Document, both of which outlined the interest term. In summary, it felt Mr N was fully aware 
of the risk and characteristics of the investment he entered into, and that he had an 
appreciation of the need to read the documentation supplied before proceeding.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I issued a provisional decision which explained why I felt the complaint should be upheld. 
Ive outlined the relevant parts of my provisional decision below (and they form part of my 
final decision):
General
The complaint is akin to a mis-sale where the issue is about whether the interest term 
was sufficiently drawn to Mr Ns attention at the outset and/or whether the 
recommendation was suitable. In my opinion, the outcome of the complaint hinged on 
three fundamental questions:
odid TenetConnect need to draw Mr Ns attention to the interest term, or take 
account of it when making its recommendation? and if yes
odid TenetConnect satisfactorily draw Mr Ns attention to the interest term, or did it 
take it into account when making its recommendation? and if no
odid that disadvantage Mr N?
Mr N disputed some of what the second advisor had said in respect of him carrying out 
research, choosing the SIPP and instructing her to use S. He said the choice of S came 
about because it was recommended by the first advisor. A transfer questionnaire that 
Mr N completed (before the second advisors advice was given) asked if there were any 
specific contracts he wanted the advisor to consider and the answer given was low cost 
SIPP (Master SIPP) at [S] after extensive personal research. I thought that tended to 
support what the second advisor said  although, having said that, apart from what Ive outlined above from 2012 I hadnt seen anything which detailed any ongoing discussions 
between Mr N and the first advisor about using S.
In any event, I didnt think the issue of whether or not Mr N researched and/or chose 
SIPP had any bearing on the outcome of the complaint. That was because it was clear 
that the second advisor endorsed the decision to use Ss SIPP. And, I felt her 
endorsement was essentially the same as her recommending the SIPP.
In order to ensure that her recommendation was suitable, the advisor was required to 
obtain specific information from Mr N to make sure (amongst other things) that the 
recommendation met his objectives and he understood the risks involved in the 
transaction. Ultimately, the overriding principle was that the advisor had to act in Mr Ns 
best interests.
The interest term wasnt particularly unusual or uncommon. And for the majority of 
consumers its not a particularly important one that they need to know about  because 
their funds arent invested in the SIPP bank account long enough or at all, or the amount 
invested is low, so any interest retained by S didnt significantly outweigh the SIPPs low 
fees. And, for the same reasons, the retained interest isnt always the biggest cost to a 
consumer. So I didnt think the interest term was significant enough that it always had to 
be drawn to a consumers attention or that it always had to be considered by an advisor 
when making a recommendation.
But I needed to look at the situation here in respect of Mr Ns specific circumstances at 
the time the advice was given. Mr Ns main aims at the time of the advice were to have a 
SIPP that had low costs coupled with the ability to invest in commercial property. And his 
intention was to invest in commercial property  it wasnt to keep the remaining funds in 
the SIPP bank account earning interest.
Did TenetConnect need to draw Mr Ns attention to the interest term, or take account of it
when making its recommendation?
I didnt think cost was the only/overall driver or deal breaker for Mr N. I say this because 
he was aware of other products that were cheaper but still elected to proceed with the 
more expensive SIPP provided by S. However, low costs were clearly one of the issues 
that were important to Mr N; and the interest term would have been particularly important 
because the amount he was investing was large  meaning the interest earned (and 
potentially retained by S) would also have been large. The potential lost interest was 
significantly more than the cost of the SIPP.
The length of time the money was likely to be in the SIPP bank account for was also 
important. I hadnt seen anything in the documentation from the time of the advice which 
detailed how long it would be before Mr N invested in commercial property  if it was only 
going to be a month or two, for example, then the interest term would be less significant 
and might not have needed to be drawn to Mr Ns attention. Mr N told me that he never 
got to a point of deciding on what type of commercial property to invest in let alone 
identify a specific property. So it seemed that although it might have been his intention, 
Mr N was a fair way off actually investing in commercial property  which in turn meant 
the money was going to sit in the SIPP bank account for the longer rather than shorter 
term.
So, as the potential lost interest far outweighed the low costs of the SIPP, and as the 
money was likely to remain in the SIPP bank account for a reasonable period of time, I thought the advisor needed to draw to Mr Ns attention to the interest term and/or 
needed to take it into account as part of her recommendation.
Did TenetConnect satisfactorily draw Mr Ns attention to the interest term, or did it take it into
account when making its recommendation?
I hadnt seen anything which persuaded me that TenetConnect specifically drew Mr Ns 
attention to the interest term. Id only seen two documents which outlined the terms of 
the SIPP in respect of the interest. The first was a document titled keyfacts but then 
had a heading saying it was an illustration for Mr N dated 19 May 2014. I understood this 
was the personalised illustration TenetConnect referred to when it responded to Mr Ns 
complaint. That document said:
obased on a Bank base rate of 0.5% the interest rate credited to the plan was 
0.25% for balances of £250,000 and over
oS might also receive interest from the Bank which it would keep and use to help 
meet running costs and keep charges down.
The other document was the Key Features Document for the SIPP. This said:
ofor balances of £250,000 or over the interest rate was 0.25% below Bank of 
Scotlands base rate, subject to a minimum of 0.15% provided the base rate 
didnt fall below 0.5%
oif the base rate fell below 0.5% but remained above zero, the SIPP bank account 
would receive the higher of the above rates or zero
owhere the interest earned on the account exceeded the interest payable to the 
SIPP S would keep the difference.
Both parties made comments about Mr N reading the documents he was sent. 
Documents like these are designed to briefly outline of the important terms of a contract 
 although its obviously up to each consumer whether or not they read them. However, 
its a requirement for a business to sufficiently draw important terms to a consumers 
attention and to make a recommendation that is suitable. And sending documentation to 
a consumer and relying on them to find and understand the important terms doesnt 
automatically mean a term was sufficiently drawn to the consumers attention, and it 
doesnt make an unsuitable recommendation suitable. 
In my view, the documentation sent to Mr N wasnt sufficient for TenetConnect to have 
met its responsibility in this respect. The interest term wasnt given any particular 
prominence in either document  it was effectively buried in the fine print  and there 
was nothing else Id seen that specifically drew Mr Ns attention to it.
There was also no reference to the interest term in any of the recommendation 
documentation (it looked to me like TenetConnects advisors may not have even been 
aware of it). I wasnt therefore persuaded that the advisor took it into account when she 
made her recommendation. But even if she did, I didnt think the recommendation was 
suitable given the impact the interest term would have on the overall cost of the SIPP  
and I thought the interest lost by Mr N/retained by S was part and parcel of the overall 
cost of the SIPP. I thought the advisor should have taken account of the potential 
retained interest as part of her cost analysis.Did TenetConnects failures disadvantage Mr N?
Irrespective of the amount of interest S retained, Mr N knew the interest rate that the 
SIPP paid. So, if S paid that interest rate there was an argument that he didnt suffer any 
loss. However, I didnt think that automatically meant Mr N wasnt disadvantaged.
When deciding whether a consumer was disadvantaged by an unsuitable 
recommendation (or a mis-sale) I look to what position they most likely would have been 
in were it not for the recommendation and compare that with the actual position theyre 
in.
Mr N had pointed to the emails the advisors sent confirming the interest rate the SIPP 
would pay and said he could never receive this due to S retaining the interest. I didnt 
think Mr N was fundamentally misled in respect of the interest rate quoted. This was 
because the interest the advisors mentioned was essentially the same as the interest 
detailed in the documentation Ive seen (albeit the emails referred to the Bank of England 
base rate whereas the documents refer to the Bank of Scotland base rate):
oone document said the interest rate payable was 0.25% if the base rate was 
0.5%
othe other document said the interest rate was 0.25% below the base rate
oand the two emails essentially said the same thing ie the interest being 0.25% 
below the base rate.
I also hadnt seen anything to support what Mr N said about him never being able to 
receive the interest quoted. For example, if the base rate was 0.5%, I hadnt seen 
anything to show that 0.25% interest wasnt paid to his SIPP by S. I did nevertheless 
take Mr Ns point that the emails didnt mention anything about S retaining any interest.
As for the comparison, had the interest term been drawn to Mr Ns attention and/or the 
advice been suitable, I thought it was most likely that Mr N wouldnt have transferred his 
pensions to Ss SIPP and placed the funds in the SIPP bank account. I thought he would 
have made a different choice given the high amount of potential interest that would be 
retained by S.
However, because the calculations were complex and we didnt have the necessary 
resources to do them, it was difficult for me to conclude whether the position Mr N would 
have been in had he made a different choice would have been better than the position 
he was actually in having taken out Ss SIPP.
Summary
For the reasons outlined above, I concluded that:
TenetConnect failed to adequately draw Mr Ns attention to the interest term, or take it 
into account when making its recommendation,
the recommendation was unsuitable, and
this most likely led to Mr N making a different investment decision than he otherwise 
would have made.
Responses to my provisional decision
I havent heard anything further from TenetConnect.Mr N said there were various issues relating to the background of the complaint which didnt 
tally with his records; however he didnt want to challenge them given the overall decision 
outcome. There were four other points that he mentioned:
research  he said he knew little about S until the initial advisor mentioned and 
recommended them, and he was encouraged to refer to this as personal research by 
second advisor
my proposed redress  he asked me to be clearer as to what is required as hes 
concerned that matters wont be settled as Ive indicated if its left to TenetConnects 
judgement
interest and tax  he said the interest retained by S and the interest he received in the 
SIPP account was without any deduction of tax, but when he draws down pension funds 
from the SIPP it will trigger a tax charge; he also said he manages his income (including 
pension drawdowns) in a way as he only pays basic rate tax
the end result  he suggested that TenetConnect needed to do three things to carry out 
my decision:
oascertain the amount of interest diverted by S away from his pension
opay that to him directly net of basic rate income tax (and provide a certificate to 
verify the deduction) 
opay to him any interest on lost interest and any compensation that I deem 
appropriate for the way that TenetConnects actions have caused loss of money 
and a waste of his time.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are no further comments for me to consider in respect of my conclusion on whether or 
not the advice Mr N received was suitable. So my conclusion in this respect remains the 
same, for the reasons outlined above.
Ive noted what Mr N has said in respect of the research into the SIPP, but I dont intend to 
comment on this further as it doesnt affect the outcome of the complaint and I only 
mentioned it in my provisional decision for completeness.
Putting things right
My aim is to put Mr N as closely as possible into the position he would probably now be in if 
hed been given suitable advice. I think he would have invested differently. Its not possible 
to say precisely what he would have done, but I think what he actually did once he 
discovered the interest term is a fairly good indicator as to what he most likely would have 
done from the outset. In that regard, Mr N has said that upon discovering the interest term 
he took steps to place the majority of his funds in term deposits. Based on that, Im satisfied 
that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr N's circumstances and 
objectives when he invested.
To compensate Mr N fairly, TenetConnect should:
Compare the performance of Mr N's investment with that of the benchmark shown. If the 
fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is payable. If 
the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable. 
TenetConnect should add interest as set out below.If there is a loss, TenetConnect should pay into Mr N's pension plan to increase its value 
by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for 
the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into 
the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If TenetConnect is unable to pay the compensation into Mr N's pension plan, it should 
pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to notionally 
allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr N's actual or expected marginal 
rate of tax at his selected retirement age. For example, if he is likely to be a basic rate 
taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate 
of tax. However, if he would have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction 
should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
TenetConnect should provide Mr N with a clear and understandable explanation of its 
calculations.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If TenetConnect deducts income tax from 
the interest, it should tell Mr N how much has been taken off. TenetConnect should give him 
a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue 
&Customs if appropriate.
investment 
namestatus benchmark from (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
SIPP bank 
accounttransferredthe term 
deposits Mr N 
placed his 
funds indate of 
investment 
into SIPP 
bank accountdate 
transferred 
out of SIPP 
bank 
account8% simple per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to 
the date of 
settlement
The actual value is the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date. The fair
value is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a
return using the benchmark. The additional interest is for being deprived of the use of any
compensation money since the end date.
Ive noted Mr Ns comments in respect of my proposed redress; however, I think what Ive 
proposed above is the fairest way to resolve this matter. Although I think the redress is 
worded clearly enough to explain what TenetConnect has to do, Ive added in the 
requirement to provide Mr N with a clear explanation of the calculations. Ultimately my role is 
limited to deciding the complaint  neither I nor the Financial Ombudsman Service have any 
power to ensure TenetConnect does what its required to do. If Mr N accepts my decision it 
will become binding on both parties. And if Mr N ultimately feels TenetConnect doesnt settle 
the matter as Ive decided he will be able to ask the Court to enforce the decision.
Ive noted Mr Ns comments about how he manages his finances and that he only pays basic 
rate tax. Ive set out above what should happen in respect of any tax deduction if 
compensation has to be paid directly to Mr N rather than into his pension. I remain of the 
view that this is the fair solution.
Finally, Ive noted Mr Ns comments on what he thinks TenetConnect needs to now do. As 
Ive just said, I think Ive clearly outlined what TenetConnect now needs to do in order to 
settle this matter. It isnt necessary in my view to ascertain how much interest S retained or to pay that directly to Mr N as the redress is based on a comparison between the actual 
value of the investment at the end date and the value of the investment at the end date had 
it produced a return using the benchmark. The redress also takes account  by way of 
interest  of Mr N being deprived of funds (assuming the fair value is higher than the actual 
value) in the interim.
I do nevertheless think this overall matter has caused Mr N a degree of distress and 
inconvenience eg discovering that S was entitled to retain interest that he felt should be his, 
then having to chase things up and research things. So in addition to the above 
compensation for potential losses, TenetConnect should pay Mr N £300 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience caused.
 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require TenetConnect Limited to settle this matter as outlined under 
the Putting things right heading above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 October 2021.
 
Paul Daniel
Ombudsman