DRN-2312912
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Lloyds Bank PLC repeatedly gave her unsuitable investment advice 
between 1999 and 2010. While it has recently admitted that some of the recommendations 
were wrong, her representative argues that the proposed compensation is not fair.
What happened
Mrs W representative, a Claims Management Company (CMC) said:
100% of Mrs Ws money was invested in equities, with nothing in fixed-interest 
government bonds etc.
This represented too great a risk to Mrs Ws money
It accepted that she was looking for medium-high risk investments but these needed 
to include a broad range of assets (not just a single asset class)
Costs are a major factor in likely investment returns; as such, the advisor should 
have at least considered low-cost index funds
As he did not, Mrs W was not in a position to decide whether to agree to the 
recommendations
Compensation should be based on the FTSE UK Private Investors Balanced Index
Lloyds said it accepted that the 1999 recommended product posed too much risk to Mrs Ws 
money (and therefore the subsequent top-ups). It felt its advisor should have advised Mrs W 
to take a modest or low risk with her money on all three occasions. It therefore offered to pay 
her compensation based on the return this money might have achieved via a more suitable 
low-risk investment. 
It made this calculation using an equal combination of the returns shown by the Bank of 
Englands fixed-rate bonds of 12 to 17 months maturity and FTSE UK and the WMA Stock 
Market Index. It offered her just under £8,000 in compensation (after deduction of tax from 
the interest).
It felt that Mrs W was in a position to take a higher risk with her 2010-invested money and 
therefore did not agree that this investment advice had been unsuitable.
An investigator at this service felt that Lloyds offer had been fair and broadly in line with the 
compensation this service would have suggested if Lloyds had not upheld her complaint.  He 
said that while the Lloyds advisor had recorded Mrs Ws attitude to risk as medium-high, he 
felt that given her circumstances this was excessive; a low/cautious risk would have been 
more appropriate. Given this, Lloyds proposed compensation formula was reasonable.
He felt that while Mrs Ws circumstances in 2010 had not changed significantly, her income 
and investment experience and were sufficient to warrant recommending a higher-risk 
investment on this occasion.
Mrs Ws CMC did not agree, saying:
It was not acceptable to recommend investing in a single asset class (equities) and 
the proposed actively-managed investments involved excessive costs; other lower-
cost funds were not considered
But Mrs W did agree to take a medium-high risk with this money so it cannot be 
acceptable to propose compensation based on a formula which involves keeping half 
of it in risk-free bonds
This would not have met her objective of seeking to invest all of it to try and generate 
a higher return that that available via savings deposits
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I want to acknowledge that there was a lengthy correspondence about the nature of 
the funds and their make-up. Ultimately, I am satisfied that both parties do not dispute this 
make-up or the broad level of risk they posed to Mrs Ws money.
I am satisfied that they can reasonably be described as medium risk and that they contained 
a broad range of equities, spread across the seven funds. I dont accept the CMCs 
argument that they were not sufficiently diversified merely because they were solely in 
equities. 
Lloyds concluded that the products represented too great a risk to Mrs W given her 
circumstances (prior to the 2010 advice). Having considered all the evidence, I agree with 
this assessment. In normal circumstances I would outline all the reasons why I have 
concluded that a complainants risk level had not been fairly assessed but as Lloyds itself 
accepted this, I dont feel this is necessary. 
Crucially, if I felt Mrs W had been correctly assessed as being able to take a medium-high 
risk with her money (between 1999 and 2001)  as her CMC appears to argue  then in my 
view Lloyds should not be required to pay any compensation as this is the level of risk the 
investments posed.
However, as I do not believe this, I expect Lloyds to honour its compensation offer; 
otherwise Mrs W would be entitled to bring a complaint about this issue back to our service.
I also think there is an inherent contradiction in the CMCs argument that Mrs W was looking 
for a medium-high risk investment but should have been advised to put some of her money 
in government securities etc. By definition, this would have reduced the overall risk. It also 
doesnt square with its objection to the proposed compensation which included fixed-rate 
bonds.
Overall, I agree with Lloyds that Mrs W should have only been advised to take a cautious 
risk with her money  between 1991 and 2001  and that it should therefore calculate 
potential compensation based on a cautious/low risk formula. While its formula is not 
identical to the one that this service typically recommends, both formulae involve a use of 
the Bank of Englands bonds of 12 to 17 months maturity to deliver an overall low risk. As 
such, I am satisfied it is a fair formula.
The point of both formulas is to replicate the sort of return a low/cautious-risk investor might 
have achieved. This is why it includes the (effectively) risk-free BoE bonds. So I dont accept 
the CMCs argument that as Mrs W was willing to invest all her money the formula isnt 
suitable. Indeed, many/most low-risk products include risk-free assets such as corporate and 
government bonds in order to achieve an overall low risk profile. Even medium and higher rated products will often contain very low or risk-free assets. Contrary to the CMCs 
complaint, Mrs Ws investments did include a modest mix of bonds, cash and other virtually 
risk-free assets (although not sufficient for her circumstances in my view).
Finally, I note that Mrs Ws CMC repeatedly states that she was looking for a medium-high 
risk investment/product in 2010 and is looking for compensation based on such a risk 
formula. So while I have some concerns as to whether Mrs W should have been 
recommended anything more than a low-risk product in 2010, I do not think it is appropriate 
to consider this issue given Mrs Ws representative clearly states she wanted a higher risk 
and has not complained about her risk classification in 2010.
My final decision
As I am satisfied that Lloyds compensation offer was fair, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2021.
 
Tony Moss
Ombudsman