DRN-2720168
The complaint
Mr C complains that ActiveQuote Limited mis-sold his income protection policy.
What happened
As both sides are aware of the background to this complaint I have only provided a summary 
of what happened below. 
In December 2017 Mr C (a company director) purchased an income protection policy online 
through ActiveQuote. The policy was underwritten by an insurer Ill call Insurer X, and it was 
designed to provide Mr C with a monthly benefit in the event of him being unable to work due 
to accident, sickness or unemployment. 
In March 2020 Mr C made an unemployment claim. Insurer X explained that in line with his 
policy, Mr C was considered to be self-employed and was expected to have permanently 
ceased trading before making his claim. Unhappy with that requirement, Mr C complained to 
ActiveQuote.
Mr C thought his policy had been mis-sold. He raised concerns about the policys definition 
of self-employed. He said the requirement to have ceased trading wasnt made clear to him. 
And he said that if it was, he wouldnt have bought it.
ActiveQuote didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. It said Mr C had bought the policy online with no 
advice and it was his responsibility to familiarise himself with the terms and conditions of it to 
make sure it met his needs and requirements. 
Mr C remained concerned about the sale so referred his concerns to this service. 
Our investigator explained that ActiveQuote wasnt responsible for the policy terms and so 
the self-employed definition wasnt a matter for it to address. But she did think the 
requirement for a self-employed policy holder to have ceased trading was a significant term. 
And she didnt think ActiveQuote had shown it had brought it to Mr Cs attention during the 
sale in a clear, fair and not misleading way. So she upheld the complaint, and recommended 
ActiveQuote refunded what Mr C had paid in premiums plus interest. 
Mr C agreed with that recommendation but ActiveQuote didnt. It responded at length but in 
summary said it hadnt mis-sold the policy. It said it had attempted to contact Mr C after the 
sale and had provided him with the policy documentation. It also provided commentary on 
Mr Cs employment status and the policy wording. And it referred to Mr C having 
misunderstood and not complied with the policys terms.
Our investigator remained of the opinion that ActiveQuote hadnt shown it had provided Mr C 
with clear, fair and not misleading information at the point of sale however. And so as no 
agreement was reached the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My findings will only address those matters I consider central to the outcome of this 
complaint. I would however like to thank both sides for setting out their positions at length. 
I am upholding this complaint for largely the same reasons as our investigator, and will 
explain why:
Mr C purchased his policy online and without advice from ActiveQuote, so I am 
satisfied this was a non-advised sale. Our investigator has already highlighted the 
relevant rules and regulations which apply to non-advised sales. They required 
ActiveQuote to provide Mr C with enough clear, fair and not misleading information in 
order for him to make an informed choice about whether the policy was right for him. 
ActiveQuote needed to do this by bringing Mr Cs attention to any unusual or 
significant features of the policy, which would generally be considered things such as 
any key exclusions or restrictions on cover.
Both Mr C and ActiveQuote have raised points in relation to what constitutes self-
employed. While I acknowledge those points, the word self-employed is specifically 
defined by the terms and conditions of Mr Cs income protection policy. Ive cited that 
definition below, and in line with it I too agree that for the purposes of his policy Mr C 
was considered self-employed.
Self-Employed
You are working in the UK alone or in partnership with others and you are 
registered as self-employed with the relevant UK tax authorities and are liable to 
paying Income Tax and National Insurance contributions, at the rate applicable to 
self-employed persons; or You are a company director.
Unfortunately, ActiveQuote hasnt been able to show what Mr Cs full online purchase 
journey would have looked like, or what information would been have presented to 
him at the time. It has however been able to show what questions Mr C would have 
been asked. I empathise with the difficulties ActiveQuotes explained its had in trying 
to produce contemporaneous evidence of the sales journey. And I acknowledge that 
post-sale it says it tried to call Mr C to check his understanding of the cover and sent 
him the relevant policy documentation to review. But Im not persuaded this 
demonstrates what information would have been presented to Mr C when actually 
purchasing the policy.
The policy documentation ActiveQuote says it sent to Mr C included a key 
facts/policy summary document and a copy of the full policy terms and conditions. As 
our investigator has already explained, the key facts/policy summary listed what were 
described as significant exclusions & limitations of the unemployment cover. 
Looking at this list however, no clear distinction is made between policy holders who 
are employed versus self-employed, and no reference is made to self-employed 
policy holders having to cease trading and wind up their business in order to make an 
unemployment claim.
Reference to self-employed policy holders having to satisfy the above requirement is 
set out in the full policy terms and conditions. This is on page 8 where unemployed 
and unemployment are defined as:
Unemployed, UnemploymentYou are without work due to your employment ending unexpectedly and due to 
circumstances beyond your control. You must be:
oRegistered as unemployed and actively seeking work with the appropriate 
UK government office and meeting their eligibility criteria throughout the 
duration of your claim; and
oNot in receipt of payment in lieu of notice, including any compensation 
payment for loss or office or payment received under a settlement agreement.
oIf you are self-employed, then in addition to all of the above, your business 
must have ceased to trade and if you are a company director then your 
company must have ben wound up by a creditor who is not a director of that 
company.
And on page 11, where details of what is and isnt covered under the unemployment 
provisions of the policy are listed as:
What is not covered
i) Claims where you have been self-employed and are unable to provide 
satisfactory evidence that your business has ceased trading.
Like our investigator, I too think that the requirement to have ceased trading and 
wound up his business in order to make an unemployment claim was an important 
requirement of Mr Cs cover. And in the circumstances of this complaint, I think it 
reasonable to consider this to have been a key exclusion or restriction. 
As noted above, there isnt sufficient evidence to demonstrate that ActiveQuote 
brought this requirement to Mr Cs attention when he was purchasing the policy with 
it online, and I dont think the key facts/policy summary sufficiently highlighted this 
requirement either. The requirement was set out within the full terms and conditions, 
but I am not of the opinion that this evidences ActiveQuote having provided Mr C with 
enough clear, fair and not misleading information during the sale of his policy in order 
for him to make an informed choice about whether the cover was right for him. 
Mr C has said that had he been aware of the requirement to cease trading/wind up 
his business at the point of sale, he wouldnt have taken out the policy. This of course 
did not happen, and I cannot say with absolute certainty that Mr C wouldnt have 
purchased the policy. But based on what Mr C has said and the action he took when 
Insurer X told him he needed to have ceased trading and wind up his business, Im 
not persuaded that I can reasonably conclude that Mr C would have gone ahead and 
purchased the policy had the above been brought to his attention in a clear, fair and 
not misleading way.   
For these reasons, I think that ActiveQuote needs to take additional action to put things right.
Putting things right
ActiveQuote should pay Mr C compensation equivalent to the premiums he paid for the 
policy, plus 8% simple interest from the date each premium was paid to the date of 
settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. ActiveQuote Limited should put things right 
in way I have set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2021.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman