DRN-3235502
The complaint
Mr K complains that British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) failed to unblock a shower drain 
despite multiple visits under his home emergency policy. He wants his own contractors 
invoice reimbursed and compensation for the inconvenience.
What happened
Mr K has a landlords home emergency policy which includes repairs for plumbing problems 
on his rental properties. He says a shower drain became blocked and he called BG. It sent 
an agent, (Ill call D) who attempted to clear the drain by rodding through the shower tray 
trap as the pipework below was hidden behind tiles. This was unsuccessful and Ds job 
summary says that partial flow had been restored by plunging and that it would reattend to 
complete further works. 
D returned two days later and reported the drain was slow but not fully blocked. Another 
unsuccessful attempt was made to rod the drain. D attended again a few days later and 
rodded the drain again, without success. D suggested removing a tile below the shower tray 
but didnt have the tools to do this, so another visit was made. The tile and section of skirting 
board was removed, but the trap and pipework couldnt be reached. 
D suggested that floor tiles be lifted to see if the pipes could be accessed this way. Mr K 
refused this. He said a CCTV camera should be used to inspect the drain instead. D said 
this would be chargeable and wouldnt solve the problem of accessing the pipework. Mr K 
says D said an alternative option would be to access the pipework through the ceiling below. 
He says he didnt want the floor tiles lifted, or the ceiling cut through as it would cause 
expensive damage which BG wouldnt make good. 
Mr K says he had concerns about BGs ability to complete the repair to the drain and how 
long this would take. He decided to get his own contractor, who he says was able to clear 
the drain by using a large amount of drain cleaner and 20 minutes or so of plunging. This 
contractor also replaced the tile and skirting.
Mr K complained to BG about the failure to clear the drain. He said Ds engineers didnt 
know what they were doing and had wasted his time with multiple visits. He said his own 
contractors were superior despite being paid less than BGs. He said he wanted his 
expenses of £300 reimbursing, providing an invoice for this amount and a further £300 for 
his own time and the inconvenience caused.
BG apologised for the inconvenience caused by multiple visits. But it disagreed that Ds 
workmanship was poor. It said the drain couldnt be rodded due to the pipework having 
multiple 90-degree elbows and flexible connectors. It said the policy provided for a 
permanent repair and chemicals treatments wouldnt address any fault that had caused the 
blockage to occur. It said this type of solution wasnt covered by the policy. However, it sent 
Mr K a cheque for £150 as a gesture of goodwill for the inconvenience caused.
Mr K referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into it and upheld the 
complaint in part. She said the payment of £150 for the inconvenience caused by multiple 
visits was fair.
She said BG had given valid reasons why the work done by Mr Ks contractor wasnt a repair 
covered by the policy. But she said BG needed to do more to resolve the complaint fairly, 
because, as experts, it should have been able to advise Mr K how to clear the blockage at 
outset. She said she understood why Mr K was reluctant to have BG carry out further, 
invasive work on his property that wouldnt be fully covered by the policy. She asked that Mr 
K provide an itemised invoice for the work his contractor had done. Mr K replied, what 
contractor does that and especially for a small amount of £300. 
Our investigator said she thought it was fair to ask BG to contribute to Mr Ks costs. With this 
to be based on the alternative option proposed by D of accessing the pipework through the 
ceiling below. She said it would be fair for BG to estimate this cost and pay Mr K this up to 
the amount of his invoice.
BG said it accepted the investigators view. Mr K said she was making it unnecessarily 
complicated. He said he wouldnt have allowed BG to access through the ceiling because 
BG doesnt make good the access work and five engineers had already failed to solve the 
problem. He said he would only agree to the proposal when he knew how much BG would 
offer. 
BG said this work was relatively minor, costing no more than £100 to access the pipework, 
clear the blockage, and then repair the hole in the ceiling to a level surface. Mr K said this 
amount was inadequate but that he would accept £300 to cover his costs and his own time, 
despite these totalling more than £600. Our investigator said she couldnt ask BG to pay 
more than its estimate of the cost of doing this work. 
As Mr K doesnt agree it has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am upholding the complaint in part. 
I understand that this would have been frustrating for Mr K and I think its fair that BG 
contributes towards Mr Ks repair costs. But I wont be asking BG to pay more than the £100 
it estimated the work would have cost via the ceiling access option. Ill explain why.
Mr Ks policy doesnt cover every eventuality. What is and isnt covered is set out in the 
terms and conditions (T&Cs) of the policy. It provides for drains to be unblocked to restore 
flow and:
Repairing drains where we deem the drain to be
unserviceable to restore flow
BG has provided a number of reasons why it doesnt use chemical treatments to clear 
blockages. These include health and safety concerns for the occupiers of the property. And, 
the possibility that the fix will only be temporary as it wont address any underlying issue 
causing the problem. Whilst Mr K says there havent been any further problems, BG is 
expert, and I dont think its approach is unreasonable. It concluded that as the drain couldnt be successfully rodded further investigation was necessary. And, the policy does provide for 
repairs to be made if the drain was deemed unserviceable. 
Unfortunately, this would require some work to access the drain and the policy doesnt fully 
cover reinstating what needs to be accessed. The policy does provide for access holes to be 
filled and left level but not for finishings like tiles or paint to be applied. So, had further 
investigations been made under the policy Mr K would have faced some costs to fully re-
instate either the floor or the ceiling. This is clearly set out in the policy, so I cant say it is 
unreasonable.
However, I think Mr K was inconvenienced by BG needing to make multiple visits to 
conclude that further investigations were required. It has already paid £150 compensation for 
the inconvenience and time spent by the multiple visits. I think this is reasonable 
compensation, which is in line with awards our service would make in the circumstances. 
But I also think it was reasonable for Mr K to have some concerns about BGs ability to solve 
the problem, how long this would take, and the ongoing inconvenience and disruption being 
caused. And, as BG didnt achieve a satisfactory outcome, I think its fair that it does 
contribute towards Mr Ks costs for getting work done himself. 
In fairness to BG, it hadnt authorised the use of another contractor and there isnt an 
itemised breakdown of the work on Mr Ks invoice. He says a breakdown cant be obtained, 
but as the contractor was Mr Ks own business, as he stated in his initial complaint to BG, I 
am not sure why this should be so. However, based on the evidence available, not all of the 
work shown on Mr Ks invoice would be covered by the policy. So, it wouldnt be fair for me 
to tell BG to pay the whole invoice amount, particularly if it could have completed a repair 
itself for less than this.
Putting things right
Taking everything into account I think BG should pay Mr K what it estimated the cost would 
be to access through the ceiling, clear the blockage and then leave the opening level. BG 
says this would have been a simple job, taking between one to two hours and costing no 
more than £100. Whilst this will disappoint Mr K, I think this is a reasonable estimate for the 
work involved and BG should pay this sum to Mr K to fairly resolve his complaint.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint in part against British Gas Insurance Limited.
I direct British Gas Insurance Services to pay Mr K £100 towards his invoice for having the 
drain cleared.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman