DRN-4379062
The complaint
Mrs S complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) wouldnt refund money she lost in a scam.
What happened
What Mrs S says:
Mrs S was looking for flights for a family holiday and came across a travel website. She 
contacted the company and chatted on WhatsApp. The travel company presented an invoice 
and in December 2022, Mrs S paid three amounts as shown. Separately, she said she had 
paid another amount in November 2022 and also raised a disputed payment for that:
Date Payment Amount
15 November 2022 Visa debit card  to Dubai merchant £553.48
7 December 2022 Visa debit card  to money transfer business £269.22
7 December 2022 Visa debit card  to money transfer business £270.00
7 December 2022 Visa debit card  to money transfer business £259.00
Total £1,351.70
Mrs S says she was the victim of a scam. She says she didnt receive the flight tickets. And 
on the payment of £553.48, she said she didnt receive the goods she paid for.
HSBC raised chargeback claims with the card scheme (Visa) and credited Mrs S account 
with temporary refunds pending the claims. The chargeback claims failed and the temporary 
credits were reversed.
What HSBC said:
HSBC said the three chargeback claims (payments two-four) had been submitted to Visa in 
accordance with the Visa rules for chargebacks.  HSBC said that the merchant was a money 
transfer business and the payments went to Mrs S wallet with that business. As such, the 
beneficiary wasnt a travel agency. So  the chargeback claims failed. 
The claim for £553.48 failed as the merchant said Mrs S hadnt tried to resolve it directly with 
the merchant first. And  the card payments had been made and authenticated by Mrs S. 
HSBC didnt refund the money.
Our investigation so far:
Mrs S brought her complaint to us. Our investigator didnt uphold it. He said the payments 
werent large enough to expect HSBC to intervene and question them. And HSBC had 
submitted chargeback claims in line with what they were expected to do  and those failed. 
That was because the merchants successfully defended the claims.
Mrs S didnt agree and asked that her complaint be escalated to an ombudsman, and so it 
has come to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs S says she lost her money in a scam. That said, HSBC opened chargeback claims for 
all four payments, so I will look at her complaint in two ways:
-HSBCs chargeback claims: did HSBC deal with those reasonably and in line with 
procedures?
-Scam complaint: should HSBC have intervened in the payments and stopped them 
and asked questions of Mrs S?
Chargeback claims:
I can see that HSBC placed temporary credits to Mrs S account for all four payments and 
opened chargeback claims with Visa. Its important to note that the chargeback scheme is a 
voluntary one  it doesnt guarantee a successful refund. I can see that in each case, the 
merchant defended the claim in accordance with the Visa scheme rules. And so the claims 
failed. Im satisfied that HSBC followed the chargeback scheme rules and processes 
properly.
Scam claim:
Ive then gone on to consider Mrs S main complaint that shes brought to us - that she was 
scammed out of her money.
Im sorry to hear that Mrs S has lost money in a scam. Its not in question that she authorised 
and consented to the payments in this case. So although Mrs S didnt intend for the money 
to go to a scammer, she is presumed to be liable for the loss in the first instance. 
So, in broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the 
Payment Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And 
I have taken that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story. Taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider HSBC should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
I need to decide whether HSBC acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mrs S when 
she made the payments, or whether it should have done more than it did. I have considered 
the position carefully. I need to decide if HSBC shouldve reasonably intervened in the 
payments, stopped them, and contacted Mrs S about them.
And while I accept this was a lot of money to Mrs S, the payments in question were in fact  
low value ones. There was also nothing else about the payments that ought reasonably to 
have concerned HSBC.  Theres a balance to be struck: HSBC has obligations to be alert to 
fraud and scams and to act in their customers best interests, but they cant be involved in 
every transaction as this would cause unnecessary disruption to legitimate payments. In this 
case, I think HSBC acted reasonably in processing the payments.
Therefore, I dont consider that HSBC can be held responsible for Mrs S losses.
Mrs S has lost a lot of money. Shes explained why the money was important to her, and the 
impact her losses have had. I was sorry to learn of her circumstances. She will therefore be 
disappointed by my decision, but Im not going to ask HSBC to do anything here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman