DRN-3335191
The complaint
Mr D complains that Insurance Factory Ltd (trading as Purely Pets) failed to renew his pet 
insurance policy and left him facing increased costs for future treatment.
What happened
Mr D contacted Purely Pets in June 2021 to renew his pet insurance policy. After discussing 
direct debit options Mr D decided to pay by card. But at the beginning of September his vet 
informed him that his claims had been declined as there wasnt a valid policy in place.
Purely Pets told Mr D it had a record of his call. But it then said that wasnt the case. So he 
checked his card statements and found the premium hadnt been taken. Mr D said Purely 
Pets wouldnt let him pay and continue his policy. So hes had to consider other pet 
insurance that wouldnt cover his pets pre-existing conditions. That means hell be 
thousands of pounds out of pocket because of Purely Pets unreasonable actions. So Mr D 
wants around £7300 compensation to cover the bills hed had to settle himself and for 
ongoing treatment costs that wouldve been covered by his previous policy.
Purely Pets said Mr Ds policy had lapsed in June 2021 as it hadnt received any payment 
from him for its renewal. Purely Pets said it hadnt been able to find any trace of calls from 
the telephone numbers it held for Mr D. And itd been unable to find any trace of a payment 
for the policy renewal. But it would be happy to reinstate the policy if Mr D could show proof 
that the payment had been made by the due date in June 2021. 
Purely Pets listened to Mr Ds later call and agreed its adviser had incorrectly stated he 
could see Mr D had called in June 2021. A claim had been added to Mr Ds policy on that 
date and the agent had mistakenly assumed that meant Mr D had contacted Purely Pets. It 
provided Mr D with a transcript of the conversation and paid £20 compensation for any 
confusion that might have caused. But unless Mr D could show hed made a payment for the 
policy it would remain lapsed. And no further claims would be paid.  
Mr D wasnt satisfied with Purely Pets response. So he contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. She could see Mr D had an ongoing claim when the 
policy became due for renewal. But later claims had been declined because the policy had 
lapsed. And Purely Pets was unable to find any trace of Mr Ds renewal payment.
Our investigator could see an authorisation code had been generated when Mr D had taken 
out the policy a year earlier. But the trace results didnt show any evidence of Mr D making a 
payment to renew the policy. Our investigator felt Purely Pets had acted reasonably in 
offering Mr D £20 compensation for confusing the data entry with a call log on its system.  
But unless Mr D was able to provide further evidence showing hed called the insurer at the 
beginning of June 2021 she wouldnt be able to do anything more. 
Mr D didnt agree with our investigator. So hes asked for an ombudsmans final decision. 
Hed contacted Purely Pets within a few days of receiving the renewal notice. And his notes 
confirmed hed discussed whether or not to pay by direct debit. 
Mr D said hed tried to pay the outstanding premium when itd come to light. But Purely Pets 
had refused to accept it. And he thought the insurer wanted to get rid of his policy because 
hed made previous claims on it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of the difficulties Mr D has experienced. It mustve been very upsetting to 
discover his pet insurance policy had lapsed due to a payment problem. And I can 
understand his concerns that a new policy wont pay for pre-existing conditions thatd been 
covered by the Purely Pets policy. So Ive looked carefully at whats happened to see if 
Purely Pets has done anything wrong. And if so what it needs to do to put things right.
Theres no dispute that Mr D was aware his pet insurance policy was due for renewal. And I 
can see that Purely Pets gave Mr D sufficient notice that he needed to renew the policy. But 
even though Mr D says he spoke to Purely Pets theres no record of the call or a payment 
receipt by the insurer.
Ive looked at Purely Pets system notes. They confirm the renewal notice was sent to 
Mr D at the end of May 2021. I can also see the update to the system at the beginning of 
June 2021 when new claim details were added. But theres no record of any payment being 
received before the policy expired later that month.
Mr D has provided a copy of the renewal notice and I can see hes written a few notes on the 
form about the amount paid and which credit card had been used. Hes also noted the 
discussion about whether or not to switch to direct debit payment. And Ive no reason to 
disbelieve Mr Ds version of events.
But if Mr D had been able to complete his payment during the call and renew the policy Id 
have expected Purely Pets to have given him an authorisation code for the payment. And I 
wouldve expected Mr D to have written down the code along with the other notes hed 
taken. The authorisation code wouldve been confirmation his payment had been accepted. 
But Mr D doesnt have a record of a payment authorisation code. And Purely Pets hasnt 
been able to find any trace of receiving a payment from Mr D. So I think its reasonable to 
assume that, whatever happened during Mr Ds call, the renewal payment wasnt completed. 
Ive seen copies of the unsuccessful traces Purely Pets made for the numbers it had for 
Mr D. If Mr D called from a different number  such as a work extension without caller ID  
then I wouldnt expect Purely Pets to be able to trace the call unless Mr D was able to 
provide further details. And unfortunately he hasnt been able to do so.
Mr D says he was willing to make the payment once it became clear he hadnt been charged 
for the renewal. But Purely Pets wouldnt let him continue the same policy. I do appreciate 
how this will affect Mr Ds pet care moving forwards. He will need to consider a new pet 
insurance policy. And its unlikely it will provide cover for his pets existing conditions. 
But it was Mr Ds responsibility to make sure the renewal premium had been made in time to 
Purely Pets. Although he was sure itd been arranged he had no note of any authorisation 
code. 
Although Mr D thought the payment had been made he didnt notice the payment hadnt 
appeared on his card statement. Thats not something I can hold Purely Pets responsible for.Because Mr Ds payment hadnt been made by the expected date Purely Pets was entitled 
to follow the policys cancellation process. And without any evidence to show Mr D had 
contacted it to try and make payment at the right time it was under no obligation to reinstate 
Mr Ds policy.
Im sorry this isnt the outcome Mr D was hoping for. I think Purely Pets were right to pay
Mr D £20 compensation when its adviser confused a claim update for a call record.  But 
based on everything Ive seen I cant say Purely Pets has done anything wrong in cancelling 
Mr Ds pet insurance policy. And I wont be asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2022.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman