DRN-3692099
The complaint
Ms W complains that Clear Score Technology Limited (Clear Score) allowed a third party to 
access her data.
What happened
On 5 June 2021 Miss W tried to access her credit report using Clear Score, but as she found 
their identification process intrusive, she aborted the attempt. The following day she changed 
her mind and decided to register with Clear Score.  On completing the sign up process a 
message on the website told her that she couldnt access her report as there was another 
account already set up in her name. It asked her for other email addresses that she may 
have used to set this up.
She raised the issue with Clear Score who initially told her the other account was set up on 5 
June 2021  her aborted attempt from the day before. To look into this further Clear Score 
asked Miss W to Identify herself by providing a copy of her passport or driving license and a 
selfie. Miss W didnt want to provide this and was unhappy that Clear Score had gone ahead 
and set up an account when she had aborted the process, so she complained. After some 
back and forth between Miss W and Clear Score it was realised that this was a mistake, and 
the other account was not set up on 5 June 2021 as Clear Score had said. It was an account 
that had been set up on 4 September 2017 in Miss Ws name, with a different email address. 
Miss W confirmed she had never set up an account previously. Clear Score would not allow 
Miss W access to her credit report without being able to verify her identity, and both 
accounts were blocked. 
Miss W was unhappy and complained to Clear Score the main points of the complaint were:
They had allowed a third-party access to her details
They had retained information from her aborted registration on 5 June 2021 without 
her consent 
They were trying to force her into providing copies of her identification documents
Clear Score responded to Miss W over a number of emails as there was lots of back and 
forth between them. But in summary it said:
The account that had been set up on 5 September 2017, had been set up using her 
details by someone who had been able to give over enough personal information to 
verify themselves, including name, date of birth and 3 years of address history. They 
then correctly answered a series of security questions relating to Miss Ws financial 
history before being able to set up the account. It offered to file details of the 
impersonation to a national fraud database. And offered to provide the IP address 
and email address to Action Fraud to help with any police investigation.
If Miss W wanted her information deleted, she could make a right to be forgotten 
request for all her information to be deleted and it would do so.
It required her identity to be able to make sure that it was now dealing with the 
correct person in relation to Miss Ws information.
Miss W was unhappy with this and brought her complaint to this service. She included 
further points when bringing the complaint to us, Ive summarised these below in my own 
words:
She thought Clear Score suggesting she make a right to be forgotten request was 
an attempt for it to cover up the fraud as that account would also be deleted.
Clear Score had not been accurate in all of its responses and had been obstructive in 
providing information about the 2017 account
She felt she was due compensation of £15,244 broken down as:
£6,500 for allowing a fraudster access to her credit file
£3,312 (46x £72) for Clear Score accessing her data without her consent and 
profiting from it
£2,500 for storing the data she entered into Clear Scores website on 5 June 
2021
£400 for attempting to obtain copies of her identification as well as a selfie 
under false pretences
£800 for inconvenience as she couldnt access her account
£1,200 for distress caused
£532 (28x£19) for time spent dealing with the matter
Our investigator didnt think this was a complaint that should be upheld. In summary he said:
The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) would be responsible for considering if 
Clear Score had breached any data protection legislation with regards to disclosing, 
deleting, processing and retaining information.
He didnt think it was unreasonable for Clear Score to have held onto Miss Ws data 
from her aborted application on 5 June 2021 as she likely agreed to the privacy 
condition near the start of the application, which said:
You authorise and instruct Clear Score to retrieve and process information 
held about you by credit reference agencies, for the purpose of providing you 
with our services.
From the information he had on file, it was likely that Clear Score had carried out 
reasonable and proportionate checks to verify the identity of the person who set up 
the account in September 2017. And while it seems likely that a third-party has 
accessed Miss Ws data, he didnt think Clear Score had acted unreasonably in 
allowing this as they believed it to be her at the time. Any impact this has caused was 
caused by the third-party and so he couldnt hold Clear Score responsible.
He didnt think it was unreasonable for Clear Score to ask for identification along with 
a selfie so it could be sure it was dealing with the right person. Or for them to refuse Miss W access or continue to block both the 2017 and the 2021 account, when she 
refused to provide this, as it was trying to stop a potential fraudster accessing the 
account.
He didnt think Clear Score had to provide Miss W with the full details of what had 
happened as it hadnt been able to verify that she was the correct person as she had 
refused to provide it with the identification it had requested.
He didnt think, when Clear Score suggested Miss W could make a right to be 
forgotten request that it was trying to cover up any fraud or that it wanted to delete 
information relating to the 2017 account. But that it was trying to be helpful as she 
was unhappy that her data was being held by it.
Miss W didnt agree with the investigators findings, she didnt give any reasons other than 
the outcome was unacceptable. The matter has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive read and taken into 
account all of the information provided by both parties, in reaching my decision. If Ive not 
reflected something thats been said in this decision its not because I didnt see it, its 
because I didnt deem it relevant to the crux of the complaint. This isnt intended as a 
discourtesy to either party, but merely to reflect my informal role in deciding what a fair and 
reasonable outcome is. This also means I dont think its necessary to get an answer, or 
provide my own answer, to every question raised unless its relevant to the crux of the 
complaint. And having considered everything, I have to tell Miss W that Ive reached the 
same outcome as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. Ill explain.
Before I do I think I should explain that data retention is something the ICO is responsible for 
and isnt something that falls under the jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman Service. So 
I havent considered how or why Clear Score has stored Miss Ws information as part of this 
complaint. 
My role here is to decide if Clear Score did something wrong when it allowed the 2017 
account to be set up, and what its actions were once it became aware that there was a 
potential fraud. To determine that I have looked at if it has followed its own internal 
procedures properly and if it has treated Miss W fairly and in line with how it would treat all of 
its other customers.
Having said that I do recognise that the existence of the 2017 account must have been 
shocking for Miss W and that it would have caused her to worry knowing that somebody else 
had been able to access to her data. So, I do understand her concerns.
2017 Account 
Clear Score has told us that when the 2017 account was set up the user provided Miss Ws 
personal details including her name, date of birth and address history, dating back three 
years. They were then asked the following three questions:
Who is your mortgage provider?
How long was the initial term?Who bills you for your mobile phone or cable service?
They were able to answer these questions correctly, there were no other questions, and they 
didnt get any questions wrong. Clear Score has told us that they dont have access to the 
answers that were provided as they are held by the credit reference agency that Clear Score 
uses to gather its data. It has said though, that it would be able to request these if they are 
part of a police or legal investigation. So, if Miss W has reported this account to the police, 
she may want to let them know so they can add this to their investigation.
I believe the checks Clear Score carried out to be reasonable and proportionate and in line 
with the checks they do on all their customers, so I dont think there was any reason for it to 
think it was dealing with anyone other than Miss W when the account was being set up. As 
such I cannot say it did anything wrong in allowing the account to be set up.
I understand that its not ideal that the account was set up by someone impersonating Miss 
W or that her data was accessed, but hopefully it will bring her some comfort to know Clear 
Score has confirmed the account has not been accessed since 13 September 2017, nine 
days after it was created. And it was permanently blocked on 8 June 2021. 
2021 Account
There is no dispute between the parties that initially when Miss W couldnt access her report 
Clear Score gave her inaccurate information. It said there was another account  which was 
true. But it said it had been created the day before  this wasnt correct, the other account 
was the 2017 one. Clear Score apologised for this, and I think that reasonable in the 
circumstances.
I can see that Clear Score asked Miss W if she may have ever set up a Clear Score account 
with another email address. Miss W thinks this was an attempt to get other email addresses 
from her. But I dont agree, I think this is a reasonable question for it to ask as its possible a 
customer may have done that and forgotten. So, I think its sensible to eliminate this 
possibility before jumping to the next step. Which is to ask to see a formal identification 
document and for the person to send a selfie at the same time to ensure they are the person 
they are claiming to be.
In Miss Ws case she didnt want to provide the identification and selfie required and so 
Clear Score wouldnt allow her to access her credit report. In the circumstances I think this 
was a reasonable step for it to take, as at this point it didnt know if Miss W was who she 
said she was. It could have been possible that she was the impersonator, and the 2017 user 
was actually Miss W. So as there was uncertainty it had a duty to block access to both 
accounts and protect the data contained in them. Miss W is quite within her rights to make 
this choice, but for a s long as she does, I cant say Clear Score is being unreasonable in not 
allowing her access to the data contained in her file.
Following on from that and for the same reasons I dont think Clear Score has to provide her 
with information about what happened with the 2017 account. I has said it will provide 
information to the police on request and I think thats fair enough.
Right to be forgotten 
When Miss W told Clear Score she wanted information deleted, it suggested that she make 
a right to be forgotten request. Miss W believes this was an attempt for it to delete data 
relating to the 2017 account and hide the fraud. But Ive not seen anything to support that, in 
fact the offer from Clear Score to request more information from the credit reference agency 
and to support any police or legal investigation suggests the opposite. So, I consider this suggestion was, as Clear Score has said, offered to help Miss W as she was unhappy that 
her data was being stored by it.
Overall, Im satisfied that Clear Score has treated Miss W fairly when dealing with the issues 
relating to both the 2017 and the 2021 account and so I wont be asking it to do anything 
different here.
I know Miss W will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision ends what we  in 
trying to resolve her dispute with Clear Score can do for her.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman