DRN-3555290
The complaint
Miss G has complained about the way Ageas Insurance Limited dealt with a claim she made 
under her household contents insurance policy. 
What happened
In April 2021 Miss Gs oven door broke and she contacted her insurer Ageas to make a 
claim. 
Ageas explained that Miss G would need to pay an excess. Miss G said she would first look 
to make her own arrangements. 
In November 2021 Miss G contacted Ageas to proceed with her claim. Ageas settled Miss 
Gs claim by paying a cash in lieu (CIL) payment for a replacement oven. 
Miss G complained to Ageas. She said it had caused delay and she wasnt able to have use 
of an oven for Christmas. 
Ageas upheld Miss Gs complaint in part. It said it had caused a delay of around two weeks 
in raising a payment to settle the claim. For this it paid Miss G £100 compensation.
Miss G remained unhappy and asked us to look at her complaint. She told us she had 
bought food for Christmas which she wasnt able to use and had spoiled to the value of 
around £80. 
Our Investigator thought Ageas had done enough to put things right. 
Miss G didnt agree. She said Ageas settled the claim by paying her a cheque rather than a 
direct payment to her account which caused a delay. She said shed been told by Ageas that 
a cheque was waiting for her but it was waiting to see if Miss G wanted to accept it. Miss G 
said she feels Ageas should have contacted her sooner to offer her the cheque payment. 
Miss G said she had bought items for Christmas day in the months before Christmas and 
these were stored in her freezer. But because she didnt have a working oven at Christmas, 
these items soon perished and had to be destroyed. 
The Investigator put Miss Gs comments to Ageas. In the meantime Miss Gs complaint was 
passed for an ombudsman to decide. 
Ageas has since replied to Miss Gs points and Ive addressed them in my findings below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Miss G first contacted Ageas, she decided not to go ahead with a claim. The next time 
she contacted Ageas was on 19 November 2021. So I dont think Ageas is responsible for 
any delay or poor service between April 2021 and 19 November 2021. 
Ageas says an agent advised Miss G that a cheque could be raised, not that it was already 
waiting for her. Ageas says it offered Miss G the choice to have the settlement payment by 
bank transfer or cheque. On listening to the call, Ageas has confirmed Miss G went to 
provide her bank details but within a few seconds said, do you know what, just send a 
cheque out. So Ageas said it issued payment on the basis Miss G asked for. 
Ageas accepts it caused a delay of around two weeks. It received confirmation of the cash 
settlement option on 29 November 2021 as the approved supplier provider wasnt able to 
replace Miss Gs oven with one the same as Miss Gs. 
Ageas issued the cheque payment on 15 December 2021. On the same day it issued a 
payment for £100 compensation for the inconvenience its delay caused. 
Miss G says she lost out on the costs of food which she purchased for Christmas which 
perished. I havent seen any evidence of this  and its not clear to me as to the reasons why 
the food which Miss G says was frozen couldnt remain frozen - as most items can for up to 
a year. I understand Miss G had access to a microwave and hobs to cook with during this 
time. As Ive said, from April 2021 to November 2021 Miss G was aware of the issue with the 
oven door and intended to make private arrangements for repair. I cant hold Ageas 
responsible for decisions Miss G made in relation to food purchases while it was known the 
oven wasnt in working order. 
So overall I think Ageas has done enough to resolve Miss Gs complaint. I think its 
responsible for a delay of two weeks. I think the compensation Ageas paid for this delay is 
reasonable and in line with awards which we make for similar circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 July 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman