DRN-3898304
The complaint
Miss M is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund the money she lost after she fell victim 
to an authorised push payment (APP) scam.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat it all here, 
But briefly, and based on the submissions of both parties, I understand it to be as follows.
Miss M saw an item for sale on a well-known social media online marketplace, that she was 
interested in buying. She contacted the seller, by way of messages, and asked if the item 
was still available. Miss M has said that she had previously purchased items from the 
marketplace and felt safe using it. Shes told us she reviewed the sellers feedback and 
could only see positive reviews. Alongside this Miss M carried out a search of the sellers 
name on other buying/selling pages, but didnt find anything to make her think there were 
issues with the seller.
Due to the distance between Miss M and the seller, she wasnt able to view the item, but 
shes said she was reassured by the seller providing her with multiple options for postage. 
Miss M has said the photos of the item, also made it appear the seller genuinely had the 
item.
Believing everything to be genuine, on 19 March 2022, Miss M went ahead and made a 
payment for £54.35 to the bank details provided by the seller. But after making the payment, 
she became concerned when she didnt receive the item. Unknown to her at the time, she 
had been communicating with a fraudster and had sent her money to an account the 
fraudster controlled.
Miss M raised the matter with Monzo. It has committed to follow the Lending Standards 
Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code (although it isnt a signatory) which 
requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP scams like this in 
all but a limited number of circumstances. Monzo says one or more of those exceptions 
applies in this case.
Monzo issued its final response to Miss M on 1 April 2022, not upholding her complaint. In 
summary it said it had followed its internal processes correctly. It added that it hadnt been 
able to recover the money Miss M lost and it didnt feel Miss M had taken enough steps to 
check who she was paying and what for.
Unhappy with Monzos response, Miss M then brought her complaint to this service. One of 
our investigators looked into things and thought the complaint should be upheld and that 
Monzo should refund Miss M the money she lost, along with interest. In summary, our 
investigator didnt think Monzo had established that it shouldnt reimburse Miss M on the 
basis that she didnt have a reasonable basis for believing she was making a legitimate 
payment.
Monzo didnt agree with our investigators view. In summary it said it appreciated Miss M did 
perform some due diligence. But considering Miss M was a frequent user of this particular 
marketplace, she should have been aware of the terms and conditions of the marketplace. It 
said Miss M would have had access to these and they advise against sending money 
directly to sellers accounts.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am satisfied that:
- Under the terms of the CRM Code, Monzo should have refunded Miss M the money 
she lost. I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply 
in the circumstances of this case.
- In the circumstances Monzo should fairly and reasonably refund the money Miss M 
lost.
- The money was taken from Miss Ms current account. It is not clear how Miss M 
would have used the money if Monzo had refunded it when it should have done, so 
Monzo should also pay interest on the money it should have refunded at 8% simple 
per year, from the date Monzo decided not to refund Miss M under the CRM Code to 
the date of payment.
Did Miss M have a reasonable basis for belief when making the payment?
Monzo has acknowledged that Miss M had carried out some due diligence, but that she 
didnt go far enough as she didnt read the terms and conditions of the marketplace she was 
buying the item from. Ive carefully considered Monzos representations about whether    
Miss M had a reasonable basis for believing the purchase was genuine. Weighing everything 
up, I dont think it would have been evident to Miss M that there was a risk with this 
purchase, I say that because;
- Miss M saw the item she was interested in on a well-known social media platforms 
marketplace. She engaged with the seller through a number of messages. From 
reviewing these messages, I dont consider the seller was applying any pressure 
(which can often be the indicator of a scam).
- I also dont think the price the item was being sold for could be considered as too 
good to be true, whereby Miss M should reasonably have had doubts about the 
legitimacy of the item or the seller. Indeed Monzo itself managed to find the item 
elsewhere for cheaper.
- The distance between Miss M and the seller meant it wasnt feasible to view the item 
before she made the purchase. But where Miss M had received purchased items 
successfully before, without viewing them, I can understand why she moved passed 
this without being overly concerned. Additionally the seller provided multiple options 
for postage, which I think reasonably reassured Miss M further. - Monzo argue that as Miss M had used the marketplace before, she ought to have 
been familiar with the terms and conditions. I dont agree with Monzos position here. 
This is because, the information about payment is contained amongst other 
information and required several clicks to see the section in question that Monzo 
refers to. In light of the specific circumstances of this case, I dont think its practical 
or proportionate to have expected Miss M to have read the help guide in its entirety 
before proceeding to make the payment.  
- Miss M took the time to check the sellers profile and was further convinced this was 
genuine as she saw positive reviews. As well as this, she had carried out further 
research across other sites and didnt see anything that concerned her regarding the 
seller.
Miss M had not been scammed before, and had used the marketplace on multiple occasions 
previously, without any problems. She is not an expert in all matters relating to frauds and 
scams, nor about how they work or can play out. The fact that the bank, as a professional in 
these matters, can think of additional things Miss M could have done does not mean that she 
did not do enough. People dont want or expect to be scammed and I think overall Miss M 
took reasonable, appropriate, and proportionate steps to try and protect herself. I dont 
consider she had any reason to think the seller would not keep to their side of that bargain. 
For completeness, I also dont think the low friction warning Monzo presented Miss M with 
would be considered as effective under the CRM Code as it wasnt specific to the particular 
scam Miss M fell victim to. However having said that, considering the relatively low value of 
the payment Miss M was making (and therefore a lesser indication that Miss M may be at 
risk of fraud), I dont consider there was a requirement on Monzos part for an effective 
warning to be provided.
All things considered, I think it fair and reasonable that Miss M thought she was dealing with 
a legitimate seller for a legitimate item when making the payment. Im satisfied Miss M took 
proportionate steps to try and mitigate any risk and that it wasnt unreasonable for her to 
proceed in making the payment she did. Overall and on balance, Im not persuaded that 
Monzo has shown that Miss M lacked a reasonable basis of belief for making the payment, 
or that she ignored an effective warning.
For completeness, I can see in her submissions Miss M mentioned that she wanted Monzo 
to raise a Chargeback. But as the payment Miss M made here was a faster payment, rather 
than a payment through a debit or credit card, she wouldnt have had any protection via this 
mechanism.
Putting things right
For the reasons outlined above, Monzo Bank Ltd should now;
- Refund Miss M the £54.35 she lost as a result of this scam
- Pay 8% simple interest per year on that amount calculated from the date Monzo 
Bank Ltd originally declined Miss Ms claim until the date of settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Monzo Bank LtdUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman