DRN-3088138
The complaint
Mrs and Mr Ms representative, a Claims Management Company (CMC), complain on their 
behalf that they were given unsuitable investment advice by Bank of Scotland plc, trading as 
Halifax, referred to as the business. 
In short, the CMC says:
Mrs and Mr M were advised to invest too much money too close to their retirement. 
Theyd inherited £100,000 and were advised to invest it all. The recommendation 
lacked diversity. 
Mr M had suffered a heart attack and his vulnerability wasnt considered.
What happened
Between January and February 2006, Mrs and Mr M were advised to invest £100,000  
comprised of £50,000 each  into a Personal Investment Plan (PIP), for the medium to long 
term, with a minimum term of five years investment. 
Despite advice, Mrs and Mr M decided  of their own volition  to invest only half of the 
capital in a combination of funds recommended by the adviser, and the other half into the 
Money Fund. 
In December 2007, Mr M asked to withdraw £2,500 from his PIP, because he wanted to 
make a capital purchase. In July 2008, roughly 17 months after the investment started, Mrs 
and Mr M decided to encash the investment, again the reason given was capital purchase. 
Upon surrender Mr M received £50,124.89 and Mrs M received £51,335. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
The recommendation was suitable for Mrs and Mr M, and it met their objective for 
mitigating IHT liability.  
They werent without financial experience. They held several investments including 
pooled investments and shares, and they were actively involved in the fund selection 
of their PIPs. 
They elected to invest half of their funds into the Money Fund and half into the 
business standard medium risk portfolio, despite being advised to invest all their 
money into the latter. This demonstrates some understanding of risk and what they 
were willing to tolerate. 
The recommended fund was comprised of the following assets: 
o40% UK FTSE All Share Index Tracking. 
o30% Pelican.
o16% High Income. 
o14% Gilt and Fixed Interest. 
The investment was affordable. Mrs and Mr M had access to £185,000 available cash 
assets so had access to a reasonable amount of money for emergencies and unplanned 
expenditure. 
Although Mrs and Mr M withdrew the money early to fund a capital purchase there was 
no mention of this at the point of sale, so he cant say that this was something the 
adviser ought to have considered when making the recommendation, because he wasnt 
aware of it.
In terms of risk, whilst Mrs and Mr M were nearing retirement, given their financial 
circumstances  namely a significant capital reserve and disposable income  they had 
capacity to take risk.    
Given that their objective was also to mitigate their IHT liability, it wasnt unreasonable to 
advise them to invest in one type of product, at that point of their lives. It was invested in 
a spread of funds containing a range of different asset classes, so diversification isnt an 
issue. 
The remainder of their liquid assets, in the sum of £325,000 or 76%, was spread across 
a range of other products. So, considering their overall portfolio, they werent just 
exposed to one type of product. In other words, there was an appropriate level of 
portfolio diversification overall. 
Despite what the CMC says, theres no evidence that the adviser was told that Mr M had 
had a heart attack. In response to the question any relevant health or disability
issues the answer was no. The adviser wasnt obliged to consider something he 
wasnt aware of. 
As the future capital purchase wasnt raised with the adviser, he ought not to have 
taken it into account.  
The CMC disagreed with the investigators conclusion and provided some further information 
from Mr M about his health. In summary, it made the following key points:
Its concerns remain the same. 
Whilst it recognises the investigators difference of opinion, it feels that investing the 
full amount is still poor advice and investing it in one product isnt diversification. 
Mrs and Mr M wanting less exposure to risk and then cashing in the investments 
during the 2008 financial crises suggests they lacked the financial exposure to 
invest in a product like this.  
Surrendering a medium to long term investment so soon after it was started, despite 
having significant sums on deposit, suggests that Mrs and Mr M werent comfortable 
with the advice. 
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind.  
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im unable to safely say that the 
recommendation to invest £50,000 each into the PIP  held in a joint (first death) nil rate 
band trust  was unsuitable for Mrs and Mr M for IHT purposes.  Despite what the CMC says 
about diversification, and the early surrender of the investments, I dont think this means the 
recommendation was unsuitable. Before I explain further why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much 
recognise Mrs and Mr Ms strength of feeling about this matter. Im also very sorry for the 
health issues that Mr M is experiencing, I recognise that it must be an extremely difficult time 
for him and his family. 
The CMC has provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully. However, I hope Mrs and Mr M wont take the fact my findings focus on 
what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by the CMC and the business, and reach what I think is an 
independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation 
and best industry practice. But its for me to decide, based on the information Ive been 
given, whats more likely than not to have happened. 
I think that all the pertinent points that could be made, have been made by the parties in this 
case, so I dont intend to repeat them again. I understand that the key issue relating to 
diversification and early surrender remains a point of disagreement. I note the CMC isnt 
complaining about the product as a means of IHT mitigation, which I also dont think is in 
contention.   
I note that in 2006 Mrs and Mr M were in their 60s, Mr M was self-employed and planned to 
retire at 65, and Mrs M had retired or was about to. I also note that they had some 
investment experience, were recorded as medium risk investors and were prepared to invest 
in the PIP for growth and IHT purposes. In the circumstances I think the recommendation 
was suitable and met their objective. 
Whilst Mrs and Mr M might not have invested in a PIP before, I still think they understood the 
general nature and operation of the investment. I also think they were aware how a risk-
based investment worked, and thats why they chose, of their own volition, to invest only half 
of their capital in the Bank of Scotlands standard medium risk portfolio recommended by the 
business and half in the Money Fund, even though I dont think it was necessary to do so 
given their objective. 
In other words, I dont think the advice was wrong, even though Mrs and Mr M made their 
own adjustments. Im mindful that their objective was capital growth, that could also helped 
mitigate their IHT liability and therefore I dont think the advice to invest £100,000 in the 
standard medium risk portfolio was unreasonable. 
I note that Mrs and Mr M had several meetings with the adviser, therefore Im satisfied that 
they had a reasonable amount of time to consider the advice and decide whether (or not) to 
go ahead with it. Them tweaking the advice themselves doesnt mean the recommendation 
was unsuitable.
I appreciate the points made by the CMC about diversification, but in this instance, despite 
what the CMC says, I dont think the recommendation was unsuitable. 
I note Mrs and Mr M held a number of investments including pooled investments and shares 
and had no financial liabilities. I note they had assets worth a total of £1,425,000 which 
comprised of:
their home worth £1,000,000; 
various deposits accounts worth £285,000;
jointly held shares worth £70,000;jointly held unit-linked bond and OEIC worth £70,000;
So, whether (or not) Mrs and Mr M were experienced investors, in the circumstances I cant 
safely say that they werent without some financial experience. Or that they werent willing to 
take a medium risk with their money in order to fulfil their objective. 
Given their overall portfolio I cant say that the recommendation to invest £100,000 in the 
PIP, equally split between them, was unsuitable. Im mindful the investigator says that the 
remainder of their liquid assets, in the sum of £325,000 (or 76%), was spread across a range 
of other products. So, considering their overall portfolio, they werent just exposed to one 
type of product. I appreciate the CMC might degree with this, but I dont think its an 
unreasonable conclusion. 
On balance Im satisfied that Mrs and Mr M could afford to invest, without it effecting their 
standard of living much. I note they had access to a reasonable amount of money, probably 
more than what the business might recommend. Despite Mr M planning to retire soon, they 
had a £450 net monthly disposable income. So, its likely that, in terms of their capital and 
income, they also had capacity to deal with any loss.
Whilst I appreciate what the CMC says, I dont agree that choosing to take less risk  despite 
having greater capacity  or encashing the investments when they did, suggests that Mrs 
and Mr M lacked the financial exposure to invest in the PIPs. On the contrary, it suggests to 
me that they knew what they were doing and were aware of the risks involved. 
Mrs and Mr M, of their own volition, wanted to expose their capital to less risk and thats why 
they invested only half of their money as advised, even though a higher risk wasnt 
unreasonable in the circumstances. They also encashed the investments within two years of 
investing, because of capital purchase. In other words, because it seems they needed the 
money for something that wasnt disclosed/foreseen at the point of sale, so couldnt be 
considered as part of the advice.   
I dont think that Mrs and Mr M surrendered the (medium to long term) investment soon after 
it was started  despite having access to a significant amount of cash held on deposit  
because they felt uncomfortable with the advice. I think they wouldve raised an issue at the 
time if they did and failing to do so means they knew or ought reasonably to have known that 
they had cause for complaint at the point of surrender  in which case this complaint would 
have been made too late and would be out of jurisdiction. But I dont think their actions 
suggest that they were unhappy with the recommendation, or because it was the start of a 
global financial crises. On the contrary I think they did what they wanted to do for reasons 
that werent discussed at the point of sale, meaning the adviser couldnt have foreseen what 
they were going to do and advise them accordingly. 
I appreciate what the CMC says about Mr Ms health at the time, Ive also taken into account 
the letter provided by Mr M. But having done so, on balance, I cant safely say that the 
relevant health issues were disclosed at the point of sale. I cant blame the business for not 
offering advice based on information that it wasnt made aware of. 
I appreciate that Mrs and Mr M only got back their capital plus a small return. But the 
investment value at early encashment wasnt something that the business couldve predicted 
or had control over. It was subject to numerous factors outside of the business control and I 
cant blame the business for what Mrs and Mr M received upon early encashment of their 
investments at the start of a global financial crises. 
I appreciate Mrs and Mr M will be thoroughly unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion as 
the investigator, and I realise my decision isnt what they want to hear. Whilst I appreciate their frustration, Im not going to ask the business to do anything. On the face of the 
available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give them what 
they want.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 November 2021.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman