DRN-1733937
The complaint
Mr G complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited declined his pet 
insurance claim and about its service. My references to Red Sands include its agents.
What happened
Mr G had pet insurance for his dog, insured by Red Sands. He took out the policy in 2013 
and renewed each year. The policy gave cover for accidents, illnesses and medical 
conditions for 12 months from when the accident, illness or condition was first noticed.
In June 2019 Mr G spoke to Red Sands about making a new claim for his dogs treatment for 
a swollen bloodshot eye. Mr Gs wife also called Red Sands on 15 July to discuss whether it 
would cover the treatment. Mr G says that in those calls Red Sands confirmed the treatment 
would be covered. 
Mr Gs dog saw a specialist vet on 15 July, who diagnosed bilateral episcleritis (an eye 
condition) and suggested further treatment. Red Sands received a pre-authorisation request 
on 18 July. Later the same day Mr G called Red Sands to complain about its service. 
Red Sands had told the specialist vet the claim may not be covered and it had called Mr G 
and was waiting for information from him. Mr G said Red Sands hadnt called him.
Red Sands declined the pre-authorisation request on 19 July 2019. It said clinical signs of  
Mr Gs dog having an eye problem were first noted by a vet on 12 September 2017 which 
meant cover for the condition ended on 11 September 2018. It also added and applied a 
policy exclusion for claims for Eyes, Sights and Eyelids from 19 September 2017, which 
was the policy renewal date after an eye problem was first noted. 
Mr G complained to us. He said his dogs eye problem in 2019 was a new condition, not 
linked to the 2017 eye problem and Red Sands had told him he was covered for the 2019 
treatment. He wants Red Sands to cover the treatment cost hed paid, about £1,500.
Our investigator said Red Sands fairly declined the claim.
Mr G disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have to decide whether Red Sands fairly and reasonably declined the claim, and I think it  
did. Im sorry to disappoint Mr G but I dont uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
The policy is clear that an illness or condition is covered for 365 days and thereafter an 
exclusion will be put on the policy for that illness or condition.
The medical records show that before the 2019 eye problem Mr Gs dog was seen by a vet 
for eye problems in November 2016 and September 2017. Red Sands used the 2017 date to 
calculate the 12 months cover, which was fair.
The evidence from the specialist vet who treated Mr Gs dog is that the 2019 condition was 
unrelated to the previous conditions. So Red Sands wouldnt be able to rely on a pre-existing 
condition exclusion.
However, when the policy renewed the policy schedule was clear that Mr G needed to call 
Red Sands if hed taken his dog to the vet for anything other than routine vaccinations and if 
he had Red Sands may not accept cover.
I think Mr G should have reasonably called Red Sands at the 2017 and/or 2018 policy 
renewals to tell it about his dogs visits to the vet about her eyes. If Red Sands had been told 
it would have added the exclusion for Eyes, Sights and Eyelids, which is in line with its 
underwriting criteria.
So when Red Sands knew about Mr Gs dogs previous eye problems it could reasonably 
add and backdate the exclusion to the policy. Red Sands could fairly and reasonably use the 
exclusion to decline the 2019 claim for an eye problem.
Red Sands didnt tell Mr G in the calls that the treatment would be covered. Red Sands was 
clear that the claims were subject to review and it gave no guarantee of cover. I dont think  
Red Sands gave Mr G misleading information about cover.
Red Sands apologised that it hadnt contacted Mr G, as it had told the vet. Mr G is unhappy 
about the error and in his call to Red Sands I can hear how frustrated he was. But the error 
didnt affect Red Sands claim decision. Although Mr G says he wouldnt have taken his dog 
to the vet if it had called him he had spoken to Red Sands about cover before going to the 
vet and it had been clear it wasnt guaranteeing cover. Red Sands received the  pre-
authorisation request on 18 July and explained its decline on 19 July so it didnt delay in 
giving Mr G its decision.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2021.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman