DRN-2584093
The complaint
Mr L complains about how Lloyds Bank PLC has processed payments made onto his credit 
card account, and what it does when it thinks his payment is late.
What happened
Mr L told us that the credit card payment he made in October 2019, for his September
statement, was 10p short. He made the payment over the phone, and told us he thought
payment had been made in full on the day it was due. Mr L said Lloyds then charged him
£58.96 because the full payment wasn't made. Mr L said hed complained to Lloyds, and it
refunded the fee, but he said it had marked his credit file with a late payment, and this had
led to problems with other accounts held elsewhere.
Lloyds said that Mr L was paying his credit card on the day it was due. But the payment
takes a day to post to the account. So although he was paying on the due day, the system
didnt update until the next day  which in turn meant that his payment showed as late.
Lloyds said it had already written to Mr L to tell him what it was doing when his payment was
late. If it didnt receive payments, it would use its right of set-off, and take money from his
other accounts.
Lloyds said thats what it had done for the payment requested on Mr Ls October 2019
statement. Hed paid £59 which covered the amount due. And hed made the payment on 7
November, which was the day it was due. But this didnt post to his account until 8
November. Because his minimum payment hadnt reached his account by the end of the day
on the due date, Lloyds took the minimum payment from his current account. It said that it
then gave this back when the payment he had made reached his account.
Lloyds said this had happened before, in August 2019. Then, again, Mr L had paid the right
amount, and on the date due, but the money didnt reach the card account until the next day.
So again, Lloyds had taken money out of his current account, then put it back when his
payment had reached the card.
Lloyds said that Mr Ls credit card account statement for October showed he was 10p in
arrears, but that was a separate issue. And it said it hadnt reported any late payment
markers to credit reference agencies for this card.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said that Mr L hadnt paid
early enough in October for this money to reach his account on the due date. So it was
overdue, and Lloyds took the money from his current account. Its allowed to do that. And
Lloyds hadnt recorded late payments on Mr Ls credit file or charged him a late fee. Our
investigator didnt think Lloyds had done anything wrong.
Mr L didnt agree. He felt Lloyds should be able to process a payment onto his credit card
account the same day. He said that Lloyds had put a marker on his credit file, but had
removed it when he complained to our service. He said that this marker had affected his
credit status, and a mortgage application he was completing at the time. He said that he felt
Lloyds should apologise and pay compensation. And he said if the call could be found it
would show that Lloyds operator had caused the problem.
Mr L sent us further evidence. That included the rear of his Lloyds statement, which that if he
makes a payment through online banking, or by calling Lloyds PhoneBank, then payment
will normally be credited to your account within two hours. He sent us a screenshot of his
credit file entry for this card, which said that his account status was improved, and the
previous status was one payment in arrears.
Our investigator wrote to ask Lloyds some questions. It replied to say that although faster
payments and phone payments will reach the credit card account within two hours, they
wouldnt post until the next day. Lloyds sent us an extract from its internal procedures,
saying how long it will usually take payments to reach the account.
Lloyds said that the late payment marker on Mr Ls account referred to the payment he made
in October. On 9 October, Mr L had paid only £65.54 when he owed £65.64. Mr L asked for
his credit file to be updated, and this marker removed. Lloyds said that although it couldnt
see if it had ever got back to Mr L to confirm if it was going to remove the marker, it thought it
mustve decided to make the change, because it could see it had updated his file.
Our investigator still didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said that a late payment
marker had been recorded on Mr Ls credit file, but that was for the missing 10p from the
payment he made in October. It wasnt from when Lloyds took payment from his current
account, in November. Our investigator didnt think Lloyds had made a mistake, so he said it
didnt have to pay compensation for this.
Mr L said he still didnt think that was fair, because it was Lloyds phone operator who made
the mistake about the payment amount in October, not him. Mr L said that the late payment
marker didnt go on until after he spoke to Lloyds, and it came off when he complained to us.
Mr L thought that Lloyds was just covering things up. Because Mr L and our investigator
didnt agree, the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did not propose to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
I think there are three issues that are raised in this complaint. I will deal with those in 
turn.
The first issue is how long it takes a payment to reach Mr Ls account
Mr L usually pays his Lloyds credit card on the day its due. He has told us he rings 
Lloyds to do this. And hes pointed to two notes on the rear of his statement, that say 
online payments or PhoneBank payments will normally be credited to your account 
within two hours.
Lloyds said that its internal procedures meant that payments sometimes wouldnt 
credit until the next day. But Mr L doesnt have access to those internal procedures. 
He can see whats written on his statement. So I looked at what his statement said, 
to see if Lloyds has promised Mr L that it will process his payments on the same day.
I dont think it has. Ill explain why I think that.
Lloyds has set out two sorts of payments that will usually be credited within two hours 
 online and PhoneBank payments. I didnt think that Mr L could be ringing the automated PhoneBank number, which is shown on the rear of Mr Ls bank 
statement, to make his payments, because he told us that for one of his payments 
the agent he spoke to got the amount wrong. And Mr L has now given us the number 
he calls for Lloyds. It isnt the PhoneBank number on the rear of his statement. And 
we know Mr L isnt paying online.
So I dont think that Mr L is paying using one of the methods Lloyds says will usually 
clear in a couple of hours. And that means I dont think Lloyds has promised Mr L 
that his payments will be credited to his account within two hours. It takes his 
payment overnight.
I know that Mr L thinks Lloyds could work faster, and hes said other banks do accept 
a payment on the due date. But I dont think that Lloyds is doing anything wrong by 
taking an extra day to apply a payment, because Mr L isnt paying by one of the 
methods that it has told him will clear the same day.
The second issue is what Lloyds does when Mr Ls payment isnt made by the due 
date.
When Mr Ls payment doesnt credit his account on the due date, Lloyds says it has 
the right to take money from his current account to pay his card. This happened in 
August, for the payment due on his July statement, and it happened in November, for 
the payment due on his October statement.
Mr L doesnt think Lloyds should be doing this when the payment has already been 
made, even if it hasnt yet been processed.
The terms of Mr Ls account with Lloyds say that it can apply a right of set-off. Our
investigator referred to the relevant term of the account. He said that Lloyds has to 
check that Mr L has enough money left to cover essentials before it can take any 
money from him. He thought it was doing that. And I think that too. I know Lloyds is 
acting very quickly indeed when Mr Ls card payment hasnt cleared, but I think that 
Lloyds is only doing what its entitled to do, under the terms of Mr Ls account.
Lloyds has suggested that Mr L could either make his manual payment a day earlier, 
or set up a direct debit for the minimum payment, to avoid these difficulties.
The third issue is a late payment marker recorded on Mr Ls credit file.
Mr L underpaid in October 2019, by 10p. I have listened to a call where Lloyds 
explained to Mr L that a marker was placed on his credit file automatically, because 
this payment was slightly short. Mr L says this wasnt his mistake, but a mistake by 
the call handler who took his payment. Lloyds says it no longer has the call recording 
of Mr Ls payment. But I can see that Lloyds decided to remove this from Mr Ls 
credit file, because it updated his credit file at the end of January 2020.
I know Mr L thinks that Lloyds is just covering its tracks here, and it only did this 
update because hed complained to our service. But our service didnt contact Lloyds 
about this complaint until June. (Mr L complained to us in January. But he may recall 
that we contacted him in June, and apologised for the delay in actioning his 
complaint.)
So when Lloyds removed this marker from Mr Ls credit file, we hadnt told it about 
his complaint to us.Mr L said at first that a different bank had confirmed it had reduced the limits on a 
credit card because of this. Mr L hasnt sent us proof of this, and it would be quite 
unusual for a bank to say something like this.
More recently, Mr L said that he was turned down for a mortgage while this marker 
was on his account. But I note that Mr L didnt tell us this when he first complained. 
And again, it would be unusual for a mortgage to be refused solely because of one 
late credit card payment.
This marker was only a single late payment, and it was on Mr Ls credit file for only a 
short time, before it was removed. Mr L might like to send us further evidence of the 
problems that this marker caused, in response to my provisional decision. At the 
moment, I dont think I can decide, on the evidence I have, that this has had a 
significant effect on Mr L. So my current view is that Lloyds decision to remove this 
marker provides a fair and reasonable outcome to this part of Mr Ls complaint.
Ive considered each of the issues that Mr L has raised with our service, and on the 
evidence I have now, I dont think that they should be upheld. So, although I know Mr 
L will be disappointed, I dont currently propose to ask Lloyds to pay compensation in 
this case.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Lloyds said it had nothing to add. Mr L sent a substantive reply.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L said that even though he had proved that Lloyds was at fault on more than one 
occasion it seems that the decision was already a forgone conclusion. He said that he was 
left with no other option but to look elsewhere for a bank that is trustworthy and honest. He 
said that Lloyds wasnt telling the truth, and our service has believed it. 
Mr L didnt explain where he felt hed proved that Lloyds was at fault, or where he felt it had 
lied. I have set out in my provisional decision where I thought Lloyds had made mistakes. 
Without details of where, in particular, Mr L thinks that Lloyds is lying, I cant investigate this 
further, or use this to change my mind on the outcome of this complaint.
Mr L said that Lloyds had since cancelled his overdraft on several occasions since this 
complaint was logged, saying that because he doesnt use the overdraft regularly he doesnt  
need one. Mr L said that Lloyds had also refused to accept money paid into his accounts
with a Lloyds paying in book, and suggested instead that he could give his debit card to 
people with his PIN so that they can pay into his account while he was at work. Mr L said 
that this was the type of bank we were in agreement with.
When someone complains to our service, we look at that specific complaint. We arent 
considering the behaviour of the bank overall. Banks might get some things right, and other 
things very wrong. But I cant consider the other points Mr L makes now, as part of this 
complaint. And unless those other points are brought as complaints to our service, we cant 
consider them at all. So, even if I agreed with Mr L that Lloyds had made other mistakes on 
his account, that still wouldnt mean Id change my mind about whats happened here. 
I know Mr L will be disappointed, but I havent changed my mind on this complaint. I still 
dont think it should be upheld.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman