DRN-3966076
The complaint
A partnership which Ill call P complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) treated 
them unfairly by restricting and then closing their accounts. 
The complaint is brought by the partners, Mr S and Mrs S.
What happened
P told us:
The partners held personal and partnership accounts with RBS. They attempted to 
use their debit cards on 10 October 2022, but they were blocked.
RBS said theyd sent a letter on 10 August 2022 telling them the account would be 
closed in 60 days, but they hadnt received this.  
They had tried to open accounts elsewhere but been declined, although they 
checked their credit file and there was no adverse information. 
Theyd been caused financial difficulty as they werent able to pay bills without 
access to the business account and had to borrow money from family.
RBS told us:
It sent a letter to P on 15 December 2022, giving the partners 60 days notice that 
their account would be closed which was in line with the account terms and 
conditions. 
It was satisfied that the decision to close the account met its legal and regulatory 
requirements, but it wasnt prepared to disclose the reasons it had chosen to close 
Ps accounts.
The accounts that P had complained about initially were the partners personal 
accounts and didnt belong to the partnership. The deadline hadnt been extended for 
closure on Ps account as it hadnt been asked to do so.
Ps account and BBL hadnt been restricted and had been fully active during the 60 
days notice period. 
Our investigator didnt think RBS had treated P unfairly. She said that the bank had acted in 
line with its terms and conditions in giving them 60 days notice of the account closure, and it 
was reasonable for the accounts to be restricted at the end of this period for the closure. 
P didnt agree. They said theyd only been given notice in December 2022 that Ps account 
was to be closed in February 2023 - but hadnt been able to access the account since 
October. So, they asked for an ombudsman to look into their complaint.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. I know P will be disappointed with my decision, 
but Ill explain how Ive reached this. P has provided lots of information and Ive taken 
everything into account. If I dont directly reference something in my decision, it is not 
because I havent considered it  but because Ive focused on what I consider to be 
most relevant to how Ive reached my decision.
P says thats its unfair that RBS closed their accounts, but I dont agree. The bank is entitled 
to make the decision to terminate a relationship with a customer in the same way that a 
customer can chose to close their account. The terms and conditions of the accounts allow 
the bank to do so as long as it has given 60 days notice  which Ive seen was the case 
here. 
P says that they received the letter from RBS giving them 60 days notice of the account 
closures in December 2022, so this isnt disputed. However, they feel the bank acted unfairly 
as they say these accounts were removed from their banking app and they were unable to 
make credits or payments from 11 October 2022  not February 2023 as the bank claimed. 
P is also unhappy that RBS decided to close their account without giving a reason. However, 
the bank has provided us with the information on which its decision to restrict access to Ps 
account and then close it was based. Having reviewed this, Im satisfied that it was 
reasonable for RBS to take these actions in line with the terms and conditions of the 
account. 
I acknowledge P says its unfair that the bank hasnt given them the reason for the account 
closure, but RBS isnt obligated to share more information that it already has, and I cant 
fairly require it to do so. I think its also worth noting here that the terms of Ps accounts also 
say that there are times where it may not be appropriate for the bank to disclose the reason 
for the account closure. So, I dont think its behaved unreasonably here. 
I recognise that the partners feel strongly about this, and theyll be disappointed with my 
decision. But based on everything Ive seen, I think RBS acted reasonably in closing the 
accounts, so, I wont be asking it to do anything more. 
The partners have told us that as a result of the banks actions they have been caused 
financial difficulty and I would encourage them to contact RBS about this if they are unable 
to meet any of their outstanding obligations held by the bank.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2023. 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman