DRN-4271466
The complaint
Mr D complains about the advice given by Tier One Capital Wealth Management Limited to 
transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a hybrid 
self-invested personal pension (HSIPP). He feels the advice was unsuitable for him and 
believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
Mr D approached Tier One in 2014 to discuss his pension and retirement needs. Tier One 
gathered information about Mr Ds circumstances and objectives and carried out an 
assessment of his attitude to risk  which it deemed to be 4 out of 10 (cautious to 
moderate).
On 16 December 2014 Tier One advised Mr D to transfer his pension benefits into a HSIPP 
and to invest the proceeds in the Prufund Growth fund. The suitability report said the 
recommendation met with Mr Ds key objective to retire at age 60 with a net monthly income 
of £1,500 for seven years, upon which his retirement income would be boosted by the State 
pension and he could reduce the income being taken from the HSIPP. It said this objective 
could be achieved in principle.
In 2022 Mr D complained to Tier One about the suitability of the transfer advice. Hed 
recently received details of what his DB pension would have been if hed stayed in it, and 
projections showed that he will have a shortfall on his current pension compared to the DB 
pension. Tier One didnt uphold the complaint. It said the advice was suitable and that the 
HSIPP was recommended as it met Mr Ds specific objectives to:
retire at 60 with a net monthly income of £1,500
draw a higher income for the first seven years
reduce income when the State pension became available
purchase a lifetime annuity at age 67 to supplement the State pension.
Tier One said remaining in the DB pension wouldnt have achieved Mr Ds monthly income 
objective and the DB pension didnt provide the remaining three options. It also said that in 
addition to the specific objectives, Mr D had raised concerns about the transfer value of his 
DB pension reducing in the future and about the financial pressure on DB pensions 
generally. It said the transfer was recommended on the basis of addressing these concerns 
(alongside the above objectives).
Mr D referred his complaint to our service. An investigator upheld the complaint and required 
Tier One to pay compensation. In summary, he felt the advice was unsuitable as it was 
unlikely that the transfer would improve the benefits Mr D was entitled to from the DB 
pension. Tier One disagreed. It said it took reasonable steps to ensure that the advice 
provided to Mr D was suitable. It also said the advice was suitable in view of Mr Ds 
circumstances and objectives at the time.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion so the complaint has been referred 
to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
Ive reached my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more 
likely than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but it provides useful context for my assessment of Tier One's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
COBS 9: the provisions of which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability.
COBS 19: the provisions of which specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator. The regulator states in 
COBS 19.1.6G that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is 
unsuitable. So, Tier One should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly 
demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ds best interests. And having looked at all the 
evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his best interests.
Financial viability 
Tier One got a transfer value analysis report (as required by the regulator) which showed 
how much Mr Ds pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide the 
same benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield).
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. As Tier One has noted, businesses weren't 
required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers. However, I think 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable when the advice was given in this case.
Mr D was 45 at the time of the advice and he wanted to retire at 60. The critical yield 
required to match Mr Ds benefits at age 60 was 10.31% if he took a full pension and 8.37% 
if he took maximum tax-free cash and a reduced pension. The critical yield to match the benefits available through the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) at age 65 was quoted as 
7.71% per year if Mr D took a full pension and 7.52% per year if he took tax-free cash and a 
reduced pension. This compares with the discount rate of 4.9% per year for 14 years to 
retirement in this case. For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the 
time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5% and the lower projection rate 2%.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Ds 
cautious to moderate attitude to risk and the term to retirement. There would be little point in 
Mr D giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB pension scheme only to 
achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, given the lowest 
critical yield was 7.52%, I think Mr D was most likely to receive benefits of a substantially 
lower overall value than the DB pension at retirement, as a result of investing in line with his 
attitude to risk. This would be the case even if the scheme moved to the PPF.
For this reason alone a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mr Ds best interests.
Tier one has argued that given Mr Ds objectives and what he was attempting to achieve the 
critical yield didnt provide a direct comparison between the existing scheme benefits and the 
benefits that he wanted. It also referred to an alert issued by the regulator in 2017 warning 
financial advisors about placing too much weight on critical yields when recommending a 
transfer.
I accept that, in the first instance at least, Mr D was look to drawdown on his pension rather 
than taking a regular income via an annuity. However, I think in order to treat him fairly Tier 
One needed to provide Mr D with a direct comparison between the benefits he was giving up 
and what was being recommended. The critical yields provide that comparison. Im also 
aware of the alert Tier One refers to. However, I think a significant consideration in 
complaints of this nature is determining whether a consumer would be better off by 
transferring their pension. Im therefore satisfied that the critical yields are relevant here.
However, as Tier One has argued, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving 
transfer advice. There might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, 
despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered this below.
Flexibility and income needs
I think Mr Ds desire for flexible retirement income was a want rather than a need. And I 
dont think that want should have outweighed the fact he would most likely be worse off in 
retirement if he transferred his pension. I dont doubt that the flexibility on offer through the 
HSIPP would have sounded attractive to Mr D. But Tier One wasnt there to just transact 
whatever Mr D might have thought he wanted. The advisors role was to really understand 
what Mr D needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
One of Tier Ones main arguments is that transferring to the HSIPP would enable Mr D to 
achieve his desired income of £1,500 net per month in retirement for the first seven years. 
The transfer value analysis report showed that if Mr D took benefits from the DB pension at 
60 he would be entitled to an annual income of £16,402. So I agree with Tier One that this 
wouldnt have met Mr Ds desired net annual retirement income of £18,000. Its possible that 
with sufficient growth Mr D would have been able to draw his desired income during these 
seven years from the HSIPP. However, given what Ive said above about the critical yield 
needed just to match (let alone exceed) the DB pension benefits, I think if he did this he was 
most likely overall to receive benefits of a substantially lower value than from the DB 
pension.Furthermore, Mr D was only 45 at the time of the advice and while I note his wish to retire at 
60 Im not persuaded that this was a concrete retirement plan or that Mr D knew it was 
achievable. As Mr D had 10 years before he could think about accessing his pension, I think 
it was too soon to make any kind of decision about transferring out of the DB scheme. So, I 
dont think it was a suitable recommendation for Mr D to give up his guaranteed benefits at 
age 45 when he didnt know what his actual needs 15 years later would be. If Mr D later had 
reason to transfer out of his DB scheme he could have done so closer to retirement.
Tier One noted that one of Mr Ds concerns was the potential for the transfer value of his DB 
pension to reduce in the future. I can see how this might be a concern for Mr D  although of 
course it could work the other way and the transfer value might increase over time  
particularly if he had plans to use a lump sum withdrawal for a specific purpose (which he 
didnt here  at least its not noted in anything Ive seen). But I dont think a possible future 
lower transfer value is sufficient to outweigh all the other factors. This is because the transfer 
value (whether it increases or decreases) has no effect on the benefits Mr D was entitled to 
under the DB pension. Its also because Im looking at the position as it was in 2014  not 
what it might have been in the future eg when Mr D turned 55 (the minimum age he could 
access his pension) or 60 (his desired retirement age).
Concern over financial stability of the DB scheme
The funding of Mr Ds DB pension wasnt in a position such that he should have genuinely 
been concerned about the security of his pension. Furthermore, if the scheme did end up 
moving to the PPF, I think Tier One should have explained that this was not as concerning 
as Mr D thought. As Ive explained above, Mr D was still unlikely to match the benefits 
available to him through the PPF if he transferred out to a personal pension.
Suitability of investments
Tier One recommended that Mr D invest his pension funds in the Prufund Growth fund. As 
Im upholding the complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB pension wasnt 
suitable for Mr D, I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment recommendation. 
This is because Mr D should have been advised to remain in the DB scheme and so the 
investment in the fund wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been given.
Summary
For the reasons outlined above, I dont think the advice given to Mr D was suitable. He was 
giving up a guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income and by transferring he was very 
likely to obtain lower retirement benefits. In my view, there were no other particular reasons 
which would justify a transfer and outweigh this. Mr D shouldnt have been advised to 
transfer out of the DB pension just so he could receive his desired retirement income at 60  
particularly when doing so would most likely leave him in a worse position overall.
So, I think Tier One should have advised Mr D to remain in his DB pension.
Tier One commented that Mr D made a fully informed decision to proceed with the transfer. I 
dont think this argument carries much weight. Its true that Mr D was in receipt of all the 
facts as presented to him by Tier One. However, his decision to transfer was simply in line 
with what his professional advisor had recommended. I think its harsh to criticise him for 
following that advice or to use that as a reason to not uphold the complaint.
Ive considered whether Mr D would have gone ahead anyway, against Tier One's advice to 
remain in the DB pension. Im not persuaded that he would have insisted on transferring out 
of the DB pension. I say this because Mr D was an inexperienced investor with a cautious to moderate attitude to risk and this pension accounted for the majority of his retirement 
provision. So, if Tier One had provided him with clear advice against transferring out of the 
DB pension, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he would have accepted 
that advice. Im not persuaded that Mr Ds wish for £1,500 a month retirement income from 
age 60 was so great that he would have insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional 
adviser, whose expertise he had sought out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable 
for him or in his best interests. If Tier One had explained that Mr D couldnt achieve his 
desired objectives without risking his overall pension, I think that would have carried 
significant weight. So, I dont think Mr D would have insisted on transferring out of the DB 
scheme.
In light of the above, I think Tier One should compensate Mr D for the unsuitable advice, 
using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Tier One to put Mr D, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. As above, I consider that Mr D 
would have most likely remained in the DB pension scheme if suitable advice had been 
given. Tier One must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for 
calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement 
PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
For clarity, Mr D hasnt yet retired and he has no plans to do so at present. So compensation 
should be based on the schemes normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual assumptions 
in the regulator's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should 
be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of 
notification of Mr Ds acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Tier One should:
calculate and offer Mr D redress as a cash lump sum payment
explain to Mr D before starting the redress calculation that:
oredress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in line 
with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), and
oa straightforward way to invest the redress prudently is to use it to augment his 
DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr D receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum
if Mr D accepts Tier Ones offer to calculate how much of the redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr D for the calculation, 
even if he ultimately decides not to have any of the redress augmented, and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, given 
the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ds end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr D as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, Tier One may 
make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that 
consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to 
Mr Ds likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional 
deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Tier One Capital 
Wealth Management Limited to pay Mr D the compensation amount as set out in the steps 
above, up to a maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
Tier One Capital Wealth Management Limited pays Mr D the balance.
If Mr D accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Tier One Capital Wealth 
Management Limited. My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that 
Mr D can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr D may want to 
consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final 
decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2023.
 
Paul Daniel
Ombudsman