DRN-3108850
The complaint
S, the trustees in bankruptcy for Mr X, complain that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) 
is wrongly refusing to disclaim its purported interest in a life assurance policy. 
In order to protect the identity of Mr X, Im not using his real initial.
What happened
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision issued on 
7 October 2021, so I wont repeat that again here. I told both parties that I wasnt intending to 
uphold this complaint. Both parties responded. RBS said that it had nothing further to add. S 
made the following points:
The trustees are astonished that the ombudsman has reached the conclusion to not 
uphold the complaint.
The clear overriding fact is the bank cannot provide the document/deed of 
assignment and has admitted to this.
The ombudsmans conclusion is that the bank is flawless and accordingly, an 
assumption has been made that RBS probably did have the relevant document but 
has lost it and that this doesnt matter. This isnt a reasonable conclusion. 
Banks make mistakes and there is evidence here that RBS recognised this by 
seeking and getting a charge against Mr Xs property securing the relevant loan in 
December 2009.
So, the matter has been passed back to me for me to reconsider my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate S is disappointed with this outcome but Im not upholding this complaint for the 
same reasons I set out in my provisional decision. These are as follows:
On the face of the evidence and on balance, despite what S says, Im not satisfied that RBS 
has behaved unreasonably. My role is to consider the evidence and reach what I think is an 
independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. In deciding whats 
fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best industry practice, 
but perhaps unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, based on 
the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
RBS has explained it no longer has paper records of its charge or documents related to the 
loan due to how long ago this was. But B [the policy provider] has provided documents which 
show that when the policy was set up it formed part of Mr Xs agreement with RBS. The 
Educational Expenses Plan  Policy Secured Application (the application) dated 
28 December 1994, evidences Mr X applying for a £15,000 loan with RBS and that the 
policy, for the same amount, was collateral security for this. This is also supported by the 
Particulars of the policy which says it (the policy) was specifically designed for this purpose.
The application was followed by a letter dated 25 January 1995 from Sun Life (now Aviva) to 
Mr X which said: The variable life cover and income options will not apply whilst the Policy 
remains subject to the loan arrangement. The guarantee date may not be changed without 
the agreement of the Royal Bank of Scotland. It went on to say: The assurance is intended 
to be collateral security for a policy secured education (sic) expenses loan arrangement. The 
Royal Bank of Scotland will write to you regarding their decision of your finance arrangement 
application. Given Mr X needed RBSs consent to make changes to the policy, this would 
support that the bank had a valid charge over the policy.
Further, Mr X clearly understood that RBS had an interest in the policy. For example, on 
11 June 2010 Mr X called RBS and its agent recorded the following: T/C from customer 
advising that he has contacted his life policy insurance and they have advised him that his 
policy is only assigned to RBS and cannot be paid to [agents of RBS]. Advised cust that 
payment can be made direct to ourselves and then we would advise [agents of RBS] of this. 
Await contact from cust for further update. There are various similar notes recorded by RBS 
from 2008 until 2019.
So, looking at all this evidence, I think its likely that RBS did execute a charge over the 
policy. But S says the evidence may show there was an intention on the part of the bank to 
have the policy as security, but they dont think this was finalised by way of a deed of 
assignment.
Strictly, a charge over an insurance policy, can be effected without a deed of assignment. 
Theres case law to support that even if the assignee takes the charge without written 
agreement and without giving notice to the insurance company, the trustee in bankruptcy 
takes subject to an equitable charge affecting the policy (Re Wallis, ex p Jenks [1902] 1 KB 
719]). But I think the evidence in this case does support that there was a deed of assignment 
which is likely to mean there was, or is, a legal charge affecting the title of the policy. In 
addition to what its provided above, B says its records show the policy was mortgaged to 
RBS by way of a deed dated 5 April 1995. Therefore, I think its more likely than not that a 
deed of assignment was executed but that due to the passage of time, RBS no longer has a 
copy of this.
As noted above, B did inform the Official Receiver, who was the initial trustee in bankruptcy 
before the appointment of S, that there were no notices affecting the title of the policy. I did 
seek an explanation about this but B was unable to provide one and confirmed that as far as 
its records showed, RBS did have a charge over the policy.
All in all, based on everything Ive seen, I dont think RBS is acting unfairly or unreasonably 
by not disclaiming its interest in the life policy. So whilst I understand S will be disappointed 
with this outcome, Im not intending to uphold this complaint.
In terms of Ss further comments, I appreciate the trustees dont agree with what Ive 
concluded. Its main point is that RBS hasnt been able to provide any documentary 
evidence of the charge it took over the policy. But Ive explained why I dont think it would be 
fair to uphold this complaint given the documents that do exist clearly show the policy was 
taken out for the purpose of being collateral security for Mr Xs loan. Ive not said or inferred 
RBS are flawless. I need to decide what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. And 
based on the available evidence, I dont think RBS is acting unreasonably or unfairly. 
I appreciate RBS did obtain a charge over Mr Xs property in 2009, but that doesnt make it 
fair to say it should be made to disclaim its interest in the policy because of this. As Ive said above, theres case law to support that even if the assignee takes the charge without written 
agreement, the trustee in bankruptcy takes subject to an equitable charge affecting the 
policy. But as Ive also said, I think theres sufficient evidence in this case to support that 
there was a deed of assignment. So, I dont think it would be fair for me to decide on fair and 
reasonable grounds that RBS should be made to disclaim its interest in the policy. 
For all these reasons, Im not upholding the complaint.
.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2021.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman