DRN-3795114
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with the time taken by Scottish Friendly Assurance Society Limited 
(Scottish Friendly) to send him the maturity proceeds of his bond.
What happened
On 20 June 2022 Scottish Friendly first wrote to Mr C, telling him about the maturity option 
for his bond which was due to mature on 1 August 2022. 
On 5 August 2022, Mr C contacted Scottish Friendly to request the maturity claim form be 
sent via e-mail. The accompanying maturity cover letter said if the bond was to be settled, 
the funds would aim to be paid within five working days of receiving the maturity option form, 
or five working days from the date the bond matured (whichever was later). The form was 
completed and returned by Mr C the same day.
On 15 August 2022, a further claim pack was sent to Mr C which contained an incorrect final 
figure. A second document was also sent the same day requesting more information. Mr C 
called Scottish Friendly. He was unhappy as hed completed the form more than a week 
earlier. He asked the adviser why he hadnt received his proceeds given that it had 
exceeded the period for Scottish Friendly to return the proceeds to him
The adviser confirmed Mr Cs form had been received but hadnt been processed due to a 
backlog caused by staff shortages. Unhappy with this, Mr C raised a complaint and asked to 
speak to a supervisor. The adviser said shed log the complaint but notified Mr C that the 
supervisor wasnt immediately available. She offered for a call to be returned no later than 
the following day. This resulted in some back and forth with the adviser, with Mr C being 
unhappy and the call being terminated. Later the same day (16 August 2022), the funds 
were sent to Mr C. 
On 18 August 2022, Scottish Friendly responded to Mr Cs complaint. It accepted it had 
exceeded the timescale for dealing with the maturity claim explaining that it ought to have 
processed the closure of the by 12 August rather than 15 August 2022. 
To put things right, Scottish Friendly paid Mr C 8% simple interest from the maturity date to 
payment date  so from 1 August to 15 August 2022. Scottish Friendly further paid £100 for 
the poor level of service and apologised for the confusion it had caused on 15 August 2022 
by issuing documents in error.
Still unhappy, Mr C contacted this service. Our investigator looked into the complaint 
including the call that took place on 15 August 2022. The investigator concluded that 
Scottish Friendly had delayed paying out Mr C s bond proceeds by one working day but he 
thought the steps it had taken to resolve the complaint were fair in the circumstances, so he 
didnt think that Scottish Friendly needed to anything further. Mr C wasnt happy with this and 
asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
But having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator.
I appreciate Mr C has found this a frustrating experience. Its not in dispute that Scottish 
Friendly didnt handle the maturity claim within the timescales it had set for itself once it 
received the completed form on 5 August 2022. This resulted in a short delay, meaning that 
Scottish Friendly didnt keep to the timescales it said it would. Mr C also had to contact 
Scottish Friendly when it issued further documents in the interim. Understandably, having 
not received his funds in the allotted time frame and then having to make contact from 
overseas, compounded Mr Cs distress and inconvenience caused by the shortfall in 
Scottish Friendlys service.
Mr C says Scottish Friendly should compensate him more than the sum it has already paid. 
So, the question for me to decide here is whether Scottish Friendly needs to do anything 
further.
Our general approach to compensation is to put the complainant in the position that they 
would have been had the business not made an error, as best we can having taking into 
account both financial loss and awards for distress and inconvenience. In this case, Scottish 
Friendly has recognised that Mr C has suffered a financial loss because of the delay it 
caused. It has compensated him for the period it deprived him of his funds in line with the 
approach taken by this service, specifically 8% simple interest minus tax. Im satisfied this 
element of the offer is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Moving to the distress and inconvenience award, Ive looked at all of the evidence and taken 
into account Mr Cs submissions. I recognise the situation caused Mr C to worry in respect of 
not knowing when he was going to receive his funds resulting in him having to make an 
inquiry. There was also confusion about whether Mr C needed to provide further information 
and what the final maturity figure was following an error in the claim pack. I can see that Mr 
C would have suffered inconvenience through having to chase things up so, I accept that the 
level of worry and inconvenience caused warrants a monetary award. However, Mr C 
received his funds one working day later, and the same day as the letters were issued. This 
means despite the initial errors, Scottish Friendly did quickly take steps to put things right so 
the impact to Mr H would have been limited to a small window. In light of this, Im satisfied 
the award of £100 adequately compensates Mr C.
In addition, Ive listened to Mr Cs call with Scottish Friendly on 15 August 2022. Mr C says 
that the adviser used tactics of delay and bluffing. I think its fair to note the exchange 
became heated on Mr Cs side and he made comments towards the end of the call that 
made the situation particularly strained. Whilst I understand the frustration that led to Mr C 
making the call, I havent been persuaded that the adviser was attempting to delay the 
matter or that she was reading from a script. If anything, Im persuaded that the adviser tried 
to make clear what she could do in that moment to assist, albeit it wasnt what Mr C wanted to hear. Because of this, my view is that Scottish Friendly treated Mr C fairly during the call, 
so I wont be making an award for this aspect of the complaint.
Overall, Im satisfied that the award by Scottish Friendly is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances and sufficiently compensates Mr C. I understand this has already been paid, 
so I dont require Scottish Friendly to anything further.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2023.
 
Farzana Miah
Ombudsman