DRN-2102472
The complaint
Mrs and Mr K complain that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) declined their 
application for a mortgage.
What happened
Mrs and Mr K applied for a mortgage with Halifax. In July 2019 they were given a decision in 
principle (described as a mortgage promise) indicating Halifax would be willing to offer them 
a mortgage at the level they required, subject to a full review of their application and this 
meeting Halifaxs lending criteria.
A full application was made but ultimately declined in November 2019 as some of Mrs and 
Mr Ks income was not accepted under Halifaxs criteria.
Mrs and Mr K complained to Halifax about its decision. They said they had provided 
information at the outset about their incomes and the adviser was aware of this. They were 
also unhappy with how long the decision had taken.
Halifax said the application had been assessed correctly and did not meet its lending criteria. 
So, it felt it had not made a mistake by declining it. Halifax did agree that Mrs and Mr K had 
received poor customer service and had been given misleading information about whether 
the application was likely to be successful. And it acknowledged this wouldve been 
upsetting for Mrs and Mr K. To address this, it paid Mrs and Mr K £300.
Unhappy with this response Mrs and Mr K asked our service to look into the complaint. They 
said they felt that things had gone further than a decision in principle, based on what they 
were told by the adviser, and felt it was not fair of Halifax to decline to provide the mortgage. 
They said that having to find alternative funds had meant theyd incurred significant 
additional cost, which they felt Halifax should cover.
An investigator considered the complaint. She thought Halifax shouldve realised earlier that 
it would be unwilling to provide the requested mortgage so agreed Mrs and Mr K had been 
given misleading information. But she felt Halifax was entitled to decline the application and 
had acted in line with its lending criteria when doing so. As a result, she felt what Halifax had 
already done to put things right, was fair.
Mrs and Mr K disagreed with the investigators opinion. They still felt the application had 
gone further than a promise as theyd provided all of the relevant information to Halifax to 
allow it to proceed so still thought it had acted unfairly by declining their application. They 
also said they didnt think the offer made by Halifax was fair. They said theyd been left out of 
pocket as the mortgage they were eventually able to secure had a higher rate of interest and 
additional fees, that they wouldnt have had to pay if Halifax had accepted their application.
Mrs and Mr K asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman and, as a result, it 
has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt in dispute that Mrs and Mr K spoke to an adviser from Halifax in July 2019 or that they 
were provided a mortgage promise at that time. Having reviewed this document Im 
satisfied it represents what is widely referred to as a decision in principle and sets out what 
Halifax would be willing to lend, subject to a full mortgage application being completed. 
Decisions in principle are a common step in a mortgage application process. But they are 
not a binding offer of a loan. They represent an initial indication of what a lender may be 
willing to provide. And Im satisfied that is what Halifax provided here. 
I know Mrs and Mr K feel strongly about this, but I havent seen anything to show that Halifax 
gave a binding commitment to provide the mortgage that Mrs and Mr K were requesting. So, 
I think it was still entitled to decline their application, if after assessing it in more detail, it 
didnt meet their lending criteria.
Halifax has provided evidence to show that part of Mrs and Mr Ks income did not meet its 
qualifying criteria. And this meant it was unable to provide the borrowing they required. A 
lender is entitled to set its own policy on what it considers to be acceptable income. And a 
lender can make its own commercial decisions whether or not it is willing to lend. Im 
satisfied that Halifax has acted in line with its lending criteria when declining to provide the 
mortgage Mrs and Mr K requested. So, I cant fairly say it was wrong to make this decision.
I also dont think itd be fair to ask Halifax to cover the additional costs Mrs and Mr K incurred 
based on the mortgage they did take being more expensive. I say this because, when 
Halifax decided not to lend, Mrs and Mr K would always have required another mortgage  
and the cost of that would be dependent on what other lenders were willing to provide. 
Theyve said that the deal they got was the only one available to them and is more 
expensive than what they applied for with Halifax. But that isnt Halifaxs fault. And as Ive 
said, I think Halifax was entitled to decide not to lend. 
Mrs and Mr K have said that they gave Halifax information about their income in July 2019, 
at the meeting with the adviser. And Halifax has acknowledged that their adviser had this 
information, but they made a mistake and shouldve realised sooner that the income didnt 
meet Halifaxs lending criteria. So, it acknowledges that an error was made. And I think, had 
this error not happened, Mrs and Mr K couldve been made aware sooner that their 
application was not going to be able to proceed.
I dont doubt it was upsetting for Mrs and Mr K to learn their application was being declined, 
or that it was frustrating that this was not explained sooner, when it clearly could have been. 
But as Ive said, until a binding mortgage offer was provided, Halifax was entitled to decline 
their application at any stage. So, taking everything into account, although I appreciate this 
will come as a disappointment to Mrs and Mr K, I think the £300 that Halifax paid in respect 
of the upset caused by its error is fair and reasonable. So, I wont be asking it to do more 
here. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold Mrs and Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs and Mr K to accept or reject my decision before 23 October 2020.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman