DRN-2944319
The complaint
Mr B says Salamanca Capital Partners LLP, trading as Salamanca Group (SG), 
misrepresented its promotion of investment in a CRS Holding of America LLC (CRS) entity 
and misled him to invest in it in 2012. SG denies these allegations and says information it 
presented in the promotion was accurate, and that its role and responsibility was limited to 
promotion/introduction of the investment opportunity.
What happened
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded that it should not be 
upheld. In the main, he found as follows:
SG contacted Mr B about the CRS investment opportunity on 14 March 2012. It said 
$6 to $7 million out of the target $10 million capital had been raised, that SGs 
partners were committing $2 million to the investment and that a minimum 
investment of $100,000 applied, with an expected investment exit within five years.
On 23 March Mr B was sent an overview document for the investment proposal, 
which was produced by a third party (Intersection), which referred to SG as an 
arranger and which included a statement disclaiming SGs responsibility for its 
contents and confirmed that SG had not conducted any investigation with regards to 
the information within it.
On 28 March Mr B attended a presentation for the CRS investment opportunity, 
hosted by SG and Intersection. 
Between 23 and 24 April SG and Mr B exchanged emails pursuant to arranging his 
investment in CRS, and he received a copy of the investments Information 
Memorandum (IM) in the course of this correspondence. 
The IM was prepared by SG and was dated 11 March 2012. It repeated SGs role as 
arranger for the investment; it disclaimed responsibility for advice; it gave details on 
risks/risk warnings for the investment; and it confirmed that SG had conducted no 
due diligence on the investment (and that Intersection was responsible for conducting 
due diligence on the investment).
On 26 April Mr B signed the Subscription Agreement (SA) to confirm he would be 
investing $15,000 in CRS. Within the SA he confirmed his professional background in 
financial services. The SA also presented risk warnings, including warnings about the 
absence of a public market for the investment, its lack of operating history, the higher 
risks within it, currency risks and the lack of regulation. 
CRS went into administration in 2013; in 2014 Mr B queried what he considered to be 
SGs poor due diligence on the investment; in 2018 he made a formal complaint to 
SG; and in 2019 he took part, as a witness, in another CRS investors High Court 
claim against SG.
Despite taking part in the 2019 High Court case and despite that case addressing 
some of the same issues in his complaint, Mr Bs complaint can still be considered by 
this service because he was no more than a witness in those proceedings, so the 
Court did not consider his own individual complaint.
SG promoted the investment, it did not give advice, so Mr B was responsible to 
ensure the investment was suitable for him. SG was responsible to promote the 
investment in a clear, fair and not misleading manner. Its comments about funding 
raised, at the point of the promotion to Mr B, may not have been strictly true but it is 
not considered to be grossly misleading  plus, Mr B raised no queries about 
amounts being invested by others at the time. The IM made clear that SG had not 
conducted due diligence on the investment. Mr Bs referred to an assertion in the 
High Court case that SG conducted such due diligence, but that was defeated by the 
relevant witness testimony in the case denying that such a claim had been made. 
Given Mr Bs professional background, he ought reasonably to have taken the time to 
fully understand the IM, particularly the risk warnings, and to ensure that investment 
in CRS was suitable for him.
Mr B disagreed with this outcome. He asked for an ombudsmans decision and said attention 
should be given to his complaint letter to SG of 24 March 2018. He said in contrast to SG 
saying its partners had invested $2 million in CRS the truth is that its partners invested only 
$70,000, so this must be viewed as grossly misleading; that he had relied on SGs statement 
in order to assume that it must have conducted personal due diligence on the investment 
before committing as much as $2 million to it; that it is not uncommon for a smaller investor, 
as he was, to rely upon larger investors in terms of assuming due diligence by the latter; that 
his complaint is not about the investments failure but is about SG misleading him into the 
investment; and that this service should not place undue weight on his professional 
background because he is entitled to compliant investment promotions as is any other 
member of the public.
SG agreed with the investigators findings; to further support its position, it referred to Mr Bs 
statements to the High Court, in the case he witnessed, as presented in the transcripts for 
the High Court proceedings; it repeated that its role was limited to introducer of the 
investment opportunity; and it refuted Mr Bs suggestion that SGs partners invested only 
$70,000 in CRS, it said SGs partners had invested around $1.5 million. 
The matter was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint, and I have reached this conclusion for broadly the same 
main reasons given by the investigator.
I have considered evidence made available to this service and, as he requested, I have 
given attention to Mr Bs letter to SG of 24 March 2018. In the main, his letter set out the 
following:
A background summary that broadly matches that given in the investigators view.An allegation, based on the claim in the High Court case and on his complaint, that 
SG breached regulatory Principles 1, 2, 6 and 7.
An allegation that SG falsified and misrepresented funding for the CRS investment 
during its promotion, by saying $6 to 7 million had been raised and that its partners 
had committed c. $2m of their own funds to the investment, when the reality was 
that only around $4.5 million had been raised at the time and its partners had 
invested a total of only $70,000. 
The assertion that, had he known the true state of funding for the investment at the 
time he would not have invested in CRS.
An allegation that SG misled him to believe it had conducted due diligence on the 
investment, especially within a synopsis sent to him on 14 March 2012 which implied 
that SG, as co-investor in CRS, would have carried out due diligence; and that there 
is evidence in the High Court case that a witness confirmed SG had conducted such 
due diligence.
The assertion that, had he known SG had not conducted due diligence on CRS he 
would not have invested in CRS.
An allegation that SG breached regulations on investment promotion by failing to 
establish he was an investor that was eligible for such promotions.
An allegation that he was rushed to make the investment; and his claim for 
compensation.
The [relevant] Regulators rules
In summary, the Principles cited by Mr B make the following provisions  Principle 1 says a 
firm must conduct its business with integrity; Principle 2 says a firm must conduct its 
business with due skill, care and diligence; Principle 6 says a firm must pay due regard to its 
customers interests and treat them fairly;  and Principle 7 says a firm must communicate 
with its clients in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
The regulators Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) sets out the rules that firms must 
follow in conducting their business. It includes rules on financial promotions and rules to 
ensure that firms non-advisory products or services are appropriate for their clients.
A financial promotion is an invitation or inducement to engage in investment activity or 
to engage in claims management activity that is communicated in the course of business. 
COBS 4.2 reflects Principle 7 and says a firm must ensure its communication of a financial 
promotion is clear, fair and not misleading (including with regards to risks); COBS 4.3 says a 
firms financial promotion must identify itself as such; and COBS 4.12 restricts the promotion 
of non-mainstream pooled investments to specified categories of clients, so other than 
clients in those categories such a promotion must not be made to a retail client.
COBS 10 and 10A  each applying depending on the investment context  say a firm must 
determine whether (or not) a client has sufficient knowledge and experience to understand 
the risks involved in a non-advised service or product it offers. This is the firms obligation to 
assess appropriateness. A firm is not required to notify its client if the assessment concludes 
that its service or product is appropriate. However, it is obliged to warn the client if the 
assessment concludes that its service or product is inappropriate. Mr Bs case
Based on available information, the venture appears to have been a private equity initiative 
led by Intersection, to be pursued through a special purpose vehicle (SPV). Its objective 
was to acquire CRS Inc for the purpose of operating an E-waste recycling business in 
Eastern United States. Mr Bs allegation is that SGs overall promotion of the venture misled 
him into it  where, but for the misrepresentations he alleges, he would not have invested in 
it  and that SG failed to conduct due diligence on the investment that it ought to have 
conducted.
His reference to the regulators Principles is fair and understandable, but it should be noted 
that this service is not the industry regulator, so it is beyond our remit to determine, in 
isolation, alleged breaches of the Principles and to punish firms found to be in breach. 
Where relevant to the merits of Mr Bs complaint the Principles will be considered, but it 
remains necessary to determine the complaint on its facts and on its merits, not just on the 
basis of alleged breaches of the Principles. 
The sum effect of the Principles cited by Mr B is the proposition that SG had a regulatory 
duty to behave with integrity, with due care, skill and diligence, with due regard to Mr Bs 
interests, with fairness towards him and through clear and non-misleading communications 
with him. I consider that these elements are broadly captured within the provisions and 
requirements related to financial promotions and appropriateness, so where I address and 
refer to these provisions the Principles are captured too. 
SGs promotion of the CRS investment was not defined, alone, by its email to Mr B on 14 
March 2012. That email began the promotion (or introduction) process and it was followed 
by further email correspondence (up to around the time of his investment), the overview 
document, a promotional presentation and the IM. The promotion, based on evidence of its 
overall contents, identified itself as such (that is, a promotion) at all relevant times and 
met/meets the regulatory definition of a financial promotion. 
I consider that the promotion was clearly presented. The documents I have referred to above 
described the investment in a broadly consistent fashion and even though the IM was a 
detailed document (but nevertheless clear in its contents), a synopsis in the email of 14 
March and the overview document gave Mr B the added benefit of clear and meaningful 
summaries about the proposed investment. There is evidence of around six pages of Mr Bs 
handwritten notes from the presentation of 28 March, so that too appears to have provided 
information that was clear enough for him to note and meaningful enough for him to have 
decided to note. A document from Intersection, which appears to have been given at the 
presentation or in relation to it, also sets out plan details for the venture and proposed 
structures. The IM gave the complete picture on the proposal/venture, including around five 
pages on risks and risk warnings.
On balance, and in terms of having fair and non-misleading promotion, I am not persuaded 
that SGs promotion to Mr B was in breach. He has focused on the funding information given 
to him in the email of 14 March. It is worth noting that the relevant text said  Of the 
proposed $10m equity investment, we have raised $6-7m. Salamanca partners have 
committed c. $2m of our own funds. Neither reference is specific and, as the investigator 
noted, Mr B made no queries about the state of funding at the time. He says only around 
$4.5 million was raised at the time and SGs evidence is that its partners invested around 
$1.5 million. I accept that the state of funding in a promoted investment can hold some value 
in a potential investors considerations, but I do not quite agree that Mr B was misled in this 
respect. SGs comments in both respects were estimations, they were not presented as 
precise information  its use of a range between $6 million and $7 million and its reference to circa $2 million both suggest estimations. Furthermore, the lack of funding enquiries by 
Mr B would suggest that this information was not pivotal to his investment decision.
The regulators definition of non-mainstream pooled investments includes securities issued 
by an SPV. The prospect in the venture included shares to be issued in relation to the 
proposed Intersection SPV, so Mr B is correct in his reference to SG having had a duty to 
establish his eligibility for the promotion  or, in other words, having the duty to establish that 
he was in at least one of the specified categories of clients such a promotion could be 
presented to. The IM, which appears to be the only promotion related document produced by 
SG, includes an opening notice that acknowledges this restriction and says the promotion is 
being made only to those in relevant categories. However, Mr Bs point appears to be that 
there is no documentary evidence of the promotion to him being assessed in this respect.
Mr B has objected to the investigators repeated references to his professional background. I 
understand his feelings about this, but it is a fact that his professional standing is very 
relevant to different aspects of his complaint, therefore it cannot reasonably be ignored 
altogether. I do not suggest in any way that he is entitled to less regulatory protection 
because of his profession. He is not and, as I set out above, all relevant regulations  that 
would apply to any retail client  are to be considered in his case. However, it is also fair to 
reflect relevance of his profession where necessary.
One such area is the matter of promotion of non-mainstream pooled investments. Certified 
and/or self-certified sophisticated investors are two categories of clients to whom such 
investments can be promoted. I have not seen evidence of due process by SG in assessing 
Mr B under either of these categories. Based on Mr Bs profession, and if such process was 
or had been properly and completely applied, I am persuaded that he would probably have 
qualified as either or both and the promotion to him could have followed, as it did. Both 
categories related to the underlying existence of an investor who is  sufficiently 
knowledgeable to understand the risks associated with engaging in investment activity 
in non-mainstream pooled investments . Mr B was such a person and, as I mention 
below, his testimony in the High Court proceedings confirmed this. On balance, and in 
practical terms, I do not consider that the lack of evidence of the relevant assessment(s) 
makes a difference. I appreciate that Mr B could take a different view with regards to there 
being, in isolation, a potential breach of COBS 4.12 in this respect, but that is a matter for 
the regulator if he wishes to refer it to them.
Another area in which Mr Bs profession is relevant is the assessment of appropriateness. 
This relates to the investment promotion service by SG through which the CRS promotion 
was made to him. SG had a regulatory duty to ensure that service was appropriate for Mr B 
 in other words, a duty to ensure he had sufficient knowledge and experience to understand 
the risks in the investments promoted in that service.
Mr B was, at the time of the promotion, an experienced financial services and investment 
professional. He does not dispute his professional knowledge and experience of 
investments. Indeed, in the transcripts of the High Court proceedings  and in the section 
that captures his testimony (and questioning) during the proceedings  he readily and 
repeatedly affirmed that he was experienced and familiar with investments, with private 
equity investments, with promotions of such investments and IMs associated with them and 
with investment risks associated with them (including the sort of risks to be found listed and 
explained in IMs for promoted investments). He did this in the context of his admission that 
he had barely read the IM for the CRS promotion and did not go beyond its first few pages, 
mainly because he considered himself familiar with the sort of information (including about 
risk) that the IM would provide and he elected to rely on correspondence about the 
promotion and on his assumption that SGs partners investment in CRS meant SG had conducted requisite due diligence and that those partners lead could reasonably be followed 
by him.
Overall and on balance, I do not consider that SG was wrong to promote the CRS 
investment to Mr B and I am satisfied that the promotion to him was appropriate. His 
complaint also alleges that SG failed to conduct due diligence and that he was rushed to 
make the investment.
As the investigator said, the IM made clear that SG had not conducted due diligence and 
given that the overview document was produced by Intersection, the presentation appears to 
have been led by Intersection, the promoted venture was expressly described as led by 
Intersection and the IM did the same, I consider that Mr B ought reasonably to have known 
that SGs role was indeed limited to promotion/introduction, and nothing more, that 
Intersection was the party to conduct such due diligence and that Intersection was the party 
to query in this respect (if he had such queries). It also stands as evidence, on balance, that 
his assumption about SG performing due diligence on the investment was arguably baseless 
and unreasonable. He has referred to email correspondence from SG that he says gave this 
impression, but I am not persuaded that any email from SG to him gave such an impression.
Mr B was introduced to the promotion on 14 March 2012 and SGs email of this date gave 
him notice that the time frame for the opportunity was a little tight. Over a month thereafter 
he received the IM on 24 April, by which time he had received further documentary 
information about the promotion and had attended a presentation in person. He had two 
days to consider the IM  which he chose not to do  up to 26 April when he completed and 
signed the SA. Overall, and despite the slightly tight time frame SG gave him notice of (at 
the outset), I do not consider that Mr Bs reaction to the promotion and investment in CRS 
was unduly rushed. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2021.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman