DRN-3411987
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy that Ecclesiastical Insurance Office Plc has avoided her home insurance 
policy and declined a claim she made.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the key points:
Mrs S has been using an independent insurance broker, who Ill refer to as B, to 
arrange her home insurance policy for many years.
In 2017, B arranged for the policy to be setup with Ecclesiastical as the insurer. I 
understand the arrangement was made through an intermediary Ill refer to as H.
At the times relevant to this complaint, H had access to a panel of insurers, including 
Ecclesiastical. H was given delegated authority by Ecclesiastical to act on its behalf.
The policy renewed in 2018 and Ecclesiastical remained the insurer.
Shortly after, a theft occurred at Mrs S home. Ecclesiastical looked into the claim. 
After much discussion, it said it was entitled to avoid the policy back to 2017, refuse 
to pay the claim and retain the premiums paid. It said Mrs S had made a 
misrepresentation in relation to the sums insured  the rebuild cost of her home and 
the replacement value of her contents.
Mrs S didnt think this was fair and made a number of points. Ecclesiastical wasnt 
persuaded to change its position. Mrs S referred her complaint to this Service.
Our investigator thought Ecclesiastical had treated Mrs S unfairly. He wasnt satisfied 
it had been clear with Mrs S or the brokers about the information it required in 
relation to the sums insured. In these circumstances, he didnt agree Mrs S had 
made a misrepresentation. He asked Ecclesiastical to reinstate the policy, reconsider 
the claim and consider the consequential financial losses Mrs S had noted.
Ecclesiastical disagreed. It said sufficient consideration hadnt been given to the 
policy documents and information available to Mrs S.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This dispute has arisen because Ecclesiastical says Mrs S made a misrepresentation when 
taking out and renewing the policy.
Ecclesiastical has relied on the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 
2012 (or CIDRA) to avoid Mrs S policy and refuse the claim.
The Act places a duty on the consumer, in this case Mrs S, to take reasonable care not to 
make a misrepresentation. In summary, if Mrs S fulfilled that duty, Ecclesiastical can take no 
action. If she didnt fulfil that duty, CIDRA sets out the remedies available to Ecclesiastical.
The Act provides information about what should be considered when deciding whether a 
consumer has taken reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. A key consideration 
is how clear and specific the questions were.
When an insurer sells a policy directly to the consumer, its responsible for gathering 
information from the consumer that it considers relevant. It will use that information to make 
a decision about whether to offer a policy  and on what terms  based on its view of risk.
When a broker sells the policy, its responsible for gathering that information from the 
consumer and passing it to the insurer. How it gathers the information is a matter for the 
broker  not the insurer. But the insurer must be clear with the broker what information will 
need to be gathered. And if the insurer is responsible for the policy documentation, it must 
ensure its clear  and consistent with the information it asked to be gathered.
That way, all parties are aware of the information the insurer needs in order to setup the 
policy. The consumer has the chance to fulfil their duty under CIDRA, and the broker can 
provide the right support to them.
Information gathering
Ecclesiastical has told us that H was authorised to setup policies under its delegated 
authority. That means H was acting on Ecclesiasticals behalf during the 2017 sale and 2018 
renewal of the policy.
Although I understand H was involved in the policy prior to that, Ecclesiastical wasnt, so H 
would have been acting independently or for another insurer at that time. Either way, I cant 
consider how it acted prior to 2017 under this complaint.
Ecclesiastical says it thinks Mrs S made a misrepresentation in relation to the sum insured 
for both the buildings and contents cover. It says the sum insured for buildings should have 
reflected the rebuild cost of the property in the event of a total loss. And the sum insured for 
contents should have reflected the full replacement value of her possessions.
There are a number of different ways of setting a sum insured. Ecclesiastical is entitled to 
set the sums insured this way under its policy. What I first need to consider is whether it 
made the brokers aware this is how it saw the phrase sum insured  and that this is the 
information it needed them to gather from Mrs S.
Our investigator asked Ecclesiastical what information it, or H, asked B to gather. It said it 
had been struggling to find out from B what information it asked Mrs S for. Im not 
considering the acts or omissions of B under this complaint. I can see H has reached out to 
B for more information. But I think this misses the point.
As above, B is responsible for gathering any information H asked for. Whether B did that or 
not is a matter for B. Whats relevant under this complaint is what information, if any, H 
asked B to gather about the sums insured. As it stands, H and Ecclesiastical havent shown 
they asked B to gather any information at all.
Ecclesiastical says Mrs S is a sophisticated insured and was supported by B, an 
independent broker. As such, H was entitled to rely on the information provided by B.When deciding whether a consumer has taken reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation, CIDRA says the standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. It 
doesnt identify consumers as sophisticated or otherwise. And even if CIDRA didnt apply, I 
dont think its reasonable to expect Mrs S, as a consumer, to predict what Ecclesiastical 
would like to know. All it has to do is ask her clear questions to find out the information it 
considers relevant.
I agree H was entitled to rely on the information provided by B. As I said above, how a 
broker gathers the information is a matter for it alone. But thats based on the insurer being 
clear about what information it needs the broker to gather. Put simply, if the insurer doesnt 
set out clearly what information it needs to setup the policy, relying on whatever it receives 
from the broker opens up the possibility the information is unreliable. The insurer is entitled 
to take that kind of risk if it wishes, but I dont think its fair to take that risk on Mrs S behalf.
I understand H received information from B about Mrs S to setup the policy. It seems to be 
an internal summary printout of the information held on Bs system, rather than a policy 
document. I understand it reflects the information B held for the previous insurer in 2016. It 
includes the sums insured, which are also referred to as cover limits. No further explanation 
is given about what the figures represent.
Our investigator asked Ecclesiastical what questions were asked of Mrs S in 2017 and 2018. 
It provided the printout, noting there was no proposal form completed or questions asked of 
[Mrs S], as far as we are aware, at that time [2017]. It said it understood B had previously 
asked Mrs S to check the documents in the printout were correct. Thats a matter for B. 
Whats relevant in this complaint is that it remains unclear what, if anything, Ecclesiastical or 
H told B it needed to know about the sums insured or cover limits. It also provided the policy 
schedules for those years, which Ill discuss in more detail below.
Taking all of this into account, I think H setup the policy in 2017 on the basis of the 
information it and B held from a previous policy with a different insurer. Of relevance here, 
that was on the basis of the sum insured or cover limit given in the printout. There was 
nothing to suggest the meaning of sum insured used previously by others was the same 
one Ecclesiastical held. Or that Ecclesiastical or H told B what it needed to know.
In summary, H  and therefore Ecclesiastical  has setup a policy on the assumption that 
information previously given was relevant and correct. It doesnt seem to have taken any 
steps to specify what information it wanted to know  or checked that correlated with the 
information provided. Given the risks involved for Mrs S if any of the information wasnt 
relevant or correct  such as her policy becoming invalid  Im not satisfied it was fair or 
reasonable for Ecclesiastical to rely on information in this way.
In these circumstances, Im not satisfied Mrs S was asked to make a representation before 
the policy was taken out in 2017  so I dont think she can be said to have made a 
misrepresentation or otherwise acted unreasonably at this point.
After the policy was taken out, she was sent a policy schedule. She was sent another in 
2018. At both times, this was a chance for Ecclesiastical to clarify what information it had 
wanted to know about Mrs S  and what it was told  so she could correct it if need be.
Policy documents
The policy schedule is produced and branded by H. As its acting on Ecclesiasticals behalf, 
that means Ecclesiastical is responsible for the schedule.In 2017 the relevant part of the schedule said:
Buildings Sum insured £1,294,000
Contents Sum insured    £214,572
The numbers changed in the 2018 document, but the rest of schedule remained the same.
The phrase sum insured isnt defined in the schedule and no reference is made to 
definitions of the phrase that may be found elsewhere. Its not a phrase with one single, 
commonly understood meaning. Without any further explanation, I think most people would 
consider it to mean the amount Im choosing to insure something for or similar.
Ecclesiastical wanted it to mean the full rebuild cost and the full contents replacement cost 
respectively. But I dont think it clearly conveyed that message in the schedule. Instead, it left 
it up to Mrs S to interpret the phrase and to select amounts she wanted to insure for. I know 
it says B, as an independent broker, ought to have supported Mrs S with this. But, as I found 
above, Im not satisfied Ecclesiastical or H told B what information it needed to gather about 
the sums insured.
Ecclesiastical says the meanings are set out in the policy wording. Its pointed to a term 
called underinsurance and inflation protection found on page 46 of the policy, within the 
general conditions section.
I agree this term is consistent with the meanings Ecclesiastical would like to give the phrase 
sum insured  rebuild and replacement costs. But I dont agree it would be fair and 
reasonable to say Mrs S ought to have known this is what Ecclesiastical meant when she 
reviewed the policy schedules.
The schedule doesnt ask Mrs S to cross reference words and phrases used within it with the 
policy wording. So I wouldnt expect her to do so. But even if she did, the policy, through its 
what our words mean section, contains a number of words in bold type that have particular 
meanings specified in the policy. Sum insured isnt one of those words.
So in order to find out what Ecclesiastical meant by sum insured in the schedule, Mrs S 
would have to cross reference the policy wording  despite not being prompted to  put 
aside the fact the phrase wasnt defined, and find the condition set out on page 46. Im not 
satisfied it would be reasonable to expect her to do that. What would be reasonable is for 
Ecclesiastical to set out the meaning in the schedule to ensure all parties have the same 
understanding in an easily accessible way.
Amongst other things, the purpose of a policy schedule is to confirm the basis upon which 
cover has been offered  and to give the policyholder an opportunity to check that basis is 
correct at the beginning of the policy term. If its not, the policyholder can make changes 
before a claim occurs and problems may arise.
Because the policy schedule wasnt clear, Ecclesiastical didnt give Mrs S this opportunity. I 
dont think this treated her fairly. And I dont think it amounts to a misrepresentation on her 
part. Effectively, Ecclesiasticals policy schedule asked her what shed like to insure her 
buildings and contents for. She gave figures she was happy with. Because of that, Im not 
satisfied Ecclesiastical has shown she failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation or otherwise acted unreasonably at this point.
Overall, this means I havent been persuaded Mrs S failed in her duty under CIDRA or 
otherwise acted unreasonably. As a result, I dont think the actions Ecclesiastical took were 
fair or reasonable or in line with CIDRA.Putting things right
To put things right, Ecclesiastical should reinstate Mrs S policy and remove any internal or 
external reference to her policy having been avoided. It will then need to consider the claim, 
subject to the terms and conditions of the original policy, now reinstated.
Mrs S has described a wide range of consequences as a result of the policy being avoided. 
These arent subject to the policy terms  Mrs S is asking them to be paid as compensation 
for unfairly avoiding the policy.
I dont think these have been explored by Ecclesiastical before and it may not be aware of 
them all. The costs involved are significant and I understand they continue to grow as a 
result of Mrs S having to declare the policy avoidance in a number of different situations. 
For these reasons, I think the fairest way forward is for Mrs S to submit her costs and 
evidence for consequential losses to Ecclesiastical for it to consider. It should let her know 
which costs, if any, it agrees to and arrange to make those payments. For any it doesnt 
agree to in full, it should let Mrs S know why.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Ecclesiastical Insurance Office Plc to:
Reinstate the policy
Remove any internal or external reference to the policy avoidance
Consider the claim subject to the terms and conditions of the policy
Consider Mrs S consequential losses
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2022.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman