DRN-3425898
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) declined their claim against their 
travel insurance policy. Reference to UKI includes its agents. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr and Mrs M have travel insurance as a benefit of a current 
account. 
Mr and Mrs M departed on a trip on 20 August 2021. They intended to return on           
11 September 2021. On 4 September 2021, the airline told them that their return flight 
was cancelled. Mr and Mrs M arranged an alternative flight for their original return date. 
On their return, they made a claim against their policy for additional flight and taxi costs. 
UKI declined their claim. It said that the policy doesnt cover what happened here.        
Mr and Mrs M were unhappy about that and pursued their complaint. They want UKI to 
reimburse their additional costs. 
One of our adjudicators looked at what had happened. He didnt think that UKI had 
treated Mr and Mrs M unfairly in declining the claim as what happened here wasnt 
covered by the policy. Mr and Mrs M didnt agree with the investigator. They said that its 
not fair that UKI declined their claim. Mr and Mrs M said it wasnt possible to read the full 
terms and conditions of the policy as it would take too long. They say that they didnt 
receive the cover they thought was in place. Mr and Mrs M asked that an ombudsman 
consider their complaint, so it was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that UKI has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Ive considerable sympathy for Mr and Mrs Ms position. They incurred additional expense 
through no fault of their own. But Im not upholding their complaint and Ill explain why.
Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or situation. An 
insurer will decide what risks its willing to cover and set these out in the terms and 
conditions of the policy document. The onus is on consumers to show that their 
claim falls under one of the agreed areas of cover within the policy. I dont think 
that Mr and Mrs M have done that here.
Mr and Mrs Ms trip wasnt cancelled or curtailed, so those parts of the policy dont 
assist us. 
Ive looked carefully at the Missed, Delayed or Abandoned Departure section of 
the policy but the claim doesnt fall within that section. Mr and Mrs M returned to the 
UK on their planned return date, although I appreciate that their return involved a 
different airline and airport. The policy covers extra travel costs where the insured 
failed to arrive at the point of departure for certain specified reasons - public transport 
delay, car accident or breakdown or traffic delay. Thats not what happened here.  
Considering everything, I dont think that UKI acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
declining Mr and Mrs Ms claim. And there are no grounds on which I can fairly direct 
UKI to pay Mr and Mrs Ms claim in the circumstances that arose here. 
Mr and Mrs M say that it wasnt possible to read the full terms and conditions of the 
policy, as it would take too long. But we would expect the insured to satisfy 
themselves about the cover thats in place. So, I cant hold UKI responsible for the 
fact that Mr and Mrs M were unaware of the policy terms and thought their claim 
would be covered. 
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 June 2022.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman