DRN-4443991
The complaint
Miss O and Mr C complain about esure Insurance Limited (esure) and their decision to 
settle a motor insurance claim on a fault basis.
What happened
Miss O held a motor insurance policy, underwritten by esure. Mr C was a named driver. 
Unfortunately, in January 2023, Mr C was involved in an accident when a third-party vehicle 
collided with the open door of their car. A claim was made to esure by Miss O and by the 
third party.
Mr Cs version of events described the door as already being open when the third-party 
driver hit it as they passed by. esure told Miss O they thought theyd have to settle the claim 
on a fault basis. Miss O strongly disagreed. She provided evidence to support her and Mr 
Cs version of events, which included photos of the damage and evidence of the third party 
admitting liability and admitting to certain hearing and visual impairments.
esure took the decision to settle the claim instead of defending it. They said they did so 
because the evidence of the damage to the third-party vehicle suggested Mr C had opened 
the door as the other vehicle was passing by, rather than the door already being open.
Miss O didnt agree and raised a complaint. She reiterated Mr Cs version of events and said 
esure werent taking her evidence into account, particularly the evidence of the other driver 
admitting liability. She wanted esure to defend the claim.
esure rejected her complaint. They said theyd looked at all the evidence provided by her, Mr 
C and the other driver, and that this had been assessed by several experts within their 
liability team. They said if the claim went to court, they couldnt successfully defend it 
because of the nature of the damage to the other vehicle. Unhappy with this, Miss O and Mr 
C referred their complaint to the Financial Ombudsman.
Our investigator looked into the matter and didnt uphold it. She said esure were allowed to 
settle the claim as they saw fit and didnt think theyd acted unfairly based on the available 
evidence. So, she didnt think esure should do anything further.
Miss O didnt agree. She said she couldnt understand how esure werent willing to defend 
the claim with the information shed given them, especially the evidence about the third-party 
driver. She said he was a danger to other road users, and esure have a duty to represent 
her as their customer.
Because Miss O disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as our 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Miss O and Mr C. I 
understand they feel strongly about the accident circumstances and who they feel was 
responsible. So, I can understand why they feel unfairly treated when the claim was settled 
on a fault basis, especially when they realised the impact that this would have on their 
insurance premiums. Im also sorry to hear about the anxiety Mr C now has following the 
accident. I know this complaint is important to them both.
ts not my role or the role of this service to decide who was responsible for the accident. Ive 
needed to consider the actions of esure and to decide whether they were fair and 
reasonable and in line with the policys terms and conditions.
Ive seen the terms and conditions of Miss Os policy. In the claims procedure section, the 
terms say that esure have, full discretion in the settlement of your claim or any legal 
proceedings which may arise and we may take over, defend or settle the claim in your name 
for our own benefit. Similar provisions are found in most motor insurance policies, so I dont 
find this unusual. 
Based on this, I think esure were entitled to settle the claim as they saw fit and that they 
could take this decision without the agreement of Miss O. So, I dont think I can say esure 
acted outside of these terms when deciding to settle the claim as they did.
Even so, I would expect esure to have given Miss O and Mr C the opportunity to support 
their position. And I would expect any evidence provided to have been considered by esure 
when they decided to settle the claim on a fault basis. And I think esure did so here.
I can see from the claim notes that esure told Miss O early on that they thought they would 
have to settle the claim on a fault basis. I appreciate why Miss O felt that esure had made a 
decision before seeing all the evidence. But, when Miss O challenged esures position, they 
recorded her concerns. They then asked her to provide any further evidence she wished for 
them to consider. Miss O and Mr C both spoke to esure and their testimonies were noted. 
Further evidence was provided to esure  specifically a recording of a conversation between 
Mr C and the third-party driver. I can also see that esure received important testimony from 
the third party.
esure considered the evidence they were given, and, from this, took the decision to settle the 
claim on a fault basis  as they saw the photos of the damage to the third-party vehicle as 
the most persuasive piece of evidence  and esure thought this didnt support Mr Cs version 
of events.
As Ive already explained, I wont be speculating on the liability of the claim, and how I think 
it shouldve been settled. But, having considered the evidence available to esure at the time, 
I think their decision for accepting fault was reasonable.
First, there was no CCTV or independent witness testimony to support Miss O and Mr Cs 
version of events. While I understand there was a witness mentioned, esure have said they 
didnt pursue this as the witness only said they believed the third party may have been 
intoxicated, which esure say they wouldnt be able to rely on in court.
Second, in the opinion of esures liability team, the evidence of the damage to the third-party 
vehicle indicated that the car door was opened as the third-party vehicle was passing by. I appreciate Miss O has a different interpretation of the evidence, but Im satisfied the 
evidence and Miss Os comments were considered by esures liability team, and that their 
conclusions were reasonable.
Third, I appreciate Miss O and Mr C provided a recording of the third party saying he would 
admit liability and mentioning certain impairments. Ive listened to this carefully. I know Miss 
O and Mr C feel the recording shouldve resolved things in their favour. esure have said that 
they cant use this recording to determine liability. As an insurer, esure will have experience 
of how evidence is likely to be seen by a court, and Im satisfied they considered the 
recording but didnt think it was enough to defend the claim. I dont this was an unreasonable 
position for esure to take.
I understand this isnt the outcome Miss O and Mr C were hoping for. And I want to reassure 
Miss O that Ive considered the points shes made about esure protecting other road users 
and their responsibility to represent her as a customer. But I think esure acted fairly in 
reaching the claim decision that they did, in line with the terms and conditions of Miss Os 
policy. So, I wont be asking esure to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Miss O and Mr Cs complaint about esure 
Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Miss O 
to accept or reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Chris Woolaway
Ombudsman