DRN-2123644
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B say Santander UK Plc (trading as Abbey National at the time) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy Mr and Mrs B took out in a meeting in 1994 to protect 
their mortgage repayments. The policy was in Mr Bs sole name. It gave him accident, 
sickness and unemployment cover and they paid a monthly amount for it.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. They disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint was passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete (as some of it is here) I have reached my decision based 
on the balance of probabilities. So on what I think is most likely given the available evidence 
and the wider circumstances.
Our general approach to complaints about PPI is on our website and I have followed it here.
Santander hasnt been able to provide Mr and Mrs Bs exact policy document, so I have 
relied on one from the nearest available date. In response to the adjudicators opinion 
Mr and Mrs B said they had only ever met with Abbey National so how could Santander 
respond when they possibly had different processes. As Santander bought Abbey National 
in 2004, it has taken responsibility for this sale and therefore this complaint, but it has 
responded based on the sales processes and documentation Abbey National had in place at 
the time of the sale. For simplicity I will refer to Santander throughout my decision.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs B say PPI was never mentioned or discussed with them during any meeting they 
had. They have never knowingly considered taking a policy. It seems from all the available 
evidence (the start date of the premium history from the bank and Mr and Mrs Bs inventory 
of title deeds and loan start dates) that Mr and Mrs B took out the PPI as a standalone policy 
to protect an existing mortgage, not at the same time as they applied to borrow any money. 
It seems likely therefore they would have understood it was a separate, optional product. 
Mrs B also said a separate payment for PPI never appeared on their bank statements, she 
said they were never aware of paying additional premiums. But the bank has provided 
payment records from the insurer which show the first payment was made on 13 August 
1994 and the final payment was made on 13 February 2008.
Santander says for the PPI to be set up Mr and Mrs B would need to have completed and 
signed an application form and a direct debit mandate. It cant provide copies of their forms 
but this isnt unreasonable given how long ago the sale was. In cases like this where there is 
limited evidence, I have to decide what I think is most likely. I have thought carefully about 
Mr and Mrs Bs comments, but I also have to consider how long ago the sale was and how 
that might affect what they recall. Without stronger evidence that Santander didnt make it 
clear the PPI was optional and Mr and Mrs B didnt agree to take it out, I cant fairly uphold 
their complaint on this point. 
Its most likely Santander recommended the PPI for Mr B to Mr and Mrs B so it had to make 
sure it was suitable. They say it wasnt as Mr B had good employee benefits; a family history 
of good health; the option to downsize; and family and friends who would have helped. But 
Ive looked at Mr Bs circumstances at the time and I think the PPI was right for him. Ill 
explain why.
Mr B was entitled to six months full pay if he was sick, but his policy would have paid out in 
addition this and for up to 36 months for accident and sickness claims and up to 12 months 
for unemployment. He also had a death-in-service benefit, but this is a different kind of cover 
and wouldnt help with monthly mortgage payments in the same way as PPI. I cant consider 
Mr Bs family health history as a reason for him not to need PPI, it doesnt unfortunately offer 
a guarantee that he would never fall sick, or indeed have an accident. 
With regards downsizing, the PPI would mean Mr and Mrs B didnt need to take such an 
extreme step at what would already be a difficult time  plus the timings on such a move 
would be outside their sole control. They also said friends and family would have helped but 
this isnt suitable alternative protection. Its not guaranteed and peoples circumstances can 
change. Mrs B also said she had an accident policy through work, but she wasnt covered on 
this policy so this isnt relevant to my analysis. 
Given Mr and Mrs B had a high-value, long-term debt secured on their home, and the 
serious consequences of missing a mortgage payment, overall, I think the PPI would have 
been useful for Mr and Mrs B if Mr B was sick, had an accident or lost his job.
Its possible Santander didnt give Mr and Mrs B all the information they need to make an 
informed decision. But I dont think they have lost out because of this. The PPI was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable. And it seems Mr B wasnt affected by the 
main exclusions and limitation of the policy. So I dont think they would have made a 
different decision with better information.
It follows I dont think Mr and Mrs B have lost out because of any problems with this sale.
My final decision
My decision is I am not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 October 2020.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman