DRN-3704621
The complaint
Mr R complains through his representative (a relative) that Lloyds Bank PLC lent him monies 
on two loans he was unable to afford to repay.
What happened
Lloyds provided Mr R with the following loans:
Date Amount Period of loan Monthly 
instalment*
Loan 1 20/7/18 £5,206 60 months £134
Loan 2 22/6/19 £1,000 48 months £34
*rounded up
The first loan was to consolidate a previous Lloyds loan, and home improvements. Mr R 
said that he had had problems with managing his money. At the time of issuing both loans 
he was constantly in overdraft on both his bank accounts. He had recently been in touch with 
a debt advice charity, who had assessed that his outgoings exceeded his income. The 
interest on both loans has been frozen whilst a repayment plan is worked out. He 
complained to Lloyds about irresponsible lending. 
Lloyds said it carried out checks on Mr Rs credit status, verified his income and assessed 
his living expenses using Office for National Statistics (ONS) data. As Mr R passed all its 
eligibility tests it said that it was right to agree to provide both loans.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman, our adjudicator said that Mr Rs complaints about 
both loans should be upheld. She pointed out that Mr R was living on a retirement pension. 
She also said that she didnt think that Lloyds had done proportionate checks, taking into 
account that it had access to his bank accounts. She said that these checks would have 
shown that Mr R was already making heavy use of his overdraft at the time of applying for 
both loans. She further noted that he was spending substantial amounts on gambling.
Lloyds disagreed, pointing out that Mr R would still have had a surplus of disposable income 
each month. it said we shouldnt treat gambling in the same way as spending on necessities, 
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending  
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice  on our website. 
Considering the relevant rules (including the Consumer Credit (CONC) Rules as set out in 
the handbook of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), guidance, and good industry 
practice, I think the questions I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint are:
Did Lloyds complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr R 
would be able to repay the loans in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr R would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required Lloyds to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Rs ability to make the repayments under the agreements. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check. 
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Lloyds had to think about whether repaying 
the loans would be sustainable. In practice this meant that Lloyds had to ensure that making 
the repayments on the loans wouldnt cause Mr R undue difficulty or significant adverse 
consequences. That means he should have been able to meet repayments out of normal 
income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without failing to make any other 
payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and without the repayments 
having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Lloyds to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its 
money back  it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr R. Checks also 
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that such a check ought generally to have been more thorough:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
a higher repayment from a particular level of income).
The greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during which a 
customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal 
that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
loan 1
From the point view of Mr Rs debts, the only ones on his credit report were two bank 
accounts, both in overdraft near their respective limits of £1,600 and £900. He was incurring 
daily overdraft fees. In Lloyds notes of application for this, only Mr Rs monthly rent payment 
is shown. Whilst Lloyds said that it based its assessment of his outgoings on ONS data, it 
hasnt said what figure it put on it. CONC rule 5.2.A 19 says For the purpose of 
considering the customers non-discretionary expenditure.the firm may take into account 
statistical data unless it knows or has reasonable cause to suspect that the customers non-
discretionary expenditure is significantly higher than that described in the data. So I have to consider whether Lloyds should have carried out further checks, apart from 
those it did. Lloyds would have had full access to both of his bank accounts, but it told Mr R 
that it didnt check bank statements during loan applications, relying on the customer to 
make sure everything on the application was truthful. But here it knew both current accounts 
were in overdraft and had reached their respective limits. So I think this would have alerted it 
to look at the accounts.
Mr Rs monthly income was at the time about £1,400. If Lloyds had looked at Mr Rs 
accounts, this would have shown that he was spending around £810 on utilities, rent, council 
tax, insurance, and phone and tv subscriptions. This figure doesnt include spending on food 
or the cost of running a car (which is shown in the bank statements). 
On top of this he was spending up to £200 a month buying lottery tickets. Im aware that 
Lloyds doesnt consider the latter should be counted as non-discretionary expenditure, which 
assumes Mr R would have been able to stop if he wanted. It has pointed out that when it had 
spoken to Mr Rs representative he said it wasnt an issue. Thats not quite accurate - the 
note says at first the transactions were fine and werent a problem but when they were gone 
through it was agreed that these were high and he would speak to Mr R about it. My view is 
that it should have a raised a concern in light of Mr Rs modest income.
There were also a regular number of transactions on the account to an online payment 
service. I dont know what these were for or whether any credit was being used but they also 
may have been of concern. 
Taking into account Mr Rs rent and other monthly payments, his food, the cost of running a 
car, the new loan payment, and possible problems with gambling, I dont think Lloyds should 
have provided loan 1.
To be clear I think it carried out proportionate checks, but those checks should have alerted 
it to carry out more checks. If it had looked at his bank accounts which it had access to, I 
dont think that the loan would have been assessed as being affordable.
loan 2
Similar considerations apply to this loan. Although Mr R didnt appear to have got into 
deeper debt, nevertheless had hadnt managed to pay off any part of his overdrafts. His 
spending was broadly similar to that at the time of loan 1, so similar problems should have 
arisen over lending him more money. This loan was additional to loan 1 so Mr R would have 
had to find the extra payments for this.
So I think that Lloyds shouldnt have provided loan 2.
In respect of both loans I dont think Lloyds made fair lending decisions. 
 
Putting things right
Mr R has had the capital payment in respect of the loans, so its fair that he should 
repay this. So far as the loans are concerned, I think Lloyds should refund all interest 
and charges as follows: 
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loans. 
Treat any payments made by Mr R as payments towards the capital amount. If Mr R has paid more than the capital, refund any overpayments to him with 8% 
simple interest* from the date they were paid to the date of settlement. 
But if theres still an outstanding balance, Lloyds should come to a reasonable 
repayment plan with Mr R.
Remove any adverse information about the loans from Mr Rs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to deduct tax from this interest. It should give Mr R 
a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Lloyds Bank PLC to provide the remedy set out under 
Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman