DRN-2899486
The complaint
Mr B complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc made mistakes with the address it held 
for him, linked to his credit card account. 
What happened
At the end of December 2020, Mr B realised that his address for his RBS credit card was 
incorrect on his credit report held with one of the major credit reference agencies (CRAs). 
His former address was still showing, although hed moved house over a year earlier.
Mr B said he rang RBS in early January to tell it about this mistake. He said he was told the 
issue had been referred to a specialist team, and the agent would phone him back within a 
week. But she didnt call back. 
Mr B rang again, and was then told that the previous agent had taken steps to solve the 
problem, and the address should be updated by the end of the month. He wanted to know 
why he hadnt been told this already. 
Mr B said RBS then explained that, despite Mr B telling it about his house move on 2 August 
2019, it hadnt updated his information until 25 May 2020. He also wanted to know why RBS 
hadnt let him know about that mistake when it realised it. Mr B said that if hed known, he 
would have been able to take steps to minimise the risk to his personal information, account 
security or risk of identity theft.
RBS has explained it made a mistake, and when Mr B told it about his move, it updated his 
current account but not his credit card. It noticed this mistake in May 2020, and changed the 
address it held for him then. And when Mr B told RBS that the mistake was still showing on 
his credit file, it took steps to put that right.
RBS said when Mr B first contacted it, it hadnt been clear that it held the right address for 
him, and it had promised him a call back which wasnt made. It apologised for that. RBS said 
it had tried to get his address amendment date changed with all three of the major CRAs. 
And it paid him £80 as an apology.
Mr B complained again, and RBS said it hadnt issued any items of post to Mr B on this 
account between 2 August 2019 and 25 May 2020. It had checked. 
RBS said it hadnt intended to hide anything from Mr B, it would usually write to a customer if 
a mistake like this one was discovered. There had been an oversight in this case. And it 
didnt think it had made a mistake with the level of compensation paid. But it paid him a 
further £49 for the overall inconvenience. 
When this complaint came to our service, RBS acknowledged it had made a mistake, but it 
thought it had done enough to put things right. It also said that it didnt feel, having reviewed 
the complaint, that it shouldve written to Mr B about the mistake in May 2020, because it 
said that this was discussed with Mr B on the phone at the time. And it sent us a recording of 
this call from May, when Mr B changed his address.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She agreed that the customer 
service RBS provided wasnt up to standard, but she thought the compensation RBS had 
paid was fair. 
Our investigator noted that RBS had told us Mr B was set up to receive paperless 
statements and correspondence, which minimised the risk of anything being sent to the 
wrong address. She didnt think there had been any adverse impact on Mr Bs credit rating of 
having the wrong address showing on his credit file for a while, and she said she also didnt 
think there had been any data breach. She noted that RBS had tried to act quickly by 
contacting the CRAs once it realised the problem. And thought what RBS had paid was fair 
to make up for its lack of communication about that.
Mr B didnt agree. He didnt think the compensation amount was enough. Mr B wanted his 
complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
Mr B has complained that RBS didnt tell him, when this mistake was uncovered. But the call 
recording it has sent us, when Mr B changed his address for the credit card, makes me think 
that its most likely Mr B was aware of this mistake at the time. And RBS has since 
reassured him that it hasnt sent any paper correspondence out on this account to the wrong 
address. I understand why Mr B would be concerned that his address was previously 
inaccurate, but I think that the risk to Mr Bs overall security was fortunately minimised, 
because he wasnt receiving any paper correspondence. 
I know that RBS then made another mistake, because it didnt update the CRAs at the same 
time as it updated its own records. But, like our investigator, Ive been unable to see that this 
has impacted on Mr B, other than in the trouble hes gone to, putting this right. 
When Mr B did alert RBS to the mistake, it took steps right away to correct the mistake. I 
agree that it couldve done a better job of communicating this to Mr B, and its apologised for 
that. I understand that Mr B thinks RBS should pay more for whats gone wrong here, but I 
think that the payments it has made, totalling £129, do provide a fair and reasonable 
outcome to this complaint. So, although I know Mr B will be disappointed, I dont think his 
complaint should be upheld.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman