DRN-4219930
The complaint
Mr M complains that HSBC Bank UK Plc didnt do enough to protect him from the financial 
harm caused by an investment scam company, or to help him recover the money once hed 
reported the scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
Mr M was invited to join a telegram group which was run by someone claiming to be 
affiliated with a financial website. The broker advised the group to invest in cryptocurrency 
using a platform Ill refer to as G, describing the investment as a top-notch new energy 
finance product that combines the four innovative technologies of Natural Gas + Web 3.0 + 
Blockchain + Metaverse".
Mr M was sent a white paper which outlined the investment opportunity and after careful 
consideration he decided to invest. Between 29 November 2022 and 13 December 2022, he 
made four payments to an account he held with a cryptocurrency exchange company 
totalling £7,810 via online transfer from his HSBC account. The funds were then moved from 
there to an online wallet, which he could monitor on Gs trading platform.
On 5 March 2023, Mr M tried to check on his investment and found it had been deleted, that 
Gs platform was no longer available and all the chat history on the telegram had been 
deleted. At this point he realised he was the victim of an investment scam and complained to 
HSBC, but it said the scam occurred when the money was moved from the cryptocurrency 
exchange, so it couldnt provide a refund. It said Mr M should raise a complaint with the 
cryptocurrency exchange company.
Mr M wasnt satisfied and so he complained to this service with the assistance of a 
representative who explained Mr M had been susceptible to fraud because he was dealing 
with financial stress, and HSBC had failed to identify him as a vulnerable customer.
They said others on the telegram chat group had endorsed the investment, and Mr M had 
considered the white paper provided, which looked very professional. He noted there was no 
minimum investment, and he googled the investment and didnt find anything concerning. He 
was satisfied the onboarding was professional and he thought the number of likes, 
comments and positive reactions from the telegram group made it seem genuine. 
The representative said Mr M had no previous experience of investing in cryptocurrency, so 
the new and large transactions to a high-risk merchant were unusual, and there was 
movement of money into and then out of the account immediately after the payments, which 
should have flagged as suspicious. They said HSBC had an obligation to stop and question 
out of character payments and that Mr M was asked whether he was paying known payee, 
whether he was aware of the risk involved in cryptocurrency and whether someone had 
forced him to make the payment, but the intervention wasnt enough. 
They said HSBC could have asked more questions and done more to spot the red flags, 
which included the fact Mr M was contacted on social media, he was told the return would be 
over 100%, he was taking advice from a third-party and G wasnt authorised by the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA).
HSBC accepted Mr M was the victim of a scam, but it said money wasnt lost until it was 
moved from the cryptocurrency exchange, so it wasnt liable to refund the money hed lost.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld.  He explained the third payment 
was blocked and he was satisfied HSBC had done enough during the calls, noting Mr M was 
advised to research the opportunity before calling back to make the payment. And he was 
satisfied Mr M understood that if the investment was a scam he could lose his money, yet he 
still wanted to go ahead with the payment, so it wouldnt have made any difference to the 
outcome if HSBC had intervened any sooner. 
Mr M has asked the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. His representative said he 
wasnt told why he needed to research the investment and what sort of research would be 
appropriate, describing him as an ordinary person who didnt know what sort of research 
was appropriate. They further argued HSBC could have identified this was a scam based on 
the fact Mr M was told to send money through a cryptocurrency exchange, he found the 
investment on social media, and he was promised a 100% return on his investment.
They said a generic warning about risks wasnt sufficient and HSBC should have warned 
him the investment matched known fraud types. They maintain that if HSBC had intervened 
with proper questioning and warnings, the scam would have been exposed and Mr M 
wouldnt have gone ahead with the payments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. Im sorry to hear that Mr M has been the victim of a cruel scam. I know he 
feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a disappointment to him, so Ill 
explain why. 
Im satisfied Mr M authorised the payments for the purposes of the of the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. So, although he didnt intend the 
money to go to scammers, under the Regulations, and under the terms and conditions of his 
bank account, Mr M is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as an investment scam is in fact a scam. 
Some cases simply involve high-risk unregulated investments that resulted in disappointing 
returns or losses. Some of these investments may have been promoted using sales methods 
that were arguably unethical and/or misleading. However, while customers who lost out may 
understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not necessarily meet 
the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud, i.e. dishonestly making a false 
representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a gain for 
himself or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006). 
Ive carefully considered the circumstances, and I am persuaded this was a scam. But, 
although Mr M didnt intend his money to go to scammers, he did authorise the disputed 
payments. HSBC is expected to process payments and withdrawals that a customer 
authorises it to make, but where the customer has been the victim of a scam, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse them even though they 
authorised the payment.
Prevention
Ive thought about whether HSBC could have done more to prevent the scam from occurring 
altogether. Buying cryptocurrency is a legitimate activity and from the evidence Ive seen, the 
payments were made to a genuine cryptocurrency exchange company. However, HSBC had 
an obligation to be alert to fraud and scams and these payments were part of a wider scam, 
so I need to consider whether it ought to have done more to warn Mr M when he tried to 
make the payments.  If there are unusual or suspicious payments on an account, Id expect 
HSBC to intervene with a view to protecting Mr M from financial harm due to fraud. 
The third payment flagged as suspicious on HSBCs systems. Ive considered the nature of 
the first two payments in the context of whether they were unusual or uncharacteristic of how 
Mr M normally ran his account, and I dont think they were. Both payments were to a 
legitimate cryptocurrency exchange company, and neither were for particularly large 
amounts. So, I dont think HSBC needed to intervene any sooner than it did.
HSBC flagged the third payment and questioned Mr M around the purpose of the payment. 
He was told to do more checks, including checking FCA and Companies House registers 
and to look for any negative reviews online which might suggest the payee was operating as 
a scam. Mr M did this and when he called back, he said he was satisfied the investment was 
genuine, he had no concerns, and he knew what he was doing. 
Before the payment was released, Mr M was asked whether anyone had told him to lie and 
given a generic scam warning. He said he didnt need to do more checks, he was satisfied 
the previous payments had been received and hed checked on Companies House that the 
payee was registered in the UK. He was asked if hed sought independent advice and he 
said he had an advisor who hed known for three or four months and who he trusted. The 
call handler didnt explore this, but she did ask if hed been asked to make the payment by a 
third-party.
On 13 December 2022, HSBC flagged a further payment of £4,800 and during the 
subsequent call, he was asked if previous payments were reflected in his cryptocurrency 
wallet, and whether anyone else had access to the wallet. He was also asked whether hed 
been asked to make the payment by a third-party and whether hed been told to lie in 
response to its questions.  
Having carefully considered the circumstances, Im satisfied that HSBC intervened at the 
point I would expect and, having listened to the calls, Im satisfied it asked robust questions 
around the purpose of the payments. During the second call, Mr M said that someone was 
advising him, but the call handler didnt press him on who this was or how he met them, so I 
think it could have done more to explore the issue of third-party involvement. 
However, Ive thought about what might have happened had the call handler asked more 
questions and, on balance, I think its unlikely Mr M would have disclosed the existence of 
the broker and the telegram group, because hed chosen not to mention them up to that 
point. And even if he was open about the existence of the third-party, I dont think it would 
have made a difference to the outcome.
This is because, Mr M had already followed HSBCs advice to do more checks and there 
was no information available at the time to suggest the broker was operating a scam. And its 
clear he was convinced the investment was genuine and was impressed with the positive 
endorsements from others on the telegram group, so even if HSBC had been clearer about the fact there were red flags present, I think its more likely than not that hed have gone 
ahead with the investment. Therefore, while I think HSBC could have done more during the 
calls, I dont think this represented a missed opportunity to intervene in circumstances which 
would have prevented his loss.
Im sorry to hear Mr M has lost money and the effect this has had on him. But for the 
reasons Ive explained, I dont think HSBC could have done anything to prevent this and so I 
cant fairly tell it to do anything further to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2023.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman