DRN-4228101
The complaint
Mr P complains, via a professional third-party representative, about the advice given by 
Greystone Financial Services Limited (GFSL) to transfer the benefits from his defined-
benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme and use the proceeds to draw tax-free cash and 
purchase an annuity. He believes the advice was potentially unsuitable for him. 
What happened
Mr P was introduced to GFSL by another business, which Ill call Firm R, on 4 January 
2017. The introduction said that Mr P was unemployed and needed to raise money. It said 
he had three pension funds, but two of these were small and Mr P didnt plan on accessing 
those. The third was a DB scheme pension from a previous employment, with a cash 
equivalent transfer value (CETV) of £167,000. Firm R said, as Mr P was about to turn 55, 
he was interested in accessing tax-free cash (TFC) from this pension and was considering 
either an annuity or drawdown arrangement to provide an income.
GFSL completed a fact find with Mr P, to gather information about his circumstances and 
objectives. It said Mr P was now 55, divorced but living with his long-term partner of 14 years 
and had three grown children, who were not financially dependent. Mr P had a medical 
condition, and had undergone related significant surgery several years previous, with this 
now requiring regular medication. 
No information was recorded about Mr Ps other pension plans. It was noted that Mr P and 
his partner owned their own home with an outstanding mortgage of approximately £63,000 
and a remaining term of 13 years. Mr P also had a loan for £8,000 for his car. Mr P was 
recorded as having savings of around £15,000. But hed recently become unemployed, and 
he and his partners outgoings exceeded their income quite significantly. 
GFSL says Mr P explained he had been using savings to help cover the income shortfall, but 
he didnt want to continue to do so. And finding a new job had been difficult. So, Mr P 
wanted to access the maximum possible TFC and use this to pay off his car loan, reduce his 
mortgage by approximately £20,000  bringing down his expenditure  and gift around 
£5,000 to his son for his wedding. Mr P then wanted to draw the maximum possible 
guaranteed income he could from his pension from that point.
GFSL said that Mr P was clear he did not want to take any risk with his pension, so had a 
defensive attitude to risk.
It appears that GFSL immediately began researching annuities, taking into account Mr Ps 
medical conditions. And on 25 January 2017 it sent him an email, which noted it was in 
follow up to an earlier telephone conversation. The email included annuity figures, which 
GFSL had said it had promised to provide. This was based on a transfer value of £167,000. 
It said the maximum TFC that could be taken was £41,750. And a single life, non-escalating 
annuity with a ten-year guarantee could pay £5,314. GFSL said itd contact Mr P again once 
it had received information from his DB scheme. A copy of the fact find was later sent to 
Mr P to confirm that it reflected what had been discussed and his opinions. Mr P signed the 
copy to confirm this on 13 March 2017.
I understand, when GFSL obtained the relevant information from the scheme, the CETV had 
increased to £170,287.35.
On 20 March 2017, GFSL advised Mr P to transfer his pension benefits from his DB scheme, 
take the maximum available TFC and use the remainder to purchase a lifetime annuity on a 
single life, level payment basis, with a ten-year guarantee. It said that taking TFC and using 
this as Mr P had indicated he intended to would reduce his outgoings. And it said the annuity 
that Mr P could then take out would pay enough to cover the remaining shortfall between his 
partners income and their combined expenditure. It recommended the annuity be on a 
single life basis as to account for a partner would decrease the amount the annuity would 
pay. And likewise taking an escalating income would do the same. So, as Mr Ps objective 
was to maximise his income it felt a level basis was appropriate, noting that the ten-year 
guarantee would afford his partner some protection.
I understand the transfer went ahead in line with GFSLs recommendation.
Mr P complained to GFSL, via his representative, in 2022. The representative said GFSL 
hadnt explained the guaranteed benefits Mr P would be giving up by transferring or the 
increase in risk hed be exposed to by investing. So, they thought hed been given unsuitable 
advice.
GFSL didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. It said it had recommended that Mr P take an annuity, 
so contrary to what the representative had said, there was no investment risk. And this was 
in line with Mr Ps attitude to risk. It said Mr P had contacted it with a very clear intention to 
access his pension benefits, as he needed to do so having lost his job. It said, while he 
couldve accessed benefits under the DB scheme, having turned 55, he wasnt entitled to 
take any TFC, due to the scheme position. And the income he couldve drawn was less than 
an annuity. So, it thought its recommendation was suitable, as it had met Mr Ps stated 
needs.
Mr P referred his complaint to our service. In the course of our investigation, Mr P confirmed 
he was thinking of accessing his pension before speaking to GFSL and hed used the TFC 
for the purposes that WFSL recorded. He also said that, if hed been advised not to transfer, 
hed have disagreed with GFSL and looked to transfer. This was because he wasnt sure, at 
the time, if he was going to find work and was worried about his financial situation and that 
he could potentially lose his house. So, he wanted to reduce debt and take an income, for 
the financial security that accessing benefits provided. Mr P also provided a bit more detail 
about the other pensions, that hadnt been explored at the time. He believed one was valued 
at around £17,000. The other was also a DB scheme. And, while Mr P didnt know the exact 
value at the time of the advice hed received from GFSL, noted that hed transferred this 
pension and begun accessing it in 2020, at which point it had a CETV of approximately 
£217,000. 
One of our Investigators considered the complaint. He noted that the position regarding 
Mr Ps other pensions was likely different to what was described at the time. But GFSL had 
relied on what it was told by Mr P. The Investigator said he thought the advice to transfer 
was potentially hasty as Mr P had only been out of work for around four months, when it was 
given. And, while Mr P may not have wanted to continue to erode his savings, using these to 
support his needs for a few months longer, while he looked for work, mightve been more 
suitable. But Mr P had been clear, when speaking to our service, that he would always have 
looked to transfer as he was worried about his financial security and wanted to access his 
pension to address this. So, in the circumstances, the Investigator thought it was likely that 
Mr P would always have ended up in the position he was now in  as he wanted to release 
tax-free cash and maximise his initial income, which the annuity chosen had done. So, he 
didnt think GFSL needed to take any further action.Mr Ps representatives said he wanted his complaint to be review by an Ombudsman. As a 
result, it was referred to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ps representative said, one of the reasons the advice was unsuitable was that the risks 
the pension would be exposed to werent explained to Mr P. But the transfer here didnt 
involve investing Mr Ps pension or any other action that put the amount transferred at risk. 
So, this argument doesnt appear relevant to what happened here.
Mr Ps existing scheme provided a guaranteed annual pension. The normal retirement age 
for the DB scheme was 65. The suitability report doesnt appear to have made it clear what 
pension would be payable if Mr P waited and didnt draw benefits until that point  which Ill 
comment more on later. But information from the scheme indicates that in 2017, the annual 
pension was worth approximately £6,011 per year. And this would continue to be revalued 
until age 65, as well as part of it escalating while in payment. The scheme information also 
indicates that a maximum TFC lump sum of £19,381.90 could potentially be taken from the 
DB scheme at normal retirement.
Alternatively, Mr P couldve taken benefits under the DB scheme at the time of the advice. 
This wouldve been a guaranteed pension, starting at £4,208.26 per year. This amount 
would escalate while in payment. But Mr P was not entitled to take any TFC under the DB 
scheme at that time.
GFSL recommended that Mr P use the transfer value of his benefits, the CETV, to 
immediately release TFC of just over £42,500 and then purchase an annuity. That annuity 
provided a guaranteed level income of £5,620.08 for the rest of Mr Ps life. So, the CETV 
was not invested in a fund that could go up and down in value  and so was not exposed to 
investment risk. Some money was released to Mr P, to address his objectives, and the rest 
was used to buy an annuity, which still provided a fixed guaranteed income, but on a 
different basis. So, Mr Ps guaranteed benefits were not given up and investment risk taken 
 they were exchanged for alternative guaranteed benefits. 
What I must decide is whether the advice given  the recommendation to make that 
exchange  was suitable.
The recommendation made by GFSL did enable Mr P to achieve his stated objectives. The 
TFC he could take as a result of the transfer was maximised. Which enabled him to repay 
his £8,000 loan, make a significant reduction to his mortgage and gift a sum to his son. And 
again, he couldnt actually draw TFC under the DB scheme at the time of the advice. So, 
taking benefits from the scheme (instead of transferring them) wouldnt have allowed him to 
achieve this objective.
The annuity Mr P purchased ensured that his pension was not subject to risk  in line with 
his defensive attitude to risk and general risk aversion. And taking the annuity on a single life 
and level payment basis meant that the annual income that the pension would immediately 
provide was maximised. This is because the cost of including benefits for another party or 
securing future escalation of benefits is greater, which wouldve been reflected in a lower 
initial income amount. And achieving the highest starting income was in line with Mr Ps 
stated objectives, with the ten-year guarantee also providing some security to his partner.
The DB scheme information indicated it provided a spouses pension. Whereas the recommended annuity didnt, and the only protection afforded to Mr Ps partner was the ten-
year guarantee. But Mr P and his partner werent married. It isnt clear if shed have qualified 
for the spouses pension under the DB scheme. But the priority here was to advise Mr P 
about what was best for his retirement provisions, so I dont think this is a significant factor in 
determining whether it was suitable advice for Mr P to transfer out of the DB scheme.
Mr P signed a copy of the fact find and summary of his circumstances confirming these were 
his objectives. And so, based on what he was looking to achieve, the recommendation met 
those objectives.
But it wasnt GFSLs role just to put in place what Mr P mightve thought he wanted. Its role 
was to fully consider his circumstances, needs and goals and provide objective financial 
advice. When considering if the advice GFSL gave was suitable, Ive taken into account 
relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of 
practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. This includes 
the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS). 
And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions 
on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened 
based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Some of the rules Ive considered, which provide useful context for my assessment of 
GFSL's actions here, include:
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer. These include COBS 19.1.6G in which the regulator, the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB 
scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, GFSL should have only considered a transfer if it could 
clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ps best interests. 
When giving advice on transferring benefits from a DB scheme, the adviser was required 
under COBS 19.1.2R to complete a comparison of the benefits of the DB scheme with those 
of the new scheme, ensuring this had enough information for the customer to make an 
informed decision and share this with them. This is known as a transfer value analysis 
(TVAS) report. At the time this needed to include a calculation of how much a customers 
pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide the same benefits as their 
DB scheme (the critical yield), which serves to illustrate the value of the guaranteed benefits. 
The rules say that a business need not produce this comparison if benefits are being 
immediately crystallised and the customer is at normal retirement age under the DB scheme. 
Here Mr P immediately crystallised benefits. But he wasnt at the normal retirement age of 
the DB scheme. So, a TVAS report shouldve been completed. But I cant see that GFSL did 
so.
COBS 19.1.3G also says, where a customer is seeking to immediately crystallise benefits 
before the scheme retirement age, a comparison to the benefits the DB scheme would 
provide at its normal retirement age should be provided. But as Ive said above, a TVAS 
wasnt carried out here. And the suitability report didnt reference the benefits that the DB scheme would provide if Mr P drew them from age 65  the normal scheme retirement age. 
So, this comparison also wasnt provided to Mr P.
As a result, I dont think the process employed by GFSL when providing its recommendation 
met with the regulators requirements. I also dont think it provided Mr P with the information 
it should have, in order for him to make an informed decision.
The suitability report did include a side-by-side comparison of the income the DB scheme 
would provide from age 55 with what a level, single life annuity with a ten-year guarantee 
could pay. But the figure used in this comparison for the annuity was for the income that 
could be purchased before taking TFC. So was not representative of what GFSL was 
recommending that Mr P do. And therefore, this comparison was potentially misleading.
The scheme information from the time indicated that, at that point, Mr Ps pension 
entitlement under the DB scheme from age 65 was worth £6,011 per year. But this would 
continue to be revalued until age 65. This included a guaranteed minimum pension (GMP). 
And there was some suggestion that by age 65 the GMP alone that Mr P wouldve been 
entitled to was likely to be £7,849.31. So, under the DB scheme Mr P couldve been entitled 
to a pension from age 65 beginning at this amount, plus the excess pension Mr P was 
entitled to under the scheme  which at the time of the advice was over £2,200. And this 
wouldve continued to escalate in retirement. 
The annuity GFSL recommended however paid £5,620.08 per year. This would not change. 
GFSL said in the suitability report that it could take over 24 years for the benefits of the DB 
scheme to catch up with those the annuity provided and therefore give better value. But this 
comparison was based on the annuity paying £7,253 per year (before taking tax free cash). 
And the DB scheme beginning at £4,208.26, from age 55. It isnt therefore clear whether 
Mr P was likely to be better off in retirement as a result of the recommendation.
COBS also required GFSL, when assessing the suitability of its recommendation, to gather 
sufficient information about Mr Ps circumstances to ensure that its advice was suitable. It is 
clear from the fact find and suitability report that GFSL did gather a lot of information about 
Mr Ps circumstances at the time. But I think there was important information that it failed to 
collect.
A pension is primarily intended to provide the holders needs in retirement. But I cant see 
that GFSL gathered information about how much income Mr P expected to need on an 
ongoing basis in retirement. Instead, all of its analysis was focused on his income position at 
age 55. But this would change over time, with the repayment of debts and him becoming 
eligible for state pension. GFSL also doesnt appear to have followed up or gathered any 
further information about Mr Ps other pension arrangements. This was an important 
consideration, as it wouldve helped to establish how much of his retirement income needs 
could be met by these other sources and therefore what capacity to accept loss he had, in 
respect of the pension that it recommended he transfer. But rather, GFSL seems to have just 
relied on the statement from Firm R that these were small and Mr P wasnt considering 
using these for his current needs. Which I dont think was appropriate.
Turning to the reasons for advice, again GFSL says that Mr P wanted to access his benefits 
from his DB scheme straightaway, to reduce his debt and provide an ongoing income 
because he was out of work. But again, its role wasnt just to facilitate what Mr P mightve 
thought he wanted. GFSLs role was to advise him on what was in his best interests.
By the time of the advice Mr P had been out of work for three to four months. But when the 
advice process started, and information about his circumstances and objectives appears to 
have been gathered, he had only been out of work for one month. It is telling that, in an initial email from GFSL in January 2017, it was already providing an estimate of what Mr P could 
access from his pension at that time, rather than looking at the alternatives. Which I dont 
think was in line with the regulators starting position that transfers should be considered 
unsuitable.
GFSL recorded that Mr P and his partner had an income deficit of £8,993 per annum. And it 
said Mr P had been meeting this from his savings and didnt want to continue to do so or 
deplete his savings further. But again, hed only been unemployed for one month when they 
first spoke. And this deficit on a monthly basis was just under £750. Whereas his savings 
were recorded as being around £15,000. So, although he may have preferred not to, he had 
the capacity to continue to meet this shortfall without accessing his pension benefits for 
some time to come, while he sought employment. And I think highlighting this, in the context 
of monthly cost, wouldve been appropriate.
I also cant see that any consideration was given to the possibility of accessing 
unemployment benefits in the short term, while Mr P was seeking a new job. Or whether 
these wouldve been sufficient to address his income deficit.
It is true that under the DB scheme Mr P could not access TFC at the time GFSL gave him 
advice. And the scheme information suggests the amount he might be able to access at age 
65 was capped at just over £19,000. Whereas by transferring Mr P was able to access a 
sum in excess of £40,000 immediately. And Mr P has confirmed he used this to pay off his 
car loan and reduce his mortgage. And if his employment situation had remained as it was 
these debts couldve been unaffordable in the longer term, so Mr P has benefitted from this. 
But his employment situation wasnt necessarily going to remain as it was  indeed Mr P 
says he returned to work shortly after the advice was given. 
Mr P was also able to gift some money to his son for his wedding. But, while I appreciate this 
was something that Mr P wanted to do, I dont think this was something he needed to do.
Taking all of this into account, while I appreciate that Mr Ps financial situation was likely to 
have been of significant concern to him and using his pension benefits to address this 
mightve appealed, like our Investigator, I dont think his situation was such that this was a 
genuine need at that point. Or that it was in his best interests to do so. And overall, I dont 
think I can reasonably conclude the advice given by GFSL was suitable.
I cant ignore though that Mr P has been clear that if he had been advised not to transfer, 
hed have disagreed with GFSL and still sought to do so. The information from the point of 
sale indicated that Mr Ps opinion was that he needed to access his benefits and had no 
choice but to seek to maximise the initial income because he was concerned about his 
finances and not finding work. Mr P signed a copy of the fact find confirming this reflected his 
opinion at the time. And when speaking to our Investigator, he has repeated that this was his 
opinion and that he genuinely felt he needed to use his pension benefits to address his 
financial situation. And the referral from Firm R to GFSL indicated Mr P had sought advice 
specifically with a plan to access his pension already in mind, which Mr P has also 
confirmed.
I cant see that Mr P had any specific knowledge relating to pensions, above that of a normal 
consumer. And Mr P has confirmed that he had little knowledge in relation to pensions. And, 
as Ive said, I dont think the advice he was given to transfer was suitable. But given he has 
been clear that he would have disregarded that advice and that he felt it was necessary to 
access his pension benefits, I dont think I can reasonably say he wouldve been in a 
different position than he is now if more suitable advice had been given. I say that because, 
Mr P has agreed his objective was to take the maximum possible tax-free cash and use this 
to address his objectives and to take the maximum possible initial income on a guaranteed basis, avoiding ongoing risk. Which is the position the course of action he took put him in. 
So, with that in mind, I dont require GFSL to take any further action here. This is because I 
think that Mr P wouldve proceeded to transfer his DB scheme benefits even if GFSL had 
provided him with clear advice not to do so.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2023.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman