DRN-2699180
The complaint
Ms As complaint is that the car she acquired through a hire purchase agreement (HPA) with 
Oodle Financial Services Limited trading as Oodle Car Finance (Oodle) wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
What happened
Ms A entered an HPA with Oodle in September 2019 to acquire a used car. In January 2020 
she experienced issues with the car and took it to a mechanic. She says she was told the 
gearbox was eroded and that this was due to an issue that was present before she acquired 
the car. She says the repairs were estimated to cost over £3,000 so she was advised to 
contact the dealer. She did this but says the dealer said the car had passed its three-month 
warranty. She then contacted the credit broker that had arranged the financing of the car and 
an independent inspection took place. This confirmed the issue being present at the point of 
supply, but Ms A says the dealer still wouldnt accept responsibility and a further inspection 
took place. Ms A says the second inspection was less thorough and confirmed that the car 
was driveable at the point of supply which she hadnt disputed. However, based on this she 
says her complaint wasnt upheld.
Ms A says she needs her car to travel to work and this issue has affected her income.
Oodle issued a final response letter dated 24 March 2020. It said that Ms A had contacted it 
on 2 March 2020 to say she had experienced issues with the car and that the dealer wasnt 
willing to help. It says it contacted the credit broker which said the dealer hadnt accepted 
that the issues were present or developing at the point of supply given the length of time 
Ms A had use of the car and the mileage covered (around 5,000 miles). An independent 
inspection was arranged which took place on 19 March which said that on the balance of 
probability the issue wasnt developing at the point of supply and was more likely due to in 
service wear and deterioration since acquisition.
Ms A didnt accept Oodles response and referred her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator upheld Ms As complaint. He considered the use Ms A had had of the car 
and the inspection reports carried out. He thought more weight should be given to the 
conclusions of the first independent inspection report which said that there was an 
underlying issue that was present at supply. Because of this he recommended that Oodle 
cover the costs of the repairs and return any payment Ms A made while her car couldnt be 
used as well as reimbursing Ms A for any costs she had incurred in the diagnosis of the 
issue. He also recommended that Ms A be paid £100 compensation for the inconvenience 
caused by having to have the inspections carried out.
Oodle didnt accept our investigators view. It said that the car was provided in good faith 
with no faults present at the point of supply. It said that the issue of the gearbox had been 
discussed with transmission specialists and that it was said that if there had been an 
underlying issue or no oil in the gearbox the car wouldnt have been able to be driven more 
than 100 miles. Ms A was able to drive 5,000 miles in three months with no issues reported. 
It reiterated the findings of the inspection carried out in March 2020 and said that based on 
the evidence it couldnt say the issue with the car was present at the point of supply rather 
than arising from wear and tear.
Since our investigator issued his view, the car has been impounded and Ms A has said she 
no longer wants the car as she had needed to get alternative transport.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
Ms A drove the car for three months and around 5,000 miles before she reported the 
issue. When a fault is identified within the first six months the onus is often on the 
supplier to show that the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply and that 
the issues raised werent due to faults present or developing at acquisition. 
Two independent inspections were carried out on the car. Both reports noted that the 
car stalled after starting and that this happened when selecting reverse and drive. 
This showed there was a fault present with the car from January 2020.
The reports come to different conclusions regarding when the fault developed. The 
January report noted that there was a gearbox oil leak with both the gearbox and 
sub-frame being oil soaked. I had no reason to dispute this observation and while the 
March report said there was no leakage from the gearbox I found, on balance, I 
accepted the comments from the January report and said it was possible the oil leak 
was cleared before the March report.
The January report provided photographs which it said showed that the car had 
historic gearbox repairs which it considered happened before Ms A acquired the car 
and suggested the car had an underlying issue. The March report said there wasnt 
evidence of previous unsuccessful repair but given the photographs provided as part 
of the January 2020 report, I found it more likely than not that a previous repair had 
taken place.
I placed more weight on the conclusions of the January 2020 report which suggested 
that there was an underlying issue with the gearbox. I noted the comments Oodle 
made about the distance Ms A was able to drive, but I found the evidence suggested 
that there was more likely than not an underlying issue for which a repair had been 
attempted and this may have meant the car was able to be driven for a period of time 
before the issue returned. 
Because I accepted there was an underlying issue I foud it reasonable to say that the 
issue that caused Ms As cars gearbox to fail was developing at the point of supply. I 
didnt find it reasonable that the car suffered a gearbox failure within in three months 
and said this raised concern about the durability of the car. Overall I didnt think the 
car was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Ms A raised the issue within the first six months, and I noted that under the CRA 
2015, a reasonable remedy could be for Oodle to be allowed an attempt to repair the 
car. However, Ms A had said that she no longer needed the car. Given the time that 
had passed while this complaint was under investigation, and that the car wasnt able 
to be used, I understood why Ms A had needed to make alternative arrangements. As the car was no longer required I found that the fairest resolution to this complaint 
was for Ms A to be able to reject the car and have her HPA cancelled with nothing 
further owing. Ms A didnt pay a deposit under the agreement.
Ms A said she hadnt used the car since December 2019. She made some payments 
after this date but then stopped these. As Ms A hasnt had use of the car since start 
January 2020, I found it fair that she should be refunded any payments she made 
from and including January 2020 onwards along with interest. Any other payments 
due for the period until this complaint was settled should be waived.
Ms A paid insurance and tax for part of the period that her car couldnt be used. She 
provided evidence that she paid £789.06 for a years insurance from September 
2019 to September 2020. She also said she paid road tax and showed evidence of a 
direct debit of £14 for August 2020. Ms A then had the car SORN. The MOT expired 
in March 2020. As the car wasnt driveable due to not having a MOT from March 
2020 I found it reasonable that Ms A would have acted at that time to mitigate her 
costs by cancelling her insurance and registering the car as SORN. Had this 
happened tax and insurance wouldnt have been due from that time. Therefore, I 
found it fair that the costs relevant to the months of January through to March 
(inclusive) were refunded.
Ms A had the car SORN, but she had no off-road place to store the car. As the car 
was parked on a road without a MOT, it was impounded. I noted Oodles comments 
that it was Ms As responsibility to ensure the car was legal, but I also accepted that 
Ms A had no choice as to where to keep the car and as she wasnt able to use it (and 
she has explained this affected her earnings) I could understand why she didnt pay 
for the repairs required to ensure it had a valid MOT. Therefore, I found it fair that the 
costs associated with the impound should be covered by Oodle.
Ms A explained that she needed her car to travel to work and that her income was 
reduced because of the issues she experienced. I understood how inconvenient this 
situation had been for Ms A, but as I found that Ms A should not be liable for any 
payments during the period she was unable to use the car I did not find that I could 
require Oodle to refund any lost income.
Ms A didnt maintain her payments but given the situation with the car I found I fair 
that any adverse information relating to the agreement regarding the period when the 
car was unable to be used should be removed from Ms As credit file.
Ms A was caused inconvenience by having to have the inspection reports carried out 
and while I understood why these were required I found it reasonable that she was 
paid £100 for the upset caused.
Ms A accepted my provisional decision. Oodle didnt provide any further evidence in 
response to my provisional decision but noted that it didnt think it should be liable for all the 
costs associated with the car being impounded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms A acquired a used car through an HPA with Oodle. Under the regulations, specifically the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA 2015), Oodle can be held liable if the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. The car Ms A acquired was first registered in 
March 2013 and had been driven just under 60,000 miles when she acquired it and this 
needs to be considered. It is possible that faults can arise on used cars shortly after 
acquisition even if they werent present at supply.
Given when Ms A raised the issues with the car I find it reasonable that Oodle was required 
to show that the car was of satisfactory quality at acquisition. Two inspection reports took 
place and I explained in my provisional decision my reasons for placing more weight on the 
inspection report carried out in January. As this suggested a previous repair to the gearbox 
taking place before Ms A acquired the car, I found this raised concerns about the gearbox 
having an underlying fault at acquisition. I also do not think that given when the issue was 
raised that the car was sufficiently durable. Because of this I do not find the car was of 
satisfactory quality at acquisition.
Ms A has needed to arrange alternative transport and no longer needs the car. Therefore, I 
find the fairest resolution is for her to be allowed to reject the car and have her agreement 
cancelled with nothing further owing. I understand she didnt pay a deposit and so there is no 
refund required for this.
I have set out in my provisional decision the other redress that I find fair in this case. I 
understand why Oodle has questioned its liability for the costs associated with the 
impounding of the car. I accept that under usual circumstances I would be reasonable for 
Ms A to ensure the car was legal. However, I consider each case based on its individual 
merits and I find that Ms A did take reasonable action to mitigate the costs by having the car 
SORN. The car was unusable, and she had no off road parking and so had no choice as to 
where to store the car. As she was in this situation due to the car not being of satisfactory 
quality I find the impound costs were the result of the issues Ms A experienced with her car 
and so in this case I find it fair that Oodle is liable for these.
Putting things right
To put things right Oodle Financial Services Limited should:
1. Take back the car at no cost to Ms A. This means collecting the car from where it has 
been impounded (or stored if alternative arrangements have been made) and settling 
any costs relating to the impound or storage.
2. Cancel Ms As HPA with nothing further owing.
3. Refund Ms A any payments she made from and including January 2020.
4. Waive any payments that fell due that werent paid until the date of settlement;
5. Remove any adverse information regarding this HPA from Ms As credit file.
6. Refund Ms A any costs she incurred in the process of diagnosing the issue with the 
car. Ms A has said she doesnt have evidence of these but if this is provided a refund 
should take place.
7. Refund Ms A the insurance and tax payments she made between January 2020 and 
March 2020 inclusive (subject to evidence of payments being provided).
8. Pay Ms A £100 for the inconvenience caused by needing to have the car inspected.
Items 3, 6 and 7 are subject to 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
If Oodle Financial Services Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Ms A how much its taken off. It should 
also give Ms A a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Oodle Financial Services Limited trading as 
Oodle Car Finance should take the actions set out above in resolution of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman