DRN-3880408
The complaint
Mr G complains about how Advantage Insurance Company Ltd (Advantage) handled a 
claim under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr G had a motor insurance policy with Advantage.
On 17 November 2021 Mr G was involved in a collision with a third-party vehicle and he 
made a claim from Advantage on 29 November.
Mr G chose to use his own repairer, so Advantage asked him to ask his repairer to send it a 
quote for the work that needed doing. 
It took until 21 December for Advantage to receive the quote in a format it could use.
Advantage authorised the repairs on 19 January 2022 but Mr G chased Advantage on 31 
January because the garage hadnt received it. This was resolved soon afterwards. 
Mr G had sent Advantage video footage of the collision when he originally reported it. 
Advantage didnt realise this and asked for it again. It sent the footage to the third-party 
insurer in April, but the third-party insurer said it didnt receive it. Advantage didnt follow it 
up.
The third party continued to deny liability for the accident.
Mr G continued to ask Advantage for updates and complained about its service.
In its final response, Advantage said it thought it should have contacted Mr G more 
frequently during his claim and hed sometimes not heard from it for over a month at a time. 
It recognised itd made a mistake in not chasing the third-party insurer about the footage it 
had sent. It paid Mr G £50 for his inconvenience. 
Mr G remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked 
into it and upheld it. He thought Advantage had caused delays during the claim and it hadnt 
updated Mr G. He thought Advantage should pay a total of £200 compensation for its poor 
service. 
Advantage didnt agree with the view. It said it wouldnt contact the third-party insurer until 
Mr Gs repairs were complete. As the third-party insurer continued to deny liability, 
Advantage had continued to handle Mr G s claim against the third party.
Because Advantage didnt agree with the view, it has been passed to me to make a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about Mr Gs complaint and about how it can be split into two distinct 
parts. These are the repairs to his own car, and how liability has been determined. I will deal 
with these separately:
Repairs
I can see from the file that Mr G told Advantage about the collision about 12 days after it had 
happened. There was a series of communications between Mr G, his repairer and 
Advantage to obtain the quote for repairs in the correct format  on a letterhead and 
viewable by Advantage.
I understand Mr G didnt find this delay ideal. I can see from the file that Advantage says it 
had discussed with him about using its own approved repairer network rather than his own 
choice. Ive not listened to the conversations between Mr G and Advantage at this time, but I 
would expect them to have discussed speed and ease of the claim. Its been Mr Gs choice 
to use his own repairer to fix his damage and this repairer might not have worked with 
Advantage before and may not have been used to its procedures and processes.
Once Advantage had received the quote for repair works in the correct format, it took about 
four more weeks for the work to be authorised and there was a further two-week delay 
sending the authority, and because the garage then couldnt find the email authorising it, 
despite Advantage having already sent it.
From the file, I cant see when work was completed on Mr Gs car, but I know that the 
invoice was received by Advantage on 1 March which is usually sent once work is complete.
Ive thought about the timescales it took to repair Mr Gs car and I think its fair to say that the 
garage was wating for authority for about six weeks, over the festive period. It seems to me 
this is a longer time that what might be ideal and given the size of the claim, I think 
Advantage should have responded faster and sent authorisation to Mr Gs garage quicker 
than it did. 
But the choice of the garage being outside Advantages approved network was Mr Gs so I 
dont think its fair to say Advantage is responsible for the delays getting the quote, or the 
initial 12 day delay in reporting the claim. 
I cant see evidence that Advantage was pro-actively managing the claim during this period 
and most of the work in moving it forwards seems to have been due to Mr Gs efforts.
Liability 
Its not the role of this service to decide who may be responsible for a collision as thats the 
role of the courts. Instead, we look at whether the insurer has acted fairly and reasonably 
and in line with its terms and conditions when it has been handling the claim. 
Mr Gs claim against the third party has continued and I can see from the file that it was 
proceeding to litigation.
Advantage has told this service that its process is to wait until its paid its own claim (in this 
case, for Mr Gs own damage) before it contacts the third-party insurer and recovers the 
payment from it. I dont think this is unreasonable.
I can see that Mr G was actively involved in the claim and was regularly chasing up Advantage for progress. And I can also see that Advantage wasnt keeping him up to date. 
In later correspondence, I can see that Mr G commented that he was going to take legal 
action against the third party, and he was thinking of asking Advantage to change its legal 
team. 
Advantage has said that it would expect responses take about 4-6 weeks each time 
information is sent to a third-party insurer. Ive looked at the timeline of events and this claim 
has taken a similar amount of time to progress when I compare it to other cases of disputed 
liability. I agree with Mr G that this isnt ideal, but I agree with Advantages response that it 
feels there was little else it could do to speed up the process. 
That said, I do think Advantage should have been more proactive in moving the claim 
forward and I can see from its final response that it agreed it should have done more to 
chase up the issue with the footage. 
I think it would have been useful if Advantage had taken a much more pro-active stance with 
Mr G during his claim and the legal process. It is the expert in these matters and I think it 
could have done much more to liaise with Mr G and tell him about what was going to 
happen. 
Compensation
Advantage has already paid Mr G £50 compensation for its service in not keeping him up to 
date during his claim. I can see that our investigator has increased this to £200 which 
Advantage has disagreed with. When it disagreed, Advantage commented that it wanted to 
know what this service would have expected it to have done differently. 
Ive thought about this carefully. Mr Gs claim seems to have been affected by a series of 
small delays and errors, meaning that Mr G has repeatedly needed to chase up Advantage 
to get progress or simply to get an update about his claim. And this has taken place across 
2-3 months concerning the repair; and continued for much longer about the question of 
liability. 
It seems to me that Advantage could have taken a much more pro-active stance, particularly 
with the question of liability, which would have meant Mr G wasnt feeling like he had to 
check up on progress so often, with the frustration I can see it caused him.
Ive thought about the impact of this on Mr G and I think £200 is the suitable level of 
compensation to award him for his inconvenience across both parts of his claim. Im aware 
£50 has already been paid.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct 
Advantage Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr G a total of £200 compensation for his 
distress and inconvenience from its poor service. Im aware £50 has already been paid, so 
this can be deducted.
Advantage Insurance Company Limited must pay the amount within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Mr G accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay 
interest on the amount from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or reject my decision before 17 April 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman