DRN-2060107
The complaint
Mr G says he transferred funds from an external bank account, but they did not appear in his 
Santander UK Plc (Santander) bank account until the next working day. His complaint is 
that Santander incorrectly told him that this was because of regular maintenance on its 
internal system, but then later changed its mind.
What happened
On 8 March 2020, Mr G transferred two amounts of £300 from external bank accounts to his 
Santander account using his mobile banking apps. The external banks mobile apps both 
showed the funds had left the accounts. He attempted to access the funds at a cashpoint, 
but he was unable to draw the amounts he had transferred.
When Mr G called Santander at 3:41am to check the funds had arrived in his account. 
Santander told him it updated its systems in the early hours of a Sunday morning, and that it 
was likely this was the reason he could not see his funds. It also told him that he should 
check with the other two banks to enquire if the funds had been sent. Mr G explained he had 
checked his other bank accounts using their apps, and the funds had been sent to the 
correct Santander bank account.
Santander told Mr G that he should call the other two banks and establish that the funds had 
been sent. And went on to explain that when its system was updated at about 5:30am, his 
credits should show.
Mr G says that he spent time calling his other banks to confirm the payments had been 
made, when Santander could have told him that the payments may not appear until the next 
working day.
Santander says that it does carry out regular maintenance on its system at the weekend, but 
this was not the reason the account was not credited the same day. In its response to the 
complaint, Santander told Mr G it upheld his complaint. And It said it should have told him 
that when a payment is sent it will also go through the faster payment said timescales, 
which state the funds may arrive immediately however it could take up until the close of 
business the next working day.
The two credits appeared on the account the next working day, Monday 9 March 2020.
Our investigator thought Santander should have explained to Mr G that payments received 
through the Faster Payments process may not be applied to the account until the next 
working day. But, because Santander Bank provided a reasonable explanation to Mr G, it 
should not have to take any further steps to put things right.
Mr G didnt agree with the thoughts of the investigator and asked for an ombudsman final 
decision.
I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have listened to the telephone call Mr G made on 8 March 2020 at 3:41am. In my 
opinion, this is the most crucial of the telephone calls. This is when Santander 
provided misleading information to Mr G, and when it missed the opportunity to 
explain to him the terms and conditions relating to the Faster Payments process.
In his response to the investigator, Mr G says we should have obtained copies of 
other telephone calls he made to Santander, but I am satisfied that I can reach a fair 
and reasonable decision on this complaint without these. Mr G told us Santander 
Bank gave him contradictory information when he called and told him to contact his 
other banks on more than one occasion. Regardless of the other calls he made to 
Santander, the call I have listened to persuades me that Mr G was told that he should 
make additional enquiries of his other banks. This was at 3:41am on a Sunday 
morning, despite Mr G already making it clear he had checked his balances with his 
other banks, and the funds had left.
Santander has provided a copy of the terms and conditions for a current account. On 
page 9, in respect of payments received using the Faster Payment process, it says 
The money will usually be available as soon as we receive it. Generally, this will be 
on the same day it is sent. I think the explanation Santander provided on the 3:41am 
call was misleading, and it would have been much more helpful to explain the Faster 
Payments process to him.
The comments from Santander were unhelpful, and Mr G has told us this sent him on 
a wild goose chase to establish what had happened to the funds. I consider that 
had Santander simply explained payments may not appear on his account until the 
next working day, it is likely Mr G would not have had the inconvenience of 
contacting his other banks in the early hours of a Sunday morning. Instead, it was 
reasonable that Mr G formed the view that there may be a problem with the other 
banks, rather than the Faster payment process.
I am satisfied that Santander Bank caused Mr G some inconvenience when it did not 
explain payments using the Faster Payment system may not show on an account 
until the next working day. In the 3:41am call, it provided an unreasonable 
expectation that when its system updated, the credit may show. And it persuaded Mr 
G the delay may be caused by his other two banks. In my opinion, Santander should 
compensate Mr G for the unnecessary inconvenience it caused him when it provided 
this information.
My provisional decision
Ive considered the relevant information about this complaint. Having done so, I 
intend to reach a different conclusion to the investigator.
Ill look at any more comments and evidence that I get by 29 July 2020. But unless 
the information changes my mind, my final decision is likely to be along the following 
lines.
For the reasons I have set out above, I intend to say that Santander UK plc pays Mr G £50 in compensation to reflect the inconvenience it caused him when it did not 
explain that there may be a delay in applying credits using the Faster Payment 
process.
Neither Mr G nor Santander have provided any further comments or evidence for me to 
consider and have told me they accept my provisional decision. I have therefore decided to 
adopt my provisional decision as my final decision.
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, my final decision is that Santander UK Plc pay Mr G 
£50 in compensation to reflect the inconvenience it caused him when it didnt explain there 
may be a delay in applying credits using the Faster Payment process.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2020.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman