DRN-3976457
The complaint
Mr M has complained about the amount of compensation Barclays Bank UK PLC paid him 
for the mis-sale of a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr M complained to Barclays about the sale of PPI on his credit card. Barclays offered Mr M 
£310 as redress.
Mr M complained. He explained that he had a higher refund on a different PPI policy, so he 
expected this one to be in line with that one. He was unhappy with the assumptions Barclays 
had used, and thought they were wrong about when hed stopped using the card.
Our adjudicator looked into things independently and found that Barclays had made a fair 
offer. Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the complaints been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a business has mis-sold PPI, we expect them to put their customer in the financial 
position theyd be in now if the policy had never been sold  as far as thats possible.
For a credit card like Mr Ms, that means refunding the extra he paid because of the PPI  
including the premiums, the interest on the premiums, and any fees that were added 
because of the premiums. Then we expect them to add 8% simple interest onto each of 
Mr Ms overpayments, less mandatory tax, to compensate him for being without his money. 
And for periods where statements arent still available, we expect them to use a reasonable 
set of assumptions to estimate what needs refunding there.
In this case, thats what Barclays have offered. They added up the relevant costs, including 
the premiums and the related interest and fees. They added the compensatory interest, less 
the tax they have to take off. Then they took off what theyd already paid Mr M for the excess 
commission part of his premiums  so that they didnt refund the same amounts twice over.
This credit card is nearly three decades old, it closed long ago, and Barclays were required 
to dispose of old data. So its unsurprising that Barclays records only go so far back. In 
order to estimate what Mr M likely paid for PPI before the earliest available statement, they 
looked at how he used this card on the statements they did have, together with independent 
data from the British Bankers Association (BBA) about card usage, then worked backwards. 
Thats in-line with what wed expect, and I find Barclays approach here to be fair. They didnt 
need to look at Mr Ms spending habits on a different, unrelated card. Ultimately, the way 
that Mr M actually used this card, together with the objective data from the BBA, are very 
reasonable and relevant things to base such assumptions on. 
Mr M queried the lack of statements between when he paid off the balance in 2005 and 
when the account closed in 2009. I can appreciate why he queried this. The reason there are 
no statements is because hed paid off his card, and he had a 0 balance during that period. 
I hope I can reassure Mr M that its normal for there to be no statements when theres no 
balance. After all, theres not much point in producing and sending statements for a paid-off 
account with no balance and no payments due. Its also not unusual for customers to keep 
credit card accounts open for some time, even with a 0 balance, just in case they want to 
use the card again. But here, Mr M didnt use this card again before the account closed.
Mr M pointed out that he had a bigger refund on another card, and I can understand why he 
thought to raise this. But different PPI policies worked in different ways, had different prices, 
were subject to different interest rates, were attached to different credit facilities with different 
limits which were used in different ways, and so on. So its normal for different PPI policies to 
have very different refund amounts. One policys refund does not show how much needs to 
be refunded for a separate, unrelated policy on a separate, unrelated card. Instead, we look 
at each case on its own merits. And Ive explained above why Ive found Barclays offer to be 
fair in this particular case.
Lastly, I understand that Mr M was unhappy Barclays closed his complaint after making the 
settlement offer. Again, I appreciate why he raised this, but its a normal process to close a 
PPI complaint after agreeing to settle it. And it was perfectly possible for the complaint to be 
reopened if Mr M then expressed any concerns  which is what happened here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I find that Barclays Bank UK PLC have already made a fair 
offer to settle Mr Ms complaint. If the original cheque was not paid, then they should reissue 
the payment, as the original cheque will have expired by now. I make no further award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman