DRN-3049570
The complaint
Mr G complains about the quality of a car he acquired through a hire purchase agreement 
financed by Oodle Financial Services Limited trading as Oodle Car Finance (Oodle). 
  
What happened
In April 2019 Mr G acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement. The car was five 
years old and had a mileage of around 58,000 miles. In March 2020 Mr G experienced a 
warning message on the dashboard relating to the gearbox. 
Mr G took the vehicle to a local manufacturer dealership who told him that the gearbox 
required a service, and if that didnt solve the issue, a replacement gearbox would be 
required. Mr G paid £360 for the service to be completed. 
A few weeks later, the warning appeared again, so Mr G contacted Oodle to complain about 
the quality of the vehicle. He didnt think such serious repairs should be needed when hed 
had the vehicle for a short period of time. 
Oodle said that Mr G would need to evidence that the fault was present or developing at the 
time of supply. They recommended that he obtain an independent inspection report for them 
to review. 
Mr G had the car inspected and sent that report to Oodle. The report confirmed there was a 
fault with the gearbox, but that it wasnt present or developing at the point of sale. It 
concluded that the fault was likely as a result of in-service wear and tear. 
Oodle sent Mr G their final response to his complaint in March 2020. They said that as the 
fault wasnt present at supply, and the engineer concluded it was a result of wear and tear, 
they wouldnt be responsible for the cost of any repairs. 
Unhappy with this, Mr G bought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into 
things for Mr G. She didnt think that the gearbox was reasonably durable, and so the car 
was of unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr G. She recommended that Oodle 
pay for the repairs to the gearbox, reimburse the cost of the service, and pay Mr G £150 
compensation for the inconvenience caused. 
Oodle disagreed. They say the engineer has provided a report which states the gearbox has 
failed due to wear and tear, and so they arent responsible for the costs of repair. 
As an agreement cant be reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering whats fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations. The agreement in this case is a regulated hire purchase agreement  so we can 
consider a complaint relating to it. Oodle as the supplier of the goods under this type of 
agreement is responsible for a complaint about their quality. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. It says that under a contract to 
supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
To be considered satisfactory the goods would need to meet the standard that a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description of the 
goods, the price and other relevant factors. Those factors, in the case of a car purchase, will 
include things like the age and mileage of the car at the time of sale, and the cars history. 
Here, the car was used with a cash price of around £12,000. It was five years old and had 
travelled approximately 58,000 miles at the time of supply. When a person acquires a used 
car like Mr Gs, its reasonable to say that the expectation of quality is lower than that of a 
new car. It might have already suffered a degree of wear and tear, and theres a greater risk 
that repair or maintenance might be required sooner that a car which wasnt as road worn 
when it was supplied. 
Mr G has provided a report from the inspection of the vehicle, and this confirms a fault with 
the gearbox. It notes that when road tested, the vehicle selected drive slightly harshly and 
displayed slightly excessive slip upon gear change. The report concludes that the fault is 
consistent with general in-service wear and deterioration within the powershift gearbox unit. 
The engineer concludes that they cannot say the fault was present at the time of supply, as 
Mr G has driven over 7,000 miles since acquiring the vehicle. 
Satisfactory quality also includes an element of durability. That is, the components of the car 
can be expected to function without any significant issue or problem for a reasonable period 
of time. The inspection report doesnt comment on the durability of the gearbox. 
I think a reasonable person would expect such an important function of the car to last a 
considerable period of time. The manufacturer of Mr Gs vehicle has commented that the 
gearbox should last the lifetime of the vehicle if its properly maintained, and this type of 
gearbox is expected to last 100,000 miles or more. 
Ive seen evidence that Mr Gs car was serviced in line with the required service intervals 
before and after he acquired it. Mr G also serviced the gearbox specifically, but this didnt 
resolve the fault. 
All things considered, although the engineer concluded that the fault was due to wear and 
tear, I dont think the reasonable person would expect the car to require a replacement 
gearbox at this mileage, or after the short period of time that Mr G had the car, prior to the 
fault occurring. It seems that there was likely an underlying issue with the vehicle which has 
led to a premature failure of parts. 
I havent seen any evidence that the fault was caused by a lack of servicing, or by driving 
style or third-party damage. 
On the balance of probabilities, Im persuaded that the car was not reasonably durable, and 
so was not of satisfactory quality at the time of supply. Having made that finding, I need to decide what, if anything, Oodle should do to put things 
right. Our investigator has recommended that they repair Mr Gs vehicle. 
The Consumer Rights Act sets out the remedies available where goods are considered not 
to be of satisfactory quality and one of the remedies is to repair the goods. That repair 
should be done in a reasonable time, and without significant inconvenience to the consumer.  
The manufacturer dealership has suggested that a replacement gearbox will resolve the 
current fault. I havent seen any evidence which suggests this is not the case, or that this will 
be a particularly difficult or time-consuming repair to complete. Mr G also says hed like the 
car to be repaired. 
  
In the circumstances, Im satisfied that Oodle should arrange for the gearbox to be repaired 
or replaced in order to bring the vehicle back to a satisfactory condition, at no cost to Mr G. 
They should arrange for a courtesy car to be provided to Mr G whilst repairs are completed 
in order to keep him mobile. 
Mr G paid £360 for the gearbox to be serviced, in an attempt to rectify the fault. I recognise 
that this was completed at a manufacturer dealership, and not the dealership that Mr G 
acquired the vehicle from. 
I dont think it was unreasonable for Mr G to have taken the vehicle to a manufacturer 
approved dealership. I havent seen any evidence that the service wasnt required, and I 
think it was reasonable for Mr G to have this completed when there was a suggestion that it 
might remedy the fault. So, I find that Oodle should reimburse Mr G for the cost of the 
service plus 8% simple yearly interest calculated from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement. 
Mr G has been inconvenienced whilst trying to establish the fault, has had to continue to use 
the vehicle with a known fault, and will be further inconvenienced when taking the vehicle for 
repairs. Oodle should pay Mr G £150 compensation to recognise this. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Oodle Financial Services 
Limited trading as Oodle Car Finance to:
Arrange for the gearbox to be repaired or replaced to bring the vehicle back to a 
satisfactory condition
Arrange for a courtesy car to be provided to Mr G whilst the repairs are completed
Refund Mr G £360 for the service of the gearbox plus 8% simple yearly interest 
calculated from the date of payment to the date of settlement
Pay Mr G £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience causedIf Oodle considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
the interest part of my award, it should tell Mr G how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr G a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
Zoe Launder
Ombudsman