DRN-3033179
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead) has unfairly declined the claim 
she made for subsidence under her home insurance policy.
What happened
In 2020 Mrs B became concerned about internal and external cracking at her home so 
raised a claim. Fairmead appointed a claims handler to consider the claim.  And it appointed 
a loss adjuster. 
The loss adjusters agent visited the property to see and film the areas of concern. Having 
done so it concluded that it didnt think the cracks were as a result of subsidence. It felt that it 
was more likely to be as a result of other factors, including gradual wear and tear in line with 
the age of the property. 
Mrs B had made a claim for subsidence under her policy in 1990s. The claim was accepted, 
and remedial works were carried out. Because of this Mrs B felt subsidence could once 
again be the cause and so wanted Fairmead to monitor the property further.
Fairmead considered everything and decided to decline the claim. It said that it couldnt 
attribute the visible damage to any of the insured causes. Mrs B disagreed and urged them 
to investigate further through digging trial pits or bore holes. Fairmead didnt think this was 
necessary. Mrs B wasnt happy with this and so brought her complaint to this service.
An investigator considered the complaint and said she didnt think Fairmead had acted 
unfairly. Mrs B disagreed and so asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. The 
case has now been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint, and Id like to explain why.
Mrs Bs policy defines subsidence as Downward movement of the site on which the 
buildings are situated by a cause other than the weight of the buildings themselves. While 
the policy does not set out what investigations ought to be done to determine what is 
subsidence and what is not, we would expect Fairmead to deal with the claim reasonably. 
So, I need to consider whether it acted fairly and reasonably in their handling of the claim, in 
particular in deciding to decline this claim.
Subsidence is an insured peril that can be complex to investigate. So, I think it was correct to 
employ a loss adjuster and buildings consultant. When the building consultant considered 
the footage of Mrs Bs home, I can see he considered the pattern of the damage and looked 
for signs that are usually consistent with subsidence damage. He also identified that the 
cracks could have been for many different reasons e.g. one he attributed to being close to a 
ventilator opening, meaning the masonry had become stressed over time. And explained 
how extreme weather over time will inevitably cause some cracking. Overall, he provided a 
relatively comprehensive report on the cracking, potential causes and remedies Mrs B could 
commission. 
Fairmead, like this service, arent experts and therefore it is reasonable for it to consider the 
evidence provided by experts. I havent seen anything which suggests the results of the 
surveying company are obviously wrong or that Fairmead should have needed to question 
them further. So, I think Fairmead can fairly rely on the results.  
Having considered all of the evidence I havent seen anything from Mrs B, or any other party 
to persuade me that its necessary for further monitoring works to take place. I also note 
Fairmead have offered to reconsider things if Mrs B commissions her own expert survey that 
says differently. I understand Mrs B has not decided to do this to date.
I know my findings will disappoint Mrs B, but I dont propose to ask Fairmead to expand its 
investigations of the property. However, if at a later date Mrs B become concerned about 
further damage that she thinks is indicative of subsidence or has something to support it 
taking place, she can always ask Fairmead to consider the matter again. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint against Fairmead Insurance 
Limited. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 October 2021.
 
Kinjal Vadgama
Ombudsman