DRN-1600836
The complaint
Miss G complains that Santander UK Plc wont refund a payment made from her current 
account that she says she didnt make.
What happened
On 31 December 2019 a card payment for £1,149.00 was made out of Miss Gs Santander 
current account to an electronics shop, which Miss G says wasnt her.
Miss G called Santander to report her card as lost on 1 January 2020. During this call she 
logged into her mobile banking app and saw the payment was pending. Santander then 
blocked her card, ordered her a new card and PIN and started an investigation into the 
payment.
Following its investigation, Santander refused to refund the payment as it said it couldnt see 
how someone else would know Miss Gs PIN. Miss G wasnt happy with Santanders 
response, so referred her complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint and said he felt it was likely Miss G had 
authorised the payment, so Santander didnt need to refund it. Miss G disagreed, so the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Santander needs to refund the payment to Miss G. Ill explain 
why below.
Generally, Santander can hold Miss G liable for a disputed payment if the evidence suggests 
its more likely than not that she made it herself or told someone else they could make it with 
her card.
Santander has sent us technical evidence showing how the disputed payment was made. 
And, from this, Im satisfied that Miss Gs genuine card and PIN were used to make the 
payment.
But the relevant regulations say that this, on its own, isnt enough to allow Santander to hold 
Miss G liable. So I also need to think about whether the evidence suggests its more likely 
than not that Miss G consented to the payment in dispute being made with her card.
Ive thought very carefully about this and I think its a finely balanced matter in this case. But 
where the evidence available is unclear or inconclusive, I must make my decision on what I 
think is most likely to have happened, based on the evidence I do have.
Miss G says she last used her card when making a cash withdrawal on the day before the 
disputed payment. She initially suggested she couldve dropped her card when she later ran 
for the bus. But even if someone had watched her enter her PIN when she made the cash 
withdrawal and then either stolen her card or picked it up when she dropped it, its unusual 
for a fraudulent payment to take an account into an overdraft, as this one did. And Ive not 
been given a convincing explanation for how that person wouldve known that Miss G had 
such a significant overdraft available.
The general nature of this payment also isnt the sort of thing a thief would normally do after 
stealing a card. Generally, the way fraudsters operate is to get as much money as quickly as 
possible in order to avoid the source of the money being cut-off or them being detected. But 
here, only one payment was attempted and it was done more than 24 hours after Miss G 
thinks she may have lost the card. So I dont think its likely thats what happened here.
Miss G later said that, if the card was still in her purse, she left it in a bag on the couch the 
day before the disputed payment. Miss G lives with her family but shes said no-one else 
knows her PIN, she hasnt changed the PIN or written it down anywhere and she destroyed 
the initial PIN letter, leaving only the tear-off strip with the four numbers on it in a cupboard.
But if this is the case, I cant see how someone who took Miss Gs card would know her PIN. 
Santanders evidence shows the PIN was entered correctly at the first attempt, with no 
incorrect attempts. And given the number of possible combinations, its extremely unlikely 
someone could guess the PIN correctly first time. So I think its likely that whoever made the 
payment, knew Miss Gs PIN. And as they knew the PIN, in the absence of any other likely 
explanation, I think its more likely than not that Miss G consented to the payment.
I appreciate how Miss G feels about this case, but Im afraid the evidence isnt in her favour. 
And based on the evidence I have, particularly that theres no plausible explanation for how 
someone else knew her PIN, I think its likely Miss G either made the payment herself or 
authorised someone else to do so.
So I think Santander has acted reasonably in holding Miss G liable for the payment, and I 
dont think it needs to refund the payment to her.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 December 2020.
 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman