DRN-3924281
The complaint
Mr H complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) has reneged on its offer to 
pay the income tax due on his pension payment. Although Aviva has made other errors, and 
caused delays, when processing payments from his pension plan  which it has rectified.
Mr H says Aviva told him it would meet any tax charge he incurred when it made an 
Uncrystallised Funds Pension Lump sum (UFPLS) payment of his residual funds. He would 
like Aviva to reimburse him for the tax payment he has made and pay further compensation 
for the stress hes been caused because of Avivas errors throughout this process.
What happened
Mr H held a pension plan with Aviva. In April 2019 his financial adviser  from another 
provider - contacted Aviva for information as Mr H was thinking of transferring his plan to that 
provider. After some delay it was established that Mr H was entitled to a higher amount of 
Tax Free Cash (TFC) than he would have been if hed transferred  so the TFC was 
eventually paid to him, and the residual funds were returned to Aviva by the other provider. 
But they werent reinvested and remained in a cash account until 2022.
 
In February 2022 Mr H wrote to Aviva requesting the remainder of his pension funds. He 
asked for an up to date valuation and details of how to proceed with the withdrawal, but he 
was subsequently informed that the reason he hadnt received an annual statement for his 
pension plan was because it was no longer in force. He then contacted Aviva and was told 
the funds were actually in a holding account, so he complained. 
Mr H says initially Aviva said it would compensate him for its errors and allow him to 
withdraw the residual funds. He said it sent a letter which said it would pay the costs and 
any tax due on the remaining £37,054.92, as well as £350 compensation for putting the 
funds in a cash holding account. But Mr H says Aviva didnt return his subsequent emails 
or phone calls and hasnt reimbursed him for all the tax hes paid. 
Over three response letters to Mr H Aviva said it would:
Apply growth to the funds that hadnt been invested when they were returned. 
Cover any tax charge arising from the unauthorised payment which occurred when 
Mr H accepted the offer to take the residual funds as an UFPLS.
Pay compensation for the delays in responding to Mr Hs further complaint points and 
for raising his expectations of what tax liabilities it would pay for.
But it wouldnt cover the income tax Mr H was liable to pay, which it thought was a 
matter he should raise with HMRC if necessary.
But Mr H wasnt satisfied with this outcome, so he brought his complaint to us where one of 
our investigators looked into the matter.  He didnt think the complaint should be upheld 
because he thought that, while its response lacked clarity, reference to unauthorised 
payments meant Aviva would cover any additional tax levied as a result of the UFPLS. He 
didnt think the income tax Mr H would have had to pay on his non TFC withdrawal was 
because of an error from Aviva  so didnt think it was reasonable to ask Aviva to pay it. 
But he did think that Mr Hs expectations had been raised over this matter and that Aviva 
had caused him a degree of distress and inconvenience. He thought the total amount of 
compensation Aviva had offered was more than he would have asked it to pay in the 
circumstances  so he didnt think Aviva should pay any more.
Mr H said hed only received one payment of £350. He also said he would like his complaint 
to be referred to an ombudsman as he thought Aviva had reneged on its promise to pay 
the tax due because of its errors. He said the first payment he was entitled to was TFC  
which Aviva wouldnt have paid 55% tax on.  
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his view. He said he would only expect Aviva 
to pay for the issues caused by its error  which was the unauthorised tax charges that 
HMRC imposed as a result of Avivas miscalculation. He accepted its explanation of this 
situation could have been clearer, but didnt feel that Aviva had agreed to pay for something 
else or had then gone back on any such agreement. He thought Mr H should be put back 
into the position he now ought to be without Avivas error  which was to receive his income, 
less the normal rate of income tax, but without any additional unauthorised tax surcharge 
being deducted. 
 
The investigator then confirmed the amount of compensation that had been offered  and 
paid. He also said that he thought the compensation exceeded what hed expect to see 
offered for the two main errors here  namely the correction of the growth that was lost when 
the funds were returned to the cash account, and Avivas lack of clarity on the issue of 
covering Mr Hs tax liability. 
 
On 17 January 2023 Aviva wrote to Mr H enclosing a cheque, made payable to HMRC, for 
the £9,972.09 tax surcharge which had been applied to his TFC. But as Mr H still believed 
Aviva should reimburse all his tax liabilities he asked for his compliant to be referred to an 
ombudsman  so its been passed to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. I know this isnt 
an outcome that Mr H would have hoped for  Ive seen how strongly he feels about this 
matter, and I have some sympathy for his position here. But I dont think Aviva should have 
to cover the remaining tax liability Mr H has paid, and I think the compensation its paid is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances. Ill explain my reasons below.
How the payment should have been treated and taxed
I think its first worth outlining what Mr H wanted to happen here and how his request to draw 
funds from his pension should have been treated. In 2019 Mr H wanted to transfer his 
pension to a new provider but I understand that, because his plan had an enhanced and 
protected level of TFC  which was greater than the usual 25%, he would have lost that 
entitlement had he transferred. 
I havent been provided with the evidence which showed why his funds were returned from 
the new provider, but I assume it was because he wanted the enhanced level of TFC. So, 
and Im not going to comment on the delays and failure to reinvest the funds at this point, 
Mr H should have received around 34% of his fund tax free. 
But in 2022 Mr H wanted to draw the rest of his funds as a lump sum payment because he 
wanted to carry out some home improvements and was satisfied that he had sufficient other pensions to provide him with the necessary income throughout retirement. Although he was 
initially told it wasnt possible to draw the funds as a one off payment but only as an annuity, 
eventually Aviva said Mr H could take the funds as an UFPLS.
 
This meant that, because he had already received his maximum TFC, the remaining 
withdrawal would be taxable income. And Aviva would have to deduct that tax on behalf on 
HMRC when it paid him the lump sum  usually on whats known as a month 1 basis, unless 
it had already been furnished with Mr Hs tax code, which wasnt the case here. Thereafter 
Mr H would need to liaise with HMRC if he believed he should receive a refund of any kind if 
for example he was a non-taxpayer. So, as long as Mr H did contact HMRC he could ensure 
he paid the correct rate of tax on his payment according to his individual circumstances. 
So, in conclusion, Mr H should have received a tax free payment in the first instance and 
then a later taxable payment when he wanted to withdraw his remaining funds. Ive therefore 
gone on to look at what Aviva did in this situation, what errors it made and what it did to 
mitigate the errors.
Avivas errors and how it tried put things right 
The initial delay and errors in handling the funds
Ive seen evidence to show that there were delays in progressing the initial transfer request 
to the new provider in 2019. The emails that Mr H sent Aviva support the claim that the 
information requested wasnt provided in a timely manner. However, it would seem that the 
discovery that Mr H would lose his enhanced TFC ended the transfer request as it wouldnt 
have been in his best interest. Mr H has suggested that the other provider compensated him 
for not following up its original request for information to Aviva. 
But after the payment of TFC was made  and when the residual funds were returned to 
Aviva, it didnt invest them back into the fund Mr H held previously and it failed to contact him 
to discuss how he might want the funds invested. However, in mitigation of these two errors 
Aviva has subsequently paid Mr H £350 for the inconvenience caused and has backdated 
any investment growth Mr H would have received from having his funds invested as soon as 
they were returned to Aviva. In the circumstances I think the redress Aviva has paid is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances and put Mr H back into the position he should have 
been in without the failure to invest and with compensation for the impact this had on him.
The delay in answering Mr Hs follow up concerns
When Aviva responded to Mr Hs initial complaint it told him in June 2022 that it would 
reimburse him for the tax charges involved. Ill expand on that point further on, but because 
the response wasnt clear it led to Mr H making further representations about the amount of 
tax he expected Aviva to cover. But it wasnt until September 2022 that Mr H received a final 
response  which was primarily because he complained to the CEOs office. So I think that 
was an unnecessary delay and would have impacted Mr H as his hopes of receiving full 
reimbursement for the entire tax liability were raised over an extended period.
 
But Aviva said it would pay Mr H £250 for that delay in responding and I think, after careful 
consideration, thats in line with what I would have expected to see. I note that payment 
wasnt made at the time, but Aviva has since confirmed that the payment was agreed by it 
on 17 February 2023.
 
The reimbursement of the tax due on the UFPLS paymentAlthough Mr H believes Aviva has treated him unfairly during this whole process  and is 
seeking further compensation for its errors. The main part of his complaint is that he has 
paid additional tax of over £10,000 following payment of his UFPLS and thinks that Aviva 
promised it would refund all the tax charges he incurred as a result of its errors. He thinks its 
gone back on what it said and wants a reimbursement to be made. 
As Ive already set out above, the income tax that was due on the UFPLS isnt a tax that only 
became payable because of Avivas errors. It would always have needed to be paid by Aviva 
on Mr Hs behalf when the UFPLS was paid, and Mr H then needed to contact HMRC if he 
believed a tax rebate was due to him because of his circumstances. But I have to consider 
the impact all of this had on Mr H, so Ive looked carefully at Avivas responses to Mr H in 
April and June 2022. 
The response from April 2022 set out a timeline of the events as theyd happened and 
confirmed that, we would offer you the option for the remaining funds to be taken as an 
UFPLS payment and due to the funds not being invested when they were returned by (the 
other provider), we will apply any growth as if the funds were reinvested once returned. As 
the UFPLS payment will now we treated as an unauthorised payment due to tax free cash 
having already been taken, Aviva will cover any tax charge incurred due to this payment.
And on 9 June 2022 Aviva said The UFPLS payment will be treated as an unauthorised 
payment due to Tax-Free cash having already been taken, Aviva will cover any tax charge 
incurred due to this payment. Once you receive your tax bill please send a copy, we will 
review and reply upon receipt.
Looking at both responses I agree they arent entirely clear. Both responses note that the 
UFPLS will be an unauthorised payment, and this would have of course led to tax 
surcharges of up to 55% being applied. But that area of taxation is specialised and complex 
and I wouldnt have expected Mr H to understand the definition of unauthorised payments 
and the tax charges they incur. I think its more likely Mr H would have focused on Avivas 
confirmation, in both responses, that Aviva will cover any tax charge incurred.  
So I can fully understand Mr Hs frustration here and I can see why he assumed that Aviva 
would cover the entire tax liability he subsequently incurred. I think Aviva could have been 
more specific in outlining that it wouldnt be responsible for refunding the income tax that 
would normally be due on non TFC withdrawals or should have better explained what was 
meant by unauthorised payments and the specific surcharges they could cause  which is 
what it finally did in its response of September 2022. Thats when it set out an explanation 
for not reimbursing the income tax Mr H paid on the UFPLS payment, but confirmed it would 
reimburse the unauthorised tax charge that was imposed as a result of the original TFC 
withdrawal. 
 
So I think this would have had a significant impact on Mr H as his expectation of the entire 
tax bill being met were raised for a period of up to around six months before Avivas final 
response. Mr H has talked about the effect this had on his finances and his health and I can 
understand how this would have come about and been magnified over the period in 
question. 
But, as I understand it, Aviva has paid Mr H £400 for the distress and inconvenience caused 
by raising his expectations, and when considered in the context of the other compensation 
its paid, I think its a fair and reasonable payment and in line with what I would expect to 
see. 
Avivas offersIve made my decision that Aviva has paid Mr H appropriate compensation based on Avivas 
clear confirmation that it has offered  and I understand now fully paid Mr H £1,000 in total. 
Aviva should confirm details of these payments if Mr H is unable to reconcile them, but, as 
long as the payments can be confirmed, I think the total amount paid is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances.  
Summary
I know Mr H would like us to bring these sorts of companies into line and fined, so that 
errors such as these dont happen to other people. But thats not our role here. We dont 
have a remit to punish or fine businesses but to provide a resolution to individual complaints 
where a consumer believes they may have lost out financially or should be compensated 
because of the actions of the business against them individually.
 
So thats what Ive done here. Im satisfied that Aviva has taken the appropriate steps to 
compensate Mr H for any loss of investment growth while his funds were inadvertently held 
in a cash account and for the additional tax he had to pay because his TFC was classed as 
an unauthorised payment. But Ive explained why I dont think Aviva needs to cover the 
income tax Mr H has paid. And Im also satisfied that the overall amount of compensation 
Aviva has paid Mr H for the various errors it has made going back to 2019 is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.    
My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2023.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman