DRN-3130738
The complaint
Mr S complains about the impact of how  FCE Bank plc trading as Ford Credit (Ford) 
handled a payment holiday. He would like adverse data taken off his credit file, a nine-month 
payment deferral period and compensation for the distress and inconvenience.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision .
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for the following 
reasons:-
I appreciate it must have caused Mr S some distress when Ford contacted him in 
July 2021 to say he had missed a repayment on his account since Ford  had 
mistakenly sent him a letter telling him he didnt need to make any further 
repayments until 24 September 2021. I think it was reasonable for Mr S to conclude 
that his six-month repayment holiday had been extended by a further three months.
However, when Mr S complained I believe  Ford acted fairly. It  agreed not to request 
payments for June, July and August 2021 but to cover these payments by increasing 
Mr Ss repayments over 12 months from September 2021. So Mr S had the  benefit 
of the additional 3 months  payment holiday  giving him a total of a nine-month 
payment holiday. And Ford has confirmed that this hasnt impacted on his credit file.
I appreciate Mr S has health problems which he told us impacted on his ability to 
make payments. I cant see any evidence Ford were made aware of this until July 
2021 when Mr S complained about the letter sent to him in error. I think Ford did 
consider Mr Ss health situation once it became aware of it. It honoured the extra 
three month payment holiday offered in error,  and  said it wouldnt contact  him for 
three months to give him  time to see if he were then in a position to make the 
increased payments or if he wished to then sell his car. 
I appreciate Mr S would like some financial compensation. But he hasnt evidenced 
any financial loss due to Fords actions. And whilst its unfortunate Ford sent him a 
letter mistakenly leading him to believe he had a further three month payment 
holiday in honouring the content of that letter it  put  Mr S in the position he would 
have been in had the letter not been sent in error. And I believe it acted reasonably 
once Mr S made it aware of his health issues. So I dont feel compensation is 
appropriate in this case.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman