DRN-3813002
The complaint
Mr M, represented by his mother, Ms M, has complained about his motor insurer, Calpe 
Insurance Company Limited because it avoided his cover and, by association, declined his 
claims made following an accident. 
What happened
Mr Ms policy with Calpe renewed in May 2021. Shortly after he was involved in two 
accidents. The second incident occurred in the early hours of the morning and Calpe had 
some concerns about the circumstances of it. It interviewed Mr M and during that interview 
Mr M said his occupation was a basketball coach at a school and that he also worked 
privately as a director of his own company which is a basketball training business. He 
clarified that he had no part-time occupation.
Calpe noted that its policy systems had recorded Mr M as having declared that he was a 
supervisor, working in local government  with supervisor recorded as his occupation on 
the renewal documents. It asked Mr M when his job had changed and he said it hadnt. He 
said he is officially a basketball coach and his mother clarified that he works for her in a 
voluntary capacity, supervising children in her business (which is linked to the local 
authority). She said he had been paid until shortly before renewal and payslips from 
April 2021 were provided to Calpe. 
On review Calpe said it wouldnt have offered cover to Mr M if it had known he was working 
as a sports coach, rather than as a supervisor. So it said it was avoiding the policy and 
wouldnt be dealing with the claims. It also said it was retaining the policy premiums as, in its 
view, legislation allowed it to. Mr M complained to us.
Our Investigator felt Mr M hadnt given Calpe incorrect information at renewal. He felt it was 
reasonable for Mr M to have focused on the basketball element of the work he does  but 
that that doesnt preclude that work also comprising a supervisory role.
Calpe wasnt minded to agree with our Investigators findings. The complaint was passed to 
me for an Ombudsmans review. I felt Calpes voidance had been fair and reasonable. But 
that it shouldnt have retained the policy premium. I issued a provisional decision to share 
my views on the complaint with both parties. My provisional findings were:
There is legislation which governs the sale and purchase of insurance  The Consumer 
Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). CIDRA sets out the rights 
and obligations of both parties when entering into and renewing policies of insurance. One of 
the really important points for policyholders is that the legislation requires them to take 
reasonable care when answering questions. They are expected, to the best of their ability, to 
give accurate answers. If they dont then the insurer may be able to treat their policy as void 
(as though it has never existed). In some cases the insurer may also be able to retain the 
premium that was paid for cover  but in most cases the premium will have to be refunded.
In this case, Mr Ms policy renewed in May 2021, carrying forwards occupation details that 
had been amended and updated by Ms M in 2019. In 2019 Ms M had told Calpe that Mr M 
was a supervisor/team leader in local authority. So the renewal documents after that, 
including in 2021, showed Mr Ms occupation as Supervisor. Under the legislation it was up 
to Mr M to make sure that detail, which accurately reflected his main employment role, was 
given to Calpe at renewal. If the detail given was wrong, with Mr M not having taken care to 
get it right, and Calpe can show that it wouldnt have offered cover if it had been given 
accurate information, then that would likely mean Calpe can avoid the cover.
Calpe believes that Mr Ms main occupation is a basketball coach. And it has shown that it 
will not offer cover to anyone with an occupation of sports coach. So if Mr Ms occupation 
can reasonably said to be basketball coach, and he didnt take care to ensure Calpe knew 
that at renewal, instead leaving the occupation detail recorded as Supervisor, it is likely 
Calpe can fairly and reasonably avoid the policy. 
I dont doubt that in teaching basketball, there is some element of supervision of the 
participants involved. But a job role of supervisor is generally held to denote someone who 
oversees other, usually more junior, employees/work colleagues. But its most important for 
me to think about what the evidence to hand shows me Mr M believed his occupation was. 
Mr M told Calpe in his first call with it after the accident that his occupation was basketball 
coach. In the interview which took place a few weeks later Mr M reiterated this. And was, 
arguably, in a situation that allowed him to give more detail about his role. In that respect he 
did not refer to supervising children. Also, and importantly for me, he did not mention 
working for his mothers business at all. He said he had two jobs related to basketball 
coaching and training and that he had no part time job. So I think that Mr Ms occupation as 
of June 2021 was, in his mind, basketball, or sports, coach.
The policy had only renewed a few weeks before, at the end of May 2021. Ive thought about 
whether things had maybe changed for Mr M in just those few short weeks  such that 
before renewal, if Mr M had been asked then what his occupation was, he would likely have 
said supervisor. But I dont think that is most likely. His last wage slip from his mothers 
business was dated 21 April 2021, and as of early May 2021, Mr M had taken decisive 
action regarding his private basketball business. In early May that business, which is limited, 
had been facing compulsory strike off, but Mr M acted in May  after he had last been paid 
by his mothers business and before renewal, to prevent that from happening. So I think its 
reasonable to say that as of May 2021, Mr M viewed his occupation as basketball coach. As 
such I think inaccurate occupation information was detailed on the renewal which neither 
Mr M, nor Ms M acting on his behalf, corrected. 
I do appreciate that Mr M is still showing on the accounts of Ms Ms business as an 
employee, although he hasnt received any income for that work and is said to undertake it 
on a voluntary basis. I accept that anyone can work in more than one role, and that people 
may carry out voluntary and/or part time work, alongside their main employment. But Calpe 
didnt want to know from Mr M what voluntary work he did. It wanted to be told his 
occupation. And Mr M, on more than occasion, following the accident, told Calpe quite 
clearly that he was a basketball coach. And he specifically said he didnt do any part time 
work  suggesting he did no other work than the roles which involved basketball for the 
school and his limited company. It was only after Calpe highlighted the disparity between the 
detail that Mr M had provided and that recorded on the policy documents, that Mr Ms view 
on, or at least his explanation about, his occupation changed. Taking everything together, 
I dont think I can reasonably disregard Mr Ms earlier comments in favour of that later 
explanation. Im satisfied that Mr Ms occupation at renewal can most accurately be 
described as sports coach.
All of which means, as I said at the start, that Calpe can reasonably avoid the policy. But it 
cant keep the premiums  or demand that premiums not paid against the policy are paid to 
it. The legislation requires a voiding insurer to return premiums where a misrepresentation 
was carelessly made. After all the policy is being treated as though it didnt exist  so it makes sense that no money is to be paid, taken or kept in respect of that non-existent 
policy. The only exception is if the misrepresentation was made recklessly or deliberately.
In that instance the legislation puts the onus on the insurer to show the act was done in that 
manner  that the prospective or renewing policyholder was more than careless. Calpe 
hasnt shown me anything like that here. My view, having seen everything and heard 
everything from both parties, is that an oversight and/or misunderstanding occurred at the 
point of renewal. I dont think, for one second, that Mr M had any intent to deceive Calpe. 
Nor do I think he would believe there was any need for him to do that either  because Calpe 
had given him cover in 2018 when his occupation was fitness instructor. That is a very 
similar field of work and I dont doubt that Mr M, if he had given it any thought, would have 
guessed that Calpe would see sports coach in a similar light. Calpe doesnt (see it in a 
similar light), and that is its choice. But I cant see any likely reason why Mr M would have 
knowingly set out to deceive Calpe as to what he does for a living. From the calls Ive heard 
I think Mr M and Ms M have tried their best to arrange their affairs and I can see that Mr M is 
clearly a keen young driver. But that, in this case, at renewal in 2021, a mistake was made. 
And, unfortunately, for Mr M, the consequences of that mistake are significant  his policy 
has been declared void, his claim wont be paid, he may be liable to other people affected by 
the accident and he will have to inform future insurers of the voidance.
Calpe got it wrong when it said it was retaining the premium, and I am going to make it 
correct that. And I will award some compensation to Mr M as well as I understand that he 
has received debt collocation letters regarding outstanding premiums. That can only have 
served to add to his anguish. So I think Calpe should pay him £300 to make up for that 
upset. But, in awarding that, I bear in mind that the act of voidance is the main issue here 
and, understandably, the main cause for upset. I accept that the stress and worry caused by 
that is likely immense. However, as Ive found that Calpe acted fairly and reasonably in 
voiding the policy, I cant make it compensate Mr M for the upset that flowed naturally from 
that fair and reasonable act.
Calpe replied, stating it had nothing further to add. Ms M, replying on behalf of Mr M, said (in 
summary):
It was only the pandemic that stopped Mr M being paid by her business, he has always 
been, and still is, employed by her business.
That work includes fitness and basketball training with teenagers.
Hed told Calpe he was a senior support worker, and its representative selected the 
closest appropriate job title.
Its difficult to accept that employment will affect motor insurance cover, and a friend has 
two jobs which hasnt worried her insurer.
She hopes I can look favourably on this as Mr M is very low and finding things very 
difficult.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that this has been, and continues to be, a difficult time for Mr M. But the upset 
he is suffering cant sway my findings of what has happened, which has caused this distress 
and inconvenience. It is regrettable that Mr Ms car is damaged and remains in the recovery 
yard with charges accruing. But my focus has to be on what happened  what occupation 
detail Calpe was passed at renewal in 2021, whether that was likely correct to the best of 
Mr Ms knowledge and, if it wasnt what the relevant legislation allows Calpe to do.I accept that detail was given to Calpe in May 2020 which resulted in it recording Mr Ms 
occupation as local government/supervisor. I accept that in April 2021, he was receiving 
payslips from Ms Ms business, which would suggest that the occupation detail of local 
government/supervisor might well have been accurate enough at that time. But my point 
made provisionally, was that Mr M, in his own mind, as of May 2021, before renewal and 
certainly at the time of the crash, shortly thereafter, believed his occupation to be that of 
basketball coach. And that he did not view himself as still working for Ms Ms business at all. 
I think Mr Ms occupation had changed before the policy renewed in May 2021 and that 
Calpe should have been notified of that change. 
I appreciate it is difficult to accept that Mr Ms employment would affect Calpes decision to 
offer cover. But insurance is a matter of risk. And how a policyholder, or prospective 
policyholder is employed, effects the risk they present to an insurer. Most occupation types, 
for most insurers, wont cause them to decline to offer cover. But some, for some insurers 
will. Similarly, for the number of jobs held, although the number of jobs held by Mr M was not 
an issue here. Risk though is a matter for each insurer to assess and decide upon. It isnt 
something this service will comment on or get involved with. When a policy is voided, as long 
as the insurer can show it wouldnt have offered cover if the correct information had been 
received, it is likely this service will find the voidance fair and reasonable. Calpe has shown 
here that it would not have offered Mr M cover if the correct detail had been given. The 
legislation allows Calpe, in that instance, to void the cover. 
I know Mr M had no intent to give Calpe incorrect information. And I know my decision will 
cause him further upset, as he had been hoping for a positive end to this very distressing 
time. However, on this occasion, I think Calpe has acted fairly and reasonably in voiding 
Mr Ms policy. Which means I cant fairly and reasonably require it to change that. But I am 
still of the view that Calpe acted unfairly and unreasonably regarding the premiums. My view 
in that respect, and what Calpe must do to put that right, has also not changed. 
Overall, my provisional findings havent changed. They, along with my additional comments 
here, now form the findings of this, my final decision.   
   
Putting things right
I require Calpe to return to Mr M any and all premiums paid on the policy from renewal in 
May 2020. To each reimbursed sum, Calpe will have to add interest* from the date each 
amount was paid until settlement is made. 
I also require Calpe to provide a letter to Mr M, which explains that any debt, shown against 
his credit record for this policy (if any is showing), is an error caused by it. Mr M can then use 
this letter, if he should need to, to try and amend or explain his credit history for this policy.
I further require Calpe to pay Mr M £300 compensation.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. HM Revenue & Customs requires Calpe to take off tax from this interest. If 
asked, it must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Calpe Insurance Company Limited to provide the redress 
set out above at Putting things right. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman