DRN-1484768
The complaint
Mr R has complained about the redress proposed by Fairmead Insurance Limited after it 
mistakenly cancelled his unemployment insurance policy.
What happened
In 2019, Mr R learned that he was to be made redundant by his employer. He contacted 
Fairmead to make a claim under an unemployment insurance policy which he believed he 
held with it.
Fairmead advised Mr R that he was unable to make a claim because the policy had been 
cancelled in July 2014 due to non-payment of premiums.
Mr R said he hadnt been informed of the cancellation. When Fairmead checked its records, 
it noted it had the wrong address recorded for Mr R meaning he hadnt received the 2014 
renewal documentation or any of the correspondence concerning the non-payment of 
premiums.
In view of the above, and the fact that it was unable to determine at this stage why the direct 
debit premiums had not been collected, Fairmead offered to reinstate the policy subject to 
Mr R paying the premiums he would have paid had he continued with the policy since 2014. 
Taking into account the significant increases in the annual premium since that time, it meant 
Mr R would need to pay Fairmead £12,190.
Mr R complained to Fairmead. He considered it was unfair he should have to pay these 
premiums given that the policy was cancelled without his knowledge.
Fairmead issued a final response letter in which it offered to reinstate the policy subject to 
Mr R paying premiums since 2014 but at the constant level they were at the time of 
cancellation (except for increases due to increases in insurance premium tax). This meant 
Mr R would owe it the lower amount of £5,452 and it would write off the balance of £6,738.
Mr R was unhappy at Fairmeads offer. He thought it should reinstate the policy while writing 
off all the premiums since 2014. He referred his complaint to us. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. She was satisfied 
that Fairmeads offer was fair.
Mr R didnt accept the investigators findings. The matter has therefore been passed to me 
for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Fairmead has acknowledged it had recorded the wrong address for Mr R. This means he 
didnt receive its correspondence, either about the 2014 renewal or to advise of the problem 
concerning the premiums. Fairmead can no longer tell why it was unable to collect the 
premiums. It has therefore offered to reinstate the policy while keeping the premium at the 
same level it was in 2014.
I consider this is a fair offer by Fairmead. While it was at fault for holding incorrect contact 
details for Mr R, I consider that he should shoulder some responsibility for not noticing that 
hed received no renewal documents nor paid any premiums for the policy for over five 
years. I dont consider he can reasonably expect to have cover for free. I consider that 
Fairmeads offer, which involves it writing off premiums to the value of £6,738, is a 
reasonable compromise.
In the end, it is up to Mr R as to whether he agrees to pay the reduced backdated premiums 
of £5,452 but I dont consider that he can otherwise expect Fairmead to reinstate the policy 
and consider the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2020. 
David Poley
Ombudsman