DRN-2942968
The complaint
Mr D complains that Oakam Ltd has failed to correct his credit file several times which has
caused him distress and inconvenience and had an impact on his credit file and his ability to
obtain some types of additional credit.
 
What happened
For my provisional decision (issued 14 October 2021) I did not give too much detail on the 
history of the issues between Mr D and Oakam. I outlined the background which was that 
Oakam accepted it had approved a loan for someone who had pretended to be Mr D around 
May 2018. For this final decision I add some detail which was that Mr D complained to 
Oakam in 2018 and received a final response letter (FRL) from it dated 29 August 2018. In 
that FRL Oakam said it accepted what had happened, upheld his complaint and said it would 
correct his credit file by removing entries of that May 2018 loan. I mention this here in the 
what happened part of this decision as I expand on it later in this decision.
Since that August 2018 FRL Mr D has seen that the loan entry remained on his credit file. It 
was marked as having missed payments, showed as having been defaulted and that he 
owed Oakam around £942.
Mr D has explained to us that this has happened now three times  the original occasion, 
August 2020 and January 2021. Mr D does seem satisfied that the default and entry record 
has been removed from his credit file now.
The later complaints from Mr D related to the failure by Oakam to correct his credit file as it 
said it would do in August 2018. Oakams final response letters to both complaints in 
August 2020 and January 2021 refer to it being an isolated administrative error and it 
accepted responsibility. It offered £50 as recompense to Mr D, raised to £100 after the 
complaint was referred to this Service.
Mr D thinks that the distress and inconvenience he has had to endure, and the impact the 
negative payment information and the default has had on his credit file is worth more than 
that. He would like it to be £500.
The complaint remained unresolved and was passed to me to decide. I issued a provisional 
decision on 14 October 2021 in which I explained why I planned to increase the 
compensation figure for Mr D to £250. My provisional decision findings are set out in the next 
section of this final decision so that the parties have it to hand. It is differentiated by smaller 
type size. Those provisional findings form part of this final determination. 
Since then both parties have responded to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional decision findings dated 14 October 2021
As Oakam has acknowledged each time Mr D has complained to it that it did not do what it said it was 
going to do  namely remove the entry about the Oakam loan from his credit file  then I do not need 
to look into that part.
All I need to consider is whether, and the extent to which, Mr D has suffered distress, inconvenience 
and any loss as a result of the failure to remove this entry and default.
The fact that this has been an ongoing issue since 2018 is in itself an indication that this has caused 
Mr D distress and inconvenience. He has had to complaint twice at least. And Mr D articulates his 
worry and concern and frustration that each time this credit file entry appeared he had to sort it out all 
over again. And I can see thats not a good position to find himself in and it was through no fault of 
Mr Ds.
Mr D has told us about purchases which he says hes missed or have not been ones where good 
deals were offered and he blames the credit file mis-reporting by Oakam.
I understand that one issue Mr D says was linked to his credit file report related to a telephone 
contract where instead of being offered a 24 month contract at £34 a month he was offered one for 
the same term length at £37.48 a month. Ive taken that into account.
Mr Ds mortgage issue is a different matter. I understand that these were re-mortgage applications 
and the first refusal likely would have had little financial impact as he did proceed with a different 
company found by his broker. I see from a recent credit file report sent to us by Mr D that he did go 
ahead with that other company. But I do understand that the refusal itself would have given cause for 
concern.
And more recently (May 2021) Mr D has explained that his broker approached him in January 2021 to 
prepare for a fresh re-mortgage application as his current mortgage agreement is due to expire in 
October 2021  this month. Having made an application, then another refusal happened.
I appreciate that the January 2021 refusal would have caused consternation, but I cant see that it has 
caused any monetary loss. I say that because my understanding is that Oakam did remove the 
default in January 2021. Mr D has said to us:
The Oakam defaulted loan has now been removed from my credit report and coincidently my 
advisor has been able to get me more mortgage offers including from the lender who refused 
me originally since the defaulted loan has been removed.
However, I have evidence from Mr D that once the Oakam default was removed in January 2021 his 
credit score increased from being well below average for that credit reference agency (CRA) to well 
above average and it increased by a significant number of points. I accept that over the years this 
credit file entry will have had a bad effect on Mr Ds credit score and therefore its likely some 
preferred purchases may not have proceeded smoothly, or at all.
And I accept Mr Ds submissions that he shouldnt have had to live with the isolated administrative 
error more than once and I think it has caused him upset and inconvenience.
I appreciate the offer from Oakam is £100 but I plan to increase that to £250 to reflect the longevity 
and repetitive nature of the mistake Oakam accepts it is responsible for, together with the bad effect 
this has had on Mr Ds credit situation overall. There was a marked improvement on Mr Ds credit file 
score once the Oakam loan entry was removed. 
I need not say that Oakam needs to carry out any amendment to Mr Ds credit file as I understand that 
has been carried out successfully now.
Mr D says that he wants £500 to match the loan sum that a third unidentified party took when that 
person applied for the loan in May 2018 pretending to be Mr D. He has said to us that seems fair. I dont agree. Thats not a logical basis on which to decide a compensation figure. But I do agree that 
£100 was too low a sum.
How have the parties responded to the provisional decision
Oakam has accepted the provisional decision. It wants to resolve the complaint.
Mr D has explained further to me that he feels Ive clarified the situation perfectly but hes 
disappointed in the outcome of £250. He feels he wants justice for the stress Oakam have 
caused, and proving my innocence in this fraudulent situation. Mr D still considers that £500 
is a fair amount of compensation for him. Mr D also says that he wishes this to be resolved. 
Mr D does say that there was financial loss when the mortgage application (one or both) 
was/were refused. But Mr D has sent no evidence of this. 
I have considered very carefully what Mr D has said and in order to address his points I will 
need to do a couple of subheadings. 
The 2018 complaint to Oakam
Mr D had already complained to Oakam about the May 2018 loan taken out by a third party. 
That was addressed in its FRL dated August 2018 and I have seen a  copy of it. Oakam 
agreed with Mr D, upheld his complaint, offered its resolution and Oakam gave to Mr D the 
full referral rights to this Service. If Mr D was not content at that stage then he could have 
referred that complaint to this Service. 
Recently Mr D has said This compensation from Oakam would hopefully make them more 
vigilant and thorough in their identification checks in the future before issuing loans out to 
criminals. And Mr Ds comment about proving my innocence in this fraudulent situation 
suggests that Mr D expected me to have considered the May 2018 events as well as the 
credit file issues. The loan approval from May 2018 is important background but the 
complaint Ive considered is narrower. 
This complaint does not cover that issue about the fraudulent loan approval. That has been 
resolved already and so I have not looked at it again. This complaint with which I am dealing 
covers Oakams credit file amendment failure and not more than that.
Mr Ds own explanations to this Service 
All of Mr Ds detailed explanations had been considered when I gave my provisional 
decision. Mr D had sent to us some credit file screenshots, but I did not have, and still do not 
have, any financial evidence to demonstrate the monetary loss from any phone contracts or 
mortgage refusals. And so, without that evidence I looked at the overall picture. 
The reasons I chose to award the larger sum of £250 rather than the £100 offered by Oakam 
were set out in my provisional decision and are repeated here: 
 
- I had evidence of the credit score improvement once the May 2018 loan entries and 
default were removed from Mr Ds credit file; and
- I accepted Mr Ds submissions that over the years this credit file entry would have 
had a bad effect on Mr Ds credit score and therefore it was likely some preferred 
purchases may not have proceeded smoothly, or at all; and- and I accepted Mr Ds submissions that he shouldnt have had to live with the 
isolated administrative error more than once and I decided that it had caused him 
upset and inconvenience; and
- I did not think it was fair to choose the compensation figure with reference to a theft. 
The compensation figure I chose was within our general approach and to reflect the 
evidence I had. I considered it fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Having reviewed all the information, explanations and document copies I have received, 
including Mr Ds recent comments, then my view has not altered. 
Putting things right
For the same reasons outlined in my provisional decision and here, I have decided that 
Oakam should pay to Mr D a money award of £250. 
I think that should be paid by Oakam to Mr D within 28 days of the date that Mr D accepts 
this final decision, if he does accept it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ds complaint and I direct that Oakam Limited pays to 
Mr D a money award of £250. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2021.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman