DRN-1509869
 
The complaint
Miss S complaint is about the charges applied at the end of her hire agreement with 
Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS).
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Miss S entered into a hire agreement with MBFS and in doing so agreed to its terms 
and conditions. These set out that the car had to be kept in good condition and 
maintained properly. Therefore I would expect MBFS to accept damage that fell 
within the fair wear and tear standards set out by the British Vehicle Rental and 
Leasing Association (BVRLA). Likewise, I find it reasonable that it would charge for 
damage that fell outside of these standards.
 
The inspection report listed a number of areas of damage. I have looked at the 
photographs provided and assessed the damage against the fair wear and tear 
guidelines. The guidelines set out that dents up to 15mm are acceptable (in certain 
circumstances) as long as the paint surface hasnt been broken (and there are no 
more than two per panel) and scratches up to 25mm are acceptable as long as the 
primer or bare metal arent showing.
 
The photographs show the scratches on the front and rear bumpers and alloys and 
damage on the nearside front door, quarter panel and sliding doors. Having looked at 
the photographs provided this damage does appear to fall outside of the wear and 
tear guidelines and therefore I do not find I can say it was unreasonable charges 
were applied. I have looked at the information provided in regard to the charges and 
MBFS has applied the charges inline with its charging policy. 
 
Miss S car was collected on 18 July 2019, and she said that there were no dents and 
she was told it was in excellent condition. The inspection took place on 30 July. This 
is a gap of 12 days. While I note Miss S comments about this I do not find that this 
was an unreasonable period between collection and inspection. I note she didnt then 
receive the invoice until a number of days later but I can also see that his was dated 
1 August. On balance, I find that MBFS did act in a timely way to inform Miss S of the 
charges being applied.
 
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint. My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 July 2020.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman