DRN-4191894
The complaint
Mr P complains that St Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc (SJP) incorrectly advised 
him to make pension contributions he couldnt receive tax relief on. And to transfer an 
existing pension plan losing a valuable guarantee. He would like compensation for the 
losses incurred.
What happened
Mr P says SJP advised him to set up a personal pension plan and to pay significant 
contributions. As his income was mostly from dividends and rental income, he was unable to 
benefit from tax relief on the majority of the contributions paid. This error was noticed when 
his SJP adviser retired. Mr P then raised concerns about the advice hed been given to 
transfer a pension plan from Phoenix Life in March 2020.
SJP agreed the advice to pay the contributions hadnt been correct and it refunded them. It 
said it would compensate Mr P for lost investment growth and the tax costs of around 
£50,500 hed incurred drawing dividends to pay contributions. It offered £250 in 
compensation for the inconvenience caused. Mr Ps accountant said HMRC penalties were 
likely and should also be covered. SJP considered this and Mr Ps complaint about the 
transfer.
SJP sent a final response covering both complaints. It agreed to cover HMRC interest and 
penalties and increased the compensation offer to £750. It said the lost growth on the 
refunded contributions was £441.69. It offered Mr P a total amount of £51,529.69. 
But SJP said the advice to transfer the Phoenix plan was suitable for Mr P. It said whilst the 
plan had offered a guaranteed annuity rate (GAR) hed told the adviser he didnt intend to 
draw any income from the plan. As his current and ongoing income exceeded his 
requirements. Instead, he would most likely leave the pension plan to his children. SJP said 
whilst the charges of its plan were higher it offered more investment choice with the potential 
for superior growth, and ongoing advice which Mr P had wanted. 
Mr P didnt agree and referred his complaints to our service. He said SJPs acceptance form 
required him to agree full and final settlement of both complaints.
Our investigator looked into the complaints, and he upheld them.
He said as well as refunding the contributions SJP should reimburse any related expenses 
including HMRC penalties. He said the £750 compensation offered was fair in the 
circumstances. 
In respect of the transfer advice our investigator didnt agree the loss of the GAR was 
irrelevant. He said the FSAs Conduct of Business rules (COBS) explained that the starting 
off point for advising on a transfer where there were guaranteed benefits (called safeguarded 
rights) was that it was unsuitable. Unless it was clearly in the clients best interests. He said 
SJP hadnt recorded any financial objective warranting giving up the guarantee offered by 
the Phoenix plan. And that the objectives recorded were generic and vague, most of which 
could have been met without transferring the plan. 
Our investigator said at the time of the advice, the income available at age 65 from the 
Phoenix GAR was 1.787 times more than current annuity rates. And even SJPs suitability 
letter said the transfer value offered poor value for money. He said the SJP plan was more 
expensive. And the critical yield calculation, showed the rate of growth needed for it to match 
the benefits of the Phoenix plan was too high. Because of this the transfer shouldnt have 
proceeded, and the advice was unsuitable.
Our investigator said Mr P should be put back in the position he would have been in had the 
transfer not been made. He said the Phoenix plan had been set up to age 65 but Mr P could 
have benefited from the GAR at any age up to 75. So, if Mr P agreed he wouldve taken 
benefits at age 65, SJP should undertake a loss calculation to establish the any difference in 
fund value to the cost of providing the GAR and pay this now. Or it could agree to remain 
liable for the GAR up until Mr P would have been 75. And if he did take benefits undertake a 
loss calculation then. 
Mr P said he agreed with our investigators view but he didnt express any preference on how 
redress for the lost GAR should be considered.
SJP didnt agree. It said Mr P had significant and diverse income and capital available to 
him, comfortably exceeding his living expenses. So, he had sufficient capacity for loss to be 
able to forgo the GAR. It said as a higher rate taxpayer, it didnt accept he would take 
taxable income he didnt need. And the outperformance needed to match the GAR was only 
relevant if Mr P intended to take the guaranteed income, which it didnt believe is the case 
here. 
SJP said Mr P was more concerned about inheritance tax (IHT) and leaving his pensions to 
his family. It said its plan offered benefits over the Phoenix including:
1. Multiple investment funds compared to one with a much more sophisticated 
investment approach
2.That Mr P felt could improve the potential for future growth. Which was 
understandable when the annual bonuses over the last five years with Phoenix 
were between 2.5 and 3%
3. It would provide ongoing advice which Phoenix would not
4. That Mr P wished to consolidate his plans and already had a SJP plan
It said Mr P was aware of the benefits he was giving up and that he had reconfirmed his 
financial planning objectives to his new SJP adviser. 
Our investigator agreed at the time Mr P hadnt intended to draw income from his pensions. 
But that the regulations still required SJP to demonstrate transferring was in his best 
interests. And hed given up a valuable guaranteed income and no real identifiable 
objectives existed to justify the advice to transfer.
SJP didnt agree. It said whilst its charges were higher, this was:
acceptable when the client is looking for a better investment proposition (which will 
hopefully improve growth prospects), consolidation of pension arrangements ad (sic) 
regular reviews through face to face advice. 
As SJP doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.My provisional decision 
I issued my provision decision on 17 May 2023, I explained the reasons why I was planning 
to uphold the complaint. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide (provisionally) whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im planning to 
uphold the complaint. 
The contributions paid
SJP accepts Mr P couldnt benefit from tax relief on the majority of the pension contributions 
it advised he make. Its fair it fully unwinds these, reimbursing any lost investment return, 
and any costs or expenses incurred, including any HMRC penalties. SJP has offered to do 
this. 
Mr P has said the lost personal tax relief he was promised has caused him an investment 
loss but as this wasnt something that was actually available to him, this isnt the case. And it 
wouldnt be reasonable for me to tell SJP to compensate him for this. 
SJP has calculated the loss of growth on the overpaid contributions to be £441.69. I 
havent seen a calculation of this and think one should be provided to Mr P. I agree he has 
been caused inconvenience and think the £750 compensation offered is fair in the 
circumstances.
SJPs initial offer to refund the tax costs was made in March 2022. Mr P challenged this, and 
it issued a revised offer in April 2022 including his accountants costs, any penalties from 
HMRC and the lost growth figure noted above. This offer was set out in the final response 
letter also rejecting the transfer complaint. The acceptance form appended to the letter 
confirmed the offer of £51,529.69 and said:
In accepting this offer, I understand that it is made in full and final settlement of my 
complaint against St. Jamess Place and I hereby release and discharge all and /or 
any claims, rights, demands and causes of action, whether or not presently known to 
parties, which I have or may have against  and St. Jamess Place Wealth 
Management plc in relation to my complaint the details of which are confirmed in this 
offer.
The letter provided referral rights to our service for both parts of his complaint. Mr P has said 
SJP has aggregated the two complaints requiring that he drop both complaints to accept the 
offer and at this stage I agree. I dont think this was fair. There was nothing to prevent SJP 
making a clear and separate offer in respect of the contribution complaint.
That means I think Mr P has been deprived of the use of the compensation offered 
(£51,529.69) on the contribution error. So, I think its fair that interest be paid on this at 8% 
per year simple from 26 April 2022, when the offer was made until the date of settlement. 
SJP should also pay any interest or HMRC penalties that have arisen, which Mr P will need 
to confirm.  
The transfer advice
SJP says the advice was suitable for Mr P as its plan offers advantages, which combined 
with what it says were his wider financial planning objectives outweigh the loss of the GAR. I 
disagree. I dont think SJP has demonstrated its advice was in Mr Ps best interests as 
required by the regulations. In particular I dont think Mr P was given a clear explanation of the level of outperformance was required by SJPs funds to match the guaranteed benefits 
being given up. Without this he wasnt able to fairly assess the merits of the potential for a 
higher death benefit value versus the loss of guarantees even if SJP did achieve superior 
interim investment returns in the event of his death. 
Mr P says he challenged the advice at the time and only proceeded because the adviser 
insisted it was the best option. SJP says as it wasnt party to the discussions between the 
adviser and Mr P, it isnt possible to know exactly what was said. But that it was unlikely that 
the adviser would have deviated from what was put in writing. Therefore, the email the 
adviser sent to Mr P on 31 January 2020 before SJP formally gave the advice in its suitability 
report is interesting. This has a subject heading Phoenix With Profits Pension performance, 
and said:
Ive attached, as promised, 10 year and 1 year performance against the SJP 
Managed Pension Fund.
It goes without saying that you can receive potentially far greater performance by 
transferring to SJP at no cost to you.
The pros for moving :- Regular reviews to suit you, remains outside of IHT, greater 
potential growth, no initial charges.
The cons for moving :- Apart from tax free cash, sliding scale of exit charges over 
7.5% per annum @ 6 5 4 3 2 1%
The pros for staying :- stays outside of IHT 
The cons for staying :- poor fund performance, unknown charges, no adviser contact
I hope this makes sense.
Please don't hesitate to get in touch if you have any questions
This email was sent after Phoenix had provided details of the GAR on the policy, so Im 
surprised that it isnt mentioned as a pro for staying. This email predates the suitability 
report by at least two months. 
The FCAs Handbook sets out the rules regulated firms must follow in giving advice. In 
respect of suitability reports the Conduct of Business (COBS) rule 9.4.7R says:
 The suitability report must, at least: 
(1) specify the client's demands and needs; 
(2) explain why the firm has concluded that the recommended transaction is suitable 
for the client having regard to the information provided by the client; and 
(3) explain any possible disadvantages of the transaction for the client.
In the suitability report Mr Ps objectives were identified as being to invest for his retirement, 
to access ongoing service and advice, to utilise the SJP investment management approach, 
to consolidate his pensions, and address your concerns about your existing provider. The 
report concludes that the analysis done indicates the transfer value is poor value for 
money. But recommends the transfer should go ahead. I think the email of 31 January 2020 
indicates that the preliminary discussions were ignoring important benefits of the Phoenix 
plan and seeking to create concerns about the existing provider through a misleading 
narrative. Even in its response to our investigators view of the complaint, SJP said that the Phoenix 
plan (with my emphasis in bold):
is a traditional with profits plan designed purely to provide the client with an income 
linked to the Guaranteed Annuity Rate (GAR) provision included. 
That would be restrictive, but SJP has provided no evidence to support this assertion. 
Because, the plan didnt only offer the GAR, as it facilitated the payment of a tax-free cash 
sum. It obviously offered the right to transfer, making any of the flexible retirement benefit 
options accessible through subsequent transfer if Mr P didnt want to take the GAR in the 
future. 
Mr Ps objectives are only vaguely expanded on in the suitability report. I dont think it is 
made clear why they were important enough to give up the guarantees the existing plan 
offered. GARs on older plans tend to be much higher than current annuity rates. This is why 
the benefits are referred to as safeguarded and there are additional requirements that the 
benefits of giving them up be clearly demonstratable. 
I think the suitability report provides quite selective information and presents this in a 
confusing manner. There are warnings that a guarantee will be given up. And that the GAR 
is higher than prevailing annuity rates, and that it would be difficult to provide a level of 
income similar to the GAR sustainably under drawdown. And that if taken at age 65 funds 
would run out at age 80 or age 76 (assuming a significant market crash). But the report 
doesnt put this into any context by saying what a significant market crash would be or 
properly explain what drawdown is compared to a guaranteed income from an annuity.
And there is no direct comparison to the cost of an open market annuity that would provide 
the same income as the GAR to explain how significant a level of additional annual 
investment return, or critical yield, was required to match the benefits being given up. 
Critical yield calculations were carried out by SJP. These indicate that its plan would need to 
grow by an additional 8.57% per annum over the Phoenix plan to provide the same level of 
income at age 65. Suggesting that SJP funds would need to provide average annual returns 
of over 12% to match the guarantee being forgone on the assumptions used. Thats a 
demanding level of outperformance. A far greater return than SJP was allowed to forecast 
on its projections. And I dont think it is a level of return that could be reasonably be 
expected to be achieved particularly considering Mr Ps attitude to investment risk, which is 
described as medium. 
But in the report this information is obscured in a section headed The Impact of Charges on 
your benefits in a table headed Level of Outperformance Required, where only 8.57% is 
entered. Immediately beneath this table the report says:
The outperformance shown above is the additional growth your Retirement Account 
needs to achieve to match the existing funds. 
This maybe a year one comparison but I think its misleading. It suggests the total additional 
return required over the period of investment is 8.57% not 8.57% per year. A few paragraphs 
later the report says:
You understand past performance is no guide to future performance and there is no 
guarantee St. Jamess Place funds will outperform an existing provider. Having 
discussed this in detail, you felt there was a reasonable opportunity for sufficient 
growth to be achieved and you are willing to accept the risk it might not be.From the report, it isnt clear to me that the actual required level of outperformance was 
clearly explained to Mr P. Or indeed why it was reasonable for him to think SJP would 
outperform Phoenix Life which the report says was discussed in detail. Without these points 
being clearly set out in the report I dont think Mr P could fairly appraise the merits of the 
transfer and whether the guarantee was worth giving up. 
SJP has argued that Mr P was most concerned about IHT as justification for the transfer and 
the sole consideration was the potential future capital value of the pension ignoring any 
income that either plan might produce. Im not persuaded by this argument. I think this 
because in the fact find documents the section on IHT and estate planning (which is two 
pages long) has just one entry, noting that Mr P hasnt made a Will. And the suitability report 
sent to Mr P setting out the advice to transfer is headed Retirement Planning. On page one 
it states:
You wanted to focus on Retirement Planning.
I made you aware of your other financial planning needs such as Inheritance Tax 
Planning but this was not a priority for you to discuss at this time.
And in a section of the report covering other advice areas, IHT matters are addressed with 
the comment:
you did not wish to discuss these in detail because you feel you are very young to 
begin addressing this area
But even if Mr P was interested in using his pensions for IHT planning that didnt mean it was 
in his best interest to transfer from Phoenix. SJPs plan offered no IHT advantage over the 
Phoenix plan and at the time of the advice, Mr P was 57 years old. Under current legislation 
once over age 75 the tax treatment of inherited pensions is less attractive. Even if Mr P had 
no current expectation of needing income from his pensions, I think its reasonable to say 
that his financial planning requirements would have evolved over time. For example, he 
might have opted to take income from the pension to free up capital to allow gifts to be made 
to reduce his estate and so mitigate IHT. 
But there is no mention of such considerations in the suitability report or that future 
legislative changes might make pensions less attractive for IHT purposes. That would have 
impacted the Phoenix plan equally, but the GAR wouldnt have been lost.
So, apart from allowing access to SJP funds and ongoing advice, transferring offered little 
the existing plan didnt. The Phoenix plan also provided Mr P with investment diversification, 
rather than having all (as the adviser had planned to transfer Mr Ps other plans as well) his 
pensions invested in the same managed funds strategy with SJP. These funds might have 
achieved superior returns than Phoenixs with profit fund and so provided a higher capital 
value in the event of Mr Ps death, which would benefit his children. But there were no 
guarantees of that, and I dont think a fair comparison was made to what was been given up 
on the chance it might. 
So, considering everything I dont think Mr P has been treated reasonably. I think if a fair 
comparison of the GAR and the investment returns required to match it had been provided, 
then Mr P wouldnt have proceeded with the transfer as it is difficult to see how it was in his 
best interests. Its fair that SJP put him back into the position he should have been in as 
closely as possible. As he hasnt taken benefits, I asked him about his intentions here. He 
said having considered the position he would probably have taken the Phoenix benefits at 
age 65 and would use the additional income to gift to his children. Putting things right
I said that it was fair that SJP recalculate the loss caused by the incorrectly paid 
contributions to include all charges, interest, and penalties from HMRC and if Mr P had 
already settled this liability to pay him interest at 8% per year simple from the date he made 
payment. 
In terms of the transfer advice, I set out how SJP should undertake calculations to establish 
the if a loss had been suffered and if had been to compensate him accordingly.
I asked both parties to send me any further information or comments they would like me to 
consider.
Response to provisional decision
Mr P said he accepted my provisional decision and that he hadnt settled the tax liability due 
to HMRC. He provided a letter from his accountants confirming the current amount owed 
was £53,388.46, but that there may be further penalties to be determined by HMRC that 
could fall between £4,373 and £13,120, subject to negotiation.   
SJP disagreed with my provisional decision, providing a substantial response, which I will 
consider below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint.
Ive considered the many points raised by SJP in response to my provisional decision. But 
these havent changed my mind on the outcome of this complaint. 
The transfer advice
I think SJP has repeated points already made. Some are open to interpretation. For 
example, it states that the GAR was inflexible as it didnt offer a spouses pension option. 
Thats true, but the fact find notes state that Mr P wasnt married but had a partner who 
keeps completely separate finances. Suggesting the availability or not of a spouses 
pension wouldnt be a key factor in the analysis required. It said Mr P had told his new SJP 
adviser he didnt intend to take his pension benefits at any point. But it omits to note that the 
new adviser also thought the advice to transfer was unsuitable, in part because Mr P was 
relatively young. 
Instead of addressing every point made by SJP I will focus on what I consider to be the key 
aspects as to why the advice wasnt suitable. It argues it undertook a fair analysis of the 
transfer, but the overriding factor was that;
the client had already advised he did not have a need for the income from this plan 
and therefore would not be reliant on the GAR in retirement
So, as Mr P had already decided, it was merely accommodating his wishes and the 
suitability letter contained multiple risk warnings. But as his plan contained safeguarded 
rights (the GAR) it wasnt possible for him to transfer it without taking financial advice. And 
SJP was required to make a suitable recommendation, acting in the clients best interests and to communicate with them in a way that is clear, fair and not misleading. It couldnt 
simply process instructions. And whilst there were arguments in favour of transfer, I dont 
think Mr P was given the balanced and contextualised information he required to make an 
informed decision on the transfer. That means I dont think he was treated fairly.
SJP said our service had decided in its favour in a similar complaint where safeguarded 
rights had been transferred. But, as it is aware, our service considers each complaint on its 
own merits and circumstances. It said the earlier decision had said that little weight should 
be placed on any initial discussions predating the key documents of the fact find and in 
particular the suitability letter which;
aims to bring together all the considerations and explain the reasons for transfer and 
associated disadvantages in much detail to help the client make an informed 
decision. 
It said Mr P would rely more on the suitability letter than on brief notes in the email of 31 
January 2020, quoted in full in the provisional decision. I agree that the suitability letter is a 
key document and that contemporaneous records like it are valuable evidence, especially 
compared to recollections of conversations, which can be inaccurate. 
Therefore, it is interesting that in defending what I considered to be shortcomings in the 
suitability letter (which I dont think brought all the considerations together and explained 
them), SJP has sought to rely on discussions it thinks would have taken place between Mr P 
and its adviser. Despite presenting no evidence that these discussions did indeed take 
place. 
The suitability letter itself has two dates on it several months apart having apparently been 
amended. The dates are 27 March 2020 and 20 June 2020. There is no indication of what 
the amendments were, and a copy of the original letter from 27 March 2020 hasnt been 
provided. The suitability letter refers to a discussion on 16 January 2020 . It says its purpose 
is to confirm my recommendation. Suggesting the recommendation has already been 
made. So, I think the email of 31 January 2020 is quite relevant evidence here. 
Another important document is the key features illustration. This is dated 27 March 2020. 
The illustration shows a transfer value of £122,512.00. This was the value Phoenix had 
provided on 21 November 2019. It isnt clear why a revised illustration wasnt prepared to 
reflect the amended suitability letter of 20 June 2020, or indeed an updated transfer value 
given this was seven months later. 
The copy application form SJP has provided was printed on 7 April 2020, but as it hasnt 
been signed or dated by Mr P, it isnt clear when he completed it. The suitability letter 
suggests it has already been completed, which doesnt obviously tie in with the date of 
printing on the unsigned application form. Perhaps it indicates there was a further meeting 
after 27 March and presumably before 20 June 2020, but no notes of this have been 
provided. The suitability letter continues that once Mr P has agreed the recommendation 
the application would be forwarded for processing meaning you should receive confirmation 
of your investment shortly. 
The suitability letter has a declaration to be signed and dated by Mr P to confirm the 
contents have been explained and an informed decision made by him. But this hasnt been 
signed or dated. SJP hasnt otherwise confirmed how Mr P agreed to proceed with the 
recommendation. Surprisingly it made no reference to this apparent omission in its final 
response to his complaint, despite quoting the contents of the suitability letter at some length 
and enclosing a further copy of it. And despite arguing a full analysis of the merits of transferring was carried out, SJP has now 
made a clarification over the death benefit position of the Phoenix plan. It says the suitability 
letter had incorrectly stated that it had offered a return of fund (i.e., the full value) on death, 
when it did not. Instead, it offered a return of contributions paid plus interest. This information 
was provided by Phoenix before the suitability letter was produced.
Its likely that a death benefit based on contributions plus interest would be less than the full 
fund value of this type of plan. So, this would be a potential benefit of transferring. Its the 
type of factor I would expect to be considered when evaluating the merits of a transfer. But 
transferring a plan with valuable guarantees isnt the only possible solution to concerns 
about death benefit values. That this wasnt considered correctly re-enforces my view that 
SJPs adviser had effectively decided the advice would be to transfer at an early stage and 
made the recommendation fit regardless  as indicated by his pre suitability letter email. 
SJP says its analysis did consider important calculations such as the critical yield and a 
long-term income calculator (LTIC) and these were discussed with Mr P. The critical yield 
shows the investment return needed to match the benefits being given up. The LITC 
indicates how long an income equivalent to the GAR could be paid before depleting the 
funds. Both are complex calculations, the significance of which I think would need some 
explanation to the non-expert. I think this was important information that should have been in 
the suitability letter and properly put into context. But the critical yield was omitted from the 
suitability letter and I dont think the LITC had been fully explained as set out in the 
provisional decision.
But SJP said it saw no reason why this would not have been discussed with the client.  But 
the LITC is dated 4 March 2020, and the critical yield calculation 27 March 2020, the same 
day as the suitability letter, which only refers to discussions on 16 January 2020. No 
evidence has been shown of other meetings where these issues were covered. 
SJP says that any investment outperformance requirement was only relevant if Mr P wanted 
to take income from the GAR which he doesnt. It accepts the critical yield required was 
not recorded in the suitability letter. But I think including and explaining this type of 
information was essential so that Mr P could make an informed decision about what he 
might do in the future. He might not have understood the true value of the guarantee. Clearly 
stating the required level of outperformance needed to match the guaranteed benefits would 
have put them into context. 
And SJP was the expert, required to provide suitable advice considering all relevant factors 
and communicate them in a way that is clear, fair and not misleading. I dont think it did 
that. And it hasnt clearly demonstrated the advice was in Mr Ps best interests as required 
by the Conduct of Business Rules. So, if he has suffered a loss as a consequence, it is fair 
that he be put back into the position he should have been in.
The contributions paid 
SJP says if Mr P had asked it to separate the complaints to allow him to accept the 
compensation on the contribution error, it would have. But instead, hed referred it to our 
service without giving it the opportunity to do so. 
But it was SJP who combined the complaints when Mr P queried the initial compensation 
offered. It sent a combined response rejecting the transfer complaint and made a slightly 
modified offer in cash terms. This didnt include any penalties or interest from HMRC despite 
the letter saying they would be. It would need information about these from Mr P. The cash 
offer made was in full and final settlement of all complaints. So, Im not surprised Mr P 
referred his complaints to our service given there are time limits to do so after a final response is issued. SJP could have offered to make a payment to address this matter at any 
point, but didnt.
As Mr P hasnt yet settled the tax liability, he hasnt suffered a loss through being out of 
funds where it would be fair to make an interest award. So, settling the sum owed to HMRC 
resolves this aspect of the complaint. However, the final liability here has yet to be 
determined. If interest is continuing to accrue on the debt it would seem appropriate to settle 
this promptly pending the conclusion of discussions with HMRC with SJP to make further 
payment as necessary to avoid any loss to Mr P.  
Mr P has also suffered a loss due to loss of growth on the refunded contribution, which SJP 
has agreed to pay of £441.69. 
 
Putting things right
In respect of the transfer advice: 
Mr P says he would have taken benefits at age 65. I think its likely that he would have taken 
the maximum tax- free cash sum available  25% of the future fund value. Phoenix Life has 
already provided a notional value calculation of the policy for SJP. So, SJP should;
1. Ask Phoenix Life to recalculate the notional value of Mr Ps policy on the date of 
calculation, as if the policy had never been transferred. 
2. The GAR available under the plan was a single life annuity, payable annually in 
arrears without guarantee and the rate applicable at age 65 was 89.98 per £1,000 of 
purchase price (8.998%).
3. SJP should look up annuity rates on the date of calculation to determine a rate 
payable on the open market for the same format and age.
4. Assuming (2) is greater than (3), increase the value in (1) by the ratio of 75% x ((2) 
divided by (3)). Otherwise leave the value in (1) unchanged.
5. Obtain the fund value at the date of calculation of the plan Mr P switched to as a 
result of the original advice.
6. The loss to Mr Ps pension funds at the date of calculation is calculated as the result 
of (4)  (5). If the answer is negative, theres a gain and no redress is payable.
7. The loss should if possible be paid into Mr Ps pension plan. The payment should 
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. But the compensation 
shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection 
or allowance. Based on the information available it is unlikely that payment could be 
made into Mr Ps plan.
8. If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance 
implications, it should be paid directly to Mr P as a lump sum after making a notional 
reduction to allow for future income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is 
an adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax 
to HMRC, so Mr P wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
9. As Mr P would have taken tax-free cash, 25% of the loss would be tax-free and 75% 
would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  I think its reasonable to assume this to be 40%. So, making a notional reduction of 30% 
overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
In respect of the overpaid contributions;
SJP should liaise with Mr P and his accountants as necessary and settle the full liability to 
HMRC caused by its error as appropriate, including all interest and penalties, including those 
still to be determined by HMRC. It should also compensate Mr P for his loss of growth of 
£441.69 it has already calculated on the refunded contribution.
SJP has already offered Mr P £750 for the inconvenience he has been caused which I think 
is fair compensation in the circumstances of the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint against St Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc.
I direct St Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc to undertake the loss calculations set out 
above in respect of the transfer advice and the incorrectly paid contributions and pay 
compensation accordingly.
I further direct St Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc to pay Mr P £750 compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience he has been caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2023.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman