DRN-3713279
The complaint
Mr G complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc wont refund him for two payments which he says 
he didnt authorise.
What happened
In June 2019, Mr G says he gave permission to a former employee, who Ill refer to as Mr J, 
to use his business account to purchase breakdown cover as one-off payment.
However, Mr J used Mr Gs card details to set up a continuous payment authority. This 
means the breakdown cover provider was given permission to take money from the card 
whenever theyre owed money. For example, during the annual renewal of the policy.
The breakdown cover provider took further payments of £172.50 on 12 June 2020 and 
£166.86 on 14 June 2021 from Mr Gs account. Mr G asked Barclays to refund these 
transactions as he says he didnt authorise them.
Barclays cancelled any continuous payments to the breakdown service provider on the 
account. They explained they couldnt log a dispute with the merchant as it had been more 
than 120 days since the transaction. They said there wasnt anything further they could do.
Unhappy with this, Mr G referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator said that Mr G 
authorised the disputed transactions by not removing the authority hed given to Mr J after 
the first payment was made. Mr G disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 25 August 2022. My findings were as follows:
Under the relevant rules, if the payer allows a third party to make use of their 
payment instrument, a card, so that to the bank it looks like the payment transaction 
has been authorised, then the payment can be considered authorised by the payer.
This means if Mr G gave authority to Mr J to use his card, then Mr G is responsible 
for that transaction. This is also the case if Mr J then carried out more transactions 
than Mr G expected or agreed to. This is known as apparent authority.
I appreciate Mr G only agreed for Mr J to make one transaction using his card. But 
this doesnt mean he isnt liable for the two further transactions  as explained above, 
he is still responsible for those transactions as he gave apparent authority to Mr J. Ill 
explain why.
I dont dispute Mr G wasnt aware or expected that Mr J would use his account to set 
up a continuous payment authority. But by providing the card details, and not taking 
any steps to prevent further use of his card, Mr G has in effect authorised the two 
payments which were then debited from his account in June 2020 and June 2021.
Ive not seen anything to suggest Mr G took steps to prevent further use of his card 
details, such as asking Barclays to send him a new card, until he noticed the 
transactions in October 2021.
It seems Mr J has abused Mr Gs trust, given that hes not communicating with Mr G 
nor repaid him for the two transactions in June 2020 and June 2021 but this isnt 
Barclays fault. Barclays were simply actioning instructions which appear to be 
authorised by Mr G.
Barclays have provided mobile banking records which go back as far as 2021. This 
shows Mr G accessed his accounts around the time of the June 2021 transaction, but 
he didnt report it to Barclays until October 2021.
I think Mr G shouldve reasonably flagged this at the time, and had he acted sooner, 
then Barclays may have been able to help him recover the money taken in June 
2021, through a chargeback.
Chargebacks are subject to strict rules and time limits set by the card scheme (Visa). 
For these transactions, a time limit of 120 days from the processing date would apply 
to raise a dispute.
While I understand Mr G had difficulty in contacting Barclays, they couldnt raise a 
claim until they were aware of the issue. It appears Mr G disputed these transactions 
with Barclays more than 120 days since they were processed. So, there wasnt 
anything further Barclays could reasonably be expected to do.
I appreciate Mr G feels the time limits are irrelevant and he should be refunded. 
However, as I explained, the time limits arent set by Barclays. Instead, they are set 
by the card scheme, Visa, and any chargeback disputes are subject to these rules, 
including the time limits.
Even if the chargeback was processed, Im satisfied there was no reasonable 
prospect of success of Mr G getting his money back. I say this because the rules set 
by Visa state that a dispute where the customer hasnt received the merchandise or 
service is invalid if the cardholder states the transaction is fraudulent.
Mr G has confirmed he hasnt received or used the services for the payments that 
were taken from his account by the breakdown cover provider. Hes also told 
Barclays that he believes this situation to be unlawful  either theft or fraud. 
Unfortunately, this scenario isnt covered under the chargeback rules as it would be 
an invalid dispute reason.
Mr G feels there have been multiple breaches of customer not present card payment 
rules and regulations. The protection on distance contracts  i.e. customer not 
present card payments is derived from consumer law and doesnt apply to this case.
In this case, Mr G doesnt meet the definition of a consumer  an individual acting for 
purposes which are wholly or mainly outside that individuals trade, business, craft of 
profession. Mr Gs account is a business account and uses it mainly for his 
trade/profession.
In any case, even if this protection applied to Mr G, Id need to be satisfied that he 
didnt authorise the disputed transactions in order to hold Barclays responsible. But 
as Ive explained above, Mr G gave apparent authority to Mr J  meaning I think he 
authorised the disputed transactions.Under these circumstances, Im satisfied that its fair for Barclays to hold Mr G liable 
for these transactions.
Responses to provisional decision
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision with any further submissions.
Barclays didnt respond within the deadline given. Mr G didnt agree with my findings. 
In summary, Mr G felt that he couldnt be expected to check every transaction on the mobile 
banking app each time he logged into his account. He explained he didnt use the mobile 
banking app to complete an audit every time he logged on. Instead he only used it to transfer 
urgent payments for operational costs and to check if overdue business debtors had paid 
funds into the account. 
Mr G said that his account had multiple transactions daily, and it was unreasonable to expect 
him to check each one in detail. He reiterated that the funds were taken out of this account 
without authority which he believes borders on a fraudulent act and theft.
He doesnt think hes at fault here but instead he feels Mr J, Barclays and the breakdown 
service provider are responsible. He says Barclays have a duty of care and have broken the 
banking code. He has also pointed out the distance selling regulations which provides 
consumers additional protection.
He emphasised again that he didnt provide Mr J ongoing permission for the funds to be 
taken from his account and had only strictly agreed to a one-time payment. He believes 
Barclays should compensate him as theyre responsible for the security of his funds and 
didnt take steps to recover his money.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The points Mr G has made in response to my provisional decision arent new and Id already 
taken them into account when reaching my conclusions.
Theres no dispute that Mr G gave authority to Mr J to use his card to make one payment to 
the breakdown service provider in June 2019. But as explained in my provisional decision, 
by giving Mr J his card details, Mr G is responsible not only for the transaction he authorised 
but also any other transactions Mr J then carried out  even if it was more than what Mr G 
had agreed to or expected.  
Although Mr G wasnt aware and didnt expect Mr J to set up a continuous payment 
authority, he gave Mr J his card details. And by failing to remove this authority to prevent 
further use of his card, Mr G has effectively authorised the transactions that debited his 
account in June 2020 and June 2021. It follows Mr G is liable for these transactions.
I appreciate Mr G couldnt check his transactions each time he logged on to his mobile 
banking app. However, under these circumstances, Barclays couldnt reasonably be 
expected to do anything further to help Mr G recover his money through a chargeback, due 
to the rules set by Visa as explained in my provisional decision.
Overall, Im satisfied that its fair for Barclays to hold Mr G liable for these transactions.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Ash Weedon
Ombudsman