DRN-2926190
The complaint
Mrs R complains that Vanquis Bank Limited irresponsibly allowed her to open a credit card 
account and later increased the credit limit which she says was unaffordable.
What happened
Mrs R opened the Vanquis credit card account in 2010 and says over the next two years her 
credit limit was increased from £250 to £3,000. She says Vanquis didnt carry out credit 
checks and that the account was unaffordable. Mrs R says she was in a Debt Management 
Plan (DMP) at the time and had a poor credit rating. Mrs R also says she only made 
minimum required payments, yet Vanquis increased the credit limit. She says the lending 
was unaffordable and irresponsible.
Vanquis says Mrs R declared a household income of £27,000 and says it carried out 
appropriate checks. It says Mrs Rs other non-secured debt at the time was about £3,000 
and there wasnt any recent adverse information on her credit file. Vanquis says Mrs R 
managed her account appropriately until July 2014 which was some two years after the last 
credit limit increase.
Mrs R brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Vanquis had carried out appropriate checks on Mrs Rs application and credit limit 
increases. And didnt think there any evidence that Vanquis was aware of the DMP or that it 
appeared on the records of the Credit Reference Agency (CRA) records it used. The 
investigator thought Mrs R managed this account appropriately and made payments greater 
than the required amounts. The investigator also looked at Mrs Rs bank account statements 
and didnt think there was any information of concern recorded on them even if Vanquis had 
looked at them.
Mrs R doesnt accept that view and says her bank balance was far from healthy and her 
credit score was, at the time, low.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mrs R will be disappointed by my decision.
Lenders and credit providers should carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on any 
lending or credit application. Those checks will of course vary depending on the type and 
amount of the lending or credit. This was an application for a credit facility rather than for 
example a loan or mortgage and so I wouldnt have Vanquiss checks to have been as 
detailed as for that type of lending.
I have looked carefully at Vanquiss records and can see that Mrs R declared a household 
income of £27,000 and that Vanquis did carry out checks on the application. I can see that 
Vanquis checked Mrs Rs other non-secured debt and carried out checks on her credit file. I 
appreciate Mrs R says no credit checks were carried out, but Im satisfied they were. And 
that Vanquis was reasonably entitled to conclude that there wasnt any any recent adverse 
information recorded on Mrs Rs credit file and that on the face of it the lending facility was 
affordable.
I appreciate Mrs R says she was in a DMP at the time, but I cant see any reference to that 
on the records of the CRA that Vanquis used, and I cant fairly hold it responsible for that. I 
accept due to the passage of time that Mrs R can no longer obtain a copy of her credit file for 
the required time period.
Im satisfied that overall Vanquis carried out reasonable and proportionate checks on Mrs 
Rs credit card account application in 2010 and gave her what I think is a modest credit limit 
of £250. Im also satisfied Mrs R managed her account appropriately and made on 
occasions payments greater than the minimum required amounts. So, Im also satisfied that 
the credit limit increases were appropriately checked, and Mrs Rs account management 
provides evidence that they were affordable.
I have looked at Mrs Rs bank account statements which I accept Vanquis didnt look at. I 
dont think it was required to do so and, in any event, I cant see any obvious signs of 
financial difficulties. And that it appears that account was appropriately managed.
Overall, Im satisfied Vanquis did carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on the 
credit card account and on later credit limit increases. I appreciate the main part of Mrs Rs 
complaint is that Vanquis didnt carry out any checks before opening the account, but Im 
satisfied having looked at its records, that it did carry out those checks.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman