DRN-2766009
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1996. Mr and Mrs A say Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax mis-sold them the PPI.
Background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr and Mrs 
As circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs As representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs As. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr and 
Mrs As complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
I think Halifax made it clear that Mr and Mrs A didnt have to take out the PPI and they 
chose to take it out. Ill explain why. 
The PPI was arranged during a meeting. Halifax isnt able to provide any paperwork from 
the time of sale - this is unfortunate, but unsurprising for a sale that took place from so 
long ago. So Ive considered Mr and Mrs As comments alongside what we know in 
general about how Halifax sold PPI at the time to decide whats more likely to have 
happened. As the PPI was sold as part of a mortgage application its likely this was a 
lengthy process and there was likely to have been a discussion about Mr and Mrs As 
circumstances. Based on what I know about how Halifax sold PPI I wouldve expected 
this discussion with the advisor to involve a decision about the level of cover and to set 
up the policy. In Mr and Mrs As case it was decided the policy would cover Mr A, the 
main earner, only. 
I also think its likely Mr and Mrs A wouldve had to complete some paperwork at the time, 
and this is likely to have reflected the discussions they had at the time. Taking everything 
into account, I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs A knew the policy was optional and 
they agreed to take it out without undue pressure.
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs A so it had to check that the PPI was right 
for them. And the evidence about Mr As circumstances at the time, shows that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. For example he was eligible for the 
cover and he didnt have any other means to fall back on should he be unable to work, 
so they had a need for cover.
There was nothing about Mr As employment or occupation which would have made it 
difficult for him to claim. Although Mr A says he had a medical condition some time 
before the policy was taken out I dont think it was wrong for Halifax to have 
recommended it. I say this because the health condition occurred many years before the 
sale and was dealt with at the time with a medical procedure. Mr A hasnt told us of any 
ongoing issues he had because of it or any impact it had on his ability to work. So I dont 
think this medical condition wouldve been something Mr and Mrs A were concerned 
about at the time of sale. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs A about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been. But Ive found that they chose to take it out - so it looks like they 
wanted this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr A as I concluded 
above, or too dissimilar to what they reasonably thought they were buying from the 
information they were given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would 
have been useful for them if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Mr and 
Mrs A would have declined the cover had Halifax done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Mr and Mrs As circumstances at the time of sale and despite its 
limitations, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for Mr A. So I think they 
would have still thought they had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Mr and Mrs A would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could 
provide a useful benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. I also think 
the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely they thought they were getting. And in 
those circumstances, I think that they would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs As representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant Halifax should have disclosed the poor value 
and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mr and Mrs As representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances of Mr and Mrs As individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs As particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold this complaint.
This means Halifax doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 September 2021.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman