DRN-3917233
The complaint
Mr S has complained Barclays Bank UK PLC delayed the transfer of his funds when he was 
concerned about having so much money in his Barclays savings account.
What happened
After two large credits into his savings account, Mr S realised he had money with Barclays 
well in excess of the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) compensation limit 
of £85,000. Over August 2022 he made transfers using his mobile banking to other accounts 
so he could protect his funds.
On a number of occasions Mr S found his transfers were being blocked. He was asked to 
verify why he was making these payments, transferred to the fraud department despite this 
confirmation and even found he was making payments in excess of his daily limit. He felt 
Barclays were endangering his funds and complained.
Barclays believed their standard of service had fallen below what Mr S should expect. In two 
separate responses they agreed to pay him £125 and £75 in compensation.
Still dissatisfied Mr S brought his complaint to the ombudsman service. Our investigator 
confirmed the service hadnt been appropriate but overall £200 in compensation was fair.
As Mr S remained unhappy, hes asked an ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Barclays has provided copies of telephone calls they had with Mr S. These show his 
frustration in being unable to make the transfer he felt were necessary. Im also satisfied, as 
Barclays admit, the level of service Mr S received wasnt appropriate. He felt he was being 
blocked from making necessary payments. He was also referred to the fraud department 
despite him confirming these were genuine payments. I can absolutely see why he felt he 
wasnt treated properly.
However I believe Barclays has offered to pay Mr S £200 for the difficulties he encountered 
and the time wasted. Overall I believe this is fair based on what happened. At no time was 
Mr Ss money in danger and he was able to make the payments he wished.
It's appropriate that banks carry out checks even if the genuine customer is making 
payments. Theyll want to ensure their customer has not fallen victim of a scam and is 
making payments they want to an account they intend to pay.
I appreciate Mr Ss concern. He seems to have thought that the FSCS financial limit meant 
he couldnt have the amount he held in his Barclays savings account. This isnt the case. I 
can assure Mr S that at all times his money remained safe and secure within Barclays. No 
regulator would have paid any attention to Mr S holding in excess of £85,000 in one account. 
FSCS financial limits come into play when a bank is in financial trouble. The maximum 
compensation a customer is guaranteed is limited to £85,000 per bank. This explains why 
many personal customers spread their savings around to limit their risk. Theres no 
requirement on them to do so.
Despite Mr Ss strong feelings on this matter, I am not going to ask Barclays to do anything 
further.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ss complaint against Barclays 
Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman