DRN-3251656
The complaint
Mr T and Ms T complain about Admiral Insurance Company Limiteds (Admiral) handling of a 
subsidence claim made under their buildings insurance policy. 
What happened
In 2018, Mr T and Ms T contacted Admiral. Their home was showing signs of cracking and a 
claim for subsidence was accepted. A period of monitoring was arranged and carried out by 
another company Ill call G. In August 2019, a representative from G visited Mr T and Ms T. 
Mr T and Ms T complained about the first representative. Later in 2019 another surveyor 
visited Mr T and Ms Ts home and drew up a schedule of repairs.
 
In early 2020, Mr T and Ms T received the details of the repairs the second representative 
said needed to be carried out. Mr T and Ms T say between March and Autumn 2020 
progress was delayed as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. 
In early 2021, a third representative from G visited the property ahead of works that were 
due to start in May. There was then some dispute about the works that needed to be carried 
out. Mr T and Ms T were unhappy, they said there had been an inconsistency in case 
handlers that was having a detrimental impact on the progress of repairs. Mr T and Ms T 
raised a complaint covering a number of issues including conflicting information they said 
theyd been given on a number of issues, stress over finding suitable alternative 
accommodation, confusion around the timing of the works and the overall impact this claim 
had on them, including their health and ability to work. 
Admiral responded to the complaint in August 2021. It upheld some of their complaints, 
acknowledging there had been times when Mr T and Ms T were given conflicting or unclear 
information. Admiral offered compensation of £1,000, and with simple interest to cover some 
of the costs theyd incurred. Mr T and Ms T said this wasnt sufficient and referred their 
complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators considered what happened and said she didnt think Admiral 
needed to do anything more to put things right. As Mr T and Ms T didnt agree, this matter 
has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There have been multiple issues raised throughout this complaint. I dont intend on 
commenting on them individually in this decision. Instead, Ill focus on the issues I consider 
are key to reaching a fair and reasonable outcome. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to 
either side, rather it reflects the informal nature of this service and my role within it.
I can only consider Admirals handling of the claim up to the date of the final response letter. 
This means I havent considered if Admirals more recent refund of costs Mr T says he 
incurred is fair, or if any payment Admiral has made in respect of loss of earnings is fair. If 
Mr T and Ms T remain unhappy with any part of Admirals handling of the claim after the final 
response letter was issued in August 2021, then they can raise these concerns as a new 
complaint.
Ill turn now to the crux of this complaint, which is the impact Admirals (and its 
representatives) handling of Mr T and Ms Ts claim had on them. And this also seems an 
appropriate point for me to acknowledge Admiral accepts its handling of the claim fell below 
the standard it considers acceptable. Therefore, what I need to decide is if the compensation 
offered by Admiral is fair and reasonable in the circumstance. In reaching my decision, Ive 
summarised Mr T and Ms Ts key concerns under the headings below. 
Inconsistent information given by Admirals agents
Admiral accepts during the life of the claim, there were many times where Mr T and Ms T 
were given the wrong information. Key examples include the second surveyor from G telling 
Mr T and Ms T their policy provided a contribution of 50% towards any kitchen units that 
were undamaged by the subsidence. This was incorrect, their policy didnt provide this.
There were also further discrepancies about what Mr and Mrs T say they were told about the 
render at the back of the house, and whether this needed replacing. Theyve talked about 
how they were given assurances that particular pieces of correspondence would be provided 
to them (such as the schedule of works) or meetings would be arranged, only for these not 
to happen.
I appreciate Admiral says it has looked into these issues and Gs agents have said their view 
of what happened contradicted the account given by Mr T and Ms T. I dont intend to test 
every piece of information that Mr and Mrs T say they were given. Its sometimes the nature 
with insurance claims  particularly with subsidence ones as their nature means they tend to 
be long running  that theres lots of information to process. But it is important the insurer 
communicates with the policyholder in a clear and effective way. This didnt happen in Mr T 
and Ms Ts experience. There is clear acknowledgement and acceptance Admirals handling 
of these issues caused Mr T and Ms T avoidable worry, inconvenience and upset. 
Was the claim resolved properly and costs reimbursed?  
At the point the final response letter was sent, the repairs were in progress. In their 
complaint form, Mr T and Ms T say Admiral was intending to make repairs to their home but 
wasnt intending to take preventative measures to stop the subsidence from happening 
again. Theres a balance to be maintained here. We would generally expect an insurer to 
carry out a lasting and effective repair, however this doesnt mean it is required to entirely 
pre-empt an insured event happening in the future. While the handling of the claim fell below 
the standard Id expect, I havent seen anything which implied the repairs Admiral was 
carrying out were not going to be a lasting and effective repair. So, up to the point I am able 
to consider, it seems the repairs were the required ones to put right the damage caused by 
the subsidence. 
Mr T and Ms T had referenced a number of costs theyd incurred they considered to be 
avoidable. A significant number of these came from Mr T needing to replace a number of 
personal possessions that were wrongly taken by the removal company when Mr T and Ms 
T were preparing to move into alternative accommodation. There were further costs, like the 
postal redirection and travelling costs they then incurred. The travelling costs were both to 
return to their house and to collect items wrongly taken by the removal company. 
 At the point of the final response letter, Admiral said it would consider these costs if they 
could be evidenced. Im satisfied this was a reasonable response. Mr T has provided some 
invoices, and these have been passed to Admiral. As this happened after the final response 
letter was issued, Im not going to make a finding on whether these payments were fair.
There is also the issue of loss of earnings, which both Mr T and Ms T say was directly 
caused by the impact and stress of Admirals handling of their claim. I absolutely accept this 
matter was stressful and impacted them. And I also accept what Mr T specifically has said 
about the difficulty in evidencing a loss of income given the nature of the work he says he 
was due to undertake. 
I note since the final response letter was issued Admiral has subsequently offered to 
consider this issue if its provided with additional information to support this part of Mr and 
Mrs Ts claim. With this in mind, Ill leave it for Mr T and Ms T to decide if they want to 
approach Admiral with this information. However, I cannot require Admiral to make a 
payment when it hasnt seen any direct evidence its poor handling of the claim (not the fact 
the claim needed to be made) was the direct reason their income was impacted. Im not 
going to ask it to make a payment in respect of the costs Mr T and Ms T say theyve incurred 
in response to this complaint. 
Delays 
Its clear there were delays in the handling of this claim. Some of which both sides 
acknowledge were beyond anyones control. It seems both sides agree the decision to halt 
the claim between April and October 2020 as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic was 
appropriate in the circumstances, so I havent considered this timeframe when looking at 
other delays.
However, outside of that period, there were delays in the progress of this claim. The timing 
of this case indicated there seemed to be little progress between early 2019 and spring 
2020. Mr T and Ms T had been promised a copy of the schedule of works and this took 
several weeks to be provided. An explanation for this delay hasnt been provided. 
It then seems that there were various points between late 2020 and May 2021 where things 
could and should have progressed at a speed that reflected the long running nature of the 
claim. Again, Admiral hasnt provided a justification for the delay here. Rather its 
acknowledged the pace should have been faster and has apologised and factored these 
delays in the compensation it awarded in August 2021. Ill go on to decide if the 
compensation is a fair reflection of this on Mr T and Ms T. 
I acknowledge there were further delays in May and June 2021, when the stripping out work 
identified further damage. I can see that, at this point, further delays would have been hugely 
frustrating for Mr T and Ms T, given the challenges of getting to this point. I understand they 
were particularly concerned by what they say they were told by the contractor about their 
availability and needing to move onto other jobs. But I havent seen anything that suggests 
to me the further damage could have been identified sooner. 
Communication
The communication around the claim seems to be the key concern for Mr T and Ms T. They 
say a lack of clear and consistent communication made the process significantly more 
challenging. And I can see some of their concerns have been accepted by Admiral. Apart 
from the conflicting information about what might be covered under their claim, a key 
concern was the alternative accommodation. Mr T and Ms T had some specific needs that 
needed to be catered for which made finding alternative accommodation more challenging. And, when they were approaching the end of the first period of booked accommodation, it 
doesnt seem Admiral communicated well with them about what would happen next. Given 
their requirements had already limited their options, combined with travel restrictions lifting, I 
can see why Mr T and Ms T were so concerned. I dont consider Admiral fully understood 
their concerns at the time, even though they were valid. 
Impact on Mr & Ms T
In considering the impact on Mr T and Ms T, Ive had to decide if the £1,000 compensation 
offered by Admiral is a fair and reasonable resolution to their complaint. And Im sorry to 
disappoint Mr T and Ms T, but I think it is. Its clear the stress caused by Admiral has gone 
beyond the level Mr T and Ms T might have experienced if they had made the claim and it 
had been handled better. I can see that Mr T and Ms T have mentioned not only the stress 
and worry theyve experienced, as well as the impact this matter had on their mental health. 
However, I think the payment of £1,000 offered does represent a fair and reasonable 
payment to reflect the impact this claim had on them. Im not going to require Admiral to 
increase this payment. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Ms T to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 September 2022.
 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman