DRN-3119891
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy that Quickly Finance Limited trading as Fast Track Reclaim (FTR) failed to 
pursue a payment protection insurance (PPI) claim which meant hes lost the opportunity to 
have his claim investigated.
  
What happened
In August 2019, Mr L instructed FTR to pursue a mis-sold PPI claim with one of his lenders 
Ill call S. Mr L said FTR told him that PPI hadnt been found and S had rejected his mis-
sold PPI claim. But he said he later discovered his claim was rejected by S because it had 
been submitted too late by FTR. Mr L complained to FTR.
FTR said that theyd submitted Mr Ls letter of authority (LoA) to S before the August 
deadline. FTR said that S had asked for further information. They said that S had applied 
a 12-week response time for Mr Ls claim to be considered. FTR said theyd submitted a 
letter of complaint (LoC) to S in December 2019 but S said it was too late for Mr Ls claim 
to be considered.
FTR offered to submit a data subject access request (DSAR) to S to establish whether Mr 
L would have received any compensation for his mis-sold claim. 
Mr L wasnt happy with FTRs response. He said hed lost faith in FTRs services and sent a 
DSAR direct to S himself. After S confirmed his mis-sold claim had been sent too late by 
FTR for S to consider his mis-sold PPI claim, he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator agreed that Mr L had suffered a loss of opportunity. She said FTR should 
pay Mr L £250 for this.
FTR didnt agree they said in line with other complaints a fair level of compensation for loss 
of opportunity was £150. They asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Its not in dispute that FTR failed to send S the further information theyd asked for within 
the timescale S had given to them. And by failing to do so, I think its clear Mr Ls claim was 
closed by S without the claim being fully investigated. So, Im satisfied that FTR have acted 
unfairly, and that Mr L should be compensated for this.
What is in dispute is the amount of compensation FTR should pay to put things right. FTR 
said £150 is a fair and reasonable offer. 
Mr Ls main dispute centres around the potential for his PPI claim with S to have been 
successful if FTR had provided S with the information they asked for. I can see from the 
records Mr L has received from S that the LoA he signed in August 2019 authorising FTR 
to act on his behalf to pursue a mis-sold PPI claim was submitted to S on 21 August 2019.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) deemed 29 August 2019 as the deadline for PPI 
claims to be made. Leading up to the August PPI deadline many claims management 
companies, such as FTR amended their terms and conditions in recognition of the expected high 
volume of claims. And reflected that lenders could investigate any claim based on a data subject 
request. Any further information such as that provided in a PPI questionnaire could be used to 
strengthen the claim that the PPI policy was mis-sold. So, for some lenders the submission of a 
LoA was accepted as a claim for mis-sold PPI and no further information was needed for them to 
investigate the mis-sold PPI claim. This is generally referred to as the claim being auto 
converted. But for others, like S they required  a wet signature and for a PPI questionnaire to 
be completed for them to investigate whether any PPI had been mis-sold. Any claim received 
after the 29 August 2019 deadline wouldnt have been accepted by the lender(s) unless there 
were exceptional circumstances for doing so.
When S received the LoA in August 2019 they accepted this as an enquiry and asked FTR as  
Mr Ls representative for additional information for them to investigate whether hed been mis-
sold PPI. From the records Mr L has given, this was 19 September 2019, and S allowed a 12-
week extended deadline for the information to be sent to them  12 December 2019.
From FTRs records Mr L was sent the PPI questionnaire in October 2019 and he returned it the 
same day  allowing enough time for FTR to submit the information to S. But FTR didnt send 
the LoC to S until after this date. S has shown the LoC was received 24 December 2019, and 
that they also considered the date of the letter  20 December 2019, but both dates were after 
the extended deadline S had set. So, Mr Ls mis-sold PPI complaint was deemed to be too late 
and so rejected by S.
Im unable to speculate on whether the claim would have been upheld as there are several 
factors that S would have had to consider. Mr L has said the loan was taken out several 
years ago and that he was making a monthly repayment. But I havent seen any evidence of 
his paying or not paying a PPI premium, so I cant know whether he would or wouldnt have 
received any redress. But I do agree that by FTR failing to send the information to S Mr L 
has lost the opportunity for his claim to be fully investigated. And I think FTR should 
compensate Mr L for this. 
Our investigator said FTR should compensate Mr L the sum of £250 for loss of opportunity, 
as this would be in line with our approach. And I think is fair and reasonable given that S 
hadnt rejected the enquiry made in August 2019 based on PPI not being found. Mr Ls claim 
wasnt investigated because FTR didnt return the information to S in time. Also, FTR told 
Mr L the wrong reason as to why S had rejected his claim. So, I think it would have been 
upsetting for Mr L when he found FTR hadnt submitted his LoC before the deadline date.
I know Mr L thinks FTR should reimburse him the compensation he could have received if 
his complaint had been fully investigated by S. But as I outlined above, I cant know if that 
claim would have been successful. 
 
  My final decision
I uphold this complaint and ask Quickly Finance Limited trading as Fast Track Reclaim to 
pay Mr L £250 for the trouble and upset caused by the loss of opportunity to have his mis-
sold PPI claim investigated.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman