DRN-2691186
The complaint
Miss A complains Lend Fair Ltd irresponsibly lent to her. She says the loans were 
unaffordable to her and Lend Fair wouldve seen this had it completed proportionate checks.  
What happened
Miss A was approved for the below loans by Lend Fair:
Loan Date Capital Amount Term Monthly 
Repayments 
One March 2015 £2,000 36 months £96 approx.
Two May 2916 £3,000 60 months £115 approx.
  
Miss A says she was experiencing financial difficulties at the point she applied for both 
loans. She says for loan one she had debts including rent arrears. She also says she was 
spending money on online gambling websites, which meant her outgoings were higher than 
she could afford.
I wrote to both parties setting out my provisional findings on this complaint. Those provision 
findings were:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable 
lending as well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good 
industry practice on our website. Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss As 
complaint. Bearing in mind the complaint before me, I think that there are a number 
of overarching questions I need to consider in order to fairly and reasonably 
determine Miss As complaint. These are:
1. Did Lend Fair complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Miss A at 
each lending decision stage to satisfy itself she was in a position to afford to 
repay the loan sustainably?
If so, did it make a fair decision?
If not, would those checks have shown Miss A would have been able to do 
so?
Lend Fair is aware that it is required to complete reasonable and proportionate 
checks before approving any credit to consumers. These checks assess Miss As 
ability to afford the loan and repay it sustainably over its term, without causing her 
financial difficulties. These checks are referred to as an affordability assessment or 
an affordability check.
There isnt a set list of checks a lender needs to carry out, but they should be 
proportionate, taking into account things like the type, amount, duration and total 
cost of the credit, as well as the borrowers individual circumstances.
And it isnt sufficient for Lend Fair to just complete proportionate checks  it 
must also consider the information it obtains from these checks to make a 
fair lending decision.
Did Lend Fair complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Miss A at each 
lending decision stage to satisfy itself she was in a position to afford to repay the 
loan sustainably?
Loan one
Loan one was taken out in March 2015 and was for a capital amount of £2,000. 
Miss A says at the time of this application she was experiencing financial 
difficulties, was in arrears with debts such as her rent, and was gambling.
Lend Fair says it completed proportionate checks in this instance. It says it 
completed a detailed income assessment, which included asking for copies of Miss 
As payslips and bank statements. It says it also asked detailed questions about her 
expenses and checked for things like CCJs. Lend Fair says these checks showed 
Miss A could afford the loan, and that there was no adverse information which 
suggested Miss A was experiencing financial difficulties at the time of the loan. It 
says as the checks covered Miss As main financial commitments that the checks 
were proportionate, and as it showed the loan was affordable it lent responsibly.
Having reviewed the information which has been provided so far, Im 
minded to say I disagree with Lend Fair that it completed proportionate 
checks.
As Ive mentioned above Lend Fair is required to carefully consider the 
information it gets; not just complete checks. In this instance whilst Lend Fair 
have sought to verify Miss As income and benefits through payslips and bank 
statements; I think there is sufficient information to warrant further checks.
I say this because the statements which were provided at the time show regular 
transfers to and from a further account of Miss As. The frequency of these 
transfers is highly unusual with multiple transactions being completed on a single 
day. This occurs regularly throughout the whole of the span of these statements.
The amounts also vary significantly with each transaction. There are some for 
£10, and others for £125. In one day, Miss A transfers over £250 to the account 
via varying amounts and at different intervals.
In addition to this the bank statements show that Miss A is using this second 
account to help balance the amounts on this account. There are numerous times 
when Miss As balance drops to £0.09. This is then shortly followed by a transfer of 
money from her second account into this one.
This pattern which is so consistent across the statements provided suggests 
someone who is managing their finances in an irregular way (and certainly across 
two accounts) and shouldve warranted Lend Fair to ask further questions about 
this.It follows that Im satisfied it shouldve completed further checks to verify Miss As 
account. And as it didnt do this, Im satisfied it didnt complete proportionate 
checks.
Would further checks have shown Miss A was in a position to repay this loan 
sustainably?
Miss A has provided our service with copies of statements from her second 
account. And Ive used this information to help me decide whether any further 
checks Lend Fair wouldve done wouldve still resulted in it lending to Miss A.
Having done so, Im not satisfied it would have. The statements from the second 
account show the numerous transactions which have been sent to and from Miss 
As first account. They also show significant and frequent deposits to online 
gambling websites throughout the whole period leading up to the loan application. 
The statements show that Miss A is gambling large amounts often over a hundred 
pounds at a time and is managing her finances to a tight if not negative margin.
They also show that Miss A was making payments to debt collectors and debt 
managers. This is consistent with her testimony that at the time of applying for the 
loans she was in arrears on payments such as her rent. The statements dont 
demonstrate someone who was in a sufficient financial position to be taking on 
more outgoings or increasing their overall level of debt.
Based on this information Im satisfied that Miss A wasnt in a position to meet any 
payments sustainably; and that she was using her income to fund payments to 
online gambling. As it is likely Miss A would be unable to meet the payments 
without incurring further financial hardship; it follows that I dont think Lend Fair 
have made a fair decision to lend. Im satisfied that Lend Fair wouldve come to this 
conclusion too had it completed proportionate checks.
Loan two
Loan two was taken out in May 2016, and was for a total capital amount of £3,000. 
The term of the loan increased to 60 months, along with repayments of 
approximately £115 per month.
Lend Fair has said it completed similar checks for Miss A at the application 
stage for loan two. It says the purpose of this loan was to purchase a car; and 
that it conducted a similar detailed affordability assessment on Miss A.
Lend Fair says Miss A was working full time and her salary had increased; and 
that her expenses had remained the same. So it says the checks were 
proportionate. It says as the checks showed Miss A could afford the loan that its 
decision to lend was fair.
Ive already explained why Im not persuaded proportionate checks were 
completed on loan one, and for the same reasons Im not persuaded they were for 
loan two either. And it also follows that as Miss A could not afford loan one; and 
her circumstances hadnt changed significantly since this time; that she couldnt 
afford loan two either.Lend Fair oughtve been aware that Miss A had been spending a significant amount 
of her money on gambling; and that she was not making her existing loan 
repayments in a sustainable way. As the lending relationship continues between 
borrowers and lenders, we expect the lenders to have a better understanding of 
their consumers circumstances. In this instance there was already sufficient 
information from the first loan to suggest Miss A finances were not suitable; and as 
such any further lending shouldve prompted more extensive checks. Lend Fair 
didnt do this; it instead did the same level of checks.
Im satisfied that had it conducted further checks it wouldve realised Miss As 
circumstances had not changed significantly between loan one and loan two to 
warrant the increase in debt that Lend Fair was approving. Miss As outgoings were 
still being spent on online websites; and she was managing her finances to a very 
tight if not negative margin.
The fact she was taking out loan two for a car purchase; also meant she was 
increasing her overall level of debt further. And as she was not managing her 
existing commitments well; and using the credit she did have to fund her online 
gambling; it follows that any further increasing of her credit would be unaffordable 
to her. As such Im currently minded to say that loan two should not have been 
approved either.
I asked both parties to respond to my provisional decision with any further information they 
wished me to consider. Miss A responded agreeing with the outcome. Lend Fair has not 
responded within the relevant time frame.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive received no new information from either party, Im satisfied my provisional findings 
should remain the same. That is to say that Im satisfied Miss As complaint should be 
upheld.
This is for the reasons set out in my provisional decision; but namely that in relation to loan 
one Lend Fair shouldve completed further checks on Miss A in order for them to be 
proportionate. Had it done this, Lend Fair wouldve reasonably seen that Miss A was not in a 
position to meet these repayments sustainably. And as such its decision to lend was 
unreasonable. Following on from this, in relation to loan two, Im satisfied Lend Fair also did 
not complete proportionate checks. And again, had it done so it ought reasonably have 
concluded Miss A income was not sufficient to meet any increase in outgoings, and thereby 
making any further lending unaffordable to her.  
Putting things right
In order to put things right I require Lend Fair Ltd to:
To add up the total amount of money Miss A received as a result of having been 
given these loans. The repayments Miss A made should be deducted from this 
amount.
a) If this results in Miss A having paid more than she received, then any 
overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated from the date the overpayments were made until the date 
of settlement),*
b) If any capital balance remains outstanding, then Lend Fair Ltd should 
attempt to arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Miss A.
To remove any negative information recorded on Miss As credit file regarding these 
loans.
 *HM revenue & Customs requires Lend Fair Ltd to take off tax from this interest. Lend Fair 
Ltd must give Miss A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Lend Fair Ltd.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 January 2022.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman