DRN-2384671
The complaint
Mr M complains that Covea Insurance plc wrongly declined his insurance claim.
Its clear that some parts of Mr Ms claim were handled by agents acting on Coveas behalf, 
so for clarity, any references to Covea include its agents.
What happened
After a windy and rainy night, Mr M discovered water coming through the ceiling in his spare 
bedroom. As well as damaging the ceiling, the water had soaked his mattress and some 
clothes. He rang Covea to make a claim - they agreed to send a surveyor to assess the 
damage.
Coveas surveyor visited Mr M a couple of days later. The surveyor said that the leak had 
been going on for some time, because there were signs of water staining and the timbers 
above the ceiling were black. The surveyor said that Mr Ms claim would be declined 
because the damage had happened gradually, and that it wasnt storm damage. 
Mr M employed someone to fix the leak  he said that the roof stopped leaking as soon as 
the tradesman fixed two tiles that had moved. He complained to Covea that their surveyor 
had got it wrong. But Covea responded to Mr Ms complaint saying that their decision to 
decline his claim was correct. They said that, for a claim for storm damage to be accepted, it 
must be shown that there is physical damage to the building which is the result of a single 
extreme weather event, with the extreme weather being the dominant factor in causing the 
damage. They said that ingress of water without storm conditions highlights the need for 
maintenance work to the roof or to the property in general, and that this isnt covered by the 
policy.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. He thought it was most likely that the 
damage that allowed the water to come in had happened over time due to wear and tear, so 
his policy wouldnt cover the resulting damage to his building or contents. The investigator 
was also satisfied that the policy didnt cover the work done by Mr Ms tradesman to find the 
cause of the leak. He said that the trace and access section of the policy only applied to 
leaks inside the home, and that it wouldnt cover damage caused by rain coming in from 
outside. 
Mr M didnt accept that the damage had been caused over a long period of time. He also 
thought his policy should cover the investigation into where the leak was coming from. He 
said that he hadnt known what the problem was until the tradesman took things apart to 
investigate, and that the leak couldve been coming from a burst pipe above the ceiling. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Insurers arent required to cover every eventuality  theyre entitled to set out what cover 
theyre prepared to offer. For Mr M to make a successful claim, he must show that damage 
was caused to his property by an event thats covered by the policy. Ive read Mr Ms policy 
in detail and considered whether any of the different types of cover it provides would apply in 
this case.
 
Storm damage
The policy provides cover for damage to buildings and contents caused by a storm. When 
Mr M first contacted Covea and described what had happened, their representative checked 
the weather reports. He advised Mr M that, although thered been high winds and moderate 
rainfall, it wasnt what theyd classify as storm conditions. He warned Mr M that this was 
possibly a wear and tear issue.
Ive reviewed the weather reports for the date the damage happened. Although there was 
some rain and a breeze that day, Im not persuaded that this could be considered a storm. 
As Im satisfied that there was no storm that day, it follows that I dont find Covea to have 
done anything wrong by declining this as a claim for storm damage.
 
Accidental damage
Mr Ms policy covers accidental damage to his buildings and contents. But the policy makes 
it clear that this doesnt include damage that happens gradually. Accidental damage is 
defined as: 
Sudden, unintentional and unexpected physical damage caused by an identifiable 
external means.
I can understand why Mr M feels that this was sudden damage, because his ceiling was fine 
when he went to bed and had a hole in it the next morning. Weather reports confirm that 
there was wind and rain on the day the damage happened, but a properly maintained roof 
would reasonably be expected to withstand this. And Ive seen no evidence of anything else 
suddenly falling on, hitting, or otherwise affecting Mr Ms roof tiles.
 
I accept that the movement of the tiles and collapse of the ceiling may have been sudden. 
But Coveas surveyor highlighted pre-existing damage in the area that had leaked, and 
concluded that the tiles had moved due to underlying deterioration of the roof that had 
occurred gradually. In the absence of any evidence of any other reason for the movement of 
the tiles, Im satisfied that it was fair and reasonable for Covea to rely on their surveyors 
conclusion.
 
Escape of water
Mr Ms policy provides cover for damage to buildings caused by an escape of water and 
the reasonable cost of tracing where its coming from, up to a maximum of £5,000. Escape 
of water is defined as:
Water that has entered the boundaries of your property by the mains water supply 
and has, at some point on its journey within your home, escaped from the pipe, tank 
or appliance that it was in and caused damage to your home.
Ive listened carefully to what Mr M said to Covea when he first rang to make a claim. He 
said that thered been wind and rain the night before. He said that hed had his binoculars 
out, and that he thought the water was coming in at the edge of the roof because there was 
a hole where a tile had dropped. Im satisfied that, even before the leak was investigated by Mr Ms tradesman, the 
evidence strongly indicated that the water was coming in from outside. Covea dont offer 
cover for the cost of tracing rainwater leaks, so I wouldnt expect them to pay for this.
Having reviewed the cover provided by Mr Ms policy in detail, Im satisfied that the 
damage wasnt something that was covered by his insurance policy. For completeness 
Ive also reviewed the general exceptions set out in section 14 of the policy. This section 
makes it clear that Covea will not pay for loss or damage arising from wear and tear or 
damage that happens gradually over time, and that they will not cover the cost of general 
roof maintenance. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained here, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2021.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman