DRN-3119855
The complaint
Mrs H has complained that Covea Insurance plc wont cover the full costs to replace the 
exhaust on her car as it says it puts Mrs H in a position of betterment. Mrs H made a claim 
under her car insurance policy for damage caused to her car by a third party. 
What happened
Mrs Hs car was shunted by a third party while parked. Covea arranged for Mrs Hs car to be 
repaired by an approved repairer. 
Mrs H said that her car was making a noise which it didnt make before the incident. The 
approved repairer said there was extensive corrosion to the underside and exterior exhaust 
of Mrs Hs car. Covea accepted cover for the damaged exhaust in part. But it said that 
existing corrosion to the exhaust contributed to it splitting and requiring replacement. 
In line with Coveas policy, it asked Mrs H to contribute toward the replacement of the 
exhaust. Covea gave Mrs H the option for it to pay 50% of the costs for a preferred garage to 
carry out the repairs instead.
Mrs H didnt agree this was fair. She said shed brought her car to three different garages 
and they all told her the corrosion to the exhaust wouldnt have made a difference to the split 
caused on impact. 
Covea instructed an independent engineer to provide an assessment of the exhaust damage 
to Mrs Hs car using the photographs provided by the approved repairer. They agreed with 
Coveas approach. So Covea didnt uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
Mrs H asked us to look at her complaint. Our investigator initially considered what Mrs H 
said other garages had told her. She thought Covea should cover the costs of the repairs in 
full. 
Covea didnt agree. It said it wasnt fair to rely on what a garage had told Mrs H without 
being supported with any independent report. It said Mrs Hs car was 13 years old, the 
impact was light and therefore the exhaust shouldnt have split on impact if it was in an 
otherwise healthy condition. 
So the investigator asked Mrs H to provide an independent report from the garage(s) to 
confirm their opinion as to the cause of damage.
Mrs H told us she intended to provide a report, but we havent received one. Based on the 
information available, the investigator issued a second view and didnt recommend the 
complaint should be upheld. She thought Covea had provided enough evidence to support 
its decision. 
Mrs H doesnt agree. In summary she says that Covea has unfairly applied the betterment 
term as the term isnt explained clearly enough under the policy. She believe its decision 
was subjective and Covea hasnt provided a detailed enough explanation of how it decided 
Mrs H should contribute 50% toward the costs. Mrs H says the other party was at fault so 
she doesnt understand why the third party insurer isnt responsible for the repair costs in 
full. She doesnt believe Covea has treated her fairly. 
So Mrs H wants an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Hs policy with Covea says in the event of repairs:
What we can cover you for:
We will insure you against loss of or damage to your car caused by:
accidental or malicious damage; fire; or theft or attempted theft.
We can choose to use parts or accessories which arent supplied by your car 
manufacturer but are of a similar type and quality to the parts and accessories we are 
replacing.
If the repairs improve the condition of your car, we can ask you to pay part of the 
repair cost.
I understand Mrs H believes this term isnt detailed enough as to how it will be applied. 
When considering a claim for damage to a vehicle, we think its reasonable for an insurer to 
rely on the professional expert opinion of a suitably qualified engineer. Their opinion is a 
form of independent evidence and supported with photos of the damage.
I understand Mrs H believes Covea should provide a more comprehensive of list of when 
and how much a customer would be expected to pay in cases of betterment to show its been 
applied fairly. I dont think its reasonable for an insurer to list all of the potential issues that 
may arise from damage to a vehicle in order to determine when betterment would apply  no 
two incidents or vehicles will be the same. 
Key comments from the independent engineer who assessed the condition and damage to 
the exhaust are:
From the images attached, I note that this vehicle has underside corrosion which 
has also been noted on the MOT advisories as above. This corrosion is also seen on 
the exhaust exterior. This vehicle is low mileage and over 13 years old and it is a fact 
that this scenario causes water to lay inside exhaust systems.
It is my opinion that, whilst the light impact may have slightly dislodged part of the 
catalytic converter, the exhaust system is not in good condition and it is normal for an 
insurer to ask for a betterment contribution for worn or corroded parts.
Where there is a dispute, we look at the available evidence. All insurers are expected to 
claim for incident related damage only from a third party insurer. As Ive said, I dont think it 
was unreasonable of Covea to rely on the professional opinion of the engineer in this case. I 
havent seen anything of equal weight to contradict the independent evidence provided by 
Covea. So I cant say that it reached its decision in an unreasonable way. 
It isnt unusual for a desktop assessment to be done  particularly where - as in this case  
there are several clear photos of the damage in question. I can see that the engineer 
forwarded the photos of Mrs Hs car to her via the broker in May 2021 following the 
assessment. Mrs H says she doesnt know if the pictures of the exhaust reviewed by the engineer were 
for her car. But I havent seen anything to suggest they arent. And I think Mrs H had the 
opportunity to provide further photos when she brought her car to other garages for a second 
opinion on the cause of damage if she was concerned that photos for a different car had 
been reviewed by the engineer. 
I understand Mrs H will be very disappointed with my decision. But I think Covea has treated 
her fairly, based on the information available to it. So I dont think it needs to pay the full 
costs to replace the exhaust. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman