DRN-3037846
The complaint
Mr M is complaining on behalf of his business, which Ill refer to as R. The complaint is that 
HSBC UK Bank Plc unfairly debited his account of £9,800 which hed received from the sale 
of a car to another HSBC customer, Mr A.
  
What happened
The facts of this case are well known to both parties and Ive discussed the details with the 
bank directly. And so I dont intend to set out an extensive background to the complaint here. 
In summary:
Mr M sold a car to Mr A in December 2020.
Mr A made an electronic transfer using his internet banking facility and the funds 
credited Mr Ms account the same day.
On receipt of the funds Mr M released the car to Mr A.
HSBC has said it thought the transaction Mr A had made was suspicious and so tried 
to contact him about it. The following day, after two unsuccessful attempts to reach 
Mr A, HSBC took the decision to reverse the payment and debited Mr Ms account in 
favor of crediting Mr As. It didnt attempt contact Mr M to discuss the payment.
HSBC heard from Mr A later the same day and discussed the payment with him. He 
said he wasnt sure if hed auhtorised it or not and he would follow up with the bank.
HSBC didnt hear from Mr A again for another seven days at which point he said he 
had auhtorised the payment, but had intended to make it from a different account. By 
this time, Mr M had already flagged the payment to the bank, questioning what had 
happened and reporting a fraudulent claim on the funds.
The bank froze Mr As account whilst it investigated the report of fraud. It asked Mr M 
for evidence about what had happened. It didnt speak with Mr A again for another 
two weeks. His story about the payment, by this time, was becoming more 
fragmented and contradictory. Something the bank recognised. HSBC could see that 
Mr A was trying to manipulate the bank in order to end up in a position where he had 
both the car and the money. This is recorded in the banks notes.
Mr M was able to evidence that he had legitimately sold a car to Mr A and that he 
was in possession of it. He provided evidence to show that Mr A had expressed 
some dissatisfaction with the car, but there was no suggestion of fraud having taken 
place. 
Over a month later the bank lifted the restrictions on Mr As account and allowed him 
to remove the £9,800 from his account.
Mr M was left without the car and without the funds hed received from Mr A in 
payment for it.
Ive discussed the case with the bank, as has one of our investigators. I told the bank that I 
believed the complaint should be upheld as I didnt find it had acted fairly and reasonably in 
the circumstances.
The bank disagreed. It said it had acted in line with the terms and conditions of Mr Ms 
account. It referred to the following: 
We can refuse to accept it or remove it without asking you if we suspect any payment into 
your account was made by fraud.
It didnt consider its handling of the query following the removal of the funds from Mr Ms 
account was relevant or that it had done anything wrong.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding it. Ill explain why.
It is true that the term HSBC has referred to is contained within Mr Ms account terms and 
conditions. But its not the case that the presence of a term means it is always fairly and 
reasonably relied on. HSBC hasnt persuasively shown how it fairly and reasonably 
established that the payment was made as a result of fraud or how it reasonably expected 
that was the case. There had been no report of fraud from Mr A and the bank hasnt 
presented any evidence to suggest it was concerned about how Mr Ms account was being 
run. 
It is right that the bank ought to be on the look out for out of character and unusual 
transactions. And it ought to take steps to protect its customers. If the bank had concerns 
about the payment because it was unusual and suspicious for Mr A (as it has said) then it 
ought to have stopped the payment from being made. In allowing it to be processed, and 
waiting almost a full business day before reversing it, its created the situation where Mr M 
was left without the car or the money. Its worth noting that, at this time, it seems Mr A had 
expressed little to no dissatisfaction with the car. And the loss to Mr M was reasonably 
foreseeable at this point.
If HSBC was not able to contact Mr A then I cannot see why it wouldnt have frozen the 
funds in Mr Ms account. It could then have awaited contact from Mr A and it could also have 
spoken to Mr M about proof of entitlement to the funds. I believe this would have been a fair 
and reasonable course of action in the circumstances.  
Even when the bank did speak to Mr A he didnt actually say the payment was unauthorised 
or otherwise fraudulent. He only said he was unsure, which in of itself seems strange; that 
Mr A wouldnt know if hed made a payment of £9,800 when that wasnt a regular transaction 
for him. There is no mention of a scam at all, Mr A only says he needs to check if he actually 
made the payment or not. The bank would have been able to quickly establish that it was 
very likely he did, considering it was made through his mobile banking and the authentication 
and authorisation process required to make such a payment. Why the bank didnt ask any 
questions about a potential scam at that point, if thats what it suspected, is unclear and in 
my view a further error on its part. This detail does come out in later conversations with him. 
I further note that the bank has recorded the payment as being reversed under error rather 
than suspected fraud. Its possible it has limited definitions for recording such a reversal, 
though it would seem strange not to have a specific definition for fraud. 
And the banks letter to Mr A erroneously says that the payment was stopped form leaving 
his account. But that also doesnt seem to be true; it had already credited Mr Ms account. 
And this further suggests mistakes on the banks part.
However, this isnt my only reason for upholding Mr Ms complaint. I believe the bank has 
made an error in the actions it took after reversing the payments too.The evidence shows that the bank realised something wasnt right when it spoke to Mr A. 
Thats evidenced by the fact it froze his account and required details about the transaction. 
By this time it had heard from Mr M and he had supplied clear evidence that the payment 
from Mr As account wasnt fraudulent in any way. Mr M in fact raised the issue as a claim of 
fraud himself.
I can see Mr A had even gone on to tell the bank that the payment hadnt been an 
unauthorised one. He instead said hed meant to send it from a different account, which 
seems (and ought to have seemed at the time) highly disingenuous. Its also not a valid 
reason for the payment to have been reversed. Mr A seems to change his version of events 
as time goes on. 
The bank appears to have been so concerned about what it was being told by Mr A that it 
required him to attend a face to face appointment in branch before proceeding any further. 
And it did then contact Mr A about providing proof of entitlement to the funds as well as 
blocking the account. But theres little to no evidence to suggest HSBC questioned or 
challenged Mr A on these issues or why he was expecting the funds to be credited back to 
his account or why he thought he was entitled to the funds.
By 24 December 2020 the bank clearly suspected that Mr A was trying to unjustly keep both 
the funds and the car he had bought. That is confirmed in its investigation notes. And Mr M 
had provided clear and persuasive evidence to show what was happening and that there 
had been a legitimate sale.
Mr As contact with the bank thereafter only further reinforces that there had been no fraud 
or scam involved in his sending of the money. And it also appears the bank thought it 
unlikely hed made a mistake in sending it either. The proof of entitlement to the funds that 
the bank asked for was never provided.
Further notes from the bank, made on 25 January 2021 state the following:
Mr As account needs to remain inhibited and funds to be moved to Mr Ms as he was not 
paid for the car
Mr A provides no further persuasive evidence that he has been the victim of fraud or a scam. 
Nor does he claim thats what had happened. The bank seems to still have a very clear idea 
of the actual events. And yet it decided to allow Mr A full access to the funds in 
February 2021. 
Im satisfied that it is the actions of the bank that have led to the position where Mr M has 
lost out. I accept the bank cant force Mr A to pay Mr M. And I also accept that Mr M may 
have a civil dispute claim against Mr A. But he simply shouldnt be in the position he is now, 
where the bank has acted as if a scam had taken place when there was little to no evidence 
to suggest one had. 
HSBC has argued that it has only tried to protect its customer from fraud and that had Mr A 
actually been the victim of fraud then this service would have said it had acted correctly. 
That may all be true, but the fact is that it has not given Mr M the same protection and Mr A 
was not the victim of fraud.
The funds had been identified by the bank as a fraudulent credit to Mr As account. And so 
when the bank says there was nothing it could do, its unclear to me why it says it can 
reverse a credit from one account  when there is no evidence of fraud  but cannot do so 
for another when there is evidence of dishonest intent, and no evidence of entitlement to the 
funds. The bank has said it had no authority to re-debit the account. But arguably the original 
authority had never been revoked, given what Mr A was saying about the payment; he 
wasnt claiming it as unauthorised. And its unclear if the bank is arguing here that there 
would be no way of recovering fraudulent funds from a customer like Mr A. If that is the 
argument being made, that would appear to be a position that would not stand up to scrutiny.With all that in mind, HSBC ought now compensate Mr M for his loss.  
Putting things right
compensate Mr Ms loss by paying him £9,800
pay Mr M interest on the £9,800 calculated at 8% simple from 16 December 2020 to 
the date of settlement
 pay £250 in compensation for the inconvenience caused to Mr M and his business 
given the need to seek lending elsewhere and the disruption to normal operations.    
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Plc.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2021.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman