DRN-3150607
The complaint
Miss R complains about how Aviva Insurance Limited handled a claim made on her motor 
insurance policy. Miss R is represented in this matter by her relative, Mr C. 
What happened
Miss R was involved in a collision with another driver. She had the details of independent 
witnesses and Aviva initially thought she wasnt at fault. Miss R was unhappy with the level 
of service she received. She said it took her three days to report the claim, she was kept on 
hold for long periods, there were delays in progressing the claim and contacting the 
witnesses, and she had trouble getting a courtesy car. Miss R is also unhappy that she has 
been told the claim may be settled as 50/50 split liability. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He explained that 
some of Miss Rs concerns were about the broker, rather than Aviva. He thought Avivas 
level of service had been reasonable. He thought it had progressed the claim reasonably 
and couldnt force the other insurer to accept liability. He thought Aviva could have warned 
Miss R that she would need a cover note for her courtesy car. But he thought this hadnt 
caused delays. 
Mr C asked for an ombudsmans review, so the complaint has come to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C has raised a number of concerns about Miss Rs experience as a young driver with her 
first motor insurance policy. I can understand that the number of businesses involved can be 
confusing. And I can see how Mr C thinks this has caused a lack of transparency and 
openness. But I cant consider that here as Im not the regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). And I cant tell Aviva to change its processes. 
And, as our investigator has explained, under the FCAs rules I can only consider here the 
actions of Aviva, the insurer, not the broker as it is a separate business. Miss R has raised a 
separate complaint against the broker and her concerns about the sale of her policy are 
addressed there. 
Ive looked at the experience that Miss R had in making her claim and then her claim journey 
up until Aviva provided its response to her complaint. This was four months after the 
accident. If Miss R has any further concerns after that point, she will need to raise these 
firstly with Aviva to give it a chance to respond. 
I can see that she said there was a delay at the outset as it took Miss R three days to get 
through on the phone to make her claim. But I think she was directed to the broker to raise 
her claim in the first instance, so I cant reasonably hold Aviva responsible for this initial 
delay. 
Miss R was then transferred to Aviva and it told Miss R that, based on her description of 
events, this would be a non-fault claim. But the other insurer disputed liability and so Aviva 
had to defend the claim. I can see that it made attempts to contact the independent 
witnesses using the details provided by Miss R. But I cant see that they responded, and 
Aviva cant compel them to co-operate. Aviva was still awaiting the allegations from the other 
insurer. And so it was unclear how the dispute would be resolved as neither side accepted 
liability in full. 
When liability was disputed, Aviva said Miss R would have to pay her £500 policy excess 
after her repairs were completed. The excess is an uninsured loss and is always the first part 
of a claim to be paid. It can be recovered, usually by the consumer but sometimes by an 
insurer, following settlement of the claim as non-fault. I can see that the policy excesses are 
explained on page 16 of the policy booklet:
If your car is lost, stolen or damaged the excess shown on your schedule must be paid, no 
matter how the loss or damage happened. The excess shown below will apply as well as 
any other excess for damage claims, while the person driving your car is: 
Excess amount 
aged 20 or under £300 
aged 21 to 24 £200
The policy excess was £200, and Miss R was under 21 at the time of the accident, so I think 
she was correctly asked to pay an excess of £500.
Mr C was also unhappy that there was a delay in providing Miss R with a courtesy car. I can 
see that Miss Rs car was driveable following the accident, so she wasnt without transport. 
When her car was taken for repairs, she was entitled to a courtesy car. And I can see there 
was an initial delay as the hire company couldnt make contact with Miss R and Mr C then 
didnt have authority to represent her.
The hire company then wanted a cover note because of Miss Rs age. This is standard 
practice and I think Aviva should have warned Miss R about this and sorted it out for her. But 
it was resolved on the same day after calls to the broker. So I think Aviva did what it could to 
restore Miss Rs position promptly. From what I can see, she was provided with a courtesy 
car whilst her car was being repaired. 
Aviva warned Miss R that the claim may be settled as 50/50 split liability if neither insurer 
would accept liability. I think thats standard industry practice when a liability dispute cant be 
resolved. 
The investigator has already explained that it isnt our role to decide who was responsible for 
causing the accident. This is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this 
nature is simply to investigate how the insurer made the decision to settle the claim. Did it 
act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy? And has it 
treated Miss R the same as someone else in her position. 
I can see that, under the policys General Conditions, Aviva is entitled to take over, defend, 
or settle a claim as it  sees fit. Miss R has to follow its advice in connection with the 
settlement of her claim, whether she agrees with the outcome or not. This is a common term 
in motor insurance policies, and I dont find it unusual. Insurers are entitled to take a 
commercial decision about whether it is reasonable to contest a third party claim or better to 
compromise.
I can see that Aviva told Miss R that it was waiting to see the other insurers allegation and 
evidence and it was pursuing her witnesses. So I think it was doing all it reasonably could to 
resolve the matter at that stage. And I think it was managing Miss Rs expectations by telling 
her the claim may be settled as split liability. I think all claims involve some level of frustration and inconvenience. But, from looking at the 
evidence provided, I think Aviva reasonably progressed Miss Rs claim and responded to her 
concerns. So I cant say that it treated Miss R unfairly or unreasonably.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 December 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman