DRN-3376577
The complaint
Mrs W complains that HDI Global Specialty SE unfairly rejected her home insurance claim
for damaged drain pipes.
What happened
Mrs W purchased a property and arranged insurance with HDI to cover it. A week after
moving in, Mrs W found problems with the drains and paid a company to unblock them. This
ultimately proved to be unsuccessful so Mrs W contacted her home insurers to see if she
could claim for the problem.
HDI arranged for another drainage company to inspect the problem and they carried out a
CCTV survey. They found root ingress as well as drainage rods in the pipes. They removed
the drainage rods but said the root ingress damage would have happened before cover was
in place, given issues were noticed within a week of the policy start date.
Mrs W didnt think that was fair. She said they hadnt had the drains surveyed before moving
in and therefore had no idea there could already have been a problem with them. As it had
only been discovered after the policy started, she felt it was only fair for the repair costs to be
covered. Mrs W also said she shouldnt have been charged for work done by HDIs
contractor.
HDI maintained their position that the damage occurred prior to the policy start date and so
said the claim was rightly turned down. Dissatisfied with that, Mrs W came to our service.
An investigator here looked into the matter and said that while damage may have begun
prior to the policy start date, it had continued beyond that point  and so should be covered.
The investigator also said HDI should refund the fee that Mrs W was charged because that
was incurred as part of normal claim investigation costs.
HDI agreed to refund the fee, but maintained the claim wasnt covered due to the damage
having occurred prior to the policy start date. Agreement couldnt be reached, so the matter 
was passed to me to decide. I explained the following because I had reached a different 
conclusion from the investigator:
Mrs Ws policy provides cover for accidental damage to drains, pipes and cables serving 
her home, and for which she is legally responsible. But it also says:
The insurer provides your insurance and has agreed to insure you subject to the terms,
conditions and exclusions contained within this policy booklet. They cover you for liability,
loss or damage that may occur during the period of insurance that youve paid or agreed to
pay the premium for.
This means that damage which occurred prior to the period of insurance isnt covered.
Bearing in mind the drainage issue was discovered within a week of moving in (which is
when the policy started), I need to consider whether I agree that the damage was likely done
before then.
Having considered the drainage companys report I think, on balance, it likely was caused
prior to the policy start date. The report describes root ingress in two areas and mass root
ingress in another. With this being something that happens gradually I dont think I can
reasonably conclude that it suddenly occurred just after Mrs W moved in. It seems more
likely to me that it would have started happening prior to that date.
I do appreciate why Mrs W finds this unfair. As explained, she didnt know about the damage
until after the policy started, and therefore wasnt trying to claim for something in bad faith.
But that doesnt mean its covered as we still need to have regard for the insurance terms
and conditions.
There may be some occasions where we say an insurer ought to cover something that their
customer wasnt aware of, but that is usually where the damage continues across two
policies. In this case, my view is that while the damage would likely worsen if not attended
to, the damage had effectively already been done.
The damage that would otherwise be covered is to the drains, as opposed to the build-up of
waste that followed. And I cant see that the build-up of waste is separately covered.
Overall, I think HDI were reasonable in saying the damage to the drains wasnt covered by
Mrs Ws policy. That said, I agree with the investigator that it was fair for HDI to refund the
fee that had been charged. I understand a transfer has already been made in that respect.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs W confirmed receipt of my provisional decision, but had nothing further to add. HDI 
replied to my provisional decision to say they accepted it. Because of this, I see no reason 
for me to reach a different conclusion from that which is set out above.
My final decision
It is my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or reject my decision 
before 13 April 2022.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman