DRN-3831613
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs B complain that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) has refused to pay a claim for 
the replacement of their boiler under the home emergency section of their buildings and 
contents policy. They want the claim paid and compensation for the inconvenience.
What happened
Mr B and Mrs B had a policy with a firm Ill call B, who carried out servicing and repairs
on their central heating boiler. They also had a home emergency policy with Aviva,
administered by Homeserve, but Ill just refer to Aviva, in this decision, except where
further clarification is required. This policy provided for a payment of £500 if their boiler
was not working and deemed beyond economic repair (BER).
In summary, Mr B and Mrs B say the boiler had broken down with B attending on 26 June
2020. It had advised that the boiler should be replaced and that parts maybe unavailable to
repair it. Mr B says he contacted Aviva in July 2020, to report a fault with the boiler and to
enquire whether Aviva would pay the £500 contribution if parts were unavailable.
Aviva says Mr B told it he wanted to replace the boiler immediately as a preventative
measure in case it broke down in winter. But due to a mistake it sent an engineer to
inspect the boiler on 14 July 2020 even though it was working. Aviva says the engineer
reported the boiler was in working condition. And that Mr B had said B was replacing the
boiler and he just wanted Aviva to pay the £500 contribution. Mr B says that he showed the
engineer water leaking from the boiler. But when he told the engineer that B was dealing
with the replacement the engineer didnt carry out any inspection, saying it was best left to
B.
Mr B says B returned and fitted a part to the boiler and traced the ongoing leak to a failed
diverter valve. Mr B says B adjusted the boiler so that it only provided hot water only
pending replacement of this part, which it subsequently advised was obsolete.
Mr B and Mrs B replaced the boiler and having done so raised a claim with Aviva for the
£500 BER contribution. Aviva declined the claim. Mr B and Mrs B complained about this.
Aviva said it had made the right decision. It said the policy would only pay out if the
boiler was BER having already broken down, and when it had attended it was working.
But it offered £50 compensation for the confusion caused by it attending when the boiler
was working and the amount of phone calls that had been made. Mr B and Mrs B didnt
accept this.
Mr B and Mrs B sent a letter from the manufacturer of their old boiler, confirming that
the diverter valve part was obsolete. They said this part was required to stop the boiler
from leaking. Aviva disagreed and said the policy didnt provide for what Mr B wanted
as the boiler was in working condition before it was replaced.
Mr B and Mrs B referred their complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into it, but
he didnt uphold the complaint.
He said there was no evidence that the boiler wasnt working before it was replaced as
required by the policy Terms and Conditions (T&Cs), even if parts were obsolete. So, Aviva
hadnt acted unfairly in declining the £500 contribution towards replacing the boiler.
Mr & Mrs B disagreed and sent an extract from Avivas internal records which showed a
staff member had recommended their claim should be paid.
Our investigator didnt change his view. He said there was no evidence that the boiler
wasnt working on 14 July 2020 when Avivas engineer attended, so the claim didnt meet
the policy terms and Aviva hadnt acted unreasonably in declining the claim.
As Mr B and Mrs B dont agree it has come to me to decide.
My provisional decision
I issued my provision decision on 21 July 2022; I explained the reasons why I was planning 
to uphold the complaint. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide (provisionally) whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im planning to 
uphold the complaint.
Unfortunately, this claim became very confused. It appears that Aviva hasnt had sight of all 
the evidence, which Ill explain below. If it had I think things could have been resolved much 
earlier. Ive sent copies of this evidence from B to Aviva and asked whether it wanted to 
reconsider the claim in the light of it, but it hasnt responded. As Mr B and Mrs B have been 
waiting a sometime for their complaint to be resolved Ive decided to issue this provisional 
decision.
When bringing any insurance claim, the onus is on the policyholder (Mr B and Mrs B) to 
prove their claim is covered under the T&Cs of the policy. Here, these required that the 
boiler wasnt working and was also BER.
I think Aviva initially considered things fairly and was seeking proof there was a valid claim 
after Mr B and Mrs B had unwittingly by-passed Avivas normal claims procedure by pre- 
empting the BER event in having their boiler replaced without giving it chance to confirm 
these requirements.
That is clear from Avivas final response letter of 22 January 2021, where it says it had 
contacted the boilers manufacturer (whod confirmed the part was obsolete) to ask if it had 
attended a breakdown, but said hadnt heard back from it.
I think there is independent evidence from B that the boiler was BER and its fair that the 
claim should be paid. When B attended to carry out various repairs it completed and left a 
checklist document with Mr B and Mrs B summarising what had been done and any 
observations. Mr B had sent these documents to our service, but some pages appeared to 
be missing, so I asked him for complete copies which he provided.
Mr B says hed already sent these documents to Aviva in support of his claim. I asked it 
about this, and it said it hadnt seen anything from B. And I note its final response letter 
makes no reference to evidence from B, despite Aviva having contacted the boiler 
manufacturer directly to ask if it had attended a breakdown.
Aviva has said the boiler was working when it attended on 14 July 2020. That isnt disputed, 
but Mr B says there were still problems and parts were awaited and the documents from B 
clearly show this. When B attended again on 27 July 2020 it changed a part, but the boiler 
was leaking, requiring a further part, which subsequently proved to be obsolete.
So, whilst neither Aviva or the manufacturer had attended to witness the ongoing problem, B 
had, and its evidence is both expert and independent of Mr B and Mrs B. Im satisfied this evidence shows the boiler was leaking and couldnt be repaired as the part wasnt available, 
which is also not in dispute.
Ive thought about what the policy provides for and I think its fair to consider the boiler was 
BER at this point. I dont it was reasonable for Mr B and Mrs B to put up with a leaking boiler 
(that potentially might cause damage to Mr B and Mrs Bs property), whilst waiting for the 
obsolete part to fail completely before being able to bring a successful claim. So, I think its 
fair that the claim should now be paid.
Other complaint points
Mr B has raised some points about how Aviva has handled this complaint and other 
complaints he has made to it. Im only considering this complaint here. And our service cant 
usually consider complaints about how a business has handled a complaint as this isnt itself 
a financial service and often falls outside our jurisdiction.
I do think this claim and the complaint became excessively confused. But, unless some 
further evidence changes my mind against upholding this complaint (as Ive provisionally 
decided to), I think its likely that my decision will also resolve Mr B and Mrs Bs concerns 
regarding this complaint. But if Mr B and Mrs B have any further comments, I will of course 
consider them.
Putting things right
At this stage I think the boiler wasnt working in an normal, reasonable manner and was 
BER. As I think Mr B and Mrs B have now proved their claim, Aviva should pay the £500 
BER contribution, which I think provides a fair outcome to this complaint.
I think there was some confusion following Mr B initially contacting Aviva about claiming for 
the boiler and this should have been properly clarified as it acknowledges. I think the £50 
compensation it has already offered for the inconvenience caused by this is fair.
I asked both parties to let me have any further information or comments they wanted me to 
consider.
Response to provisional decision
Aviva said it disagreed with my decision. It said the boiler was working when it had attended 
and under the policy terms the £500 BER contribution wouldnt have been paid. It said Mr B 
and Mrs B appeared to be claiming on both the policy with it and also their policy with B by 
asking it to make repairs. It asked whether Mr B and Mrs B were entitled to a pay-out under 
the cover theyve got with B as they cant claim twice?
Mr B and Mrs B provided a substantial response. They were happy that I thought the BER 
contribution of £500 should be paid but said that £50 compensation was inadequate. They 
said this wasnt fair and reasonable and didnt cover the costs they had incurred in copying 
and posting documents. They said they had been led down a blind alley for several months 
by Aviva, with responsibility for the policy passing like a parcel between Aviva and 
Homeserve. They said:
Aviva complaints specialists had marked their own homework, manipulated claims 
references and in retaliation to our resolve imposed a gagging order.
Mr B and Mrs B said their letters to our service of 28 January and 8 June 2022 should be 
revisited as they didnt believe they had been given full consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint along the lines set out in my 
provisional decision.
As for its question about Mr B and Mrs B claiming on two policies, Aviva answers this itself in
its final response letter of 22 January 2021, where it says:
Your Aviva policy includes a £500 beyond economic repair /obsolete parts clause
whereas the (B) policy does not.
This is also my understanding, so Im satisfied Mr B and Mrs B werent dual insured and
claiming for the same event twice.
Ive taken into account everything Mr B and Mrs B have said Ill set out the reasons for my
decision about the claim and the matter of compensation separately below. But for both a
key factor in my decision is what I think Aviva knew when Mr B and Mrs B made their claim
and when it subsequently reviewed this in considering their complaint. As at that point I dont
think Mr B and Mrs B had fairly proved their claim and unfortunately much effort was
extended by them in revisiting the same arguments with Homeserve and then Aviva without
providing the further evidence they did have.
The claim
The policy terms and Conditions (T&Cs) say the boiler is covered for failure and if it cant
be repaired because of a lack of parts it will be declared BER, having been assessed by
our engineer. So, there are several requirements to making a successful claim on a BER
basis.
Ive thought about what the policy intends to provide for and whats fair here to both parties.
In this case, I think there was a failure with the boiler and its clear that the part wasnt
available. Its also clear that when the boiler was replaced Aviva hadnt declared it BER
and consequently the normal claims process hadnt been followed.
The onus is on the policyholder to prove their claim. It isnt unreasonable for Aviva to require
evidence to support the claim. When Aviva contacted the boilers manufacturer to see if it
had attended a breakdown it was seeking this further evidence. And despite Mr B and Mrs B
having further evidence from B of a failure, it doesnt seem this was made available to
Aviva at the time. Much of the subsequent argument about the claim focuses on part
availability and overlooks the key point, that there also needed to be evidence of a
breakdown or failure.
Whether the boiler had a fault when Aviva engineer attended is disputed. Aviva says the
boiler was in working condition and Mr B and Mrs B were acting only on a preventative
basis, which the policy didnt provide for.
The evidence isnt clear here. Mr B says in the disputed telephone conversation the purpose
of the visit was not due to a breakdown. And, that his enquiry was about whether the BER
contribution would be paid if it did breakdown, as parts were becoming unavailable. In
several letters Mr B confirms this. His letter to Aviva of 5 March 2021, says listening to this
call will confirm:
that the Engineer was NOT attending my boiler  for a BREAKDOWN.
But in his letter to our service of 28 January 2022 Mr B says:
You have completely missed and then ignored the irrefutable fact that the visit onthe 14/07/2020 was due to a logged BREAKDOWN.
At the time of the visit water was leaking from our COMBI boiler and (sic) which was
pointed out to the HOMESERVE engineer.
Mr B and Mrs B say the engineer wasnt interested in this problem and didnt make a note on
the job sheet. But the engineer did note B was attending over multiple ongoing problems and
had recommended replacement.
In his letter to our service of 28 January 2022 Mr B also says:
There is no engineering dispute regarding the fact the boiler was leaking water.
As it was referred to in Bs job sheet of 27 July 2020.
However, a leak wasnt mentioned on Bs job sheet from 26 June 2020. So, theres no
independent evidence the boiler was leaking when the Homeserve engineer attended.
Whatever the explanation here, I think it was clear to Mr B and Mrs B from Homeserves
subsequent letters (detailed below) that the engineers visit hadnt progressed the matter and
that Homeserve required further evidence before it would accept a BER claim. And Mr B
doesnt mention the leak in his subsequent letters to both Homeserve and Aviva, focusing
instead on parts availability. I consider this aspect further in respect of the issue of fair
compensation below.
But in terms of the claim, I think Bs job sheet from 27 July 2020, which notes the leak and
the part needed to repair it, which subsequently proved to be obsolete, provides evidence of
both a breakdown and lack of parts to make a repair. And thats why I think the BER claim
should be paid.
Whilst the boiler was still operational (although Mr B says B had disabled the central heating
function on 27 July 2020, presumably to stop or reduce the leak), I dont think its reasonable
to say it was working in the normal accepted sense. Its quite possible for a boiler to be
working when it has been condemned as dangerous and has to be isolated from the gas
supply on safety grounds. If the required parts were unavailable to repair that dangerous
boiler, I think that would be a BER event.
Mr B and Mrs Bs boiler wasnt dangerous, but it wasnt working normally. I dont think its
reasonable to tolerate an ongoing leak, and in the circumstances here I think that Mr B and
Mrs B have proved their claim and its fair that the BER contribution of £500 should be paid.
Compensation
Ive considered what Mr B and Mrs B have said. I need to be fair to both sides and view
matters impartially. The compensation already offered by Aviva was for the initial
misinformation about the claims process. I think thats fair.
Ive thought carefully about whether it is reasonable that additional compensation be paid.
But I dont think its fair that it should. There are several reasons why I think this. Some of
what Mr B and Mrs B refer to in their response to my provisional decision relates to the
handling of the complaint itself. This isnt something our service can usually consider as it is
outside our jurisdiction. And, they also refer to matters relating to separate complaints about
Aviva, which I am not considering here, for example about subject access requests.
In relation to this complaint, whilst the claim was declined, I dont think it is fair to say Avivawas at fault at the time because Mr B and Mrs B consistently told both Homeserve and Aviva
that the boiler was working rather than pointing out there was a problem which couldnt be
repaired as evidenced by Bs job sheet.
Homeserve wrote on two occasions after the engineers visit, but before the boiler was
replaced. Both letters advised what was required for a BER claim to be made. In response
Mr B and Mrs B appear to have focused on parts availability rather than also providing
evidence of the existing breakdown. Subsequently they referred to the relatively poor
efficiency rating of the old boiler, which isnt relevant to whether it was BER or not. So, even
if there was an error over the engineers visit (and theres no evidence of that) I think Mr B
and Mrs B were made aware of what was needed to claim successfully on their policy.
Homeserves letter of 25 August 2020 advised Mr B he couldnt claim as the boiler is
working. It said he should contact it if the boiler did breakdown and it would arrange for an
engineer to attend. Mr B replied to Aviva on 28 August 2020 saying Homeserve had:
stated the obvious that the boiler is still working and which was never claimed
otherwise.
Mr B does not say that the boiler is leaking.
Homeserve reconfirmed its position in a further letter of 17 September 2020. Mr B called it
on 21 September 2020, as the boiler was being replaced. The notes of the call are that Mr B
felt hed:
done everything he possibly can to show us the boiler is BER. There is 26 parts that
are obsolete.
But there isnt any reference to the leak. And, whilst Mr B did have further evidence there
was a failure as well as a lack of parts it doesnt seem he made this available at the time.
Mr Bs letter to Aviva of 8 October 2020 doesnt say the boiler had been leaking but suggests
that a condition of the policy required him to take action to avoid an Emergency. Hence the
replacement of the boiler in view of:
its age and the ever increasing number of obsolete parts and breakdowns over the
past 12 months.
Following further calls with Mr B, Aviva messaged Homeserve on 3 December 2020 and
forwarded the evidence about the part being unavailable. It also notes that Mr B said he had
evidence from B that the boiler required replacing but that:
I do not have a copy of these files as the insured does not deal with digital
correspondence.
Mr B and Mrs B say they did provide Bs job sheets noting the leak to Aviva. But it says it
hadnt seen these before our service sent it copies. It isnt clear what happened here. But Im
satisfied Aviva hadnt previously seen these checklists. If it had I think it would have referred
to them in its final response letter to the complaint of 22 January 2021. And it wouldnt have
contacted the manufacturer to ask if it had attended for a breakdown. Avivas letter doesnt
refer to a leak from the boiler and states that obsolete parts are only:
relevant in the event that parts were needed to actually fix the boiler which is not the
case in this instance.
And:The £500 you are seeking is not what the policy is intended for in the
circumstances.
So, I think both Homeserves and Avivas letters are clear in setting out why both the claim
and then the complaint were rejected. But Mr B and Mrs B continued to argue that the boiler
was being replaced as a preventative measure because parts were obsolete rather than
because of an actual breakdown. Had Bs job sheet of 27 July 2020 been referred to earlier
perhaps this misunderstanding would have been cleared up sooner.
Ive thought about the impact on Mr B and Mrs B. I understand their frustration over what has
happened. But they didnt follow the claims process and they hadnt evidenced a breakdown
with the boiler, so at that point they hadnt met the conditions for a claim to be accepted. I
dont think its fair to hold Aviva responsible for this. And Mr B and Mrs B werent prevented
from replacing the boiler by Avivas decision.
So, in the circumstances here I think it is fair that the claim has now been evidenced and
should be paid. But I think that awarding further compensation above the £50 already offered
would be unreasonable as I dont think Aviva has treated Mr B and Mrs B unfairly given the
information provided to it at the time.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I
uphold this complaint against Aviva Insurance Limited.
I direct Aviva Insurance Limited to pay the £500 BER contribution provided for by the policy.
I further direct Aviva to pay the £50 in compensation it has already offered to Mr B and Mrs
B.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 December 2022.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman