DRN-3349855
The complaint
Ms Bs complaint is about a delay in receiving her benefits as a lump sum from her pension 
policy with ReAssure Limited. 
What happened
Ms B has a pension policy with ReAssure. Ms B wanted to take her pension fund as a lump 
sum in August 2020 at age 55. She emailed ReAssure in June 2020 to notify her new 
address and to ask how she could withdraw the money from her pension. ReAssure 
confirmed the change of address and said more information about her retirement options 
would follow. 
I understand that Ms B didnt receive anything so she emailed ReAssure again in July 2020. 
ReAssure sent a retirement options pack to Ms Bs new address on 28 July 2020 but she 
didnt receive it. She emailed again on 31 August 2020. Amongst other things she said her 
understanding was that the full plan value could be paid, tax free. If that wasnt the case she 
asked for confirmation of the amount of tax deducted. 
ReAssure issued a risk questionnaire which Ms B completed and returned. ReAssure 
received it on 10 September 2020. ReAssure then issued an application form which Ms B 
completed and it was received back by ReAssure on 25 September 2020. 
On 9 October 2020 ReAssure wrote to Ms B, thanking her for returning the paperwork and
explaining it had been trying to contact her to confirm some further information and asking 
her to telephone ReAssure. 
Ms B says she didnt receive the letter nor did she have any voicemail messages asking her 
to contact ReAssure. As she hadnt heard further she emailed ReAssure on 25 October 
2020. She asked for payment and a copy of the complaint procedure to be issued by 4 
November 2020, otherwise shed complain directly to the Prudential Regulation Authority 
and the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). It seems that ReAssure may not have received 
that email. It says it didnt hear further from Ms B after its letter of 9 October 2020. 
Ms B contacted the FCA on 30 March 2021. The FCA referred her to this service and we set 
up a complaint on 22 April 2021. We contacted ReAssure about the complaint. 
ReAssure investigated and issued a final response on 4 June 2021. It acknowledged Ms B 
had experienced delay in receiving her pension benefits. ReAssure referred to its letter of 9 
October 2020 saying it needed more information. It said it shouldve sent a reminder letter 
when it didnt hear further from Ms B. It sent a cheque for £200 by way of an apology for the 
inconvenience caused. ReAssure said a request had been made for the servicing team to 
call Ms B to discuss her requirements further and gave a telephone number, should it be 
more convenient for her to contact ReAssure instead.  
Ms B replied to ReAssure on 8 June 2021, saying she wanted her benefits as a lump sum 
forwarded by cheque plus 8% compound interest from August 2020 up to and including the 
date of issue of the cheque by way of full and final settlement.
On 4 October 2021 Ms B told us that she hadnt heard any more from ReAssure and she 
didnt accept the offer of £200 in full and final settlement. She explained why she wanted 
interest from the date of her 55th birthday in August 2020. 
Our investigator issued his view on 16 December 2021. He recognised that communications 
had been difficult. But he didnt think ReAssure was entirely responsible. ReAssure had 
apologised and offered £200 as it hadnt been as efficient as it should have been. The 
investigator felt that was fair and reasonable. He said it was up to both parties to try to 
mitigate the situation. There were processes and regulatory requirements to fulfill and 
ReAssure couldnt have just issued a cheque for the policy proceeds. The investigator 
suggested, if Ms B still wanted to draw her pension benefits, that she contact ReAssure 
again to ascertain what further information was required to complete the process. And the 
investigator said hed ask ReAssure to try to contact Ms B. 
The investigator issued a further view on 22 December 2021, based on new information 
provided by ReAssure. It now seemed that the the initial payment task was rejected on 
ReAssures systems which led to the case requiring an additional manual check. And, 
having completed the check, it appeared that ReAssure did in fact have everything it needed 
to complete the payment but a new payment task wasnt input on the system and so the 
process came to a halt. So it appeared that Ms B had provided everything ReAssure needed 
and ReAssure couldve made the lump sum payment within normal service level agreement 
timescales on, or shortly after,25 September 2020. That wouldve prevented Ms Bs 
complaint and avoided the distress and inconvenience and financial hardship shed been 
caused. The investigator said ReAssure should pay £500 for distress and inconvenience and 
pay Ms B what she wouldve received, using a start date of 25 September 2020, plus 
interest. 
Unfortunately that new information was incorrect. When it received the investigators second 
view, ReAssure contacted us and apologised that what wed been told had been wrong. 
ReAssure explained that it couldnt have proceeded with payment following receipt of Ms Bs 
instructions on 25 September 2020. The initial payment task had been rejected but that 
wasnt due to a system error. The task wasnt completed because of comments Ms B had 
made on her application form. ReAssure needed to confirm that Ms B was fully aware of 
what shed receive if her instructions were processed and while there was still time for her to 
change her mind. A new payment task wouldnt be completed until those points had been 
discussed with Ms B. 
The investigator replied saying that, while it was disappointing that incorrect information had 
been provided, mistakes did happen. And the priority was to resolve the situation so Ms B 
could receive her benefits as soon as possible. The investigator said Ms Bs preference was 
email, not telephone, and offered to pass on to her any additional clarification ReAssure 
needed. He noted that ReAssure had already paid Ms B £200. But the latest error wouldve 
caused Ms B further distress. He asked ReAssure to consider making a further payment of 
£200.
ReAssure didnt say if it was prepared to make that payment. And Ms B wanted matters 
resolved as the investigator had suggested earlier  with payment backdated to August 2020 
and interest paid. 
As it wasnt possible to resolve the complaint its been referred to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Ms Bs frustration that shes still awaiting payment which she expected to 
receive in August 2020. I can see that things got off to a slow start. It seems that ReAssure 
may not have sent the retirement options information until late July 2020. And, unfortunately, 
Ms B didnt then receive it so a replacement pack had to be issued. Some progress was then 
made but ReAssure needed to be sure Ms B understood what shed be paid and that, in 
particular, the payment wouldnt be tax free. It seems ReAssure was unable to reach Ms B 
over the telephone despite several attempts so ReAssure wrote asking her to get in contact. 
ReAssure has no record of Ms B contacting it although she says she emailed on 25 October 
2020. 
The upshot was that nothing was done between October 2020 and May 2021 when, Ms B by 
then having been in contact with the FCA who referred her to this service, we contacted 
ReAssure to explain that Ms B wanted to complain. 
I do understand that the lack of progress would have been stressful for Ms B. But, when she 
didnt hear further from ReAssure, she couldve chased things up earlier. As things stood, 
several months elapsed which I cant say was all ReAssures fault. 
I accept what ReAssure has said about the need to process customers payment requests 
as efficiently as possible and to balance reminding customers when further action is needed 
to complete their request with ensuring that customers who have submitted all the necessary 
requirements dont incur payment delays because of resources being diverted to send 
reminders. 
Although ReAssure had called Ms B three times after 10 October 2020 and had written to 
her home address, ReAssure recognised that a further reminder letter could have been sent. 
I think the compensation of £200 ReAssure paid for any distress and inconvenience arising 
from that was fair and reasonable
I also accept, once Ms Bs pension had crystallised, it wouldnt have been possible to have 
converted it back to a pension had the payment  and in particular the tax deduction  not 
been as she was expecting. I think it was important for ReAssure to make sure Ms B fully 
understood what shed get before processing her instructions. I note, when Ms B returned 
the forms on 10 September 2020, she commented that the pension had been sold as a tax 
free savings option and so shouldnt be taxed. And she said she hadnt been advised how 
much tax might be deducted. And, when she sent the forms back on 25 September 2020, 
she said that basic rate tax only was to be applied under the small pot rules. But that the 
lump sum was tax free because she was in receipt of an ill health pension. I think ReAssure 
did need to confirm the tax position and that Ms B was happy to proceed with encashing the 
pension. 
But I do think ReAssures further error  what it told our investigator about its requirements 
being complete on 25 September 2020 - caused confusion and considerable 
disappointment. Ms B was relieved to learn that her complaint had been upheld and that 
payment was going to be made and backdated with interest, only to then discover that the 
investigator wasnt able to recommend that after all. I think the sum suggested by the 
investigator of £200 is fair and reasonable for the not inconsiderable distress and 
inconvenience the mistake wouldve caused Ms B. Ive made an award below. 
But, as I dont think it was entirely ReAssures fault that payment wasnt made in August 
2020, I dont think ReAssure should backdate payment and pay interest from that date. Nor 
do I see that ReAssure is withholding payment of Ms Bs benefits. I realise Ms B is likely to 
feel that things are still unresolved as she hasnt received the proceeds of her policy. But its largely up to her and ReAssure to resolve that. We cant direct ReAssure to pay Ms B if 
some of ReAssures requirements are outstanding or if ReAssure is unsure if Ms B has 
made a fully informed decision to encash her policy. And I cant direct ReAssure to pay the 
full value of the plan if ReAssure is legally required to deduct tax from the payment. 
Im aware of and have taken into account Ms Bs situation. As the investigator suggested, if 
Ms B feels unable to deal with matters herself, she may be able to ask someone to assist 
and deal with ReAssure on her behalf. Im sorry but we cant do that for her. Nor can we 
provide financial advice. Weve tried to assist by explaining to ReAssure that Ms B prefers 
email communication to telephone. Id repeat the investigators request  that ReAssure, if it 
hasnt done so already, contacts Ms B by email as a matter of urgency to explain what she 
needs to do if she still wants to take her benefits. Id suggest ReAssure at the same time 
also writes to Ms B with that information. Equally Ms B can get in contact with ReAssure. If 
shes uncertain who she needs to contact we can provide details. 
Putting things right
Im upholding Ms Bs complaint in part. ReAssure should pay Ms B £200 as compensation 
for distress and inconvenience. For the avoidance of doubt thats in addition to the £200 
which has already been paid to Ms B.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint in part. ReAssure Limited must pay Ms B £200 for distress and 
inconvenience as identified above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2022.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman