DRN-3726485
The complaint
Miss M complains UK Insurance Limited trading as Churchill Insurance (Churchill) unfairly 
declined her claim on her motor insurance policy.
There are several parties and representatives of Churchill involved throughout the complaint 
but for the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to Churchill.
What happened
On 29 October 2021 Miss Ms car was stolen whilst she was at a house party. When she 
noticed her car had gone, she also found that her car key was missing. Miss M rang a friend 
who took her home.
Miss M reported the theft to the police a few days later. And she made a claim on her motor 
insurance policy with Churchill. The car was found as it had been recovered by the police. 
Miss M collected the car from the police storage.
Miss M made a new claim on her motor insurance policy for items that were in the car when 
it was stolen and that were not there when it was returned. The items totalled approximately 
£6000.
Miss M was only able to give vague information about the circumstances of the theft. 
Therefore Churchill organised for its approved loss adjuster to conduct an interview with her 
to obtain the details required to validate the claim. 
After several failed attempts to complete an interview with Miss M, it took place via video on 
21 December 2021. Miss M was unable to answer questions including; where the car was 
parked, the names of people at the party and why she didnt return to the party after finding 
her car had been stolen.
In the following months Churchill contacted Miss M in writing and by phone to try and obtain 
the information it needed to validate the claim. Churchill required Miss Ms permission to 
contact the police for information. A form was sent for her to complete to give it this 
permission, but it was never received back. 
Churchill spoke with Miss M in February 2022  and explained it needed more information to 
validate her claim. She was still unable to answer the questions and again told Churchill to 
speak to the police. Miss M made a complaint about the conduct of the agent on this call. 
She said she was not happy with the questions being asked or the manner in which they 
were asked.
Churchill declined to settle the claim because it was not provided with enough information 
about the theft.
As Miss M was not happy with Churchill she brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. They looked into the case and said they cant 
say that Churchill have done anything wrong with regards to the questions it asked about the 
theft. They thought it was fair and reasonable that it had declined her claim because Miss M 
hadnt provided it with enough information.
As Miss M is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me for 
a final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Claim
I looked at the terms and conditions of the policy. On the Making a claim  section on page 
six it says;
You must also give us any other relevant information, documents or help we might need to 
process your claim.
As Miss Ms insurer Churchill are allowed to ask any questions it believes are relevant to the 
claim presented. I looked at the questions asked by Churchill in the letters sent to Miss M, 
the statement from the interview with Churchills loss adjusters and listened to call 
recordings. 
I considered if the questions were relevant to Miss Ms claim and I think they were. They 
related specifically to the circumstances leading up to and after the theft of the car and . Miss 
M was unable to answer some of the questions and refused to answer others. 
Churchills loss adjuster reported it was unable to validate the claim from the information it 
had reviewed. It said there was a lack of detail and information provided.
Miss M gave different reasons for not being able to answer the questions asked about the 
claim. She said she couldnt remember the details as she was in shock and it was a 
traumatic experience. She also said she didnt know the answers. She said she has the right 
to go to any party she wants and not know the people. And she has the right to cut people 
out of her life and not store any contact information for them.
Miss M said Churchill should ask the police and stop asking her. She said they have all the 
details. I have seen that Churchill did send Miss M the consent paperwork to complete, that 
would enable it to apply for the police report. It has never received this back, although Miss 
M said she returned it.
Churchill said as Miss M was unable to answer its questions about the circumstances 
leading up to and after the theft it was not provided with enough information and therefore it 
declined to settle the claim. 
I do understand that this will have been a stressful situation for Miss M, and I accept she has 
said she is anxious and sad. However the information provided by Miss M to Churchill is 
vague and the detail of what happened is still unclear. 
Therefore I think Churchill have fairly declined to settle Miss Ms claim. As despite giving her 
different options to submit all the information required, and the time to do this, Churchill has 
not been provided with enough information about the theft to enable it to validate the claim, Customer service
I listened to the call with Churchill that Miss M complains about. 
I found the claim handler was direct with questions to Miss M, however I think the questions 
asked were relevant to enable her claim to progress. 
I am sorry that Miss M was made to feel uncomfortable during this call. The claim handler 
tried to explain why the information requested was relevant to her claim, but Miss M ended 
the call before the claim handler had finished trying to explain. 
Although I know it will be a disappointment to Miss M, I do not uphold her complaint and do 
not require Churchill to do anything further in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 November 2022.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman