DRN-1676968
 
The complaint
Mr H complains that he was mis-sold serious illness and disability cover by Lloyds Bank 
PLC. 
He says he was led to believe that hed be covered for all illnesses. 
  
What happened
In 1996, Mr H was advised to take out the policy with an £84,700 sum assured, for a £30 
initial monthly premium. The policy was designed to provide serious illness and disability 
cover on a whole of life basis. 
It was recorded that Mr H had a need to ensure financial security in the event of serious 
illness or disability. 
Lloyds hasnt upheld the complaint. In summary, it says:
The recommendation was suitable for Mr H given his circumstances at the time.  
It didnt advise him that hed be covered for all illnesses. 
Just because Mr Hs condition wasnt covered by the policy doesnt mean it was mis-
sold. 
The Schedule confirms that The Schedule, together with any endorsement is an 
integral part of the plan conditions and should therefore, be read in conjunction with 
the plan conditions.
The definition of serious illness and disability is complex and it wasnt possible to go 
through everything in depth at the time.
As Mr H was a member of staff involved in the sale of these products, its not 
unreasonable to assume that he would also have been aware of the specific illnesses 
covered by the policy. 
If after reading the policy documentation  which made reasonably clear the 
conditions covered by the policy  Mr H didnt want the policy, he was free to cancel 
within the cooling-off period. 
 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
The recommendation met Mr Hs identified need for financial security in the event of 
suffering a serious illness or disability, as well as life cover in the event of his death. 
Hes seen nothing to suggest that Mr Hs needs werent met. 
Mr H was provided with policy documentation that made reasonably clear the nature 
of the cover, including definitions of the conditions that the policy covered.  Mr H was also provided with cancellation rights in the event the policy wasnt what he 
wanted, and it wouldve been reasonable for Mr H to raise any concerns he had at 
the time. 
Mr H says a colleague sold him the plan to benefit from the sale, and although Mr H 
also says he was told (during his training) to tell customers that the policy covered 
serious illness but not to go in any detail, hes seen no evidence that this was the 
case. 
 
Mr H disagreed with the investigators conclusion and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
In summary, he said:
He feels both the sale and decision not to honour his claim by the provider should be 
looked at together.
He says death cover wasnt provided as part of the policy.
At the time of sale Mr H was working for TSB alongside the colleague who sold him 
the product. They were both sales and investment advisers and their remuneration 
was based 100% on sales commission. 
He says the sales pitch for the policy was if you do get ill or suffer a serious injury 
but manage to survive it helps you manage any financial consequences of this. 
The Financial Interview Record section 10.1 First Recommendation states The 
option provides a lump sum in the event of the diagnosis of a Serious Illness or 
Disability to ensure you can maintain your standard of living. It also provides a lump 
sum in the event of death providing it has not already been paid out. It makes no 
reference here to specific illnesses.
 
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind. 
 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr H says, Im not persuaded 
that the policy was mis-sold because it doesnt cover every serious illness. 
Before I explain further, I think its important for me to recognise the strength of feeling Mr H 
has about this matter and Im sorry about the health issues hes experienced in the past. 
Mr H has provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully. However, I hope he wont take the fact my findings focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised under a separate 
subject heading  its not what Im required to do  in order to reach a decision in this case. I 
appreciate this can be frustrating, but it doesnt mean Im not considering the pertinent 
points. 
I appreciate Mr H feels his points havent been considered properly and that hes only got 
generic responses from the investigator  Im sorry he feels that way. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by him and the business, and reach what I think is an independent, 
fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case, rather than take any sides. 
Its not my role to regulate or punish the business for any alleged breaches, thats the role of 
the industry regulator the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). My role is to consider whether 
(or not) the business has done anything wrong. 
I appreciate Mr H thought that he was covered for any serious illness, but despite what he 
says, Ive seen nothing to suggest that this is what he was told or led to believe would be the 
case. 
I appreciate the point Mr H makes about the The Financial Interview Record section 10.1 
First Recommendation, but I dont think its fair to simply look at this section in isolation. 
Whilst I acknowledge it doesnt make any reference to specific illnesses, it also doesnt state 
that the policy covers all illnesses ever to exist. 
As this was clearly an important and central issue for Mr H, I dont think its unreasonable 
that he wouldve taken steps to clarify the nature of his coverage including and key 
exclusions. 
That said, Im satisfied that the policy documentation provided makes reasonably clear the 
conditions covered by the policy, but if Mr H decided not to read through the documentation, 
I cant hold the business responsible for this.  
I note that page one of the policy particulars document, under the heading Benefits states: 
The serious illness and disability benefit is payable on the occurrence of one of the following 
events (full definitions are detailed in the plan conditions): before going to list a list of serious 
illnesses including cancer, heart attack and stroke with the business definition. 
In my opinion just because Mr Hs condition wasnt covered by the policy doesnt mean it 
was mis-sold. It still provided cover for serious illness and disability and wouldve paid out in 
the event of a valid claim. 
Its unlikely the policy was going to cover every single serious illness and disability, and 
certainly not for life at the premium Mr H was paying. As Ive mentioned earlier, Ive seen no 
evidence to say that it would. 
Im mindful that Mr H was sold the policy by a colleague whod been trained just like him. I 
note that their sales pitch was if you do get ill or suffer a serious injury but manage to 
survive it helps you manage any financial consequences of this and that theyd been told not 
to go into detail about specific illnesses. 
I note the business says that it wouldve been reasonable for Mr H (as a salesman) to have 
known about the specific illnesses covered by the product. But even if he didnt, I think he 
knew, or ought reasonably to have known that not all serious illnesses and disabilities were 
covered by the policy, and therefore I think its reasonable that he wouldve asked his 
colleague/adviser about the conditions that were covered in reference to the policy 
documentation. I note Mr Hs point about the life cover. But it seems to me that the policy did provide life 
cover, but only if a claim hadnt been made on the serious illness and disability cover, which 
I dont think is unreasonable. In other words, the policy would provide a lump sum in the 
event of death, provided it had not already been paid out under a claim.
Im mindful of Mr Hs desire to have the sale and administration of the complaint dealt with 
together. Even though the separate businesses fall under the same banking group they are 
still different businesses  one responsible for the sale and one for the administration  and 
therefore any complaint regarding these issues has to be dealt with separately.  
I appreciate Mr H will be disappointed Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. 
Furthermore, I realise my decision isnt what he wants to hear. Whilst I appreciate his 
frustration, Im not persuaded to ask the business to do anything.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 June 2020.
Dara Islam
Ombudsman