DRN-4361985
The complaint
Mrs A believes Lendable Ltd trading as Autolend acted irresponsibly by agreeing a hire 
purchase agreement shed applied for.
What happened
In December 2021, Mrs A was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement 
with Lendable. She paid a deposit of £700, and the agreement was for £10,995 over 48 
months; with 47 monthly payments of £319.23 and a final payment of £321.33.
Mrs A has complained that Lendable didnt act responsibly when approving the finance. 
Shes said that she had a poor credit history at the time she applied, and that Lendable didnt 
request any evidence of her income, which was made up of sporadic payments and benefits. 
So, she didnt think the payments were affordable. 
Lendable considered this complaint, but they thought theyd done adequate checks, which 
showed that Mrs A could afford the payments. And they said she didnt complain to them 
until December 2022, just after shed had a significant change in her financial circumstances, 
with all payments being made up to this point. So, they didnt uphold her complaint.
Mrs A wasnt happy with this, so she brought her complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator didnt think Lendable had carried out sufficient checks when they approved 
Mrs As application, and she thought they shouldve confirmed her income and expenditure 
to fully assess her affordability. The investigator looked at Mrs As income and expenditure 
at the time of her application, but she said this showed the finance was affordable at the 
time. And she didnt think Lendable needed to do anything more.
Mrs A didnt agree with the investigator. She didnt think it was fair that the investigator had 
used transfers of money from a third party towards food, bills, shopping etc. when 
calculating the affordability, as this wasnt a source of income. She also didnt think that the 
investigator had properly assessed her outgoings and that missed payments on her credit 
file shouldve been an indicator that she would struggle to pay Lendable.
Because Mrs A didnt agree, this matter has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When someone complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending, there are two 
overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in all 
of the circumstances of the complaint. These are:
1. Did Lendable complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs 
A would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
a. if so, did Lendable make a fair lending decision?
b. if not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mrs A 
could sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did Lendable act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
And, if I determine that Lendable didnt act fairly and reasonably when considering Mrs As 
application, Ill also consider what I think is a fair way to put things right.
Did Lendable complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs A 
would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportionate checks are, but Id expect lenders 
to consider things such as the amount, duration, and payments of the finance being applied 
for, as well as the borrowers personal circumstances at the time of each application. 
Lendable have explained that they looked at Mrs As income, expenditure, credit file, how 
she managed her credit, and the other borrowings she had before determining that she met 
their affordability checks.
Lendable have provided a copy of the application form they received, which shows Mrs A 
had declared a £2,571 net monthly income. Lendable used an online checking service which 
they say showed this income was correct.
Theyve also provided a copy of the credit file summary they used in their decision making, 
which shows Mrs A had no County Court Judgements in the last three years, and that she 
had nine active credit commitments. But the summary doesnt say how much Mrs A was 
paying towards these credit commitments, or whether she was making these payments.
I havent seen anything to show me that Lendable considered Mrs As other outgoings i.e., 
her mortgage/rent, utility bills, etc., when they assessed the affordability. As such, based on 
what Ive seen, Im not satisfied that the checks Lendable carried out were reasonable and 
proportionate. So, Ive gone on to consider what these checks wouldve shown, had they 
been carried out.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mrs A would be able to repay 
the credit in a sustainable way?
Mrs A has provided an up-to-date copy of her credit report. As this also shows historic data, 
Im satisfied this will give a good indication of what Lendable wouldve seen had they 
considered the full credit file at the time of her finance application.
This report shows that, in November 2021, Mrs A had seven accounts with communication 
suppliers, all of which were up to date with no historic missed payments. She also had two 
bank accounts that were conducted within any overdraft limit, and a credit card that was up 
to date with no missed payments.
However, the report shows that Mrs A missed payments on another credit card in January 
and February 2021, but the account was brought up to date in March 2021; and shed 
missed three payments on a loan between November 2019 and January 2020 and was now 
paying £56 a month to cover the payment and bring the account up to date.
Finally, the report shows that Mrs A had nine historic defaults between April 2018 and 
February 2021, with a total defaulted balance of £28,551. Based on this report, while its clear that Mrs A had credit when she applied for finance with 
Lendable, she was maintaining all payments. However, I wouldnt have expected Lendable 
to decline this application just because Mrs A had some historic arrears and defaults. But I 
would expect Lendable to take these into consideration when making their lending decision.
Mrs A has also provided copies of her bank statements for the period 4 September to 3 
December 2012. While I wouldnt necessarily have expected Lendable to have asked Mrs A 
for copies of these, Im satisfied that the statements would give a good indication of what 
Lendable would likely have taken into consideration had they asked Mrs A to prove his 
income and committed expenditure during that specific period.
The bank statements show that Mrs A received an average of £2,195 a month from her 
business, and a further £815 a month in working tax credits. In addition to this, she received 
£152 a month child benefit, £358 a month disability living allowance (DLA) for one of her 
children, and an average of £580 a month from her childrens father.
Mrs A has argued that the payments she received for her children shouldnt count as income 
for affordability purposes. I agree that this should be the case for the DLA, as its a specific 
payment for the childs needs. However, the child benefit and the payments she receives 
from the childrens father are to help cover the childrens needs i.e., housing, heating, food, 
clothing etc. And these payments form part of Mrs As expenditure when looking at 
affordability. 
It therefore follows that, when including her full expenditure, its only fair to include the 
income she receives to cover this. And this would also include the net average of £321 a 
month she also received from her then partner for food, household bills etc.
As such, while I agree that these payments arent the same as the income Mrs A earns, they 
should be classed as income for affordability purposes. Therefore, based on what Ive seen, 
it would be reasonable to use an income of £3,742 a month for affordability purposes.
Turning now to Mrs As expenditure, Ive seen that she paid £1,188 a month for housing, 
household bills and insurances etc. She also paid £369 a month for phone and TV, and £212 
a month for other insurances and car tax. Finally, Mrs A paid £556 a month for her credit 
commitments, which included a number of Buy Now Pay Later accounts and a payment to a 
debt charity (which would be towards her existing defaults). This means she had committed 
expenditure of £2,325 a month.
So, based on the figures shown on the bank statements, and referred to above, Mrs A had 
£1,417 disposable income each month to cover food, fuel etc. (which, in her comments on 
the investigators view, Mrs A said was around £600 a month), and from which to pay 
Lendables payment of £320.
As such, and while I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mrs A, Im satisfied 
that, had Lendable carried out reasonable and proportionate checks, then theres no valid 
reason why they wouldnt have found the finance to be sustainably affordable. And its for 
this reason why I wont be asking them to refund all or part of the payments Mrs A paid, or 
any interest and fees she may have been charged.
Did Lendable act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I havent seen anything to make me think Lendable acted unfairly or unreasonably in some 
other way.My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mrs As complaint about Lendable Ltd 
trading as Autolend.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman