DRN-1341147
 
The complaint
Miss K complains that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) cancelled her motor insurance policy and 
this will affect her future insurance premiums. Miss K is represented in this matter by her 
father.  
 What happened
UKI wrote to Mrs K, a named driver on Miss Ks policy, as she hadnt added her name to the 
direct debit mandate as required. No response was received, so UKI cancelled the policy. Mr 
K said they were on holiday at the time and no one saw UKIs letters. He thought it should 
have tried other means of contact. Mr K thought the missing name was a mistake but he was 
mostly concerned that Miss K would have to declare the cancellation to future insurers.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. He thought UKI 
hadnt unfairly cancelled the policy as the requirement for the direct debit mandate hadnt 
been met. He thought UKI had told Mr K that it would send its cancellation notice by letter, 
as set out in the policy terms and conditions, so he couldnt say this was unfair.
But he thought UKI hadnt addressed Mr Ks concern about the effect of the cancellation. 
UKI said it had only recorded the cancellation internally. He thought UKI should have better 
explained this point. And so he thought UKI should pay Miss K £100 compensation for the 
trouble and upset caused by its not addressing this concern.
UKI replied that it would never have advised that Miss K didnt need to declare the 
cancellation. It didnt think it needed to pay any compensation. Mr K replied that he felt they 
had been unfairly treated by UKI and this had a big impact on their lives. He said there was 
only Mrs Ks name missing from the direct debit mandate and he thought UKI already knew 
her name.  
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that this has been a frustrating and difficult experience from Miss K and her 
family. I was sorry to hear that the effect of the cancellation was that shes been unable to 
afford insurance and so isnt able to drive herself.
UKI cancelled the policy as Mrs Ks name as the account holder for the policy was missing 
from the direct debit mandate and there was no response to its letters about this. It said that 
it was unable to set up the direct debit and two premium instalments were missed. It then 
cancelled the policy. 
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted fairly and 
reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.The policy requires Miss K to provide required information or the policy would be cancelled 
with 7 days notice. It also says that notice of cancellation will be sent by letter. 
Ive seen the direct debit mandate UKI received and Mrs Ks name is missing. UKI said that 
this was unacceptable. I cant say that this was incorrect as it would need the name of the 
account holder for the direct debit to be set up. 
UKI had already spoken to Mr K once about the mandate and I can see that it told him the 
dates instalments would be taken for the policy. When UKI received the incomplete mandate 
, it sent out another one and then it chased this with a notice of cancellation letter. 
Unfortunately, Mr and Mrs K were away on holiday, and so this wasnt picked up. But I cant 
reasonably hold UKI responsible for this. I think the policy terms make it clear that the 
cancellation would be notified by letter, which it was. 
So I think UKI didnt have the information it required to set up the policy. I think UKI 
reasonably chased the family for this information, but without success. I think the policy 
terms and conditions then allowed UKI to cancel the policy. So I cant say UKI acted unfairly 
or unreasonably.
The result was that UKI cancelled Miss Ks policy. Its told us that its recorded this on its 
internal systems only. Mr K said the effect on quotes for new policies has been a significant 
increase in the cost of cover. I think its for Miss K to answer other insurers questions about 
previous cancellations honestly and correctly. But Ive seen instances where, when the 
circumstances of the cancellation were explained, the new insurer has checked this and it 
hasnt affected the cover offered. But I cant require an insurer to do this as thats its 
commercial decision. 
I think Mr K raised this concern with UKI when he complained about the cancellation 
process. But UKI didnt respond to this concern in its response to the complaint. When Mr K 
called UKI following this, it agreed that Mr Ks main priority was getting cover for Miss K. Mr 
K was particularly upset about this. But UKI still made no response to this point. 
I think this has caused Miss K avoidable trouble and upset. Shes held off buying cover for 
six months and been stressed by it. I think if UKI had better explained how the cancellation 
was recorded, then she could have acted differently. The investigator recommended that 
UKI should pay Miss K £100 compensation for this. I think thats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances as its what Id require in similar circumstances.   
Putting things right
To put things right for Miss K, I require UKI to pay her £100 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience caused by its level of service in responding to her complaint.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require UK Insurance Limited to pay 
Miss K compensation as set out above.  
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 July 2020.
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman