DRN-2980874
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain about their insurer, UKI Insurance Limited (UKI), only replacing part 
of a fence damaged in an accident at their property under their home insurance policy.
 
UKI use agents to administer the policy and assess claims. References to UKI includes 
these agents.
What happened
In December 2019 a third party vehicle drove into the fence at the front of Mr and Mrs Rs 
property, partly damaging it. Photographs of the scene show damage to a supporting brick 
pillar and adjoining fence, but two further pillars and adjoining fence appear intact.
 
Mr and Mrs R contacted UKI and made a claim under their home insurance policy for the 
damage, which they said needed to be fully replaced for the fence to retain a consistent 
appearance. UKI sent an assessor to look at the damage and asked Mr and Mrs R to obtain 
quotes for replacing the fence, which they did. UKI then told Mr and Mrs R that they wouldnt 
pay for the cost of the whole fence to be replaced (£1,990 was quoted) as the policy only 
provided for replacement of damaged parts (estimated at £902, before deduction of a £200 
policy excess). Any undamaged parts wouldnt be covered under the policy.
Mr and Mrs R were unhappy at UKIs decision and the service they received. They 
complained to UKI, saying that UKI should cover the cost of the whole fence being replaced.
UKI considered Mr and Mrs Rs complaint but rejected it. In their final response letter they 
confirmed their decision to only pay for that part of the fence that had been damaged, as that 
was what the terms and conditions of the policy provided for. But UKI acknowledged that 
when Mr and Mrs R initially lodged their claim it wasnt made clear to them that UKI would 
only cover damaged parts. UKI apologised for the confusion and sent Mr and Mrs R a 
cheque for £50 as compensation.
Mr and Mrs R then complained to this service. The main elements of the complaint were that 
they were initially told by UKI that they would cover the cost of replacing the whole fence, not 
just the damaged parts. Mr and Mrs R thought that UKI should cover the cost of replacing 
the whole fence so that it was of a consistent appearance. By only covering the cost of the 
damaged parts of the fence, Mr and Mrs R felt they were out of pocket for an accident which 
was no fault of their own. They were also unhappy at the way that UKI had dealt with their 
claim and their complaint, as well as the £50 UKI had sent them.
  
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She concluded that the terms of the policy 
didnt require UKI to replace the whole fence, only the damaged part. The investigator noted 
that the policy only covered matching parts where they were part of a bathroom suite or fitted 
kitchen. But the investigator did conclude that UKI had wrongly led Mr and Mrs R initially to 
believe that they would cover the cost of replacing the whole fence, and inconvenienced Mr 
and Mrs R through their having to get quotes for replacement of the whole fence. The 
investigator considered that UKIs offer of £50 compensation was fair.
Mr and Mrs R disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman 
review the complaint. Mr and Mrs R said that they shouldnt be left out of pocket replacing 
the whole wall when the accident wasnt their fault. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should say that I appreciate that the circumstances of the accident would have been 
distressing for Mr and Mrs R, including the time at which it occurred and how it happened. 
The circumstances clearly indicate that no fault attaches to them, and that the accident was 
entirely due to the actions of the third party.
The main elements of Mr and Mrs Rs complaint are that their claim for a replacement fence 
should have been covered in full by UKI, in line with what they were initially led to believe. 
Also, as the accident that caused the damage was no fault of theirs, they shouldn't be out of 
pocket from UKI only agreeing to pay for the replacement of the damaged part of the fence.
On the first element, it was unfortunate that Mr and Mrs R werent given a clear indication 
that UKI wouldnt cover the cost of replacing the whole wall, only those parts damaged. But 
UKI recognised this through awarding £50 in compensation. In the circumstances of the 
case I think thats reasonable.
On the main issue of whether UKI should have covered the cost of replacing the whole 
fence, not just the damaged part, Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the policy. Under 
the heading How we settle claims it states:
If the buildings are damagedwe will
2) pay to repair or rebuild the damaged part using your suppliers
And under the heading What we dont pay for the policy terms and conditions state:
We wont pay:
To alter or restore any undamaged part of the buildings
To replace or alter any undamaged item solely because they are part of a set, 
suite, group or collection, unless they are part of a bathroom suite or fitted kitchen 
and the damaged parts cant be repaired or replaced. 
From this its clear that UKI only have to pay for that part of Mr and Mrs Rs fence that was 
damaged in the accident, not the whole fence. And the photographs of the scene show only 
part of the fence was damaged. I recognise that Mr and Mrs R would want the whole fence 
replaced so that it is of a consistent appearance, but the terms of the policy dont require UKI 
to do this. So I cant say UKI have acted unfairly or unreasonably in only agreeing to pay for 
the cost of replacing the damaged parts of the fence.
Mr and Mrs R make the point that the accident was due to the third party and there was no 
fault on their part. I understand this and they feel its unfair they are out of pocket as a result. 
UKI were able to recover the cost of rebuilding the damaged part of the fence from the third 
party insurer but they wouldnt have been be able to claim for costs that they hadnt incurred. 
Taking all these points into account, I dont think UKI acted unfairly and unreasonably in only 
covering the cost of replacing the damaged part of Mr and Mrs Rs fence. UKI recognised in how they initially communicated this to Mr and Mrs R and I think they acted fairly in awarding 
compensation to Mr and Mrs R.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision not to uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 October 2021.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman