DRN-4108724
The complaint
Miss E complains that National Westminster Bank Plc lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
In October 2019 NatWest approved a loan for Miss E. The loan was for £6000 repayable 
over 60 months at £171.35 per month.
Miss E says that NatWest lent irresponsibly to her. She says that she had already applied 
for, and been accepted for, a £10,000 loan in June 2019. She says that within a few months 
of taking out the second loan for £6000 she was struggling to make the repayments.
NatWest didnt uphold Miss Es complaint, so she brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that NatWest had carried out 
reasonable and proportionate checks and that the lending decision was fair.
Miss E didnt agree. She said that after the loan had been approved, she was left with an 
insufficient amount to live on.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering Miss Es complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, the rules say NatWest had to complete reasonable and 
proportionate checks to ensure Miss E could afford to repay the borrowing in a sustainable 
way. These checks needed to be focussed on the borrowers circumstances. Whats 
considered to be reasonable and proportionate will depend on various factors such as the 
amount of credit, the amount of repayments and the customers individual circumstances.
Theres no set list of checks a lender must complete. But lenders are required to consider 
the factors Ive mentioned a above when deciding whats reasonable and proportionate.
Miss E declared a monthly income of £1450 when she applied for the loan, NatWest verified 
this income against the system generated credit turnover through her current account. This 
showed that Miss E had around £280 disposable income each month. NatWest assessed 
her expenditure by looking at the regular monthly outgoings on her current account and by 
using ONS data applicable to Miss Es circumstances.
NatWest carried out an affordability assessment. It took into account the new loan 
repayments of £171.35 and calculated that this would leave Miss E with around £108 per 
month.
NatWest also carried out a credit search to confirm Miss Es existing consumer credit 
obligations and to see how these were being managed.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that the checks carried out by NatWest were 
reasonable and proportionate. I dont think there was anything in the information gathered by 
NatWest which wouldve given it cause for concern or necessitated further checks.
Ive gone on to consider whether the lending decision was fair.
I appreciate that £108 isnt a large amount to have left over each month after credit 
repayments and essential expenditure has been met. Miss E has said that it wasnt enough 
to live on. Ive taken account of what Miss E has said about this. However, its fair to say that 
the sum of £180 was what was left over after Miss Es expenses had been deducted. So it 
wasnt the case that Miss E was in a position where she had to meet her accommodation 
costs and household expenses from this sum. 
Taking everything into account, Im unable to say that NatWest treated Miss E unfairly when 
it approved the loan.
Based on what Ive seen, theres nothing in the information gathered by NatWest to indicate 
that the loan wasnt likely to be sustainably affordable for Miss E. 
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not persuaded that NatWest lent irresponsibly to Miss E.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 June 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman