DRN-3732937
The complaint
Mr A complained that QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) provided an unfair settlement under his home 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr A reported to QIC a leak which originated from his neighbours property. Mr A made a 
claim and QIC appointed a surveyor to review the damage. A cash settlement of £3,275.32 
less the policy excess was offered. Mr A was unhappy with the settlement as he thought he 
should be paid £46,000-£47,000 which was in line with two quotes hed submitted from his 
own contractors. Mr A was also unhappy he had to pay the policy excess (which had been 
deducted from his settlement). A de-humidifier was used to dry the property and Mr A said 
QIC hadnt fairly refunded the costs hed incurred on electricity.
QIC said it offered a cash settlement in line with its policy  it reviewed the quotes. Some of 
the work was betterment to what was covered under the claim, so it wouldnt cover these 
costs. QIC also considered the parts of the quote that fell within the scope of the damaged 
works covered by the claim. As the costs exceeded what QIC wouldve expected the costs to 
be for its own contractors to do the work, it capped the settlement at this level.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. He thought the settlement offer made 
by QIC covered the damage thats claimable on the policy for the incident that wasnt pre-
existing. He said this is the same amount it would cost QIC if its own contractors were to 
complete the repairs. Mr A disagreed, so the complaint has been referred to an ombudsman.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this on 31 August 2022. I said:
There is a significant gap in the quotes Mr A submitted for having the repairs done to his 
property and the settlement value that QIC offered. When the claim was made by Mr A, a 
surveyor was sent out to assess the damage and to estimate what the cost of the repairs 
would be. Its common for the insurer to appoint its own approved contractors to complete the 
works. But, I can see on the surveyors report, he said due to the number of background 
issues on this claim (pre-existing damage to the kitchen base units, un-tanked cellar suspect 
damage to the ceramic floor tiles, etc) it would be very unwise to expect a contractor to carry 
out the works and we should enforce cash settlement.
I can see QIC followed this advice, so it asked Mr A to submit quotes for the work by his own 
contractors. He submitted two quotes. I can see QIC responded to these quotes in detail, as 
the scope of the quotes was far broader than repairing the damage from the leak. QIC said it 
would only cover the damage that was caused by the leak. I think this is fair, as the claim 
was made for the leak and this is what the policy covered. Therefore, I think QIC has been 
reasonable in not settling items not covered in the claim.
I have considered the settlement QIC made for the damage that was in scope for the claim. I 
can see Mr A was unhappy that he had to pay the excess that was on the policy, which was 
deducted from his settlement. This reduced his settlement by £500 and he didnt think it was 
fair. However, I have checked the policy, and it clearly sets out that Mr A is responsible for 
the first amount of any claim. The excess payment was set by Mr A when he took out the 
policy, and this is stated as £500 in his policy schedule. So, I think QIC has been fair to 
deduct the excess payment from the settlement amount. This is a common approach across 
the insurance industry.
I have considered how QIC arrived at the settlement value it offered Mr A. It said it limited 
the liability at the cost it would have been had its own contractors done the work. However, I 
dont think this is reasonable in these circumstances. I havent been able to find any specific 
term in the policy that limits QICs liability in this way. I can also see in its policy that it states:
If we cannot offer rebuilding work, repairs or replacements (as defined by us) through our 
preferred contractor, we will pay you: (a) fair and reasonable costs to have the work carried 
out by your chosen supplier.
It appears QIC has only paid a cash settlement for the same amount it would have cost 
[QIC] to use [QICs] preferred contractor. I dont think this is reasonable. QIC said it didnt 
want its contractor to do the works, therefore its obliged to pay fair and reasonable costs to 
have the work carried out by [Mr As] chosen supplier as is set out in its policy. If QIC thinks 
the costs submitted by Mr A for his contractors are unreasonable, then QIC needs to 
demonstrate this fairly and provide a settlement in line with what is a reasonable cost for Mr 
A to secure his own reputable contractor to do the in scope work. Therefore, I intend to 
uphold this part of the complaint. I intend for QIC to reconsider the claim and settle it in line 
with the remaining terms and conditions (i.e. settle at fair and reasonable costs to have the 
work carried out by [Mr As] chosen supplier). 
Mr A has without this additional settlement, so I intend that QIC should add 8% simple 
interest to the additional amount (from the date of the claim to the date the additional 
settlement is paid). The dispute on the settlement has delayed Mr A receiving the cash to 
address the repairs which will have left him living in difficult conditions for longer than 
necessary. Mr A said his kitchen was unusable and he has been relying on food donations 
and takeaways. Therefore, for the distress and inconvenience the delays have caused, I 
intend that QIC pay £300 in compensation.
Ive considered Mr As complaint on the reimbursement of the dehumidifying costs. However, 
I think QIC has calculated this fairly based upon the length of time the unit was used for and 
using a standard reimbursement rate. I think this is reasonable.
Responses to my provisional decision
QIC said it had arranged to view Mr As property again and asked for me to delay the issue 
of the final decision until it had done this. QIC didnt comment on whether it accepted my 
provisional decision.
Mr A asked some questions to clarify what my provisional decision meant, and the 
investigator responded to these. Mr A didnt comment on whether he accepted my 
provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would expect QIC to re-visit the property as part of its role in re-considering the claim. 
Therefore, I think its already started to implement the findings of my provisional decision. I dont think its appropriate to delay issuing my final decision. QIC will need to communicate 
directly with Mr A in taking forward the agreement and settlement of the claim. The revised 
offer will need to be aligned to what Ive set out in my decision and will need to reflect the 
current cost of labour and materials. 
However, given neither party has provided any new information, I see no reason to change 
my provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint, I require QIC Europe Ltd to:
reconsider the claim and settle it in line with the remaining terms and conditions
add 8% simple interest* to the additional amount (from the date of the claim to the 
date the additional settlement is paid)
pay Mr A £300 compensation**  for distress and inconvenience.
*HM Revenue and Customs requires QIC Europe Ltd to take off tax from this interest. QIC 
must give a certificate showing how much tax its taken off it if Mr A asks for one.
**QIC Europe Ltd must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it 
that Mr A accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman