DRN-2620456
The complaint
Mr D complains that Aviva Insurance Limited caused delays to his motor insurance claim 
resulting in distress and inconvenience. He is also unhappy with the customer service he 
received following his claim.
All references to Aviva will include its agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I agree with the conclusions of the investigators for these reasons:
Theres no dispute that Aviva caused unnecessary delays in settling Mr Ds claim 
under his motor insurance policy. Mr D paid for the repairs himself and at the point of 
bringing his complaint to our service in May 2020, he still hadnt received the 
payment despite accepting Avivas offer in March 2020, which included the cost for 
the parts and compensation of £125 for the inconvenience it caused. I know Aviva 
have said that it didnt receive Mr Ds emails with his bank details but Im satisfied the 
evidence supports that he sent these to the insurer in March as he said he did.
Since the complaint has been with our service Aviva have offered to add 8% interest 
to the claim amount as well as increasing its offer for the distress and inconvenience 
caused to £150. Mr D would like £250 which he says is because he thinks Aviva 
should be punished for the way it has dealt with his claim and his complaint 
particularly since it has been with our service. 
However, Mr D should note that my role isnt to punish financial businesses  this is 
the role of their regulator. Instead I need to assess the impact of the mistake in each 
individual case. He should also note that complaint handling isnt a regulated activity 
so I cant comment on the issues hes raised about this.
In this case, Mr D had to arrange the repairs himself so was only seeking the cost of 
the parts. I can see Aviva did initially say an excess would apply but this decision 
was reversed following further correspondence with Mr D. Under the circumstances, I 
think this is reasonable.
I appreciate Aviva made mistakes in terms of some of the information it gave Mr D 
during the claims process. Whilst Mr D feels he was lied to, Ive not seen any 
evidence to support this being anything other than genuine mistakes by the relevant 
claims handlers.
Nonetheless, I can see that he was caused distress and inconvenience by having to 
chase matters up with Aviva on several occasions. And also due to the delay in 
reimbursing him for the parts hes already paid for.
I agree that the service from Aviva particularly in not responding to Mr Ds emails 
seeking to settle the claim, was below the expected standard. But overall, taking 
everything into account as Ive outlined above, I think Avivas revised offer £150, is 
fair. I also note it has agreed to pay Mr D 8% simple interest to be added to the 
settlement figure. Im satisfied this reasonably compensates Mr D for the delays in 
terms of the payment he made for the parts. 
For all these reasons, Im upholding the complaint.  I think the offer made by Aviva since the 
complaint has been with our service, is fair.
Putting things right
To resolve Mr Ds complaint, Aviva Insurance Limited should:
If not paid already, settle the full cost of the repairs which was £410.56 adding 8% 
simple interest from the time Mr D paid for the parts until the date of settlement;
Pay £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld and Aviva Insurance Limited should 
pay Mr D the redress as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2021.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman