DRN-2568030
Complaint
Mr F has complained that Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G) provided him with an unaffordable 
loan. He says he doesnt feel that L2G did the appropriate checks before lending him the 
money.  
  
Background
L2G provided Mr F with a loan of £750 in June 2019. This loan had an APR of 1,013.2% and 
an 18-month term. This all meant the total amount repayable of £3,085.56 was due to be 
repaid in 18 instalments of £171.42.
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought that L2G unfairly provided this 
loan to Mr F as proportionate checks would have shown it was unaffordable. L2G disagreed 
with our adjudicator and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive
referred to this when deciding Mr Fs complaint. Having carefully thought about everything, I 
think that there are two overarching questions that I need to answer in order to fairly and 
reasonably decide Mr Fs complaint. These two questions are:
1. Did L2G complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr F 
would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way?
o If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
o If not, would those checks have shown that Mr F wouldve been able to do 
so?
2. Did L2G act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did L2G complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr F would be 
able to repay his loan in a sustainable way?
L2G provided this loan while it was authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). The rules and regulations in place required L2G to carry out a reasonable 
and proportionate assessment of Mr Fs ability to make the repayments under this 
agreement. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or 
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so L2G had to think about whether repaying the 
loan would cause significant adverse consequences for Mr F. In practice this meant that L2G 
had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt cause Mr F undue difficulty or 
adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for L2G to simply think about the likelihood of
it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr F.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an 
extended period); and
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances.
Ive carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.
Were L2Gs checks reasonable and proportionate?
L2G says that it carried out an income and expenditure assessment with Mr F prior to 
providing him with this loan. It also carried out a credit check. Mr F declared that he was 
earning around £1,800.00 a month and had expenditure of around £584 a month. L2Gs 
checks suggested his income was closer to £1,770.00 and his declared expenditure was 
closer to £1,420.00. But this still left him with enough to cover the payments to this loan. 
Ive carefully considered what L2G has said. But the credit check it carried out showed Mr F 
had at least one account in difficulty and a number of short-term loans. This coupled with 
L2G not being confident in the expenditure information Mr F provided, such that it adjusted 
the figures and its adjustments not capturing all of Mr Fs expenditure lead me to think that 
L2G needed to take steps to verify Mr Fs actual monthly expenditure. As I cant see that this L2G did do this, I dont think that the checks it carried out before 
providing Mr F with his loan were reasonable and proportionate.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have indicated to L2G that Mr F would have 
been unable to repay this loan?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before this loan was provided,
I cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So I need to decide whether it is more likely
than not that a proportionate check would have told L2G that Mr F would have been unable 
to sustainably repay this loan.
L2G was required to establish whether Mr F could make his loan repayments without 
experiencing significant adverse consequences  not just whether the loan payments were 
technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Ive carefully considered the information provided. Having done so, its clear that Mr F was 
gambling significant sums of money. All of his available funds were pretty much being used 
for this purpose. I think the proportionate checks would have shown L2G that he was likely to 
use this loan for this purpose, or to at least cover the hole using his available funds in the 
way he did left in his finances, which meant he was unlikely to be able to repay it without 
borrowing further or suffering significant adverse consequences.
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would
more likely than not have demonstrated that Mr F would not have been able to make the
repayments to this loan without borrowing further and/or suffering undue difficulty. And, in 
these circumstances, I find that reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely than 
not have alerted L2G to the fact that Mr F was in no sort of position to make the payments 
on this loan without suffering significant adverse consequences.
Did L2G act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr F in some other way?
Ive carefully thought about everything provided. And having done so, Ive not seen anything 
to suggest that L2G acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr F in some other way. So I 
dont think L2G acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr F in some other way.
Did Mr F lose out as a result of L2G unfairly providing him with this loan?
As Mr F paid a high amount of interest and charges on a loan that he shouldnt have been 
provided with, Im satisfied that he has lost out as a result of what L2G did wrong. So I think 
that L2G needs to put things right.
  
Fair compensation  what I think L2G needs to do to put things right for Mr F
Having thought about everything, L2G should put things right for Mr F by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges Mr F paid as a result of having been 
provided with this loan;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded amounts from the date 
they were paid by Mr F to the date of settlement
removing any adverse information recorded on Mr Fs credit file as a result of this 
loan.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires L2G to take off tax from this interest. L2G must give    Mr F a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Fs complaint. Loans 2 Go Limited needs to 
put things right in the way set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman