DRN-3198694
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) declined to provide him with 
motor insurance cover.
What happened
Mr S held a motor insurance policy with Aviva and the policy was due for renewal in June 
2021.
Aviva declined renewal and said that this was due to fault claims which had been made on 
Mr Ss separate motorhome insurance policy within the previous 12 months. 
Mr S raised a complaint with Aviva however it didnt uphold his complaint. Mr S then 
complained to this service. Our investigators view was that Aviva had not acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in declining Mr S insurance. He said that insurers didnt need to accept every 
customer and could decide on the commercial criteria for provision of insurance. He 
considered that Aviva had acted fairly within its underwriting criteria. In response to Mr Ss 
further comments, our investigator stated:- Aviva hasn't marked your insurance with any 
claims, not voided your cover or taken away any no claims bonus. Aviva hasn't therefore led 
to any increases in your insurance premium, they just said they wouldn't insure you based 
on the claims.
Mr S is unhappy with the outcome of his complaint and wants car insurance rules to be 
amended to address this issue. He has noted that the lowest quote he received to insure his 
car was for £4,500. The matter has been referred to me to make a final decision in my role 
as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its my role to decide whether Aviva has acted in a fair and reasonable manner in making its 
decision to decline Mr S insurance cover. Ive concluded that Aviva did, and Ill explain why. I 
note Mr Ss frustration with the way in which the criteria for declining cover operates. 
However, Im not able to consider or implement a change in car insurance rules.
Ive noted that, on renewal, Mr S rightly and properly made it known to Aviva that four claims 
had been made on his motorhome insurance policy during the previous 12 months. These 
were recorded as fault claims. These incidents occurred within a relatively short period prior 
to renewal.     
Mr S said that he was unhappy that Aviva had assessed the matter using claims on, what he 
considered to be, an unrelated motorhome policy. He felt that Aviva had acted unfairly by 
judging his driving of a huge motorhome on country lanes for the purpose of his car 
insurance policy. He also noted the fragile nature of a motorhomes body panels and 
susceptibility to damage.
Mr S stated that he was, in general, a careful driver. In summary, he stated that his 
complaint is that; it is unfair to class me as a high risk driver of a car based on 3 minor 
accidents in my large motorhome, which did not involve any third parties, together with one
act of vandalism which was definitely not my fault.
Mr S also said that none of the accidents had actually been his fault. He said that he was 
driving at less than 5mph; I was not driving dangerously, nobody was hurt, no property was 
damaged. He thought that Aviva should have taken the circumstances of the accidents into 
consideration. Finally, he stated that he had not had an accident while driving cars (rather 
than a motorhome) for over 10 years.
Aviva stated that its system generated a decline. It said that the matter was also referred to 
its underwriting team and it confirmed the position that it considered a drivers full driving 
history when assessing the risk. It said that; 'When the policy has been re-rated to include 
the additional claims information, our underwriting criteria has not been met. It also said that 
its underwriters make it clear that, if a driver has made three or more claims within the 
previous 12 months, Aviva wont offer insurance. At renewal, the history will have been 
assessed and rated as part of its risk evaluation exercise.
Aviva took the view that the risks of Mr S having an accident in his car were higher than it 
was willing to accept in the light of his recent driving history. It stated: - As 3 of these claims 
were at fault accidents, this is considered in our assessment of the drivers record, we take 
this into consideration as [Mr Ss] driving history. We don't penalise the policy holder, as we 
haven't reduced his no claims discount (claims were not made on Aviva policy) however, we 
do consider this in our overall assessment of the drivers driving record and history 
Aviva stated that the higher quotes for on-going insurance cover would be due to Mr Ss 
driving history and claims made and would have been reflective of the insurance risk posed 
(and therefore not due to any action it had taken). I note that Aviva wrote to Mr S in July 
2021 to confirm that he has a protected no claims discount of 11 years. 
Ive had sight of Avivas insurance criteria, which are to decline insurance for any driver with 
three or more fault claims within the previous 12 months. This service cant require a 
business to change its underwriting criteria and its a commercial decision for a business to 
decide the risks it is willing to cover. Im satisfied that it was reasonable to decline insurance 
based on underwriters criteria.
Im also satisfied that Aviva reasonably made its risk assessment based on these criteria 
and the number of claims Mr S made in the previous 12 months. The claims were part of Mr 
Ss overall driving history and were correctly noted on his claims record. This would 
inevitably raise questions for an insurer as to the level of risk in providing insurance to Mr S, 
as it would need to deal with any future claims on his policy. This is because the driving 
history of fault claims in driving a motorhome forms part of that history and overall risk of 
having accidents when driving. This is regardless of vehicle type and regardless of the 
nature and amount of damage. Im also satisfied that Aviva treated Mr S in the same way as 
any other person who may have been in the same position. 
I further note that Aviva hasnt reduced Mr Ss no claims discount which has since been 
confirmed by Aviva to be at a level of 11 years and protected. I also note that the vandalism 
claim wasnt considered in the driving history.
I appreciate that Mr S will be disappointed by this decision, however Im satisfied that Aviva 
has acted in a fair and reasonable manner in declining insurance cover to Mr S.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont intend to uphold Mr Ss complaint and I dont direct 
Aviva Insurance Limited to do any more in response to his complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2022.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman