DRN-3088421
The complaint
Miss B complained that Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 Money) 
irresponsibly provided her with an unaffordable loan.
What happened
118 118 Money provided Miss B with a loan as follows:
Date taken Amount Term Monthly repayment Date repaid
25/07/20 £1,000 12 months £102.07 10/03/21
Miss B was mainly concerned about whether 118 118 Money had done proper checks 
before lending to her. She said this loan left her in a downward spiral of debt which meant 
she had to keep on borrowing. She felt the interest rate was too high and that 
118 118 Money didnt give her any help when she said she was struggling to pay the loan  
instead it carried on adding interest, with the result that she is still paying debt years down 
the line.
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint. After completing her investigation, she 
didnt think that 118 118 Money had done anything wrong when it provided the loan. Our 
adjudicator explained why she was recommending that the complaint shouldnt be upheld.   
Miss B disagreed with our adjudicators view. She mainly said that the loan was given to her 
even though a credit card she hadnt paid had been passed to debt collectors. So her 
complaint comes to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending complaints 
on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. 
Id like to reassure Miss B that I've looked at the complaint afresh and independently 
reviewed all the available information, including what Miss B said in response to our 
adjudicators view. Having done so, I am not upholding Miss Bs complaint for broadly the 
same reasons as our adjudicator. Ill explain why. 
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. Lenders must work out if a borrower can 
sustainably afford the loan repayments alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower 
also has to pay. This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation  a proportionate check might also 
require the lender to find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify 
the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think about whether theres any other 
reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender shouldve 
realised that the loan was likely to lead to significant adverse consequences or more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
118 118 Money gathered some information from Miss B about her financial situation before it 
agreed the loan. It completed income verification with a third party and checked Miss Bs 
credit file to understand her existing monthly credit commitments and credit history. 
The credit checks 118 118 Money carried out showed that Miss B wasnt involved in any sort 
of arrangement with creditors and bankruptcy wasnt flagged up. She had no active county 
court judgements registered and no significant adverse information shown on her record. 
I think its fair to say that all the information 118 118 Money had gathered tended to suggest 
that Miss B seemed to be managing her credit without any signs that she had a serious debt 
problem. Whilst the credit checks 118 118 Money obtained showed that Miss B had 
previously had some money problems and she had gone over the £500 limit on one of her 
credit cards, she still had plenty of available credit she wasnt using, her active accounts 
generally seemed to be well managed and it looked like shed only taken out two loans in the 
last 6 months. In total she owed just over £600 spread over two card accounts. 
It wouldnt be unusual for someone applying for this type of lending to have other debt  and 
sometimes even an impaired credit history. And these wouldnt necessarily be fair reasons 
not to lend. I dont think the amount of debt shown on Miss Bs credit checks was excessive 
having regard to her income or that anything else revealed in the credit checks 
118 118 Money carried out was enough for me to say that a responsible lender shouldve 
realised it needed to find out more before lending or that it should have refused the loan 
application altogether. 
Miss B says 118 118 Money shouldve known she was in financial difficulties at the time it 
lent to her and shes sent us information, including bank statements, to support what she 
says. But I think it was fair for 118 118 Money to decide Miss Bs lending application based 
on the information it was reasonably entitled to rely on at the time. I dont think it was 
unreasonable for 118 118 Money to lend here  especially as there wasnt anything obvious, 
in the information it had, to suggest Miss B wouldnt be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way. 
The loan appeared to be affordable looking at Miss Bs income and the information 118 118 
Money had gathered. And I dont think proportionate checks wouldve required 118 118 
Money to probe any more deeply into Miss Bs finances or ask Miss B to prove what she was 
declaring (by requiring her to send in her bank statements for instance) or check other 
information sources to verify what she had told the lender (or omitted to say) about her 
financial circumstances. 
I accept that Miss Bs actual circumstances possibly werent fully reflected either in the 
information she provided, or the other information 118 118 Money obtained. But in order to 
uphold this complaint I have to be able to say a lender did something wrong. In this case, 
I dont think that 118 118 Money did anything wrong in deciding to lend this loan to Miss B. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that 118 118 Money should pay redress for any other 
reason. Miss B hasnt commented on that and I havent seen anything which makes me think 
118 118 Money acted unfairly towards Miss B in any other way. Ive thought about what Miss B has said about the high cost of the interest on this loan. I can appreciate that Miss B might 
now feel this was unfair. But the loan documents set out the terms and the amount of 
interest payable. Miss B had to actively engage in the loan application process and I think 
Miss B wouldve understood that it was up to her to choose whether or not she wanted to go 
ahead with the loan offered.   
Taking everything into account, I think Miss B was aware she was taking a high cost loan on 
terms she seemed happy to agree at the time. So I cant fairly say that the high cost of this 
credit is a reason for me to uphold Miss Bs complaint. And I havent seen anything to make 
me think that 118 118 Money treated her unfairly overall or in a way that would warrant 
financial compensation. 
I appreciate this is a disappointing outcome for Miss B but hope setting out the reasons as 
Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my conclusions. Miss B has repaid this loan, but 
if she would like information about how to get free debt advice and other support I would 
encourage her to have a look at our website  or we can provide contact details if she gives 
us a call. 
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman