DRN-2704138
The complaint
Mr B complains that Monzo bank plc wont refund disputed transactions made on his 
account totalling £7,500.
What happened
On the 6 January and 7 January 2020 disputed transactions totalling £7.500 were carried out 
using Mr Bs Monzo debit card. In total there were seven payments made to a gambling 
website, Ill call V. Prior to the disputed transactions Mr Bs account was funded with 
transfers from his account with a third party bank Ill call Bank L.
On the 10 January 2020 Mr B contacted Monzo and explained that his son had made the 
transactions without his permission. Monzo didnt refund Mr Bs transactions. In summary 
they thought he most likely authorised them. 
Mr B didnt accept Monzos conclusions so brought his complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Bs complaint but didnt uphold it. They thought that 
the transactions were unauthorised but Mr B had failed with intent to protect his debit card. 
Therefore he wasnt eligible for a refund.
Mr B didnt agree. So it was referred to me for a decision. 
On reviewing Mr Bs case I came to a similar conclusion to our investigator but for slightly 
different reasons. I issued my Provisional Decision on the 2 March 2021 giving both Mr B 
and Monzo until the 16 March 2021 to accept or reject my decision and provide any further 
comments. 
Both parties confirmed receiving my decision and neither had any further comments to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not minded to change the outcome I reached in my Provisional Decision. 
And Ill explain why below. 
In my Provisional Decision I said:
Generally, Monzo can hold Mr B liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence suggests 
that its more likely than not that he made or authorised them himself. 
Im satisfied from the banks technical evidence that Mr Bs genuine card was used to make 
the disputed transactions. But the regulations relevant to this case say that is not, on its own, 
enough to enable Monzo to hold him liable. So I also need to think about whether the 
evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Mr B consented to the transactions 
being made.
From what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Monzo to conclude that Mr B 
authorised the transactions. This is because:
Mr Bs suggested that his son carried out the disputed transactions. The gambling 
account with V was funded using Mr Bs debit card  including the long card number 
and CVV. To carry out the disputed transactions Mr Bs son needed access to this. 
Hes explained that the debit card was kept in his phone case, which he gave to his 
son to use. 
Monzo have evidenced that text messages and in app messages were sent to Mr Bs 
phone after every disputed transaction. The disputed transactions occurred on the 
evening of the 6 January 2020 over a period of 5 hours and then at 10:49pm on the 
7 January 2020. This means that Mr Bs son would have needed access to Mr Bs 
phone for a long period of time.
A fraudster also needed access to Mr Bs online banking account with Bank L. Mr Bs 
explained that his online banking details, along with passwords for all his other 
accounts including V, were saved on his phone. Even if I accept Mr Bs explanation 
that his passwords were saved on his phone I need to consider how Mr Bs son 
gained access to them. Mr B explains that his son added his fingerprint to his phone 
without Mr Bs knowledge. I understand that to add another fingerprint on to a phone 
Mr Bs son would need either Mr Bs password or his fingerprint  therefore Im 
unsure how this was possible without Mr Bs knowledge. 
Mr B didnt notify Monzo about the fraud until three days later on the 
10 January 2020. I find it surprising he didnt notice sooner considering the funds 
were removed from both his account with Monzo and Bank L. 
Just under an hour prior to the disputed transactions a payment was made to a 
lottery company for £100. Mr B doesnt dispute this payment. And then prior to the 
last disputed transaction Mr Bs account was funded with a credit from the same 
lottery company. I find it unusual that the only transactions carried out during the time 
period of the disputed transactions were gambling transactions with another 
company. And without the credit coming into his account on the same day Mr Bs 
account would have insufficient funds to carry out the last disputed transaction. 
Mr Bs explained that the account with V was registered in his name. And hes 
explained hes previously funded his V account from Bank L. I find it surprising that 
Mr Bs son would choose to use an account that Mr B has previously gambled with 
and set up himself. 
Taking everything into account, I think on balance Mr B authorised the disputed transactions. 
And it therefore follows Monzo are entitled to hold him liable for them. 
Neither Mr B or Monzo had any further comments to add in response to my Provisional 
Decision. Therefore I see no reason to change the outcome I reached. And for the reasons I explained above I think on balance Mr B authorised the disputed transactions, and I wont be 
asking Monzo to do anything further here.  
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman