DRN-1947153
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L have complained that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a mortgage 
payment protection (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs L took out the PPI at the same time as arranging their mortgage in 2000. Mr and 
Mrs L say that this was during their mortgage meeting although Nationwides records cant 
confirm the method of sale.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs L disagree with the adjudicators 
opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ls complaint and Ill explain why.
Nationwide no longer has any paperwork from the sale of the mortgage or PPI, which is not 
surprising given how long ago the sale took place, especially as the mortgage and PPI both 
ended in 2005. This does however make the complaint more difficult to decide. In reaching 
my decision I have considered the information that we do have, as well as what I consider is 
most likely to have happened.
Mr and Mrs L say they dont recall much detail about what was discussed during the meeting 
although they have a vague recollection of being asked about their willingness to take risks 
with their money.
From what we know of Nationwides sales process for PPI at the time, the policy would 
normally have been presented as optional. I havent seen anything that would lead me to 
conclude that something different happened in this case. And Mr and Mrs L havent said that 
they werent given a choice about it. So overall, I consider that Mr and Mrs L decided to buy 
the policy, knowing that they didnt have to.
Mr and Mrs L say that if they had been given the correct advice from Nationwide in 2000, as 
they were by a financial adviser when they switched mortgage in 2005, they wouldnt have 
taken out the PPI. But we also know that Nationwide usually sold PPI on a non-advised 
basis. A non-advised sale means that Nationwide didnt recommend PPI to customers or ask 
about their circumstances to assess whether the policy was suitable. Instead it provided 
information for people to make their own minds up about whether or not to buy it. 
Mr and Mrs L say they were made to feel that they should buy PPI. Ive thought very 
carefully about this and whether or not its possible that the adviser strayed into advising 
about the policy or pressuring them to take it out. Ive considered this in the context of the 
sale taking place twenty years ago and that Mr and Mrs L have said that they dont recall 
much about the meeting. I have no doubt that Mr and Mrs L have provided their genuine 
recollection of events, but overall I am not persuaded that Nationwide recommended the 
policy to the couple or that they were coerced into taking it.
Nationwide still needed to provide sufficient information for Mr and Mrs L to make an 
informed decision about whether or not the policy was right for them. It was then up to them 
to weigh up in their own minds the benefits of the policy against the risk of what might 
happen if they didnt have it.
I think that Mr and Mrs L must have known something about the policy  that it would cover 
their mortgage repayments if they were unable to work due to accident, sickness or 
unemployment  because I dont think theyd have decided to take it out without knowing 
anything at all about it.
 
Mr and Mrs L would both have received sick pay from their jobs. But the policy would have 
paid out in addition to any sick pay and potentially for longer than Mr and Mrs L would have 
received full pay for. They have said that family would have helped. But asking your family to 
pay your £800 per month mortgage for you would presumably have been a last resort. And 
other people cant always be relied upon as their circumstances can change. From looking at 
Mr and Mrs Ls circumstances at the time, I am satisfied that the policy was not 
fundamentally wrong or inappropriate for them.
Its possible that Nationwide didnt provide as much information as it should have about the 
policy, particularly about the things that it didnt cover. So its possible that Mr and Mrs L 
made their decision based on incomplete information. The question I need to consider 
therefore is whether this would have made a difference to their decision to take out the 
policy.
The PPI excluded cover for pre-existing medical conditions (PEMC) during the first year of 
the policy. Mr L had a PEMC, however he has told us that it was mild in nature and has 
described himself as being in good health. So, its unlikely hed have thought that this 
condition would be the cause for him having to claim on the policy. And the condition would 
have been covered after the first year in any event. Therefore I dont think that knowing 
about the PEMC exclusion would have deterred Mr and Mrs L from buying the PPI. So. Mr 
and Mrs L are no worse off as a result of anything Nationwide may have done wrong, so 
theres nothing that Nationwide needs to do to put things right.
Mr and Mrs L say they have never taken out PPI again because they now understand that 
they dont need it. However, Im unable to conclude that, because they have since chosen 
not to have PPI, that it was mis-sold by Nationwide in 2000.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 August 2020. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman