DRN-2004887
The complaint
Mrs W says S.D Taylor Limited trading as Loans at Home (LAH) irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
This complaint is about four home collected credit loans LAH provided to Mrs W between 27 
April 2017 and 14 December 2017. Each loan was given to Mrs W for a term of 45 weeks.
Mrs Ws borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date started Date settled Loan 
amountHighest 
weekly 
repayment
1 27/04/2017 14/12/2017 £1,000 £40
2 13/07/2017 03/10/2018 £250 £50
3 31/08/2017 08/05/2019 £250 £60
4 14/12/2017 outstanding £1,000 £100
I understand loan 4 is still outstanding.
In its final response letter LAH didnt agree to uphold Mrs Ws complaint. It said there was no 
sign of irresponsible lending that had taken place on her account.
Our adjudicator upheld Mrs Ws complaint and thought the loans 1 to 4 shouldnt have been 
given. She said that the loans represented a significant proportion of Mrs Ws income. LAH 
disagreed with this assessment. 
In response, it said that when assessing Mrs Ws affordability, it also captured her other 
expenditure which totalled £170 per week and reviewed her credit file. 
LAH said it failed to see how it could have known from loan 1 that Mrs Ws weekly rate was 
unaffordable or unsustainable. It didnt agree to uphold loan 1. But it said it would agree to 
uphold the complaint from loan 2 onwards. It asked for the decision to be reconsidered on 
this basis.
As the parties havent reached agreement the complaint was passed to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
LAH needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs W could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that LAH should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that LAH was required to establish 
whether Mrs W could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Ws complaint.
It seems in response to the adjudicators assessment that LAH has accepted that it was 
wrong to have provided loans 2 to 4. So, Ill briefly deal with these loans first. 
I agree that the complaint about these loans should be upheld. I say this because when 
Mrs W took out loan 2, she was still repaying her first loan. So, Mrs Ws repayments were 
now £50 per week, and her income had decreased to £150 which looks like it was made up 
of benefits. I think this sum represented a significant proportion of Mrs Ws income and was 
unsustainable and unaffordable for her.
Loan 3 was taken out in August 2017. LAH does not have a copy of the application form but 
I note that when it gave Mrs W loan 3, loans 1 and 2 were still outstanding. At this time she borrowed another £250. So, I think this likely represented a large and significant proportion 
of Mrs Ws income. 
Loan 4 was given in December 2017 whilst Mrs W was still repaying all her loans (although I 
can see Mrs W repaid loan 1, on the same day she took out loan 4). Her repayment for this 
loan was £40 and her income was declared as £250 weekly. However, considering the other 
loans Mrs W still had outstanding she would have been repaying around £100 per week. 
Again, in my view, this sum represented a significant and large amount of Mrs Ws declared 
weekly income. In any event taking into account her disposable income as set out in Mrs Ws 
application of £110, this loan was clearly unaffordable and unsustainable.
Turning now to loan 1, LAH doesnt agree that the complaint about this loan should be 
upheld.  It said that loan 1 didnt make up a significant part of Mrs Ws income and it failed to 
see how it could have known this loan would be unaffordable or unsustainable. It also said 
that the fact Mrs W maintained her loan repayments showed she wasnt having any financial 
difficulties. I dont agree with LAH. I agree with our adjudicator and I have decided to uphold 
loan 1. I will explain why.
When Mrs W applied for her first loan, she told LAH that her income was £250 weekly and 
she listed her expenses on the application form as £170 per week. It looks like she would 
have been left with £40 net disposable income. I have thought about the amount of the loan, 
the term it was provided for and the weekly payment compared with Mrs Ws income. I agree 
with our adjudicator that this amount of borrowing represented a significant proportion of 
Mrs Ws income considering the term of the loan. 
I think given this there was a real risk that Mrs W would have problems repaying her loan 
and would likely lead her to either having repayment problems or returning for further loans 
to cover the hole repaying these payments was leaving in her finances. And indeed, after 
loan 1 was granted Mrs W took on a further three loans, of which one still has an outstanding 
balance. So for the same reasons as our adjudicator, I agree that loan 1 shouldnt have been 
given because I dont think this was sustainable or affordable.
Putting things right
LAH shouldnt have given Mrs W loans 1-4.
I understand there is an outstanding balance in respect of loan 4. If that is the case and LAH 
has sold the outstanding debt, it must buy it back if it is able to do so. If it is not able to buy it 
back, it must liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below: 
a) LAH must add together the total of the repayments made by Mrs W towards interest, 
fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including 
anything that has already been refunded; 
b) LAH must calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mrs W 
which were considered as part of paragraph (a) from the date Mrs W originally made 
the payments to the date the complaint is settled; 
c) LAH must remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Mrs W as though they had 
been repayments of principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Mrs W having 
made overpayments, LAH should refund these overpayments with 8%* simple 
interest calculated on the overpayments from the date the overpayments would have arisen to the date the complaint is settled. It must then refund the amounts calculated 
in paragraphs (a) and (b) and move to step (e);
d) If there is still an outstanding balance, then the amounts calculated in (a) and (b) 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on the outstanding loan. If this 
results in a surplus, then the surplus must be repaid to Mrs W. However, if there is 
still an outstanding balance, LAH should try to agree an affordable repayment plan 
with Mrs W. It must not pursue outstanding balances made up of principal it has 
already written off;
e) LAH must remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Ws credit file in respect 
of loans 1 to 4. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires LAH to take off tax from this interest. LAH must give 
Mrs W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mrs Ws complaint. S.D Taylor Limited trading 
as Loans at Home should pay Mrs W compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2020.
 
Nicola Woolf
Ombudsman