DRN-3775711
The complaint
Ms S complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc (Sainsburys) cancelled her car insurance policy 
without her knowledge.
What happened
Ms S took out a car insurance policy through Sainsburys. She paid her premium in 
instalments by direct debit under a credit agreement. Apart from the first instalment, Ms Ss 
payments were due on the 1st day of each month.
Ms S says her car was stolen at the beginning of February 2022. But she says when she 
notified Sainsburys, she was told her policy had been cancelled. Ms S says Sainsburys 
took a direct debit from her account for the policy a day before her car was stolen, so it 
should reinstate the policy and settle her claim. She also says she spent an extensive time 
on hold when she tried to report the car stolen and didnt get a promised call-back from a 
Sainsburys manager when she said she wanted to make a complaint.
Sainsburys upheld Ms Ss complaint in part. It offered to pay Ms S £25 in compensation and 
waive an outstanding balance on her account of £22.78 because she didnt get the promised 
call-back and because of the delay in setting up her complaint. 
But Sainsburys didnt uphold Ms Ss complaint about the policy cancellation. It says it tried 
and failed to collect Ms Ss direct debit twice in January 2022 and, after both attempts, sent 
her a letter and an email telling her this. Sainsburys says when it didnt hear from Ms S by 
the deadline it had set for payment to be made, it cancelled her policy on 31 January. And 
Sainsburys says it wrote to Ms S confirming the cancellation.
Unhappy with this outcome, Ms S brought her complaint to us. The investigator who looked 
at it thought it was fair of Sainsburys to cancel Ms Ss policy due to the non-payment of the
premium under the credit agreement. He said it was also fair of Sainsburys not to cover the 
claim because Ms S didnt have a car insurance policy in place at the time of the theft.
Ms S disagrees with our investigators findings. She says she didnt get any letters from 
Sainsburys and had no reason to open the emails  she thought shed only need them if 
shed had an accident. And she says the payment Sainsburys took from her account by 
direct debit the day before her car was stolen should be recognised as a successful late 
payment and her policy reinstated.
So Ms Ss complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
Ms Ss credit agreement states payments for her policy premium (apart from the first one) 
will be taken by direct debit from her account on the 1st of each month.
Sainsburys tried to take Ms Ss January payment shortly after the New Year holidays. But 
her bank rejected its request. The following then happened:
On 6 January, Sainsburys wrote a letter to Ms S about the missed payment. In it, 
Sainsburys said it would try again to collect the payment in five working days. If this 
was unsuccessful, Sainsburys said it would start the process of cancelling Ms Ss 
policy and continue the process of cancelling her credit agreement. It said her 
payment needed to be up to date by 28 January. Sainsburys gave Ms S the option to 
make a payment by credit or debit card and also notified her she was being charged 
a late payment fee of £20 (as per the terms and conditions of her credit agreement).
On 7 January, Sainsburys sent Ms S an email, headed Important Information 
Regarding your Sainsburys Bank Insurance Policy. This asked Ms S to log into her 
account as soon as possible to read a document  the missed payment letter Ive just 
described  that had been uploaded. Sainsburys also says it sent Ms S a text 
message on the same date
Sainsburys tried to take the payment for a second time and, again, it was rejected by 
Ms Ss bank.
On 17 January, Sainsburys wrote another letter to Ms S to say its second request to 
collect her direct debit had again been rejected by her bank. It said to keep her policy 
in force, Ms S needed to bring her payments up to date before 29 January or her car 
insurance would be cancelled. It said, to keep her policy in force, Ms S needed to pay 
the outstanding balance, including the late payment fee, by credit or debit card before 
29 January either by logging in to its online portal or by phoning up.
On 18 January, Sainsburys sent Ms S an email, again headed Important Information 
Regarding your Sainsburys Bank Insurance Policy. Again, this asked Ms S to log 
into her account as soon as possible to read a document  the second missed 
payment letter Ive just described  that had been uploaded. 
On 31 January, Sainsburys wrote Ms S a letter saying it had cancelled her policy 
with effect from that date.
On 1 February, Sainsburys sent Ms S another email again headed Important 
Information Regarding your Sainsburys Bank Insurance Policy. Again, this asked 
Ms S to log into her account as soon as possible to read a document  the 
cancellation letter Ive just described  that had been uploaded.
Also on 1 February, Sainsburys took a direct debit from Ms Ss account representing 
a premium instalment plus the late payment fee of £20.
Ms S says she didnt get any of the letters Sainsburys wrote to her. And, as Ive mentioned, 
Ms S says she didnt open Sainsburys emails because she didnt think she needed to. She 
says she only looked at them after she found out the policy had been cancelled  at which 
point she says they were blank. As Ive also mentioned, Ms S says her policy shouldve 
stayed in place because Sainsburys took a payment on 1 February which meant thered 
been a successful late payment. Sainsburys says the letters it wrote were sent to the home address Ms S gave when she 
took the policy out and that its emails were sent to the email address Ms S gave at the same 
time. 
In relation to the direct debit taken from Ms Ss account on 1 February, Sainsburys says its 
normal practice is for a request to be sent to its customers bank five working days before 
the payment due date. So it says the payment request for 1 February wouldve been sent 
before the policy was cancelled on 31 January. It says once a request is made its systems 
assume receipt of the payment and, when a policy is cancelled, use it to make the final 
balance calculation. It says it doesnt get confirmation of the receipt of the payment from its 
customers bank until a few days after the payment due date.
I understand Ms S finds herself in a very difficult position following the theft of her car. But I 
dont think Sainsburys has treated Ms S unfairly or unreasonably in cancelling her policy. It 
wrote to Ms S twice before it cancelled it, giving her reasonable notice of the cancellation if 
she didnt make the missed payment by the deadline it gave her. And it wrote to Ms S to tell 
her the policy had been cancelled on the day it was cancelled. The letters Sainsburys wrote 
were sent to Ms Ss address and, although Ms S says she didnt get them, I think its likely 
Sainsburys sent them. If the letters went astray, I dont think this is Sainsburys fault.
In addition to writing three letters, Sainsburys also sent Ms S three emails (and says it also 
sent her a text message), asking her to log on to its portal to view a document there. The 
emails dont refer to cancellation in the headings  but they do refer to important 
information about Ms Ss insurance policy. So I think the emails wouldve stood out from 
general marketing correspondence from Sainsburys. I understand Ms S either didnt see the 
emails or didnt think she needed to read them. But thats not something I can hold 
Sainsburys responsible for.
Ms S thinks the payment Sainsburys took from her on 1 February was a successful late 
payment, so her policy should still be in place. I dont agree. Ms Ss policy had already been 
cancelled by that date. And Sainsburys has explained how its direct debit process works. At 
the time it wouldve requested the February payment from Ms Ss bank (five days before the 
due date), Ms S was still within the deadline Sainsburys had set of 29 January to bring her 
January payment up to date. So it wouldve been wrong of Sainsburys to cancel the direct 
debit then. I think its fair and reasonable that Sainsburys subsequently applied the 1 
February payment against the balance Ms S owed it following the policy cancellation. 
Ms S has shown us copies of her bank statements from the beginning of January and the 
beginning of February, both showing her account in credit for the dates they show. 
Sainsburys has told us that when a customers bank shows a direct debit as being unable 
to be paid  as it says Ms Ss bank did  this is because there are insufficient funds in the 
account for the payment to be made. Ive seen no evidence that Ms Ss account was in 
credit on the two dates when Sainsburys requested the payment. 
As a goodwill gesture, Sainsburys has offered to waive the outstanding balance on Ms Ss 
account of £22.78 and to pay her compensation of £25 as an apology for its delay in logging 
her complaint and not calling her back as it promised. Ms S should contact Sainsburys 
directly if she would like to accept its offer.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Ms Ss complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2022.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman