DRN-3331932
The complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC delayed providing a mortgage offer to his 
solicitors, which he says caused him distress. 
What happened
Mr M held a mortgage with Barclays. He applied, via a broker, to port this mortgage to a new 
property.
Barclays agreed to port the mortgage. There were issues with the mortgage offer it initially 
produced, specifically around the interest rate deal applicable. This led to the offer being re-
issued with an amendment. Mr M complained about these problems. That complaint was 
dealt with under a separate complaint reference number by our service, where another 
Ombudsman issued a final decision on the matter. I wont be revisiting any part of that 
complaint here, other than to note that a corrected mortgage offer was first issued on 
9 December 2020.
Barclays records show that Mr Ms solicitors wrote to it on 18 January 2021 noting that the 
purchase price on the mortgage offer needed to be amended. 
Barclays responded to the solicitors via email on 19 January 2021, asking that the broker 
submit a request for this to be varied.
Barclays received the request to vary the offer on 3 February 2021. The required change 
was made to the mortgage offer and the updated version was provided to the broker on 12 
February 2021. But it appears the required copy wasnt provided to the solicitor until several 
days later.
The completion went ahead as scheduled on 23 February 2021, with the mortgage drawn 
down.
Mr M complained to Barclays that it had delayed providing the mortgage offer, which had 
caused unnecessary stress, as the other parties in the chain had suggested they would pull 
out if completion had not taken place by 23 February 2021. Barclays initially didnt address 
these concerns, so the complaint was referred to our service.
One of our Investigators looked into the complaint and thought Barclays hadnt handled the 
application as well as it should. So, he recommended that Barclays pay £150 for the upset 
caused.
Mr M said he didnt feel this went far enough to address the distress caused. He also didnt 
think this would suitably deter Barclays from making similar mistakes in the future or prompt 
it to review its processes.
Barclays responded, apologising for not having addressed this aspect of Mr Ms complaint 
sooner. It acknowledged that it couldve handled matters better than it did. And so, to put 
things right, it offered to pay Mr M £200 for the upset caused.
Our Investigator put that proposal to Mr M, noting they felt this revised offer was fair. But 
Mr M still didnt feel the offer was sufficient. As a result, the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays records show that Mr Ms solicitors wrote to it on 18 January 2021, saying that the 
purchase price noted in the offer needed to be changed. Barclays has said the letter 
referenced a similar request having been made several weeks earlier, by fax. Barclays 
doesnt however have record of receiving that fax. It isnt clear what has happened regarding 
that earlier request. I dont doubt the solicitors attempted to send it  as the mortgage offer 
issued on 9 December 2020 apparently contained the wrong purchase price for the property. 
And I dont know why it wasnt ultimately received. Regardless of the reasons behind this 
though Barclays has acknowledged that it couldve dealt with things better than it did, after 
the follow up request was received from the solicitor.
I think Barclays was right to follow its process and say a variation needed to be requested by 
the broker. And I dont think it is responsible for this not being received until 3 February 
2021. But it then took several days for the amendment to be made  even though Barclays 
seems to have been aware of the need for urgency. Barclays has acknowledged this took 
longer than it usually should have. There then also seems to have been a delay of several 
days between sending the broker copy of the mortgage offer and providing the required copy 
to the solicitors. So, I also think Barclays couldve handled this better than it did  which it 
accepts. With that in mind, Ive thought about what the fair way to address this is.
The mortgage and the completion of the property chain did ultimately go ahead as 
scheduled on 23 February 2021.  So, Mr M did not incur any additional costs in respect of 
this.
I do think though this wouldve caused Mr M distress. I would at this point explain however 
that our service is not a regulator. And it is not our role to fine or punish businesses where 
something has gone wrong. Rather we look at what we think is fair and reasonable, in the 
circumstances of the complaint  awarding compensation for the impact of mistakes.
Mr M has provided us email exchanges to support that he was being pressured by other 
parties in the chain to complete by 23 February 2021. And I can understand why the delay to 
the mortgage offer gave him concern that this might not happen. Im conscious though that, 
while I think Barclays did cause some delays, it deals with a large number of applications at 
any one time. And I think it is reasonable that requests for amendments and documents 
being re-issued would not be dealt with instantly. And the delays here I can reasonably 
attribute to Barclays appear to have only amounted to a few days. Barclays is also not 
responsible for the pressure being applied from other parties within the chain  which I think 
wouldve been the cause of at least some of the stress Mr M was experiencing. And moving 
house, even at the best of times, can be particularly stressful. 
Taking all of that into account, I think the offer that Barclays has now made - to pay £200 for 
the upset caused  is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I uphold this complaint.To put things right Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr M £200  as it has recently offered 
to.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2022.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman