DRN-3750937
The complaint
Mrs V complains that ICICI Bank UK Plc did not do enough to protect her from the financial 
harm caused by an investment scam company, or to help her recover the money once shed 
reported the scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
Mrs V was the victim of an investment scam. She came across an advert for cryptocurrency 
while she was looking for investment opportunities on the internet. She was contacted by 
somebody claiming to work for a company Ill refer to as C. The broker said he would help 
her to make a significant return on her investment and was very persuasive on the phone. 
They had a professional-looking website and advised her to download Anydesk, which 
would give remote access to her trading account. Mrs V was also told to open an account 
with a cryptocurrency exchange company who Ill refer to as B. 
The broker asked her to first purchase cryptocurrency through B and then load the 
cryptocurrency onto an online wallet in her name. She was shown fake screens on Anydesk 
which showed increasing profits, and was able to make a £100 withdrawal, which persuaded 
her that C was legitimate. 
Between 24 February 2021 and 7 May 2021, Mrs V made thirteen online transfers to B 
totalling £139,050 from the account she held with ICICI. She asked to make a withdrawal 
when she needed money to fund her house sale and was told shed first have to register 
the funds to withdraw and then pay a withdrawal fee of £26,000.
Mrs V realised shed been the victim of a scam when she was unable to withdraw her 
money, so she complained to ICICI. But it said it couldnt to obtain a refund and B had 
refused to assist with the recovery of any of the payments.
With the help of a representative, Mrs V complained to ICICI, arguing a lack of action and 
due diligence had resulted in her loss. But ICICI said it had contacted Mrs V on 21 April 
2021, and, during the call, she confirmed shed made the transactions and emailed evidence 
of communications shed received from B to confirm it was genuine. It said if Mrs V had 
raised any concerns during the call, it would have taken steps to prevent further 
transactions. 
ICICI said adequate warnings had been given about how to identify fraud and that when 
registering a beneficiary, a fraud alert makes customers aware that fraudsters may pose as 
legitimate organisations or companies. It also said a warning email was sent in November 
2020, explaining how to spot red flags associated with investment scams.
Mrs V wasnt satisfied and so she complained to this service. She said she rarely makes 
large payments from her account and ICICI failed to protect her by allowing the payments to 
go ahead in quick succession. She explained shes scared because she has no savings and 
is relying on her salary. Shes afraid to use online banking and has lost confidence in 
handling financial matters. Shes also said she was vulnerable at the time the scam took 
place because she had recently suffered a bereavement.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. She felt ICICI should have 
contacted Mrs V on 1 March 2021 when she paid £10,000 to B, as this was an unusually 
high amount. She noted ICICI knew B was a cryptocurrency exchange and she was satisfied 
that, if it had asked appropriate questions, its likely Mrs V would have told her about Cs 
involvement. Based on this information ICICI would have given scam warnings and its likely 
she wouldve discovered the warning about C (which was issued on 15 December 2020) 
from The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), and decided not to make any further 
payments. 
ICICI has asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. Its said it only learned 
of Cs involvement when Mrs V complained as she didnt mention it during the April call. Its 
argued it was under no obligation to question Mrs V as to whether she had any intention to 
make any onward transactions and that B was regulated and authorised by the FCA. Its also 
said its not fair or reasonable to hold it liable for Mrs Vs losses in circumstances where its 
only involvement was to carry out her instructions.
ICICI also argued that the FCA had published a notice in December 2020 that C was 
providing financial services in the UK without its authorisation and that Mrs V would have 
spotted the notice if she had carried out any internet searches before investing. Finally, it 
had said Mrs V should complain to B and that it should reasonably have been aware of the 
information about C on the FCAs website.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here. Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the same reasons. 
Should ICICI refund any money?
Im satisfied all the payments were authorised by Mrs V This is because they were made 
using the legitimate security credentials provided to her ICICI. 
Mrs V believes shes entitled to a refund because, even though she authorised the 
payments, she was the victim of a scam and ICICI should have either done more to stop that 
happening or to help get the money back. 
I am persuaded that at the relevant time C was operating a scam. This is because it wasnt 
registered with the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), yet it was providing financial 
services in the UK, so its likely they were operating a scam. However, where the customer 
has been the victim of a scam, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to 
reimburse the them even though they authorised the payment.
From the evidence Ive seen, the money went to a company in respect of which there were 
no warnings with either the FCA or IOSCO (a warning was added to the register in May 2022 
but this post-dated the disputed transactions). Therefore the extent of what we would expect 
ICICI to have done to protect Mrs V is restricted to triggers, meaning I need to consider 
whether the transactions were so unusual or suspicious that ICICI ought to have intervened to warn Mrs V when she tried to make the payments. ICICI, along with other payment 
services providers, should be monitoring accounts and be on the lookout for unusual 
transactions or other signs of fraud. 
The payments didnt trigger fraud warnings on ICICIs systems. Ive considered the nature of 
the payments in the context of whether they were unusual or uncharacteristic of how Mrs V 
normally ran her account and I agree with our investigator that the payment of £10,000 on 1 
March 2021 should have triggered ICICIs fraud systems because it was for a large amount 
and this was very unusual for the normal spending on her account.
During this call I would expect it to have asked some probing questions in response to which 
I think its likely Mrs V would have explained how shed come into contact with C, the fact 
shed been allowed to withdraw a small amount of money from the trading platform and that 
shed been advised to transfer the cryptocurrency from B to an online wallet. I would then 
expect ICICI to have warned Mrs V about the risks associated with the investment and 
explained that allowing small withdrawals can be a tactic used by fraudsters to build 
confidence. Id also expect it to discuss with her the nature of the checks shed undertaken 
and to give some advice on additional due diligence.
If this had happened, I think its likely Mrs V would have acted on advice to check up on C, 
and that a simple internet search would have shown there was a warning about C on the 
FCA website. 
I havent seen any evidence that Mrs V was keen to take risks. She didnt have a history of 
high-risk investing and I think that if shed had any inkling this might be a scam, its likely she 
would have chosen not to go ahead with the payments. Because of this, I think that ICICI 
missed an opportunity to intervene in circumstances when to do so might have prevented 
her loss. Consequently, Im minded to direct ICICI to refund the money she lost from 1 
March 2021 onwards.
Contributory Negligence
Ive considered whether the settlement should be reduced for contributory negligence, but I 
dont think it does. Mrs V has explained that the scammer was very persuasive on the phone 
and sounded knowledgeable and competent. They also had a professional-looking website 
and she genuinely believed this was a real investment opportunity.
Having considered the circumstances of this scam, Im satisfied it was sophisticated and I 
dont think it was unreasonable for Mrs V to have thought it was genuine. Shes said she did 
some basic online research, and this had left her feeling confident about the investment. As 
did the emails and calls she received. Ive seen no evidence that Mrs V was an experienced 
investor and so I wouldnt expect her to have known how to search for warnings on the FCA 
website without having been advised to do so by ICICI. Consequently, I dont think she 
contributed to her own loss in failing to do so.
My final decision
My final decision is that ICICI Bank UK Plc should: 
refund £137,050.
pay 8% simple interest*, per year, from the respective dates of loss to the date of 
settlement.
*If ICICI Bank UK Plc deducts tax in relation to the interest element of this award it should 
provide Mrs V with the appropriate tax deduction certificate.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 April 2023.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman