DRN-3687566
Complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim 
they made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system they say were misrepresented to them by the supplier.
Mr and Mrs K are represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In May 2019, Mr and Mrs K were contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P to 
talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at their home. After 
being visited by a representative of P, Mr and Mrs K decided to purchase the system and 
finance it through a 10-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was 
subsequently installed.
In May 2021, the CMC made a claim on Mr and Mrs Ks behalf under section 75 of the Act to 
Shawbrook. The CMC said that P had made a number of representations about the system 
that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had induced Mr 
and Mrs K to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said the following misrepresentations 
had been made:
the system would generate free electricity; and
the system would be self-funding; and
the feed in tariff (FIT) and savings on energy bills would provide enough income to 
cover the finance agreement repayments costs.
Shawbrook didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to Mr and Mrs K but it did 
agree that P made an error in one of the unit rates it used to estimate the savings Mr and 
Mrs K could expect to make. So Shawbrook offered compensation amounting to £17.27 
which is the loss caused by the error. It also offered £200 compensation for delays in 
complaint handling. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our investigator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr and Mrs K and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the investigators view explaining that Mr and Mrs K had been 
told the system would pay for itself within a reasonable time frame. It also highlighted that 
Mr and Mrs K had been sold the system solely based on the savings they could gain from 
installing the system as they werent to receive any income at all from the FIT scheme. They 
highlighted that P estimated substantial potential savings over a 25-year period. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mr and Mrs K paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees 
that section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr and Mrs K could claim against 
Shawbrook, the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same 
way they could have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account 
when deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr and 
Mrs K and P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of 
Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities - 
what I think most likely happened, given the evidence that is available and the wider 
surrounding circumstances.
Mr and Mrs K say that during a sales meeting they were told that the system would be 
entirely self-financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. 
Ive considered these, along with the consumers testimony and recollection of the sales 
meeting, to decide on balance what is most likely to have happened. 
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with the consumer, explaining any benefits of the 
system, prior to the consumer agreeing to enter into the contract. 
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with the 
consumers version of events when considering if there have been any untrue statements of 
fact. 
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.The loan agreement clearly sets out the cash price of the goods.
Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs K were told that the cost of the system was £9,537.75. The 
quote sets this out clearly. This is also supported by the credit agreement which sets out that 
the cash price of the system was £9,537.75. The total amount of credit is £9,437.75 (after 
deducting a deposit of £100) and goes on to show that the total amount payable would be 
£13,772.80.
The quote also set out that the expected monthly loan repayment was £112.52. But I note Mr 
and Mrs K deferred their payments for a few months which is reflected in their credit 
agreement and their monthly payment is also marginally different at £113.94  but I dont 
think these differences make the quote mis-leading. 
Having considered all the evidence, including the consumers recollections, Im satisfied that 
they were told that there would be a monthly loan repayment due. The quote makes this 
clear, as set out in the table below. Overall, Im satisfied that the two documents, the quote 
and the credit agreement, made it clear that although the cost of the system was £9,537.75, 
it would cost Mr and Mrs K more than this as they had decided to pay for it with an interest 
bearing loan. 
Mr and Mrs K have initially said that they were told their monthly loan repayments would be 
covered, or self-funded by the FIT payments and savings on energy bills. Ive considered 
the quote that was provided by P as well as the consumers recollections of their meeting 
with Ps representative to decide what is most likely to have been said. 
The FIT scheme closed to new applictaions prior to the sale of Mr and Mrs Ks solar panel 
system. And having looked through all the documents, I cant see any FIT income was ever 
set out for them. If theyd been told that they could apply for the FIT scheme or that they 
would receive any income from the FIT scheme, I think its more likely that there would have 
been some detail provided around how much theyd likely receive or some record of how to 
apply for it. Ive thought carefully about Mr and Mrs Ks testimony, but given that their sales 
documentation makes no mention of the FIT scheme at all, I think its unlikely they were told 
theyd receive an income from the FIT scheme. 
I understand the CMC has since explained the system was sold solely on the basis of the 
savings in energy bills the system would likely generate. And that theyd been told the 
system would pay for itself within a reasonbale time frame. 
The What will you earn and save per year section of the quote sets out the electricity 
savings Mr and Mrs K could expect from the system. The expected year one electricity 
savings is £225.02 and, when taking into account the optional extras chosen by Mr and 
Mrs K the combined income and savings in year one is shown as £273.02. 
As outlined above, Im satisfied the quote set out that there would be an expected monthly 
loan repayment due of £112.52. As a result, Im not able to conclude that the consumer was 
told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the savings on energy bills, and/ 
or any FIT income. 
Theres a section headed All of our repayment options with three table showing repayments 
over 60 months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 120 months this 
is the length of the loan that Mr and Mrs K entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows 
the loan as repayable in 120 monthly payments of £112.52. For each year of the 10-year 
loan it shows the expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure 
over 12 months, and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £112.52, to give an average 
difference between the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in 
each year. 
I think the quote clearly sets out the benefit Mr and Mrs K could expect to receive from the 
system, as well as their expected contractual monthly loan repayments. And the table above 
does clearly set out that the overall benefit they could expect to receive (which in their case 
was solely in savings) would not be immediately sufficient to cover the monthly loan 
repayments. This supports my finding above that the consumers werent told that financial 
benefits would cover the loan repayment. Ive carefully thought about the consumers version 
of events. However, as Ive found that the quote did form a central part of the sales process 
which the salesperson went through at the meeting, I dont think I can reasonably find that 
they were told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by any FIT income and 
savings or by the savings alone.
Ill now consider whether P told Mr and Mrs K that the system would be self-funding from the 
outset. In doing so Ill again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely to 
have happened. 
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand and on balance Im also satisfied that 
the salesperson referred to the table at the meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the outset. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out that there would be a difference between the expected income 
and the monthly loan repayments.
That said, I do accept that Mr and Mrs K were told by P that the system would be self-
funding over a certain duration of time. 
The What will you earn and save per year page of the quote has a table detailing the 
performance over 30 years. This shows that by year 23 the overall benefits that Mr and 
Mrs K could expect to receive would have exceeded the total amount payable under the loan 
agreement. 
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr and Mrs K that the system would pay for 
itself by year 23, and this is supported by the table above included in the quote. If that were 
an untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced them to enter into 
the contract, and they subsequently suffered a loss, that would amount to a 
misrepresentation.
Ive thought about the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the contract 
between P and Mr and Mrs K. The quote sets out that the system is expected to produce 
3,186.48 kWh a year.
As Mr and Mrs K were not registered for FIT, there are no FIT statements and despite 
requesting a meter reading, this has not been received. But based on what Ive seen, Ive 
got no reason to doubt that the system is performing at as expected. 
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data to calculate the utility price and RPI inflation. 
I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 2020 and the increases have 
been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale and I think explain why they havent been 
receiving the financial returns they may have been expecting from the solar panels. Since 
actual energy prices have been lower than the modelling predicted, the savings achieved 
through the energy generated by the system has been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have used them 
as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr and Mrs K couldve expected to 
receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not have been as 
high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to unreasonable 
assumptions being used by P at the time Mr and Mrs K entered into the contract.
Having said that, Shawbrook has accepted that P made an error in one of the unit rates used 
when it estimated the savings Mr and Mrs K could potentially make from the system.  The 
effect of this difference would be £17.27 over the term of the loan, which Shawbrook has 
offered to pay to Mr and Mrs K. This, however, doesnt change my view of the complaint, I 
still think that P made it clear that the panels wouldnt be immediately self-funding, in the way 
Mr and Mrs K say they were led to believe. 
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr and Mrs K 
to enter into the contract for the system. 
If Mr and Mrs K wish to accept Shawbrooks offer of £200 compensation for delays in 
complaint handling, and the £17.27 compensation for the error made in the unit rate used, 
they should let Shawbrook know. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 November 2022.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman