DRN-2933674
The complaint
Mrs H and Mr H complain about Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) for increasing their 
premiums. They want Aviva to demonstrate how the risk has changed and how their no 
claims discount has been calculated. They also want Aviva to refund the increase in their 
premiums and to keep their premiums at the same level.
What happened
Mrs H held home insurance for a long time with her late husband. This was renewed each 
year up to 2018/9, when the premium for the year was £437.70. 
Mrs H was sent a renewal quote in September 2019
Mrs Hs late husband passed away in 2019 and she updated Aviva of this. Aviva updated the 
policy into her sole name and confirmed the changes by letter. The letter stated that the 
premium remained the same and no charge had been made. 
The following September, Mrs H received her renewal quote letter. This stated that the 
previous years premium had been £501.64 and that the premium for renewal from 
September 2020 had increased to £563.33. 
Mr H was subsequently added to the policy as a joint policy holder. 
Mrs H and Mr H complained to Aviva. They felt that the premium increase was unfair and 
went against the assurance, given in October 2019, that the premium remained the same. 
Mrs H and Mr H asked Aviva for an explanation of how the no claims discount had been 
assessed and what impact it had on the premium. They were concerned that Aviva 
appeared to assess their property as being a greater risk since the loss of Mrs Hs late 
husband. 
Aviva did not uphold the complaint. Aviva said that it was not able to share how premiums 
were calculated, but that they were influenced by a great many things, both in relation to the 
insured property and policy holder, and also by factors in the wider world. 
Mrs H and Mr H were not happy with this response and contacted us. They felt that Aviva 
was pressuring them into accepting the increased premium and that Aviva should refund the 
difference in their premiums. 
One of our investigators looked into this matter and set out his view to the parties. This was 
that Aviva had not done anything significantly wrong and he did not recommend upholding 
the complaint. He explained the remit of our service and that businesses are not obliged to 
share commercially sensitive information on how premiums are calculated. He also advised 
that we cannot dictate the prices charged by businesses, and he explained the role of the 
Financial Conduct Authority. 
Mrs H and Mr H did not accept this view and asked for an ombudsman decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, may I express my condolences for Mrs H and Mr H for their loss. I appreciate that the 
period of this complaint has been very hard for both of them, and that any increases in costs 
cannot have been easy over this time. 
I do, however, have to repeat my colleagues reference to the limitations of this service. We 
are not the regulator of the financial business, that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. We cannot intervene into price setting or the broad application of policies and 
processes. 
Our role is to look at particular circumstances and determine whether these have caused an 
unfair outcome for individual consumers. Where they have, we can direct that a business 
provides redress. 
In this case, Mrs H and Mr H have made lengthy submissions about practices which they are 
concerned about. These include that they believe the processes of Aviva are opaque, that 
they are breaching obligations to promote customer trust, that they may be price walking, 
and that they may be unfairly assessing risk. These are all issues which are outside of our 
scope, and so I do not comment on these. If Mrs H and Mr H have concerns about these 
points they would need to direct them to the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority.
As a caveat to the above, in relation to price walking, Mrs H and Mr H complain in their latest 
submission that they think that their premiums have been subject to price walking since Mrs 
H first held a policy with her late husband many years ago. This complaint is something that 
we could consider, but it has not been put to the business for the business to respond to. If 
Mrs H and Mr H believe that their premium has been unfairly increased over a long period 
they would need to complain to Aviva about this first, and offer the business an opportunity 
to respond. 
Mrs H and Mr H have also mentioned issues with obtaining information and their intention to 
contact the Information Commissioners Office. I acknowledge their right to do so and that 
any issues relating to data will be properly dealt with through that process. 
Mrs H and Mr H have argued that Aviva breached its contract by increasing the premium. I 
must reiterate that our role is not to determine particular issues of law, as these are for 
courts to decide. I have therefore not commented on this argument, but have borne in mind 
Mrs H and Mr Hs feelings on this when considering the overall situation. 
Looking then at what we can consider. I appreciate Mrs H and Mr Hs upset at the increased 
premium being charged in 2020. I also understand that they have a particular policy which is 
no longer available elsewhere and which they wish to keep. They feel that by increasing the 
price of the premium they are being forced to give up this policy. 
I appreciate their view, but I do not think that Aviva has done anything significantly wrong in 
increasing its prices from 2019 to 2020. Each contract of insurance runs for a year and the 
price offered relates to that year only. Both parties are then free to decide whether to 
contract for the following year and the business can offer different terms, including prices. It 
is up to the consumer to consider whether the product and premium remain suitable for 
them, and whether to continue cover with that product.
There is no ongoing obligation to stay with the same policy, even if the policy is unusual.Mrs H and Mr H were sent a renewal quote as normal and invited to decide whether or not to 
renew. I think this was appropriate and fair. 
I note that Mrs H and Mr H are unhappy with how Aviva described the premium for 2019 and 
they have set out calculations showing that the information Aviva provided was inaccurate. I 
do not dispute that the information was inaccurate, but I do not think that this had any effect 
on Mrs H and Mr H as they were still able to make a decision on whether they wished to 
proceed with renewal with Aviva. I understand that this inaccuracy may have been 
frustrating, but I do not think it caused any unfairness. 
Overall, whilst I understand Mrs H and Mr Hs upset, I think that Aviva has not done anything 
substantially wrong and so I do not uphold Mrs H and Mr Hs complaint. I realise that this will 
be disappointing to them, but I hope it clearly explains my reasons. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mrs H and Mr Hs complaint and do not ask 
Aviva Insurance Limited to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman