DRN-4144721
The complaint
Mr K complains about problems he incurred when trying to change the rate on a mortgage 
he held with The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc (TMW). He says he was left with no option other 
than to move to another lender and says he is at a loss because of this. 
What happened
Mr K held a mortgage with TMW which he took in 2020. This mortgage had a fixed rate until 
31 July 2022.  In July 2022, Mr K wished to switch this to a new rate when his current rate 
expired. By this point, Mr K had further borrowing on this mortgage and would incur an early 
repayment charge (ERC) on the further borrowing portion of the mortgage if changing the 
rate at this time. TMW produced a mortgage offer for the rate switch on 22 July 2022 which 
included the ERC on the additional borrowing.
The mortgage offer explained that if Mr K wanted the mortgage to take effect from 
1 August 2022, then he needed to have accepted the offer by 27 July 2022 in order for it to 
be processed in time. The offer explained that if the mortgage wasnt accepted by this date, 
it would move on to the follow-on rate from 1 August and Mr K would then have until 
12 August 2022 to accept the offer for it to take effect from 1 September 2022.
Mr K says he called to accept the offer in early August 2022 but was told that the mortgage 
offer would need to be recalculated. He says he was told that it would take 7 to 10 days for 
the new mortgage offer to be issued. Subsequently, Mr K moved his mortgage to another 
lender. He also raised a complaint saying hed not been told that the offer would need to be 
recalculated if he accepted it after 22 July 2022. He said it was because of this that he had 
to move to a new lender. He asked TMW to pay the costs hed incurred in remortgaging. 
TMW upheld Mr Ks complaint saying that the offer didnt make it clear that the offer would 
need to be reissued if he accepted it after 22 July 2022. But it didnt accept that this meant 
that Mr K needed to move to another lender. TMW also agreed that Mr K wasnt called back 
as requested. It offered £200 compensation.
Mr K didnt accept this and referred the complaint to our service. One of our Investigators 
looked into this complaint, but she didnt think it should be upheld. She thought that Mr K 
couldve still accepted the new mortgage rate up until 12 August 2022 but chose to 
remortgage elsewhere. Mr K disagreed. He said that he was in a position where he was 
unable to accept the offer until after the deadline had passed. 
Our Investigator didnt change her mind. So the complaint has now been passed to me to 
consider and make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I may not respond to each and every point Mr K has made. That doesnt mean I havent 
thought about all that hes said. It simply reflects the informal nature of this service. Instead, 
Im going to focus on the crux of the complaint  whether TMWs actions meant Mr K had to 
move to a new lender and, if so, whether that caused a loss. 
Mr K called TMW on 5 August 2022 to accept the mortgage offer dated 22 July 2022. At this 
time, TMW told him that someone from its switching team would call him within five to 
seven days to go through the new offer. Mr K requested a redemption statement on 
12 August 2022. During this call, TMW didnt tell Mr K that the interest rate would change on 
the new offer. The new offer purely needed to be recalculated to take into account the 
revised ERC on the additional borrowing portion on his mortgage.
I think that Mr K had made the assumption at this point that the interest rate available to him 
would have changed once a new mortgage offer was issued and thought it could be higher. 
And I can see why he made this assumption. I think TMW couldve been clearer at this point. 
However, I think that a quick call to TMW from Mr K couldve confirmed whether the interest 
rate would change or not.
TMW has provided us with evidence that the rate Mr K had applied for was still available up 
until 27 August 2022. So even if he wasnt able to secure the original mortgage offer, this 
rate was still available. But, it seems to me, that Mr K had already decided to move to a new 
lender at this point. Based on this, I dont think TMWs actions meant Mr K had no option but 
to move to a new lender. Furthermore, Mr K hasnt provided us with evidence of his new 
mortgage interest rate. So, I cant safely say hes suffered a loss as a result in any case. 
TMW accepts that its original offer couldve been clearer in setting out that a new offer 
would need to be produced if Mr K accepted it after 27 July 2022. Its offered £200 
compensation for this which I think is fair and reasonable. And Im not going to ask it to make 
any further payment.
Ultimately, Mr K couldve still proceeded with the rate hed applied for with TMW, but he 
chose to move to another lender. And I dont think this was a direct result of any mistake that 
TMW made. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman