DRN-3060726
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the service provided by Amtrust Europe Limited when making a claim 
under a furniture warranty.
References to Mr H includes his representative.
  
What happened
The background to this complaint isnt in dispute, so Ill summarise the key points:
Mr H bought a bed and took out a warranty for it, underwritten by Amtrust.
In January 2021 he made a claim after noticing damage to the bed. An engineer 
visited later that month and concluded that a manufacturing defect had caused the 
bed frame to collapse in one area. They carried out a temporary repair.
The problem became worse soon after and Mr H said the bed became unusable.
A second engineer visited in March and said the frame had collapsed in other areas, 
such that it had warped beyond repair. They recommended the frame be replaced.
The replacement arrived in May. Mr H was unhappy about how long the claim had 
taken to be resolved.
Our investigator thought there were delays during the claim  some of which were 
caused by the retailer and were beyond Amtrusts control. But she thought some of 
the delays had also been caused by Amtrust. She recommended Amtrust pay £100 
for the inconvenience caused by Amtrusts delays.
Mr H agreed but Amtrust didnt. It said further investigations had been necessary.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the claim has been settled, Ive focused on the time it took  and whether Amtrust caused 
any avoidable delays.
The first engineer identified a problem with the bed frame. Although they carried out a repair, 
they said no further action to be taken as the problem was a manufacturing defect. 
Effectively the claim was declined, although it doesnt appear this was made clear to Mr H.
When Amtrust received the engineers report, they recognised that Mr Hs warranty also 
provided cover for certain structural defects. That meant the claim should have been 
covered. So they asked the engineer for more information about how to resolve the problem. 
Several e-mails were exchanged but Amtrust decided a visit by another engineer was the 
best way to progress the claim.
In the meantime, Mr H made a number of calls to Amtrust to understand the position of the 
claim and whether anything further was going to be done. He said the bed became unusable 
as the mattress wasnt properly supported. I understand he had to move the mattress onto 
the floor, which was much less comfortable to sleep on.
The second engineer confirmed the problem was beyond repair and a replacement would be 
needed. Amtrust got in touch with the retailer to find out if a like for like replacement was 
available. The retailer said the bed was out of stock for around six weeks.
Amtrust gave Mr H the option of waiting for the replacement or a voucher to the equivalent 
value. To avoid extending the time without the bed, Mr H opted for the voucher. However, I 
understand he was unable to use it with the retailer. So he waited for the replacement.
I dont think Amtrust can be held responsible for the time it took the retailer to provide the 
replacement bed. Or the way the retailer dealt with the voucher. But Im persuaded Amtrust 
caused avoidable delays earlier in the claim.
The first engineers report didnt take into account the structural defects cover of the 
warranty  and wasnt clear about what needed to be done to resolve the problem. Had it 
been, Im satisfied its likely the decision to replace the bed would have been made sooner. 
So it follows the replacement would likely have arrived with Mr H sooner. I think that would 
have reduced the amount of calls he made to chase progress with the claim and the 
discomfort of sleeping on the mattress without the bed frame  both of which would have 
reduced his distress and inconvenience during the claim. Im satisfied £100 compensation 
would be reasonable in these circumstances.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
For the reasons above, I require Amtrust Europe Limited to pay £100 compensation.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2021.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman