DRN-3871500
The complaint
Mr H complains that Topaz Finance Limited trading as Zephyr Homeloans has unfairly 
recorded a late payment on his credit file.
What happened
Mr H had an existing buy to let mortgage with Zephyr Homeloans. He also had a direct debit 
(DD) in place to pay his contractual monthly payment (CMP) on the 28th of the month.
In July 2022, Mr H cancelled this DD  he says this was an accident as hed meant to cancel 
a different DD. Mr Hs July 2022 DD was then returned unpaid.
On 29 July 2022 Zephyr Homeloans sent Mr H a letter saying the payment had been 
rejected because the instruction had been cancelled, and that there was a £40 arrears 
administration fee for this. It sent him another letter on 1 August 2022 explaining the 
payment was outstanding and asking him to contact it as soon as possible. Both letters were 
sent to an out of date address, as Mr H had asked Zephyr Homeloans to update his address 
on 30 June 2022, but this wasnt actioned at the time.
Mr H says he first became aware the payment hadnt been made on 1 August 2022 when 
Zephyr Homeloans telephoned him about the payment. At this point he spoke to his bank to 
find out what had happened, he then made the payment on 2 August 2022.
Zephyr Homeloans reported this as a late payment but it waived the £40 arrears 
administration fee given the circumstances. It also offered Mr H £100 compensation for not 
updating his address when it should have  this was paid to him in October 2022. Mr H 
accepted this part of the complaint was resolved but remained unhappy about what was 
reported on his credit file.
Mr H said that this was an innocent mistake and that it was unfair for his credit file to show a 
late payment when hed made the payment so quickly after he became aware his DD was 
cancelled. He has a job in financial services and his credit file needs to be in a good 
condition for this.
Zephyr Homeloans said that it was obligated to report information to credit reference 
agencys accurately, so it didnt agree to amend it.
When Mr H complained to our service the investigator didnt uphold the complaint. They 
thought what Zephyr Homeloans had acted in line with its terms and conditions, and that 
what it had reported to credit reference agencies was factually accurate.
Mr H asked the matter to be passed to an ombudsman and so I reviewed the complaint. I 
asked both Mr H and Zephyr Homeloans for further information. Mr H provided a copy of his 
credit file. Zephyr Homeloans confirmed the service it uses to send letters and said that its 
letter of 29 July 2022 wasnt guaranteed to be delivered the next day.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint for the following reasons:
The terms and conditions applicable to Mr Hs mortgage explain that he needs to 
make his monthly contractual payment between the 1st and 28th of the month by 
direct debit. 
Mr H didnt make a payment in July 2022  he made his July 2022 payment on 
2 August 2022. So, it is accurate to say this payment was made late.
Zephyr Homeloans is required to ensure the information it reports to credit reference 
agencies is accurate. Having reviewed Mr Hs credit file, this has been recorded 
correctly.
From what Mr H has said, he appears to have cancelled the DD himself, albeit by 
accident. So, the payment wasnt late due to an error with the payment or Zephyr 
Homeloans system.
Ive thought about whether Zephyr Homeloans sending its letter on 29 July 2022 to 
the wrong address contributed to the delay. Having done so, I don't think its likely 
that Mr H would have made his payment in time but for this error. This is because the 
29 July 2022 was a Friday and Zephyr Homeloans letter wasnt guaranteed to be 
delivered the next day. So, Mr H may well not have received this before Monday 
1 August 2022, which is when he received a call from Zephyr Homeloans. Its also a 
possibility that if Mr H had received the letter sooner and made the payment on the 
weekend that it wouldnt have been credited to his mortgage account until the next 
working day  i.e. 1 August 2022. So, whilst its possible Mr H could have become 
aware of the issue sooner, I cant reasonably conclude that its most likely he would 
have made the payment in time.
I understand Mr H thinks Zephyr Homeloans ought to have contacted him another 
way or called him sooner, but I dont think it took an unreasonable amount of time to 
contact him. It wrote to him the day after his DD was returned unpaid (albeit to the 
wrong address which Ive commented on above) and called him within a couple of 
working days.
I understand Mr H reinstated his DD and made his July 2022 payment promptly once 
aware of the situation. So, I appreciate why he feels it would be fair for Zephyr 
Homeloans to make an exception here, but it isnt required to do so. And I think its 
taken the circumstances into account when agreeing to waive its usual fee for a late 
payment. Mr H may wish to contact credit reference agencies directly and request 
they put a notice of correction on his file explaining what happened.
Zephyr Homeloans has already paid Mr H £100 for not updating his address sooner, 
which hes accepted. 
For the reasons explained above, I dont think Zephyr Homeloans needs to do anything 
more to put matters right.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2023.
 
Stephanie Mitchell
Ombudsman