DRN-4411379
The complaint
Mr R complains about a decision taken by Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) to not submit a 
chargeback claim on his behalf.
What happened
On 26 April 2023 Mr R purchased, using his Lloyds current account debit card, a used car 
costing £7,999 from a garage that I will call M.
On 29 May 2023 Mr R had a fault with the cars air conditioning system diagnosed by a 
garage that I will call H, at a cost of £17.49. H recommended works be undertaken to the 
air conditioning system at an estimated cost of £431.75.
Following the above diagnosis by H, Mr R had the fault with the cars air conditioning system 
repaired by a garage that I will call D, at a cost of £431.75. 
Shortly after paying D £431.75 Mr R contacted Lloyds asking it for its help to seek recovery 
of this sum from M.
In mid to late June 2023 Mr R complained to Lloyds that he hadnt heard anything from it in 
respect of his request for help in recovering the sum of £431.75 from M.
On 12 July 2023 Lloyds issued Mr R with a final response letter (FRL). Under cover of this 
FRL Lloyds said it was unable to secure Mr R the sum he was seeking the recovery of from 
M (due to the limitation of the Visa chargeback rules) but it was prepared to pay him £55 for 
poor customer service, which it did.
On 23 July 2023, and unhappy with Lloyds FRL, Mr R referred his complaint to our service.
Mr Rs complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that 
having paid Mr R £55 for poor service Lloyds need do nothing further.
Mr R didnt agree with the investigators view so his complaint has been passed to me for 
review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I can confirm that Ive come to the same outcome as the investigator and for 
the same reasons. There is also very little I can usefully add to what has already been said.
As I say above Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments, but I would like to 
add that Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any 
specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it but because I 
dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
What I need to decide in this case is whether Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably in not 
raising a chargeback on Mr Rs behalf, and if it didnt, what it should do now to put things 
right.
Chargebacks arent decided on the merits of the dispute between the cardholder and 
merchant, but rather theyre decided on the relevant card schemes rules. Chargeback isnt a 
legal right and theres no guarantee the card provider will be able to recover the money this 
way. In this case, the guidelines are set by VISA and Lloyds have no power to change them.
When there is a dispute about defective goods, generally the rules of the VISA chargeback 
scheme require the cardholder to return the goods to the merchant. Having said this, the 
rules do allow for circumstances where the cardholder has attempted to return the goods to 
the merchant but has been unable to.
I can understand why Mr R didnt return the car or attempt to do so. But based on what Mr R 
has told our service and the case notes provided by Lloyds Im not persuaded that he was 
prevented from doing so. And because of this I can confirm that Im satisfied that there was 
no valid reason code under which Lloyds could raise a chargeback and it acted both fairly 
and reasonably in not doing so.
Having said the above I agree that Lloyds didnt give Mr R updates when he contacted it for 
the same. But taking everything into account I can confirm that Im satisfied that £55 
represents an appropriate sum in this respect. 
My final decision
My final decision is having paid Mr R £55 Lloyds Bank PLC need do nothing further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2023.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman