DRN-3650374
The complaint
Dr and Mrs G complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc havent done more to help them access 
their online banking and receive statements for their account in a timely manner. 
What happened
Dr G has been the main party bringing the complaint, so Ill mostly be referring to just him in 
this decision. But Mrs G is also an account holder for the current account in question. 
Since December 2021, Dr G has had issues logging onto his online banking as his security 
key, which is required to use online banking, no longer worked. Dr G was sent a new 
security key in February 2022, and was separately sent a code to activate the security key 
so he could use it to log on online. Dr and Mrs G live in Canada and the activation code was 
being sent by post. The activation code timed out after 14 days and they kept expiring before   
Dr G received them, meaning he could no longer use them to activate his security key. 
Dr G offered to pay for a private delivery service with a third party, but HSBC explained it 
could only use the Royal Mail service. It offered an alternative, for Dr G to register a mobile 
phone number to his account, so that an activation code could be sent to his mobile instead. 
Initially, Dr G refused this as he does not like to use mobile telephones. Eventually, following 
our involvement, he agreed to add a mobile phone number so that an activation code could 
be sent to him that way.
In February 2022, Dr G asked for statements to be sent to him as he needed to forward a 
copy of a recent one to a third-party company. Dr G contacted HSBC on a number of 
occasions to chase these and eventually received them in May 2022 by post.
During this time, Dr G also lost access to his telephone banking as he failed a security 
question. This meant he had to be sent a new telephone banking security number via the 
post. And during that time, he had no way of checking his account balance or otherwise 
maintaining the account. Dr G was also unhappy that when he received the new telephone 
banking security number, the envelope it came in clearly showed the words telephone 
banking security number which he felt was irresponsible of HSBC and opened him up to 
potential fraud. 
Dr G is unhappy about the time it has taken for him to have access to his online banking, 
that HSBC would not accept him paying for a private courier and that his statements took so 
long to arrive. Hes said this has impacted his ability to pay for things as he was unaware of 
what funds he had available at the time. And this has made his circumstances more difficult 
while he was experiencing health issues.
HSBC paid compensation to Dr and Mrs G of £50 on 25 February, £200 on 31 March and 
£100 on 14 April, bringing the total compensation paid to £350. Its said that this was as a 
gesture of goodwill for the various calls Dr G has had to make and it feels this is fair in the 
circumstances. Our investigator agreed with HSBC and felt the compensation it had already 
paid was fair in the circumstances. 
Dr G was unhappy with the response. He felt that HSBC had caused unnecessary delays in 
not registering his mobile phone number to the account sooner when he mentioned it in an 
e-mail in April 2022. And he was concerned that he still hadnt received his activation code 
for the security key.
As an informal agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision. 
It should be noted that Dr G mentioned a separate issue of a £1,000 payment he attempted 
to make from his HSBC account, but it has already been explained that as this is a separate 
issue HSBC hasnt had a chance to respond to yet, I wont be considering it as part of this 
decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think that what HSBC has done so far to remedy the complaint is fair in 
the circumstances, and I wont be asking it to do anything further. Ill explain why in more 
detail. There are a few different sections to this complaint, so Ill deal with them in turn. 
Activation code
Dr G required a security key and an activation code to log back into his online banking. 
During a telephone call in late February 2022, it was explained that he could register a 
mobile phone to his account and a code could be sent securely that way. But Dr G said he 
doesnt like to use a mobile phone and didnt want to register one to his account. So, the 
alternative was to send the activation code by post. But unfortunately, due to delays and the 
long distance the letters had to travel, they arrived after the activation code timed out. 
Dr G offered to pay for a private courier company to handle the delivery. HSBC said it only 
uses Royal Mail and couldnt send the code any other way. I can appreciate Dr Gs point of 
view as he just wanted the code to arrive in good time. But I think HSBCs decision is based 
on the security of Dr and Mrs Gs account and I cant agree theyve acted unreasonably in 
only using an designated delivery service. 
Ultimately, its unfortunate that the postal method did not work for Dr and Mrs G, and I think 
this is largely due to circumstances beyond HSBCs control and is a result of them trying to 
send the code securely. And I think that HSBC did offer a reasonable alternative when it 
suggested Dr G add a mobile phone number to the account, which I can see he has now 
done. I do recognise that in the last communication we had with Dr G, he had not yet 
received the activation code. But I do think that HSBC has done what it can to help the 
situation and try to get one to him securely. 
I appreciate Dr Gs comment about the delays he experienced in his mobile phone number 
being registered on the account. Dr G has said he mentioned his mobile phone number in an       
e-mail in April and thinks it could have been added to his account at that point. But I think its 
reasonable for HSBC to require a mobile phone number to securely be added to an account 
in a telephone call or using online banking where appropriate security has been passed by 
the account holder. This is in the interest of security for Dr and Mrs Gs account, so that not 
anyone can add a mobile phone number and have access to secure communication on the 
account. But I do think this process could have been made clearer to Dr G.
While I recognise the experience of trying to get the activation code has been frustrating, I dont think that this has been due to errors made by HSBC. And I cant agree that theyve 
acted unfairly or unreasonably while trying to assist Dr and Mrs G in the process.
Statements
Dr G has said he received around 12 envelopes of statements in May 2022, around three 
months after he first requested these in March. I would expect some delays due to Dr and 
Mrs G living in Canada, but anything over a month feels excessive. Its unclear why these 
took so long to arrive or why they arrived all at once. I can see from internal notes that HSBC 
has sent me, that these were arranged to be sent in February 2022, so it isnt clear where 
the error has occurred here. But I can appreciate that this must have been frustrating for     
Dr G. 
Telephone banking issues
Dr G lost access to his telephone banking at some point in April, because he failed a security 
question while trying to gain access to his telephone banking. This must have been 
frustrating for Dr G as at that time, telephone banking was the only way he could maintain 
his account. But ultimately, the security questions are there to make sure the actual account 
holder is on the telephone, so I cant say it was unreasonable for HSBC to block access to 
telephone banking until a new telephone banking security key could be sent to Dr G and 
then registered onto the account. 
I recognise Dr Gs concern over the envelope window showing the phrase telephone 
banking security number.  From what hes said, I dont think this has caused him any loss or 
issues related to fraud on the account. So I wont be asking HSBC to do anything further to 
remedy this.
On balance, having carefully considered everything available to me on this complaint, I think 
the £350 compensation already offered and paid by HSC is fair in the circumstances and 
covers any miscommunication or unnecessary delays that have occurred. So, I wont be 
asking HSBC to pay anything further.    
My final decision
I think that the £350 compensation already offered and paid to Dr G and Mrs G is fair in the 
circumstances. So I dont uphold their complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 September 2022. 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman