DRN-3308933
The complaint
Ms C is unhappy Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax wont reimburse payments she says 
she made to scammer.
What happened
Ms C found an advert on Gumtree for someone who was offering help to people who felt 
they needed help. Ms C contacted this person and they arranged a phone call, at a cost, 
followed by meetings at the persons home. They told Ms C that past experiences had left 
her with negativity inside her and that they could help remove this.
Ms C paid a total of £2,445 to the person over a three-week period for this help/healing 
service. Ms C then later said she in fact didnt feel any better despite the service, so 
contacted Halifax to let it know shed been the victim of a scam. Halifax looked into Ms Cs 
payments but said it couldnt get them back for her. It explained that the relevant code was 
the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM), but that this didnt apply to faulty goods or 
services; or in situations where someone wasnt happy with the service received. These 
were considered civil matters.
Ms C brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator agreed this wasnt covered by 
the CRM code, as it was a civil matter. She explained that as the service Ms C had paid for 
was a spiritual service, it was very difficult to conclude it hadnt been received. Ms C had 
gone to the persons home and been part of a ritual of some kind. And the investigator 
quoted a message Ms C had sent the person from the time she was paying for the service, 
saying she did feel different and better. Ms C asked for an ombudsman to review the case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
As Ms C was buying a spiritual service we cant measure this in the same way we 
could a physical product or a contracted service. It is accepted Ms C attended the 
persons home and took part in a form of ritual; it just now seems to be in dispute 
whether this did what was intended/paid for.
Ms C did message the person a few months after she paid them and say something 
had changed within her and she felt a zest for life.
The CRM code specifically states it doesnt cover situations where the customer is 
dissatisfied with a supplier  and that seems to be the case here. Based on Ms Cs 
testimony and what happened, there isnt enough to evidence that the person did 
intend to defraud Ms C. Or that she didnt receive the service she paid for at the time.
I accept Ms C is now unhappy with the service she received, but I dont agree the 
CRM applies to her situation and so means she should be reimbursed under this. 
And I cant see any other reason she is due these payments back from Halifax.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2022.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman