DRN-1393067
 
The complaint
Mr S, represented by a claims management company (CMC), complains that he was mis-
sold a 'Living Assurance' life and critical illness whole of life policy by a predecessor of 
Phoenix Life Limited. His CMC says that there was no discussion of possible alternatives, 
nor of affordability of the policy in retirement. 
What happened
Phoenix didn't uphold the complaint. In brief, it felt the limited documentation from the time of 
the sale showed that Mr S had a requirement for both an increase in his existing life cover 
and also the addition of some critical illness cover. 
The complaint was referred to this service but our investigator reached broadly the same 
conclusions as Phoenix. The CMC didn't accept this and pointed to a previous decision by 
an ombudsman, which had concluded that if stand-alone critical illness cover hadn't been 
available at the time (as opposed to being part of a whole of life or endowment policy) then 
this should've been made clear so the consumer would be placed in an informed position.
The investigator wasn't persuaded to change his opinion, so the matter's been referred to 
me to review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The CMC will be well aware that the outcome of each complaint is determined on its own 
specific merits. So, I'm looking solely at the evidence and wider circumstances associated 
with Mr S' complaint. And in doing so, while noting that the evidence is limited as a result of 
the sale taking place 30 years ago, I've come to the same conclusion as Phoenix and our 
investigator - that, on balance, Mr S more likely than not required the cover provided by the 
policy in question.
He was married with children and had existing cover that it appears he wanted to extend. He 
actively agreed to the policy with a signed authorisation even after a fairly significant 
weighting was attached to it, which suggests an engagement with the process. 
I note the point about stand-alone critical illness (the sale took place around the time that this 
type of cover was introduced to the UK) but I don't think there's any reason to conclude that 
Mr S was mis-sold or disadvantaged by being sold a whole of life policy as the mechanism 
by which to provide the cover.
Even if he had wanted solely critical illness cover (and, as noted, I don't agree there's 
sufficient to indicate that was the case) obtaining such a policy at that time may well have 
been difficult and expensive. So, there's every likelihood he may well have opted for the 
Living Insurance policy in any event. And as to affordability in retirement. Mr S was aged around 37, so I don't think that the lack of any documentary evidence that this was 
discussed is reason to uphold the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I don't uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2020.
James Harris
Ombudsman