DRN-4114945
The complaint
Mrs T complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC made errors which led to fraud on her account.
What happened
Mrs T says that a cash machine retained her Barclays debit card, which she felt was 
suspicious, so she cancelled the card. She says that the following day, she received 
notifications informing her that her credit card application had been declined, despite her not 
applying for one. Mrs T says this prompted her to check her mobile banking, where she 
discovered around £3,000 had been taken from her account via a mobile payment service, 
so she called Barclays fraud team. 
Mrs T says that when she cancelled the debit card, it was her understanding that the mobile 
payment service would be disconnected also, so she was shocked to see the transactions 
debit her account. Mrs T says the fraud department reassured her this couldnt happen 
again, and all of the stops had been made. But she says that a week after she activated her 
new card, another fraudulent transaction had occurred. Mrs T says she rang Barclays and 
after a one hour wait, she informed them of the fraud and asked them to block all of her 
Barclays accounts. Mrs T made a complaint to Barclays. 
Barclays upheld Mrs Ts complaint. They said that when she informed them about the fraud, 
they should have de-linked her card from her mobile payment service wallet, however they 
failed to do so. They refunded the fraudulent transactions, and they offered her £50 
compensation. Mrs T brought her complaint to our service. She said she visited a Barclays 
branch at least 8-9 times about the issues she had with Barclays. Mrs T brought her 
complaint to our service. 
Our investigator said he thought the £50 compensation was fair. He said on 30 December 
2021 Mrs T contacted Barclays to raise a fraud case due to funds of £3,000+ being taken 
from her account, so on this day Barclays provided her with temporary funds to cover this. 
He said on 31 December 2021, Barclays completed their investigations and they said that 
she could keep the temporary funds. Our investigator said that after listening to a phone call 
Mrs T had with Barclays, he understood the issue was being looked into and she would be 
contacted by the case handler, and if they needed anything they would be in touch with Mrs 
T. So our investigator said that he hadnt seen anything on file to suggest that she had to 
visit the branch to resolve this matter. He said when further fraud was committed on her 
account on 12 January 2022, this was refunded on 14 January 2022.
Mrs T asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. She said £50 was not enough 
compensation. She said she put a lot of trust in Barclays and for fraud to happen a week 
after the original fraud was not acceptable. She explained the distress and trauma the fraud 
caused her. Mrs T said the £50 didnt cover her inconvenience of having to make several 
visits to a Barclays branch, time off work she had to take, and the stress, anxiety and trauma 
this caused. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to reassure Mrs T that Ive read everything shes said about the events having an 
impact on her. I can understand what a traumatic situation that she would have been in, from 
not only finding out that fraud had been committed on her account but also finding out that 
Barclays didnt de-link her card to the mobile payment service she used. And I have a lot of 
sympathy for her in the position she found herself in. Being a victim of fraud would naturally 
cause a lot of these stress, anxiety and trauma that shes detailed. But here, I can only look 
into the actions of Barclays to see if they acted as they should have done.
Barclays have confirmed that the fraud which was committed on Mrs Ts account in 
December 2021 was made via bank transfers and not via the mobile payment service. Ive 
looked at Mrs Ts bank statement and it appears this is correct. I say this because there are 
three faster transfer payments totalling £3,732.69 made to a third party credit card company 
on 29 December 2021. When Mrs T notified Barclays of the fraud on 30 December 2021, Im 
satisfied they acted quickly as they applied a temporary credit to her account of £3,732.69. 
But a temporary credit could mean that the credit might not be permanent, so I can 
understand the anxiety and worry Mrs T would have about this. But the following day Mrs T 
was told she could keep the credit and Barclays agreed these transactions were fraudulent. 
I can understand how Mrs T must have been feeling when she found out that a fraudulent 
transaction had been made on her account via the mobile payment service on 11 January 
2022. She notified Barclays of this, and blocks were made to her accounts when she rang 
them on 12 January 2022. It appears this fraudulent payment occurred because Barclays 
didnt de-link the mobile payment service originally when Mrs Ts card was retained by the 
cash machine. Barclays accept that they didnt de-link the card to the mobile payment 
service that Mrs T could pay for things with. So they didnt act as they should have done. 
Barclays applied a permanent credit to Mrs Ts account on 14 January 2022 for the cost of 
the transaction. So Im satisfied that they acted in a timely manner, which is what I would 
expect when they had made an error. 
Ive considered what Mrs T has said about going to the branch multiple times. But I cant see 
that Barclays advised her to do this. Barclays told Mrs T on a phone call that she would be 
contacted by the case handler. And when Mrs T questioned the case handlers availability in 
case she needed to call them, she was told that she wouldnt be able to speak to the case 
handler, but if they needed to speak to Mrs T they would be in touch. But here, the funds 
were repaid back to Mrs T in either one or two days of her informing Barclays that there were 
fraudulent transactions on her account. So it would not be proportionate for me to ask 
Barclays to compensate her for multiple branch visits, when she didnt need to do this. 
It's unfortunate that Mrs T had long call waiting times, but as she needed to speak to the 
fraud department, there would always be an inconvenience of having to ring them to discuss 
the fraud. Unfortunately there can be demand which causes longer waiting times, so by the 
nature of fraud itself, it would be difficult for Barclays to anticipate when there is more 
demand to speak to this department. While I have sympathy for the position Mrs T found 
herself in, it would not be proportionate for me to ask Barclays to compensate Mrs T for any 
time she took off work either. I say this as Barclays website shows that their fraud helpline is 
open 24 hours a day 7 days a week.
Ive considered what Mrs T has said about the compensation which has been offered by 
Barclays. But £50 is in line with our guidelines, given that the issue was rectified within one 
or two days each time. The first set of fraudulent transactions were not made via the mobile payment service. So I cant say that Barclays made the same error twice. It was only when 
the supermarket fraudulent transaction debited her account on 11 January 2022 that it came 
to light that the mobile payment service wasnt de-linked. Mrs T wouldve been aware her 
account wasnt blocked after the first set of fraudulent transactions as her bank statement 
shows her making several transactions after 30 December 2021. But she did ask them to 
apply the block after the supermarket fraudulent transaction.
Im satisfied that £50 is a fair offer for the error Barclays made by not de-linking the mobile 
payment service and the distress and inconvenience this caused Mrs T. So it follows Ill be 
asking Barclays to pay Mrs T £50, but I dont require them to do anything further. 
My final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC has already made an offer to pay £50 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mrs T £50 for distress and 
inconvenience (if they havent already done so). But I wont be requiring them to do anything 
further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman