DRN-2978740
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Credit Cards 
(Tesco) rejected his claim against them under Section 75 (S75) of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 in relation to his purchase of some train tickets.
What happened
Mr C purchased train tickets on 31 December 2019 and 29 February 2020 using his Tesco 
credit card. The tickets were to be used to travel to a conference in March 2020 and to an 
exam in April 2020. The tickets were purchased through a third-party ticket supplier (who Ill 
refer to as T).
Mr C was told in early March 2020 that the conference and exam were being cancelled, due 
to the COVID-19 pandemic. He received a full refund from the providers of the conference 
and exam for those transactions. 
As the events were no longer going ahead, Mr C called Tesco to ask for a S75 claim to be 
raised on his behalf. He said he no longer needed to travel so wouldnt be using the train 
tickets. Tesco told Mr C that, as he had purchased the train tickets through T, his contract for 
the tickets was with them as opposed to the organisers of the conference or exam. And as 
there wasnt any evidence that the train journeys had been cancelled and were still available 
for Mr C to take, he didnt have any grounds for a chargeback or S75 claim. 
Mr C wasnt happy with this and brought his complaint to our service. Tesco were given time 
to look into his concerns and having done so didnt uphold his complaint. They reiterated 
what Mr C had been told in the telephone call to them on 16 March 2020. They said he didnt 
have any chargeback rights as the goods or services had been available for Mr C to use, 
and he didnt have a valid S75 claim as there had been no breach of contract or 
misrepresentation from T. 
Mr C asked our service to continue looking into things for him. Our investigator did and 
agreed with Tesco for the same reasons given to Mr C initially. Mr C didnt accept this. He 
said that he felt Tesco were jointly liable for the performance of the contract and, because 
the purpose of his travel had been cancelled and he no longer needed to take the train 
journey, a S75 claim should be raised for him. 
As Mr C didnt agree, its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator has provided a detailed explanation of the chargeback and S75 rules within 
his opinion. Mr C hasnt mentioned that he hasnt understood whats been written so I dont 
think its necessary for me to explain them again. And in this case, I agree with Tesco and 
our investigator that the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Ill explain why.
Mr C has said that he booked the train tickets as part of the conference and exam package, 
so that he could travel to both. And as such, he feels that Tesco should be jointly liable for 
the performance of that contract, including the point that Mr C didnt need to travel as the 
events were cancelled. But the evidence Mr C has provided shows the events and train 
tickets were arranged and paid for as separate transactions. This means that his contract for 
the train tickets is with T  and its only if they have misrepresented or theres a breach of 
that contract that Mr C will have a valid claim. Having looked at an archived version of Ts 
terms and conditions from close to the time of Mr Cs booking, I can see that T acted as an 
agent for the relevant train operator. So, it was largely responsible for booking and supplying 
tickets for the train services Mr C required, but not the actual supply of those train services. 
During his telephone call with Tesco on 16 March 2020, Mr C confirmed that as far as he 
was aware the services were still going ahead. I understand Mr Cs frustrations as he no 
longer needed to travel and, therefore, had no use for the tickets hed bought  but the fact 
he didnt need to travel isnt a breach of the contract he entered when purchasing the tickets. 
I say this because Ts obligation was to book and supply the train tickets for Mr C and as far 
as I can see, this is what it did. However, even if the train service hadnt gone ahead, that 
wouldnt necessarily have been a breach of contract by T as, again, it didnt contract with 
Mr C to supply the train services, only to book and supply the tickets for him. Ive not 
considered this in any further detail though as I havent seen anything to suggest the 
services didnt go ahead. 
Similarly, there hasnt been a misrepresentation here. T was asked by Mr C to supply tickets 
for the train journeys he planned to take. Theyve done that for the dates he booked them 
for.
Tesco mentioned in their final decision that theyd also considered whether a chargeback 
claim would have been successful. Our investigator has explained this too. 
The rules regarding chargeback are set by the card issuer, in this case, Mastercard, and the 
relevant rule would be goods or services not provided. Under the card scheme rules, T, as 
an agent here, is considered to be the merchant of record. This means it is responsible for 
chargebacks where services have not been received. The relevant rule states that the 
cardholders account has to have been debited for goods or services that were to be 
shipped, delivered or otherwise provided and were not received by the expected delivery 
date. But this code must not be used when the merchant, in this case T, was willing and able 
to provide the goods or services. As Ive explained above, I havent been provided with 
anything to suggest the train journeys never took place  its just that Mr C chose not to take 
them. So, this wasnt a case of services not being provided. I find, therefore, that Tesco 
acted fairly in not raising a chargeback. I find it very unlikely it would have succeeded had it 
done so. 
Having taken everything into consideration, I dont think Tesco have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in this case. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2022.
 
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman