DRN-2483210
The complaint
Mr T has complained that a valuation of his property undertaken by Lloyds Bank PLC 
(trading as Scottish Widows Bank and referred to here as SWB) was lower than his own 
estimate of the propertys value, and less than an estate agents marketing valuation. As a 
result, Mr T wasnt able to borrow sufficient funds for his needs and had to raise the balance 
of the money elsewhere.
Mr T is also unhappy that, after being told he could appeal the valuation, he was later told 
that this wasnt possible. SWB offered Mr T compensation of £30 for this, which he has 
rejected. To settle the complaint, Mr T wants SWB to increase the loan to the full amount he 
needs.
What happened
In April 2020 Mr T needed to raise £550,000 for his divorce settlement. Mr T consulted a 
mortgage broker and was told by the broker he would be able to borrow the full amount of 
£550,000 from SWB on the basis of Mr Ts estimate of the propertys value, £1 million. A 
decision in principle (DIP) was made to lend this amount, subject to the application meeting 
SWBs lending criteria and subject to valuation. An application was made for the mortgage, 
and a drive-by valuation was carried out. This valued the property at £925,000.
Even though the amount Mr T wanted to borrow was within the 60% loan-to-value ratio 
(LTV) for the product he wanted, SWB would not lend him the full amount, only £525,000. 
This is because SWBs lending criteria state that for an interest-only mortgage, there has to 
be £400,000 equity in the property. Mr T says this wasnt stated in the mortgage offer, nor is 
it on SWBs website.
Mr T wanted to challenge the valuation, because it was substantially lower than his own 
estimate of the propertys value. Hed also been told by a local estate agent that the property 
could be marketed at £1 million. Initially Mr T was told he could do this by SWB, and 
completed the form and obtained details of comparable properties. However, SWB then 
explained that it had made a mistake, and because this had been a free valuation, Mr T 
wasnt able to appeal this.
Mr T went ahead with his mortgage, and the offer dated 19 June 2020 shows that he 
borrowed £526,024.00, of which £462,500 was on an interest-only basis. Mr T had to borrow 
a further £25,000 on an unsecured basis from another lender, at a higher interest rate and 
over a shorter term than if it had been included in his mortgage borrowing.
Mr T complained to SWB. He said he wrote three times to SWB asking for his loan to be 
increased to the original amount he was told he could borrow, but the bank has declined to 
do this. Mr T was also unhappy that SWBs lending criteria was not more transparent, and 
about the length of time the application took.
SWB paid Mr T £30 compensation for the inconvenience caused by telling him, incorrectly, 
that he could appeal the valuation. Mr T didnt accept this and brought his complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service.
An investigator looked at the complaint, but didnt think it should be upheld. He explained to 
Mr T that the valuation appeal form explained that there was no right of appeal in relation to 
a free valuation. The investigator also noted that the requirement for £400,000 equity was 
known to his mortgage broker. 
The investigator was also satisfied that the timescale for the loan  about seven weeks  
was longer than anticipated, but that there hadnt been any significant delay by SWB.
Mr T didnt accept the investigators findings. Hes made some further points, which I 
summarise below.
he doesnt believe that, by paying a broker, this absolves SWB of its responsibility to 
provide complete information;
the primary issue in the complaint is SWBs internal rule that requires equity of at least 
£400,000 for an interest-only mortgage. This only became an issue after the property 
was down-valued;
SWB could publish this information on its website, rather than simply communicating it to 
the brokers, or include it in the mortgage illustration or brochure;
the way SWB structures its fees is unclear  the valuation was free yet fees are paid for 
other things - which results in unfairness to the consumer;
the valuation was 7.5% below his conservative estimate, but 16% below an estate 
agents valuation;
he doesnt believe Land Registry data had been updated to show that the house next 
door had been sold for a higher price than his house had been valued at three months 
earlier.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I confirm Ive taken careful note of everything Mr T and SWB have said. I can see Mr T feels 
very strongly that he has been treated unfairly, but I disagree. These are my reasons.
Valuation:  Mr T says he was told that SWB should be able to lend him the £550,000 he 
needed, on the basis of his own estimate of the propertys value, so I can see why, when he 
was given a DIP, that Mr T didnt anticipate any problem. 
However, a DIP is not a mortgage offer, it is simply an estimate of how much Mr T would be 
able to borrow if the application met SWBs lending criteria. Likewise, a mortgage illustration 
is not an offer to lend, it is simply an illustration of the main features of the product Mr T 
would like to borrow, subject to meeting SWBs lending criteria. In fact, the illustration states 
at the top of the illustration that it doesnt constitute an obligation for SWB to grant a loan. 
SWBs valuation came in at lower than Mr Ts estimate of how much he thought his property 
was worth, and lower than an estate agents estimate of how much the property should be 
marketed for if Mr T was selling it. But a valuation for mortgage purposes is not the same as 
an estate agents optimistic estimate of how much a property should be marketed at to 
achieve a certain sale price.
SWB was entitled to rely on the professional opinion of the panel surveyor in relation to the 
valuation of the property. I can see that Mr T wanted to appeal the valuation. The appeal form was sent to his broker  and the form clearly states that a free valuation cannot be 
appealed. I think SWB should have realised this before sending out the form.
Mr T has raised a new issue  which is that the way SWB constructs its fees in order to 
provide a free valuation is unfair. I cant see hes raised this issue with SWB in the past. 
Under our rules, I cant consider a new issue until SWB has had an opportunity to address 
the complaint. If Mr T wants to, he can raise this issue with SWB and if he is unhappy with 
the banks response, he will be able to bring a fresh complaint to us about it. I cant comment 
on this issue here.
I see SWB has acknowledged that it should have explained that a free valuation couldnt be 
appealed and not sent out the appeal form, as it gave Mr T false hope that he might be able 
to challenge the valuation. But Im satisfied that Mr Ts brokers could have clarified the 
position before forwarding the form on to Mr T, because they knew, or should have known, 
from reading the form, that there was no appeal. I can see this caused Mr T some 
inconvenience, but I think the £30 paid by SWB for this is fair and reasonable.
Lending criteria:  I appreciate that it wasnt until after the property was valued that the issue 
relating to the amount of equity required to meet SWBs lending criteria came to light. At the 
time of the application, Mr T and his broker assumed that the property valuation was around 
£1 million, so the need for there to be £400,000 equity in the property wasnt an issue at that 
point when Mr T wanted to borrow £550,000.
But after the valuation, Im satisfied that it was up to Mr Ts brokers to explain the equity 
requirement and the implications of this for the amount SWB was prepared to lend. I say this 
because the information about the amount of equity required to meet SWBs lending criteria 
for an interest-only mortgage is provided on SWBs intermediaries website. 
SWB is entitled to set its own lending criteria. Decisions that SWB makes in respect of what 
those criteria are, its attitude to risk involved in this particular lending assessment, and 
whether it should lend and if so, on what terms are clearly discretionary matters for SWBs 
own commercial judgement that I would not interfere with. Additionally in deciding whether to 
lend to Mr T, SWB is entitled to take account of its own interests when making such 
decisions. It is not obliged to take account only of the interests of the borrower.
Mr T believes that the information about lending criteria should be included on the mortgage 
illustration and in SWBs brochure. The mortgage illustration contains information prescribed 
by the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), and is in the format required by the 
FCA. SWB is not required to include information about its lending criteria on either the 
mortgage illustration or the mortgage offer (which is also in the format prescribed by the 
FCA). 
Mr T is unhappy that SWB doesnt include full details of its lending criteria in its brochure or 
on its public website. However, if SWB were to publish its full lending criteria to the public, 
applicants could temporarily tailor their circumstances to fit the criteria, thus enabling them to 
obtain a mortgage they would otherwise not qualify for. (I must emphasise here that I am not 
suggesting Mr T has done this  he has not  but it is a valid reason why lenders are entitled 
to keep their lending criteria confidential.)
But the fact remains that the information about how much equity SWB required was 
available to Mr Ts brokers via the intermediary website, and so its something that the 
brokers could have raised with Mr T before applying to SWB. If the brokers didnt draw this 
to Mr Ts attention, thats not the responsibility of SWB.I appreciate Mr T is unhappy that he wasnt able to borrow the full amount he needed. But I 
dont have any power to order SWB to change its lending criteria to fit Mr Ts application. 
Timescale: I can see that it took longer than anticipated for the valuation to be carried out. 
The application was made at the start of lockdown, and  for reasons outside the control of 
SWB  it wasnt until several weeks later that surveyors were able to resume work. 
Understandably there was a backlog, which resulted in some delay.
However, I can see there were also other matters holding up the issuing of the mortgage 
offer which were unrelated to the valuation, in respect of information requested from the 
broker about Mr Ts employment, income and the repayment vehicle for the interest-only part 
of the mortgage. It wasnt until 29 May 2020 that all the information SWB required was finally 
received. 
The valuation was carried out on 16 June 2020, so there was a delay of 11 working days 
from the date SWB had all the information from the broker. Given the exceptional 
circumstances of the pandemic, Im not persuaded this delay was avoidable or excessive.
Conclusion: I understand that this was a stressful time for Mr T, who was having to arrange 
finance for a divorce settlement, so I fully appreciate how important it was for him for things 
to go smoothly. But after reviewing everything thats happened, Im not persuaded that, apart 
from the error in sending out the valuation appeal form, SWB has done anything wrong. 
I think the compensation SWB paid of £30 for its mistake is fair and reasonable. Because Im 
not upholding any other part of the complaint, it follows that Im not ordering SWB to pay any 
other compensation, or offer any other form of redress.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I simply leave it to Mr T to decide if he 
wants to accept the £30 paid by Lloyds Bank PLC trading as Scottish Widows Bank in full 
and final settlement of his complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman