DRN-3254638
The complaint
Mr B complains that, in 2013, Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him a packaged bank account 
(PBA). 
What happened
For many years, Mr B had had a fee-free account with Lloyds. In 2013 he changed this to a 
Gold account. This cost £12.95 each month. It came with a package of benefits, including 
worldwide travel insurance, AA roadside breakdown cover, mobile phone insurance, Sentinel 
card protection, and no fees or interest on the first £150 of an approved overdraft. If you 
went over £150 in any month you incurred a £6 fee and interest.
Lloyds says Mr B applied for the account online, and so it wouldnt have given Mr B any 
personalised advice about whether the PBA was a good fit for his needs. Mr B says he only 
took the account out because hed had a meeting at a branch shortly before, and Lloyds had 
then advised him to take out the account. 
Mr B says he was duped into taking the account. He says he was advised to convert his 
account into the packaged Gold account, and told that it had no overdraft charges and came 
with free benefits. He has said he didnt need the benefits.
One of our adjudicators looked at the evidence and said they thought the complaint shouldnt 
be upheld. Mr B didnt agree, and so the matter has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On our website, weve set out our approach to the sale of packaged bank accounts. Ive 
kept that approach in mind when considering this case.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive thought first about the question of whether Lloyds advised Mr B to take out the Gold 
account. If a bank assesses a customers circumstance and then advises them to buy a 
particular product, it has a higher standard to meet. It must make sure the insurance 
aspects are suitable for the customer and that, overall, the recommended product is a 
good fit. 
A sale by internet wouldnt usually be regarded as an advised sale. This is because the 
customer would log on, read the information on the website, and use that information to 
decide if they should click through to make the purchase. Theyd be expected to make 
their own assessment on whether the account was a good choice for them. But I can also 
see that Mr Bs recollection, that he was acting on advice given to him in a recent 
meeting, could in some circumstances be regarded as an advised sale. 
However, I dont need to resolve the question. This is because, even if Lloyds did 
recommend the Gold account to Mr B, I dont see that that would have been inappropriate 
advice. 
First, Mr B would have known he had a choice about changing the account  hed had a 
free account for many years, and so could have continued with that. And secondly there 
were several features that would have been potentially useful to him. He did travel 
abroad, and so could have used the travel insurance. He drove a car, and so could have 
made use of the breakdown cover  and is likely to have had the peace of mind of 
knowing he was covered even if, as hes said, he thought it unlikely hed need to use it 
given the newness of all his cars. And I can see that he used an overdraft regularly  
although I can also see that he often went over the £150 limit and so didnt get much 
benefit from this aspect. I can see that the Welcome pack was clear about the £150 limit 
to the benefit  it would have been up to Mr B to manage his account to take full 
advantage of the overdraft fee and interest waiver. 
The decision, on whether the fee for the packaged account was worthwhile for him 
personally, was one for Mr B to make. Some people save money by not taking a PBA, 
and instead they sort out their own insurance cover. Others work out that they will save 
money overall, because they can make use of most of the benefits; or they just decide its 
more convenient to take the package, despite the level of the monthly charge. 
I think its likely Lloyds set out enough information for Mr B to make a decision, and its 
unlikely that there was any critical information missing that would have affected his 
decision. I say this based on their literature at the time, and because it was a reasonably 
straightforward package.
Overall, I dont have strong evidence to say this account was mis-sold to Mr B. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman