DRN-2400800
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as O, complains about how it was provided with a bridging loan 
by Social Money Limited (trading as The Bridge Crowd (TBC)).
Ms L, director of O, brings the complaint on O's behalf.
What happened
In August 2019, O sought a new bridging loan from TBC. Os existing bridging finance with a 
third party was due to end on 27 August. Therefore, on 2 August, Os broker contacted TBC 
seeking an indicative offer for new finance. An offer was issued on 6 August, and accepted 
by O on 7 August. Both Os broker and O were clear that it needed the finance in place 
before the existing loan ended, though TBC gave no assurance this could be achieved.
O initially offered two properties as security and valuation instructions were issued on 
8 August. However, it took more than a week for the surveys to happen and a further two 
weeks for both valuation reports to be received. On 2 September, TBC confirmed that it had 
the valuation evidence it required and could proceed with the legal and underwriting process. 
On 11 September, the final loan offer was issued, but with a number of significant changes 
compared with the initial offer, including:
- the interest rate was increased from 1.1% per month to 1.25% per month; 
- an exit fee of one months interest was added;
- the arrangement fee was increased by £200 (due to the facility increasing by 
£10,000);
- charges on two additional properties were taken as security.
On 12 September, Os broker spoke with TBC to understand the reason for the changes. 
TBC explained that, as O had missed its repayment deadline for its existing finance, it was 
thereby in default and this had increased the risk profile of its new loan with TBC. Therefore, 
TBC was unable to continue with its previous discounted offer.
Os broker disputed that O was in default. He explained to TBC that Os existing finance 
provider had extended its loan term by a grace period, without applying any default rates or 
fees.
However, with no options for alternative finance and needing to repay its existing loan, O 
agreed to the new terms and the loan completed on 13 September.
Subsequently, O complained to TBC that it had not been treated fairly. It said that it had 
given TBC plenty of notice of the necessary timescale to ensure funds were available to 
repay its existing finance and TBCs valuation reports had been unduly delayed. It also said 
that TBC had no basis for changing its loan offer at the last minute, at which point O had no 
alternative but to accept. 
TBC responded that it had done nothing wrong. It said that it had progressed the application 
quickly at all stages and the time taken by the surveyor to provide the valuation reports was 
not within its control. Moreover, two weeks to complete a valuation was not unusual. It said 
that O should have started its refinancing earlier.
TBC also said that it was not bound by its indicative offer and that it had explained clearly to 
TBC that its loan offer would change should Os circumstances change. TBC said that the 
fact O had missed its repayment deadline with its existing provider meant that TBC could no 
longer offer the discounted loan package. It said that it should have increased the monthly 
interest rate to 1.5% but had sought to help O by reducing this to 1.25%.
Our investigator considered Os complaint and found that TBC had not caused any undue 
delay in establishing Os loan. She said that the time taken from the original offer to the loan 
being issued was just over a month, which seemed reasonable. She also said that TBC had 
given no guarantee of being able to complete the loan by the deadline for the existing 
finance. 
Our investigator also found that, although the changes to the loan terms had clearly 
disadvantaged O, TBC had acted within its terms and conditions, and consistent with the 
information which it had provided to O. Although Os existing finance provider had not 
applied default fees, O had missed its repayment deadline and TBC was entitled to take this 
into account. She said that, although O had been left with little option but to accept the 
revised offer, TBC had done nothing wrong. 
As O did not agree with our investigators view, the matter was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am aware that O has a separate complaint with our service which relates to how TBC 
administered Os loan, including its consideration of Os requests for a partial redemption, an 
extension and some forbearance in the context of the effects of the coronavirus pandemic on 
its business. However, these matters are separate to the current complaint and therefore I 
do not consider them further here.
In the current complaint, there are two questions to consider:
- Did TBC unreasonably delay the establishment of Os loan, causing O to miss its 
repayment deadline for its previous finance?
- Did TBC unreasonably change the terms of its loan offer to O, causing O significant 
additional cost?
I consider each in turn.
Delay to establishment of the loan
O clearly hoped to have its new finance in place to repay its existing debt at the end of 
August 2019. However, when it approached TBC, there was only just over three weeks left. 
TBC was aware of this target but provided no assurance that it could deliver the loan by the 
requested date.
The survey process did take longer than either TBC or O would have liked, with three weeks 
between the instruction date and both valuation reports being received. However, I have 
seen nothing to indicate that this was TBCs fault. And for those elements of the process within its control, it appears to me that TBC moved quickly. Overall, from first enquiry to loan 
completion the process took six weeks. Given the number of steps involved, and the 
changes to the loan offer along the way (see below), this does not seem unduly slow. 
Therefore, I do not believe TBC was responsible for an unreasonable delay in the 
establishment of Os loan.
Change to the terms of the loan offer
TBCs offer to O on 6 August 2019 clearly stated that it was indicative and subject to change, 
dependent on the valuation of Os security, legal due diligence and underwriting. It also 
made clear that the final loan documents would supersede any offer. Therefore, while I 
sympathise with O that, at the point of accepting the final offer from TBC, it had little other 
option, the risk of a change to the terms of its loan had been clearly presented.
In particular, the low rate offer given to O on 6 August, which included a discounted interest 
rate and zero exit fee, was stated to be dependent on clean credit / credit report. O believes 
that the grace period extended to it by its previous loan provider meant that this condition 
was still satisfied. However, even though Os previous loan provider chose not to apply any 
default fees, O had missed its repayment deadline. For this reason, I believe TBC could 
legitimately say that O no longer had clean credit. There is no definition of this condition in 
the offer document, but it seems to me reasonable for TBC to interpret Os circumstances in 
this way. TBC said that this changed the risk profile of the loan and therefore its offer. While I 
recognise that this significantly disadvantaged O, I cannot say that it was unreasonable of 
TBC to make this change.
For these reasons, I will not be asking The Bridge Crowd to take any further action.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask O to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 March 2021.
 
Andy Wright
Ombudsman