DRN-1427056
 
The complaint
Mr T complains that he was mis-sold a regular premium payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy by Nationwide Building Society. 
What happened
Mr T took out a mortgage in June 1994 and at the same time he purchased a PPI policy. The 
policy covered him in the event that he wasnt working because of accident, sickness or 
unemployment. And in the event of a successful claim, it wouldve paid a monthly benefit for 
up to 24 months. The policy was cancelled when the mortgage was redeemed in 2002.
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr Ts complaint should be upheld. Mr T disagrees, so his 
complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account when deciding Mr Ts 
case.
Im not upholding Mr Ts complaint. Ill explain why.
The mortgage and the PPI were taken more than 25 years ago, and they were both 
cancelled when the mortgage was redeemed nearly 20 years ago. So unsurprisingly neither 
party has been able to provide much information about the sale and how it took place. And in 
these situations, I have to look at what I think is more likely to have happened.
I dont doubt that Mr T has given his honest recollections of the sale, but I have to accept 
that over a quarter of a century memories can and do fade. And I just dont have any 
evidence whatsoever to suggest that the policy wasnt optional  that Mr T didnt have a 
choice in taking it out. So, with the very limited information I have and on the basis of similar 
cases I have looked at from around this time, I cant fairly say that Mr T wasnt aware of the 
PPI or that he didnt have a choice about taking it.
Nationwide didnt advise Mr T to buy the policy  all of its PPI sales during the period were 
on a non-advised basis. So I think its most likely that Nationwide didnt recommend the 
policy. This means Nationwide just had to make sure Mr T had enough information about the 
PPI.
I dont know what information Nationwide gave Mr T or how it was presented, so its possible 
he didnt get everything he needed. But Ive looked at his circumstances at the time to 
establish whether any possible information failings mightve made a difference to his 
decision to take the PPI.I think Mr T wouldve been able to benefit from the full range of cover he paid for. He 
wouldve been excluded from claiming under any of the main terms or exclusions  he was 
employed and he told us he was in good health.
Mr T says he wouldve received some sick pay from his employer if he wasnt working  but 
this policy wouldve paid out in addition to his sick pay and likely for considerably longer than 
any full sick pay wouldve lasted. So I think the policy offered a useful benefit to him. And it 
wouldve allowed him to use any savings he may have had for other pressing matters; at 
what would likely have been a stressful time.
The cost of the policy was reasonable for the cover it provided and it was a regular premium 
one  so if he decided it was no longer affordable or that he no longer needed it  he 
couldve cancelled it without penalty at any point.
So I dont think that if Mr T didnt get all the information he needed (and I dont know with any 
certainty that he didnt) that this wouldve made a difference to his decision to buy the policy. 
I cant fairly say, on the information provided, that Nationwide mis-sold the policy to Mr T.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman