DRN-1651336
 
The complaint
Mr O is unhappy that The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op) blocked his debit card so he 
couldnt use it while he was on holiday.
What happened
Mr O has an account with Co-op. While he was on holiday in America Co-op blocked his 
debit card because they needed to verify some transactions that had been flagged as 
potentially fraudulent, and they couldnt get in contact with him about this. While his card was 
blocked, Mr O had to use his credit card instead and this meant he went over his credit limit.
Co-op had tried to contact Mr O to verify these transactions, but Mr O had changed his 
phone number and Co-op didnt have the new number. When Mr O contacted Co-op 
because he couldnt use his card, he wouldnt verify the transactions, so the block couldnt 
be removed. The block wasnt removed until Mr O had returned to the UK and had spoken to 
Co-op again about this.
Mr O has complained that Co-op blocked his debit card and told him on several occasions 
theyd removed the block when they hadnt. So he missed out on a concert hed paid £750 
for tickets for. And when he returned to the UK his card was still blocked, 
Our investigator felt Co-op had acted reasonably. He said they were able to block accounts 
when they were concerned that certain transactions might be fraudulent, and this this policy 
was in place to protect customers money. And he thought it was reasonable that Co-op tried 
to contact Mr O by phone to verify these transactions. 
The investigator also thought it was reasonable that Co-op said on their website that 
customers should tell them if theyre planning on travelling outside of Europe, so routine 
transactions arent flagged as suspicious. He hadnt seen any evidence Co-op had told Mr O 
the block had been removed when it hadnt, and the block was removed once Mr O had 
verified all the transactions. So he didnt think Co-op needed to do anything more.
Mr O didnt agree with the investigator. He didnt think he needed to tell Co-op about his 
holiday, because he hadnt had to do this before and hed had no problems. He thinks Co-op 
shouldve tried to contact him by email, not by phone, because the flagged transactions 
couldve been made through his phone, which had been stolen. He says he contacted Co-op 
on at least 2 maybe 3 occasions while he was on holiday and was told his account had 
been unblocked on each occasion. And hes unhappy that Co-op also blocked his access to 
his online banking while his account was frozen.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having reviewed the evidence I agree 
with the investigators findings on this complaint for broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the 
right outcome.
Mr O was on holiday in America when his account was blocked by Co-op. Co-ops website 
says you dont need to let us know your travel plans in advance, providing you are travelling 
within the EU or to Turkey. If youre travelling outside of these areas, please contact us and 
let us know. That way, well expect to see foreign transactions on your account But Mr O 
didnt tell them he was going to be in America. 
I wouldnt expect someone to automatically think to check their banks website before going 
on holiday, just in case they needed to do something. But this doesnt mean that Co-op did 
anything wrong by flagging transactions on Mr Os account as unusual, and potentially 
fraudulent. They did this to protect Mr Os money. 
It was also reasonable they phoned Mr O about this. Mr O has said that customers may not 
always have access to their phones while on holiday, but theyll always have access to their 
emails. I dont agree with this. I think its likely that, while on holiday, most people would use 
their phones to access their emails. And, as a phone calls and text messages are a more 
immediate method of contact than email, I dont think Co-op did anything wrong by calling 
and texting Mr O.
Co-op didnt have Mr Os new phone number when they tried to call and text him. But they 
didnt know the number they were using was no longer valid. And, if they had had his new 
number, because Mr O left his phone in a taxi and it was subsequently stolen, then Mr O still 
wouldnt have received the calls and text messages. But, again, Co-op didnt know the 
phone had been stolen. So I cant say they Co-op did something wrong because they didnt 
act upon information they didnt know about. And because Mr O didnt return their calls and 
messages, it was reasonable they put a block on his account to stop any further use.
Mr O became aware of the block on his account after a few days, when he unsuccessfully 
tried to use his card. He called Co-op to discuss this and Ive listened to the call. Mr O was 
very annoyed because of the inconvenience of the block on his account, and because he 
had to use his credit card instead. He was also annoyed that he couldnt access his online 
banking. Co-op explained this was because hed put the wrong information in when he tried 
to access his account online. But they reactivated online banking during the call. The online 
banking issue wasnt related to the block on the account; its just unfortunate it took place at 
the same time.
On this call Mr O said its late, so Im not going to discuss anymore what the implications 
that its had but, suffice to say, that yes it is me, I am in America, so please unblock my 
account. Co-op passed him through to their fraud team to remove block. Co-op dont record 
the fraud team calls for security purposes, but Ive seen their notes of this call. These say 
customer would not go through the [flagged transactions] with me as adv[ised] her does not 
have the timr [sic] right now & to unblock the card. This notes ties in with the call I have 
heard, where Mr O said he didnt want to discuss this because it was late and he just wanted 
his card unblocked. So I see no reason why this note doesnt accurately reflect the call 
between Mr O and the fraud team.
Although Mr O asked for his card to be unblocked, Ive seen nothing to show me it was, or 
that he was told it would be  I wouldnt expect the block to be removed until the transactions 
had been verified, and Mr O didnt verify the transactions. Ive also not seen anything to 
show me that Mr O contacted Co-op about the block again until he returned to the UK. So I 
cant agree that Mr O was told on multiple occasions that the block had been removed.Ive listened to the call between Mr O and Co-op that took place on 11 November 2019  
after Mr O had returned to the UK. In this call Mr O explained hed exceeded the limit on his 
credit card while on holiday, because of the block. So Co-op removed the charges and sent 
a credit file amendment to the credit reference agencies, to remove the negative impact of 
Mr O going over his limit. I think this was reasonable in the circumstances, and I dont think 
Co-op should do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Os complaint about the Co-operative 
Bank Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2020.
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman