DRN-4021696
The complaint
Mr C, a sole trader, complains about the decision of MS Amlin Insurance SE to decline his 
business interruption insurance claim, made as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic.
What happened
The following is intended only as a brief summary of relevant events. Additionally, whilst 
other parties have been involved in the correspondence, etc. for the sake of simplicity I have 
just referred to Mr C and MS Amlin.
Mr C operates a property letting business and held a policy underwritten by MS Amlin. In 
March 2020, his commercial tenants were unable to open their restaurant as a result of the 
government-imposed restrictions. Mr C contacted MS Amlin seeking to claim under the 
policy for loss of rent from these tenants. 
MS Amlin initially declined the claim, then said that it would be met, but then ultimately 
reverted to their original position. They said that for the claim to be successful, the 
suspension of rent clause in the tenancy agreement Mr C had with his tenant needed to be 
activated. And that this would only happen where there was damage or destruction to the 
rental property. As COVID-19 had not caused such damage or destruction, MS Amlin did not 
consider there to be an insured loss.
Mr C was unhappy with this, saying that it was the terms of his policy with MS Amlin, rather 
than the tenancy agreement he had with his tenant, which ought to determine if the claim 
was covered. And that the insurance, effectively, protects the interest of the tenant and it is 
paid for by the tenant. He also said that even if the tenancy agreement was relevant, 
damage should not be limited to physical damage. Mr C brought his complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service.
However, our Investigator thought the damage required in the tenancy agreement did need 
to be physical in nature. And that what was insured was the loss of rent that the tenant was 
permitted to withhold in the event of such damage. So, as COVID-19 had not caused such 
damage, our Investigator thought MS Amlin had ultimately come to the correct outcome on 
the claim. Mr C remained unhappy with this and so his complaint has been passed to me for 
a decision.
Since then, MS Amlin has offered £400 to compensate Mr C for having come to differing 
outcomes on the claim. However, Mr C remains unsatisfied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact COVID-19 
restrictions have had on Mr C, I wont be upholding his complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr C is correct in saying that it is the terms of his policy with MS Amlin that are key to 
determining whether there is a valid claim. However, it is these terms applied to the 
circumstances of the claim that will ultimately determine if the claim is covered. 
Where I disagree with Mr C is over what the policy is fundamentally intended to cover. The 
business interruption section of the policy provides cover where the business is interrupted. 
The policy defines business as:
The business stated in the schedule
And in terms of Mr Cs policy, this is property letting. 
So, it is Mr Cs business of property letting that is the insured business. And it is only where 
this business is interrupted by an insured event that there is a valid claim. I do note that, 
under the terms of the tenancy agreement, the tenant pays Insurance Rent which is used 
by Mr C to take out this policy. But it does not automatically follow that this covers the 
business of the tenant or any loss arising in relation to this for any cause. 
Ultimately, the policy is there to protect Mr C as the landlord. This protection is provided in 
relation to costs he may otherwise have to bear in relation to the property being repaired 
following insured damage, against certain liabilities, and also in relation to interruption of the 
landlords business in certain circumstances. Whilst a tenant may indirectly benefit from this 
 for example repairs might be carried out to the damaged premises allowing them to carry 
on their own business  the protection provided is against loss to the landlord. 
The policy says that interruption to Mr Cs business is covered due to a number of reasons. 
Many of these relate to events such as fire, flood, etc. A number of extensions to this are 
provided, but these relate to situations where Mr Cs business of property letting has been 
interrupted. And Mr Cs ability to let the property was not prevented by the events covered. 
There is though a specific extension, Contingency rent, which provides cover for loss of 
rent where this is caused by certain events. The clause says:
Contingency rent
Where there is provision in the lease agreed between the landlord and tenant of the 
buildings for an abatement of rent in the event of any loss as described below, or 
where the rent receivable by the landlord is reduced as a direct result of the turnover 
of the lessees business being reduced by any loss, the insurance by the item on rent 
is extended to include the following:
a) Failure of utilities
b) Notifiable disease, vermin, defective sanitary arrangements, murder and suicide
loss as insured caused by:
i) the closure of or restrictions placed on the whole or part of the buildings by 
order of a competent public authority as a direct result of:
a) any occurrence of notifiable disease at the buildings or attributable 
to food or drink supplied from the buildings
I note that notifiable disease is defined in the policy by a specified list of diseases though. 
And in the relevant version of the policy wording, the references to this term in this clause 
are in bold, indicating it is this defined term that applies. This list does not include COVID-19. 
So, even if the other elements of the clause were to be met, it doesnt seem cover would be 
provided. I should also point out that the disease would also have had to have occurred at 
the relevant premises, and there hasnt been any evidence submitted to confirm there was any relevant disease at the premises that led to the tenants business being interrupted. 
However, even ignoring these points, there would still need to be provision in the tenancy 
agreement allowing for a suspension or reduction in rent payable in the circumstances. The 
clause above refers to there being a provision in the tenancy agreement or the rent 
receivable being reduced. I consider that the rent receivable is the rent that is contractually 
due, as opposed to the rent actually received. So, at this point, the terms of the tenancy 
agreement become relevant to the claim decision. 
The relevant clause of the tenancy agreement says that if the property is damaged or 
destroyed by an Insured Risk and so cant be used, rent can be suspended. The tenancy 
agreement sets out what Insured Risk means, and includes things such as fire and flood. It 
does also say:
and any other risks against which the Landlord decided to insure against
So, potentially an Insured Risk could include the occurrence of disease (albeit noting what I 
have said about the definition of notifiable disease in Mr Cs policy). However, this Insured 
Risk would still need to have damaged or destroyed the property to make it unfit for use or 
occupation. 
Mr C has previously said that damage as set out in the tenancy agreement should be 
interpreted broadly, to include non-physical damage. It isnt clear whether he maintains this 
position. But, regardless, I agree with the Investigator that the context in which this term is 
used in the tenancy agreement leads me to conclude that a court considering this point 
would most likely interpret it to be a reference to physical damage alone. 
This is supported by the findings of the High Court in Bank of New York Mellon 
(International) Ltd v Cine-UK Ltd [2022] EWCA Civ 1021. At paragraph 120 of its judgment 
the Court said:
The words damage or damaged are being used in the context of an alternative of 
destruction and which is clearly a reference to a physical event. While, strictly, the 
word damage or damaged could apply to anything less than full physical 
destruction, and thus to non-physical matters, the context is very much one of 
physicality It is a considerable stretch to extend damage or damaged to a non-
physical disadvantage.
This judgment is of further relevant to this complaint. It, and the judgment in Commerz Real 
Investmentgesellschaft MBH v TFS Stores Ltd [2021] EWHC 863 (Ch), concerned whether 
rent was payable by tenants whose businesses were interrupted by the pandemic. As well 
as finding that clauses such as that in Mr Cs tenancy agreement only applied where there 
was physical damage, they also said that the landlords insurance only provided cover for 
loss of rent where the tenant was not legally obliged to pay the rent. 
These judgments were decided on their own facts, but I am required to take into account 
relevant law, including case law, and I consider that the reasoning of the Courts in these 
judgments also applies to Mr Cs complaint. 
I agree with Mr C that there should be no reason for the tenant to take out further insurance 
to cover items already included in the landlords policy. However, I do not consider that the 
policy Mr C has, as landlord, provides protection for the tenant for losses they might suffer in 
the event their business was interrupted. It protects Mr C against loss of rent in certain 
circumstances where the tenants business is interrupted, and so indirectly protects the 
tenant against having to pay this rent. However, this is only in certain circumstances  
effectively those where rent is not contractually liable. And the contract that determines this liability says that rent is only suspended where there has been physical damage or 
destruction to the premises. As those are not the circumstances leading to Mr Cs claim, it 
follows that I do not consider MS Amlin to have acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining 
his claim. 
However, it is clear that MS Amlin did not handle this claim very well. It came to differing 
conclusions, and shared these with Mr C. This in itself led to a lengthy discussion about the 
relevant indemnity period. And Mr C did not receive the ultimate decline outcome until more 
than two years after he initially made his claim. This no doubt caused Mr C a great deal of 
trouble and upset. So, I think MS Amlin should compensate Mr C for this. MS Amlin has 
agreed to pay Mr C £400, which I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Putting things right
MS Amlin Insurance SE should pay Mr C £400 to compensate him for the avoidable trouble 
and upset he experienced. 
My final decision
My final decision is to partly uphold this complaint. MS Amlin Insurance SE should put things 
right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2023.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman