DRN-4137211
The complaint
Mr S complains Clydesdale Bank PLC trading as Virgin Money (Virgin) incorrectly sent a 
cheque to him for a withdrawal from his savings account rather than a bank transfer, causing 
him financial loss. 
What happened
Mr S says in October 2022 he requested Virgin to withdraw a total of £40,000 from his 
investment accounts but only £26,000 arrived in his Virgin bank account. Mr S says when he 
queried this with Virgin it explained it had sent the second payment of approximately 
£14,000, by way of cheque. Mr S says he was kept waiting on the telephone and eventually 
Virgin agreed it would cancel the cheque it had issued, but this would take a few days to 
arrange. Mr S says as result of this delay hed lost out on a favourable exchange rate, as he 
was sending funds to France for a house purchase. 
Mr S says this matter has been very stressful and wants Virgin to pay him compensation, in 
addition to the £100 it has paid him for this, along with his costs and loss on the exchange 
rate he could have achieved, totalling £280. 
Virgin says it accepts it sent the withdrawal of approximately £14,000 from his investment 
savings account, by way of cheque rather than bank transfer and apologised for this and 
have paid him £100 by way of apology. Virgin says it wasnt made aware, when the 
withdrawal request was made by Mr S, that he intended to send this money overseas, so it 
cant be held responsible for any exchange movements that may have occurred, nor has it 
been provided with any evidence of this. 
Mr S wasnt happy with Virgins response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information and upheld the complaint. The 
investigator felt Virgin didnt go far enough to compensate Mr S for the inconvenience hed 
experienced, and the delays caused by sending a cheque rather than a bank transfer. The 
investigator didnt feel however that Virgin were made aware at the time of the transfer 
request, that Mr S intended to send the funds overseas and could see no evidence to 
suggest this. The investigator felt Virgin should pay Mr S a further £100 by way of 
compensation for the poor service it provided.
Mr S didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I will also be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to 
my decision. 
I can understand it would have been frustrating and upsetting for Mr S to have requested 
transfers from his investment savings accounts, only to find part of that transfer was made 
by cheque and not directly to his Virgin bank account as hed asked. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if Virgin adequately compensated Mr S for 
sending a payment transfer request by way of cheque rather than directly to his bank 
account, as he had asked. 
The first thing to say here is Virgin have accepted it made a mistake when it sent Mr Ss 
bank transfer request of approximately £14,000 to him by cheque, rather than directly to his 
bank account with them. Virgin have apologised and paid Mr S £100 by way of 
compensation. 
Mr S says this was part of two transactions totalling £40,000 and it was needed towards the 
purchase of a property and the funds needed to be sent overseas. Mr S says because of 
Virgins mistake and the delays incurred in cancelling the cheque, it has resulted in him 
losing out on a preferential exchange rate that he could have achieved if the funds had been 
sent the way he asked. Mr S says this has cost him around £280 alone, and Virgins 
compensation payment of £100 doesnt go far enough to cover the inconvenience and stress 
he has suffered. 
While I understand the points Mr S has made and without trying to minimise the frustration 
this would have undoubtedly caused him, I am satisfied the increased offer of compensation 
by a further £100 is fair and reasonable here. I say this because at the time the transfer 
request was originally made theres no evidence to suggest that Virgin could have been 
reasonably aware, the monies were to be used to send funds overseas, after all the request 
was to send the monies to his Virgin One account in sterling. 
So, with that in mind I can only consider here that Virgin made a mistake when issuing a 
cheque and not a direct transfer, rather than considering any exchange rate movements Mr 
S may have suffered as a result. 
Thats not to say Virgin didnt make a mistake when it sent the payment totalling circa 
£14,000 by cheque, it did and it has made some redress for that, but like the investigator 
given the delays incurred in cancelling this payment and the lengthy telephone calls, I also 
feel a further £100 in compensation is warranted here. Its worth saying its not my role to 
penalise businesses when mistakes are made, rather to see it apologises on those 
occasions and appropriate redress is paid  and taking into account the proposed increase 
of a further £100 is to be paid  Im satisfied, while Mr S may not agree, this is reasonable 
here.
Putting things right
I instruct Clydesdale Bank PLC trading as Virgin Money to pay Mr S an additional £100 in 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I instruct Clydesdale Bank PLC trading as Virgin Money to pay Mr S an additional £100 in 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2023.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman