DRN-1111493
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1993. Mrs S says Santander UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold her the PPI. 
What happened
In 1993 Mrs S took out a PPI policy in connection with her mortgage. According to 
Santanders records, Mrs S already had a mortgage, so it doesn't appear the sale of the 
mortgage and the PPI happened at the same time.
The policy provided protection for Mrs S mortgage payments in the event she couldn't work 
because of accident, sickness or unemployment. The policy's benefit was around £230 a 
month for up to 24 months per claim and it cost around £15 a month.
At the time of the sale Mrs S was employed and she said she was entitled to statutory sick 
pay. She said she had no other means she could use to make her repayments, and she was 
in good health at the time.
Santanders records show the mortgage account ended in 1994.
The adjudicator didn't recommend the complaint should be upheld. They said they thought it 
likely Mrs S chose to take out the cover. And there was nothing to indicate it was wrong or 
inappropriate for her.
Because Mrs S disagrees, the complaint comes to me for a decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken into account whats relevant here in deciding Mrs S case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs S complaint and my reasons are set out 
below:
did Mrs S have a choice about PPI - did she agree to take it out?
I think Santander made it clear that Mrs S didn't have to take out the PPI and that she chose 
to take it out  although I can understand why she cant remember this.
Santander doesn't have any paperwork from the time of the sale. And this isn't surprising 
given how long-ago things happened  its also been 25 years since the mortgage account 
closed.Mrs S says she didn't request the PPI. But it appears from Santanders records that the PPI 
started around four years after the mortgage was taken out  the two things didn't happen at 
the same time. This suggests to me the sale of PPI was a separate and distinct interaction 
with Santander not linked to the original mortgage application or decision to lend.
Because of this, and given the passage of time, I dont think I can fairly say that Santander 
more likely than not misrepresented the policy as not being optional or that Mrs S 
didn't agree to take it out.
the advice
Santander says it recommended the PPI to Mrs S. And while Ive not seen anything to 
support this, because it doesn't disadvantage Mrs S in any way  if anything its more 
favourable to her  Im happy to consider this was an advised sale. This means Santander 
had to check that the PPI was right for Mrs S  and based on what Ive seen of her 
circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example, she wasn't affected by any of the 
exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover such as those related to existing medical conditions 
and unusual employment circumstances, and she seems to have had a need for the cover.
Mrs S says she was in a position to secure her payments. But she also told us she was only 
entitled to statutory sick pay and she had no other means available to her such as savings. 
So I think Mrs S would quickly have come under some financial strain should the insured 
risks have become a reality. I therefore think Mrs S had a need for cover and it would have 
helped her out at what would likely be a difficult and perhaps uncertain time.  
the information
Given the limited available evidence, I accept its possible the information Santander gave 
Mrs S about the PPI wasn't as clear as it shouldve been. But as I found above, I think she 
likely chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it 
would have been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. 
So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put Mrs S off taking out the 
cover. 
This means I dont think Mrs S has lost out as a result of having PPI, so Santander 
doesn't have to pay back what Mrs S paid for PPI.
Ive thought about everything Mrs S and/or her representative has said - including what 
theyve said about the policy attracting interest and Mrs S not being told she could get the 
cover cheaper elsewhere. But these points dont change my decision.
The policy in question was a regular monthly premium policy  so unlike a single premium 
policy (which this policy wasn't) it didn't attract interest. And Santander was under no duty to 
advise Mrs S on products from other providers or to refer her to products elsewhere in the 
marketplace.
I therefore dont uphold this complaint. 
 
 
My final decision
For the reasons I've given above, I've decided not to uphold this complaint and I make no 
award.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2020.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman