DRN-4412369
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) has turned down 
an incapacity claim she made on a group income protection insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties. So I havent set it out in  
detail here. Instead, Ive set out a summary of what I think are the key events.
Mrs L is insured under her employers group income protection policy. The policy provides  
cover in the event that Mrs L is unable to work in her own occupation, as a result of illness  
or injury. The deferred period is 26 weeks.
In February 2022, Mrs L was signed-off of work, suffering from a stress reaction. She 
remained unfit for work and so, in April 2022, her employer made an incapacity claim on her 
behalf.
L&G considered Mrs Ls claim submission and her member statement. It appointed a 
vocational clinical specialist (VCS) to contact Mrs L to discuss her health. The VCS 
concluded that Mrs L was clinically fit to work. Having considered the VCS findings and Mrs 
Ls claim submissions, L&G didnt think there was enough medical evidence to show that 
Mrs L was clinically limited or functionally restricted from performing her own occupation. 
Instead, it considered that Mrs Ls absence was down to situational stress caused by a close 
family members illness and the need for her to provide care. So it didnt think Mrs L had met 
the policy definition of  incapacity and it turned down her claim in June 2022.
Mrs L provided evidence from her GP in support of her claim, which didnt change L&Gs 
position. In March 2023, Mrs L visited a consultant psychiatrist who diagnosed her with 
moderate depressive disorder and who concluded that she wasnt fit to work. So she asked 
L&G to reconsider the claim.
However, L&G maintained that there wasnt enough medical evidence to show that Mrs L 
had been incapacitated throughout the whole deferred period between February and August 
2022. And therefore, Mrs L asked us to look into her complaint.
Our investigator thought it had been fair for L&G to conclude that Mrs L hadnt shown she 
met the policy definition of incapacity during the February to August 2022 deferred period. 
However, he thought that the psychiatrists letter of 20 March 2023 was persuasive evidence 
that Mrs L had now met the incapacity definition. And he noted that L&Gs Chief Medical 
Officer (CMO) appeared to be of the same opinion. So he recommended that L&G should 
assess Mrs Ls claim using a new deferred period start date of 20 March 2023. He thought 
that L&G should then assess whether Mrs L had shown she met the definition of incapacity 
between 20 March 2023 and the end of a new 26-week deferred period, ending on 18 
September 2023. He concluded that if L&G was satisfied that Mrs L had demonstrated 
incapacity during the full March to September 2023 period, it should begin paying benefit 
from that date.
L&G accepted the investigators recommendations and I understand its written to Mrs Ls 
GP to ask for more medical evidence to allow it to assess whether Mrs L was incapacitated 
for the full 26 week period after 20 March 2023 and beyond.
Mrs L disagreed with the investigator and Ive summarised what shes said. She felt that 
L&G had failed to accept professional medical evidence which showed shed been 
incapacitated from February 2022 onwards. She felt that L&G could and should have 
organised an independent medical examination to assess her health  and questioned 
whether it had chosen not to do so because it felt such a report would find in her favour. She 
didnt think the investigator had relied on her GPs evidence in a logical or balanced way. 
She felt it should be for L&G to demonstrate that her GPs evidence was incorrect or 
negligent. And she considered that if L&G had required specialist evidence of incapacity, it 
ought to have informed her of this at the outset. She was also concerned that L&Gs actions 
had impacted the way her employer handled her absence.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im very sorry to disappoint Mrs L, I think its fair for L&G to assess 
her claim in line with a new deferred period start date of 20 March 2023 and Ill explain why.
First, Id like to reassure Mrs L that while Ive summarised the background to her complaint 
and her detailed submissions to us, Ive carefully considered all thats been said and sent. 
Im very sorry to hear about the circumstances that led to Mrs L needing to make a claim 
and I dont doubt what a worrying and upsetting time this has been for her. 
It seems clear that L&G has now accepted the investigators recommendation that it should 
assess Mrs Ls claim using a new deferred period start date of 20 March 2023  the date of 
the consultant psychiatrists letter. This letter stated that Mrs L had a diagnosis of depressive 
disorder of moderate intensity and concluded that Mrs L wasnt fit for work. I understand 
L&G has written to Mrs Ls GP for new medical evidence to allow it to assess whether she 
met the policy definition of incapacity between 20 March 2023 and the entire following 26 
week period up until 18 September 2023. This is the date at which benefit may become 
payable, if L&G is satisfied the evidence indicates that Mrs L met the incapacity definition 
throughout the whole, new deferred period.
Given L&Gs acceptance of this recommendation, I dont think I need to make any further 
detailed findings on this particular point. For completeness though, I can confirm that I agree 
with the investigators findings on this issue and for the same reasons. It seems to me then 
that the key issue I need to decide is whether it was fair for L&G to conclude that Mrs L 
hadnt shown she met the definition of incapacity prior to 20 March 2023.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So, Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of this policy and the available medical evidence, to decide whether I think L&G 
handled Mrs Ls claim fairly.Ive first considered the terms and conditions of the policy, as these form the basis of Mrs Ls
employers contract with L&G. Mrs Ls employer made a claim on her behalf for incapacity 
benefit, given she wasnt fit for work. So I think it was reasonable and appropriate for L&G to 
consider whether Mrs Ls claim met the policy definition of incapacity. This says:
Incapacity - Means the insured member is incapacitated by illness or injury that prevents 
him from performing the essential duties of his occupation immediately before the start of the 
deferred period.
The insured members capacity to perform the essential duties of his own occupation will be
determined whether or not that occupation remains available to him.
The policy says that L&G will begin to pay incapacity benefit after the end of the deferred 
period. This means that in order for benefit to be paid, Mrs L needed to have been 
incapacitated in line with the policy terms for the entire deferred period and afterwards. 
Its a general principle of insurance that its for a policyholder to show they have a valid claim 
on their policy. This means it was Mrs Ls responsibility to provide L&G with enough 
medical evidence to demonstrate that an illness had led to her being unable to carry out the  
essential duties of her own occupation for the full 26-week deferred period between 22 
February and 17 August 2022 and afterwards.
L&G assessed the evidence Mrs L provided in support of her claim, including seeking the 
opinion of its clinical staff. While it sympathised with Mrs Ls position, it concluded that she 
wasnt suffering from a functionally impairing illness which prevented her from carrying out 
her role. Instead, it felt that Mrs L was suffering with a stress reaction to a family members 
illness, which didnt amount to a defined medical problem. So Ive next looked at the 
available medical and other evidence to assess whether I think this was a fair conclusion for 
L&G to draw.
Ive first looked at the member statement completed by Mrs L at the time of her claim. She 
stated that she was absent from work because:
(Family member) became seriously unwell in December 2021 and a result, I have been 
under a lot of stress and struggling to cope, my doctor signed me of (sic) unfit to work due to 
Stress Reaction.
Mrs L set out how her incapacity had affected her daily life. She stated:
Looking after (relative) full time, trying to calm (them) at (frequent) times of distress, trying to 
get (them) into some routine, up and out of bed, washed and dressed and trying to get 
(them) to eat. Taking (relative) to (their) hospital and medical appointments. Unable to leave 
(them).
I note she referred to difficulties she experienced in dealing with daily chores.
Next, Ive considered the available medical evidence and what was noted on Mrs Ls fit 
notes during the full deferred period and afterwards. Based on Mrs Ls entries on the 
member statement, I think it was reasonable for L&G to look further into the claim. And I 
dont think it was unreasonable for L&G to ask the VCS to discuss Mrs Ls health and 
circumstances with her. Ive set out below what I think were the VCS key conclusions:
The member reports that she is under a lot of stress at home and having to attend to her 
unwell (relative). Her sleeping hours are erratic and she not sleeping well. She is caring for 
her (relative) all the time and feels run down from it. She feels unable to leave (them) due to 
how dependent (they have) become.The member reports that the medication has helped her chest tightness, but she explained 
that she does not feel she will be able to return to work until her (relative) is well again.
The member reports that her entire day is spend caring for her (relative)She explained that 
she has to supervise (them) constantly due to the severity of (their) condition.
She reports doing the shopping and domestic chores. The member is doing this with her 
husbands (sic) support as one of them must always be with her (relative).
Future intentions: The member explained that she intends to return to work when her 
(relative) is well, and she is not required to care for (them) on such a heavy basis.
Fitness to work: Based on the overall evidence available at the time of the assessment, it is 
my opinion that the member is fit to undertake her role. From a clinical perspective, it is 
unclear what would preclude her from undertaking her role. The member reports taking 
absence from work in February 2022 due to a stress reaction, secondary to her family 
member becoming very unwell. However, the history (provided by the member) shows that 
she has largely taken up a caring role for her relative. She is providing daily care and 
support for her relative in response to their current health issues and dependency. The 
information shows that the member is functioning at a reasonable level to support her 
relative. The level of due diligence required in caring for someone who is acutely unwell to 
this degree is suggestive of good cognitive ability. Whilst the member finds comfort and 
reassurance in being close to and caring for her relative, the information and her current 
level of daily function suggests that she would be able to meet the cognitive demands of her 
job role.
Barriers to work The member explained that she needs to be at home to care for her relative 
who is dependent on her and that she could not manage her job as well as this due to the 
demands placed on her at home.
In my view, the VCS clearly concluded that, based on Mrs Ls account, her absence was 
largely due to a stress reaction caused by her caring responsibilities. And they found Mrs L 
was fit to work in her insured role. I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for L&G to have 
relied on the VCS opinion and Mrs Ls testimony to conclude that she hadnt shown she met 
the policy definition of incapacity.
Following L&Gs initial decision to turn down the claim, Mrs L provided a letter from her GP, 
dated 27 October 2022  over two months after the deferred period had ended. Again, Ive 
set out the GPs key conclusions:
I can confirm that (Mrs L) has been suffering from extreme anxiety and low mood secondary 
to her (relatives) current health issues.
She is significantly incapacitated as a result of this and is in a constant state of anxiety which 
affects her concentration causing memory lapses, she has disturbed sleep and is constantly 
fatigued as a result. She is emotional and weepy with low mood and has been having panic 
attacks. These panic attacks cause her to hyperventilate, have palpitations and chest 
tightnessShe has been certified as unfit for work since 16th February 2022 and she 
currently remains unfit for work.
L&G wrote to Mrs Ls GP on 28 November 2022 to ask for more information about her health 
and it chased up this information again in December 2022. But the GP didnt respond. So I 
think it was reasonable for L&G to rely on the medical evidence it did have. It referred Mrs 
Ls case to its CMO and Ive set out what I believe to be their main findings:Stress can mimic symptoms of clinical mental illness. The GPs clinical management to date 
and statement linking the members symptoms to her relatives condition indicates their view 
(as confirmed by the member) that the main issue here is stress, based on my interpretation 
of their letter.
Her condition is unlikely to resolve with pharmacological agents or psychological therapy, 
noting this is a stress reaction secondary to her relatives condition. There is no pending 
transformative therapeutic intervention or treatment escalation, as this is not clinically 
indicated.
The member has the functional ability to resume work in her own occupation, in my view, 
with reasonable adjustments, as appropriate, but the role of being a full time carer to her 
(relative) is precluding her from resuming work, in my view, alongside situational anxiety 
relating to her (relatives) condition. My opinion is this absence does not meet the policy 
criteria decision.
Mrs L appealed L&Gs decision again following the visit to the psychiatrist. And at this point, 
after a further request to the GP and to Mrs Ls employer, copies of Mrs Ls medical records 
up to June 2023 were provided, along with an occupational health report dated April 2022. 
Ive considered this evidence carefully, as much of it spans the original deferred period.
The GP records listing the fit notes issued between February and October 2022 all state that 
Mrs L was signed-off due to acute reaction to stress. An GP entry of 16 February 2022 
states:
Under a lot of stress with sons healthMrs L feeling increasingly anxious and stressed and 
not sleeping well.
And in April 2022, occupational health had found and reported:
As you are aware Mrs L is absent from work because of difficult personal circumstances, 
which are ongoing and which there is no timescale for resolve at the time of writing. She is 
having support from her family, and they are also providing pastoral support to her as well.
Mrs L is keen to resume work, however this does appear impossible with her current 
situation.. remains unfit for work due to exacerbation of stress, which is perceived to be due 
to personal circumstances.
In November 2022, the GP began to issue fit notes giving a diagnosis of stress at home. Fit 
notes providing this diagnosis continued to be issued each month afterwards. No formal 
diagnosis of depressive disorder was made until 20 March 2023.
Ive thought very carefully about all of the evidence thats been provided. Its important I 
make it clear that Im not a medical expert. I cannot substitute clinical judgement for my own. 
In reaching a decision, I must consider the evidence provided by both medical professionals 
and other experts to decide which I find most persuasive and whether I think L&G 
considered this claim fairly, based on that evidence. 
Its clear that Mrs L was suffering from symptoms which can also be indicative of both a 
significant mental health condition and a physical illness. Ive borne in mind the GPs letter of 
October 2022. But, I have to bear in mind the contemporaneous records of Mrs Ls 
diagnoses by her treating doctors  some of which also post-dated the GPs letter. In my 
view, those records do indicate that the treating doctors found she was experiencing a stress 
reaction to her personal circumstances. This means for the original full deferred period and for several months afterwards, Mrs Ls GP noted that she was suffering from a stress-
reaction. The GP notes list the personal stressors Mrs L was experiencing. And I think both 
the CMOs conclusions and occupational health evidence point to the cause of Mrs Ls 
symptoms being an acute reaction to stress.
 
As such, taking into account the totality of the medical and other evidence available to L&G, I 
think it was reasonable for L&G to conclude that the evidence showed that during the 
deferred period (and up to the date of Mrs Ls diagnosis with depressive disorder), Mrs L 
was suffering from an understandable reaction to the very difficult situation in which she 
found herself and her home situation. And that the main reason for Mrs Ls absence during 
the deferred period was likely a reaction to the stress she was experiencing as opposed to a 
mental or physical health condition. 
I note that Mrs L is unhappy that L&G didnt organise an independent examination, or 
expressly tell her what evidence she needed to provide. But, as Ive explained, it was for Mrs 
L to demonstrate that she met the policy definition of incapacity. I dont think L&G was 
responsible for arranging such an examination in these circumstances. I think L&G clearly 
explained, in June 2022, why the claim hadnt been accepted. So it was open to Mrs L to 
have obtained a specialist opinion earlier if shed wished to do so. Nor do I think I could fairly 
hold L&G responsible for any decisions Mrs Ls employer may have made or which it may go 
on to make.
On this basis then, I dont think it was unfair for L&G to conclude that Mrs Ls absence 
wasnt due to an incapacity in line with the policy definition. Instead, I think it fairly concluded 
that Mrs Ls absence was more likely due to a reaction to her circumstances.
I appreciate Mrs L was  medically signed-off. And I understand shes been through a very 
difficult time. But I need to decide whether I think shes shown he met the policy definition of 
incapacity for the whole of the 26-week deferred period dating from February 2022 until 
August 2022. As Ive explained, I dont think she has.
Overall then, despite my natural sympathy with Mrs Ls position, I dont find it was unfair 
or unreasonable for L&G to turn down this claim for the period prior to 20 March 2023.
As Ive set out above, L&G has written to Mrs Ls GP to ask for more information about her 
health between June and September 2023. Its now for L&G to consider that evidence, in 
line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. If L&G is satisfied that Mrs L met 
the incapacity definition between 20 March and 18 September 2023, (and afterwards), then 
benefit will become payable. I must make it clear that Im not directing L&G to pay Mrs Ls 
claim from 18 September 2023. If Mrs L is unhappy with the outcome of L&Gs new 
assessment of her claim, shell need to make a new complaint to L&G about that issue alone 
before we can potentially help with it.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that it was fair for L&G to consider that 
Mrs L didnt meet the definition of incapacity during the original deferred period.
However, I direct Legal and General Assurance Society Limited to assess Mrs Ls claim 
using a new deferred period start date of 20 March 2023. It must consider whether she met 
the definition of incapacity for the full 26-week period after 20 March 2023 and afterwards, in 
line with the terms and conditions of the policy.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman