DRN-2038179
The complaint
Mr G complains about the service he received from Bank of Scotland plc when the mortgage 
on his buy-to-let property was in arrears.
What happened
In April 2019 Bank of Scotlands solicitor wrote to Mr G. It said:
We confirm that our client is willing to accept payments of the monthly instalment together 
with an additional amount of £40.00 per month. The first combined payment is due to our 
client by 10 May 2019.
As discussed, the court hearing will continue and we will request the possession be 
suspended upon the payment terms we have agreed. No further action will take place should 
you comply with the terms of the order and the payments be kept up to date in accordance 
with the terms of the order.
In early September 2019 Bank of Scotland wrote to Mr G. It said that as he had been able to 
maintain the contractual monthly payment due, it would be willing to consider consolidating 
the arrears on his mortgage if he continued to maintain the payments due. 
In mid-November 2019 Bank of Scotland wrote to Mr G again. It said:
As youre aware, we have obtained a possession order on your property and if its terms are 
not kept or if a subsequent payment arrangement isnt maintained, it allows us to enforce the 
Order.
As you haven't kept with the terms of the possession order or any subsequent payment 
arrangement, the bank is able to enforce the possession order by instructing our solicitors to 
apply for an eviction date.
The agreed payments are now outstanding and your arrears are now £3,672.34.
It asked Mr G to:
Please get in touch as soon as possible with your income and expenditure details, including 
payments you make to any other creditors, as we may now instruct our solicitors to enforce 
the order and apply for an eviction date unless an arrangement can be agreed.
And it explained that:
If we dont hear from you or the arrangement which was agreed in court is not brought up to 
date, we may instruct our solicitors to enforce the possession order. This means that they 
will apply for an eviction date and will mean your property Is at risk of being repossessed.
In December 2019 the arrears on Mr Gs mortgage were consolidated.
Mr G complained to Bank of Scotland. He said he felt it had unfairly threatened and 
harassed him despite an agreement having been made with its solicitor.
Bank of Scotland didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint. It said it didnt think it had treated Mr G 
unfairly and it said it was entitled to request income and expenditure information from Mr G 
before it agreed to consolidate the arrears on his mortgage.
Mr G wasnt satisfied with Bank of Scotlands response and brought his complaint to this 
service. He said he had been harassed by the bank and this had a detrimental impact on his 
mental health.
Our investigator said he didnt think Bank of Scotland had done anything wrong. He noted 
that Mr G had experiencing difficulties paying his mortgage. In order to help Mr G get back 
on track Bank of Scotlands solicitors had agreed that he could pay a monthly amount in 
addition to the monthly contractual payment. 
He noted that it appeared Mr G hadnt kept to the agreement as payments had been made 
later than had been agreed. As this was the case he said Bank of Scotland was entitled to 
contact Mr G. He said he didnt think the it had acted unreasonably.
Mr G wasnt satisfied with our investigators view. He said he felt Bank of Scotland had 
harassed him despite an agreement having been made regarding the arrears. He also said 
he felt he hadnt been treated fairly when his case was passed back to Bank of Scotland by 
its solicitor and he wasnt told that this would happen.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sympathetic to Mr Gs position. I can see that he has found dealing with Bank of 
Scotland and its solicitor stressful and upsetting. It is clear from the information I have seen 
that Mr G has made considerable efforts to meet the contractual monthly payment on this 
mortgage.
But having carefully considered everything Mr G and Bank of Scotland have said and 
provided I cant reasonably find that Bank of Scotland has acted incorrectly in this matter or 
treated Mr G unfairly. Ill explain why.
Mr Gs mortgage was significantly in arrears when Bank of Scotland applied to the court for a 
suspended possession order. I do understand that this would have caused Mr G a great deal 
of concern, but lenders are entitled to take action to protect their security if the contractual 
monthly mortgage payments arent being met.
Mr G maintained the agreement he made with Bank of Scotlands solicitor. As this was the 
case in September 2019 Bank of Scotland offered to consider consolidating the arrears on 
his mortgage, if he continued to maintain the payments due. 
Unfortunately, it appears that in November 2019, although Mr G did make the payment due 
under the agreement, part of the payment was made late. In line with the agreement Mr G 
had made with Bank of Scotlands solicitor the payment was due by the 10th of each month. 
It appears it was this late payment that triggered the automatic letter reminding Mr G that he 
hadnt kept the terms of the payment arrangement and asking him to get in touch. 
I do appreciate that this letter caused Mr G worry, but I must take into account that Bank of 
Scotland was entitled to take possession of the property if Mr G didnt keep to the agreement 
as it had obtained a suspended possession order.
I can see that when Mr G spoke to Bank of Scotland he was frustrated that it didnt have 
access to income and expenditure information he had given to its solicitor. I appreciate that 
this was frustrating, but as Bank of Scotland explained, data protection regulations mean 
that it didnt have access to information its solicitor held about Mr Gs income and expenses. I do understand that this was a worrying time for Mr G and that he feels the letters and 
telephone calls from Bank of Scotland added to his stress. But lenders are entitled to contact 
customers to discuss arrears on their account. They are also entitled to require income and 
expenditure information before they consider whether they are willing to agree to a payment 
plan or to consolidation of arrears. As this is the case, I dont think Bank of Scotland acted 
incorrectly when it contacted Mr G about the arrears.
If Mr G is still experiencing financial difficulty he may find it helpful to seek support from an 
organisation that helps with this type of situation such as Step-Change (0330 055 2198).
My final decision
My decision is that for the reasons I have set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2021.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman