DRN-2771884
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Atlanta 1 Insurance Services Limited trading as Autonet Car 
insurance - which Ill refer to as Autonet - unfairly charged him a fee when his motor 
insurance policy was cancelled.
What happened
Mr M applied for a policy sold by Autonet online. Mr M bought the policy but Autonet 
contacted him soon after to say that it had been set up without some of Mr Ms relevant 
claims history. The policy was cancelled. Autonet refunded Mr M his premium but kept a £50 
charge for cancelling the policy.
Mr M didn't think that was fair and brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators 
looked into it. He said it was fair for Autonet to charge a cancellation fee but he felt that the 
amount it had charged was too high and said it should reduce the fee to £30.
I issued a provisional decision on 15 April 2021. For ease Ive copied the relevant extract 
below. I said:
Autonet is a broker, that means it sells policies and may help with their administration but it 
doesn't underwrite the insurance cover itself, which is provided by a different business, the 
insurer. I understand that Mr M believed that hed included full details of his claims history 
when he applied for the policy. But I've seen that the statement of fact issued after the policy 
had been set up, which would include the details that Mr M had input online, didn't include 
the relevant claims information. So it seems likely that Mr M had mistakenly overlooked 
inputting that information at the time he retrieved the quote for this specific policy. And thats 
whats caused the issue later on.
Before he could buy the policy Mr M had to agree to Autonets terms and conditions. And 
those said that various charges would apply both for setting up and cancelling the policy. 
The terms clearly said that the following charges (amongst others) would apply:
Arranging a new policy £20
Cancellation within 14 days £50.00
Cancellation after 14 days £79.95
So Mr M bought the policy on the understanding that, if it was cancelled, then a minimum fee 
of £50 would apply. I appreciate Mr M didn't anticipate that the policy might need to be 
cancelled so soon after he took it out. But he did agree to Autonets terms that he would pay 
£50 on cancellation. So I've thought about whether or not that was a fair sum for Autonet to 
charge.
Our investigator pointed out that, generally, we think its reasonable for a broker like Autonet 
to cover its administration charges when cancelling a policy. But we don't think it's fair for it 
to make a profit from doing so. And we think a charge, during the 14 day cooling off period, 
of around £30 is a reasonable sum to cover the costs of cancelling a policy. But if the broker 
can explain why it believes the cost to it is higher - and it's made its charges clear to the 
consumer - then we might say its fair for it to charge the higher sum.
Autonet told us that it incurs significant costs in setting up a policy. Thats because it needs 
to do things like generate policy documents, run checks on databases and transmit 
information to the relevant insurer. And it says it will charge a fee of £20 to cover those 
administrative costs. Similarly, when cancelling a policy, whether within the first 14 days or 
not, it incurs further administrative costs for actions like processing payments and refunds 
and, in this case, at least one phone call. It charges £30 to cover those additional costs 
within the 14 day cooling off period. But rather than charging two separate fees, one of £20 
for the arrangement of the policy and a second £30 fee for the cancellation, its practice is to 
charge a single fee of £50 to cover arrangement and cancellation costs. And I think thats 
reasonable in the circumstances. That is, when its charged Mr M for the policy cancellation 
that covered its £20 costs to set up the policy and a further £30 to cancel it. And I don't find 
the sums Autonet has charged to be unreasonable.
Further, I think Autonet did enough to bring its charges to Mr Ms attention before he bought 
the policy. So I think its reasonable that Autonet applied those charges once the policy was 
cancelled. It follows I don't think it needs to take any further action.
Developments
Autonet accepted my provisional decision, Mr M didn't. He said the terms and conditions 
cover many pages, containing legal jargon and no-one would read all of it. He added that 
he felt £50 was a lot to pay for what amounted to a few hours work much of which is 
automated.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to uphold it.
As I said in my provisional decision I think Autonet made its charges clear before Mr M 
bought his policy. Mr Ms said that the terms and conditions cover many pages and contain 
much legal jargon. But I think Mr M might be confusing the terms and conditions of the 
insurance policy itself, which is produced by the insurer which underwrites the policy, and 
Autonets terms of business. The two documents are quite different. Autonets terms of 
business is only two pages long and clearly sets out its charges in table format, as detailed 
in my provisional decision, on the first page. I think those charges were clear and without 
legal jargon. And Mr M agreed to pay those when he bought the policy. So, I think its fair for 
Autonet to apply them.
Mr Ms also said he feels Autonet have charged too much for what he describes as a couple 
of hours work. But I explained in my provisional decision that Autonet has essentially applied 
two charges when the policy was cancelled. A £20 charge to set up the policy and a further 
£30 to cancel it. And I don't find either of those charges unfair, as they are in line with what 
we would expect a broker to charge in similar circumstances, so I don't agree with Mr M that 
Autonets charges are unreasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I don't uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman