DRN-2117090
The complaint
Mr K complains that MCE Insurance Company Limited (MCE) returned his motorcycle, after 
recovering it from an accident, without his authority to an address he wasnt residing at. Mr K 
is also unhappy with the condition of the motorcycle as he considers it is substantially worse 
than when it was recovered.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here. 
Mr K held a comprehensive motorcycle insurance policy with MCE and in May 2018 he was 
involved in an accident. MCE spoke to friend of Mr Ks and arranged recovery of the 
motorcycle. It was taken to a site owned by a third-party company, that Ill refer to as W, up 
until it was taken to MCEs storage facility on 28 September 2018.
During this time, Mr K complained to MCE about them storing his motorcycle without his 
authority and that they wouldnt return it unless he paid Ws storage costs. The matter was 
referred to our service and one of our ombudsmen upheld the complaint. She directed - in 
her decision of 24 April 2019 - MCE return the motorcycle to Mr K, waive the associated 
storage fees and pay £260 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Mr K provided his bank details to MCE on 30 April 2019 for the £260 to be paid and also 
enquired about when his motorcycle would be returned. MCE explained that the relevant 
department would be in touch with him to discuss the return of his vehicle and to confirm a 
date.
MCE returned the motorcycle to the address on Mr Ks policy schedule on 2 May 2019 after 
calling to arrange this with the telephone number they had on file. Mr K says the person 
MCE spoke with is his former landlady. 
Mr K subsequently chased MCE about the return of his motorcycle as he said he hadnt 
heard anything further. And, after being told it had already been returned, he complained 
about this. He said hed informed MCE in June 2018 that he no longer resided in the UK and 
that he wasnt contacted, as MCE said they would, about the return of the motorcycle. But 
instead, they spoke to someone else and returned it to an address he longer resided at 
without his authority  and with the vehicle having no tax or insurance in place. He also 
complained about not being told the location of the motorcycle for several weeks, the costs 
he incurred returning to the UK to recover it and the condition it was returned in.
MCE upheld the complaint in part. They said theyd called the telephone number they had on 
file to arrange the return of the motorcycle and provided evidence of the delivery invoice, 
showing it had been signed for. MCE explained that they wouldnt have been able to update 
Mr Ks address on the policy as it had already expired and due to him no longer residing in 
the UK. But, irrespective of that, they also confirmed that they wouldnt have delivered the 
motorcycle to an address outside of the UK. They did however apologise for not speaking 
with Mr K directly and for not notifying him that his policy didnt provide cover for the 
motorcycle being returned outside of the UK. MCE made a £150 payment to recognise this.
In respect of the additional damage to the vehicle Mr K was claiming, MCE said they couldnt 
be held responsible given it had been out of their possession since 2 May 2019. So, they 
wouldnt reimburse any costs for this.
Mr K remained dissatisfied and so referred his complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked in to it but he didnt think MCE had to do anything further. He said while 
MCE ought to have contacted Mr K directly, even if theyd spoken with him, he wouldnt have 
expected them to have arranged the return of the motorcycle to outside of the UK. Because 
of this, he didnt think MCE was responsible for the travel costs Mr K incurred in order to 
collect it. 
Our investigator also didnt think there was enough evidence to demonstrate that the 
damage caused to the motorcycle was as a result of MCEs actions  including how it was 
stored. He suggested Mr K obtain an independent inspection of the motorcycle by a 
professional engineer to support his position but this wasnt provided. 
Mr K disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
Before I go on to explain what Ive decided, I think it would be helpful if I explained that Im 
only considering Mr Ks complaint in respect of the return of his motorcycle and his claim that 
its condition is significantly worse than when it was initially recovered from the accident. I 
wont therefore be commenting on the issues previously considered by our ombudsman in 
her decision of 24 April 2019.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Ks frustration with whats happened as MCE arranged for the motorcycle to 
be returned to an address he no longer resides at, without his authority, by arranging this 
with his former landlady. As the landlady didnt have authority to act on Mr Ks policy, MCE 
shouldnt have arranged the return of the motorcycle with her. Instead, they ought to have 
contacted Mr K directly to do so  as they told Mr K they would. I also think its 
understandable that it wouldve been quite alarming for Mr K to find out his motorcycle had 
already been returned without his knowledge or agreement. And, upon Mr K asking MCE 
where his motorcycle was returned, I think MCE ought to have confirmed its location much 
sooner than they did. I consider this caused further upset to Mr K that couldve been 
avoided. 
Mr K says the motorcycle was left on a public street without being taxed or insured. And that 
he incurred travel costs of about £100 to return to the UK to collect it as well as further 
storage costs. Ive carefully considered these points but, fortunately, Ive not seen anything 
to show Mr K has suffered as a result of the motorcycle not being taxed or insured. And so, I 
dont think I can hold MCE responsible for something that may have happened but ultimately 
didnt. Furthermore, I likewise dont think MCE is responsible for any storage costs Mr K 
incurred when it was back in his possession. This is because, at this point, it would be for 
Mr K to decide how and where he would store the motorcycle  paying for the costs himself 
if required. I do however appreciate Mr Ks dissatisfaction with having to return to the UK to collect his 
motorcycle after previously informing MCE that hed moved abroad. But, although I know 
Mr K says the motorcycle couldve been shipped outside of the UK for between £200-£300, I 
dont think MCE were required to do this or that it could be fairly expected of them. This is 
because, had the motorcycle not been taken into storage, then it seems most likely that Mr K 
wouldve agreed to it being returned to the insured address. And his insurance policy covers 
the reasonable costs of transporting and delivering the motorcycle within the geographical 
limits. These are defined as Great Britain, Northern Ireland, the Isle of Man and the Channel 
Islands. As Mr K wasnt living within these geographical limits, I dont think MCE were 
required to send the motorcycle to his country of residence. I think it was reasonable for 
MCE to have returned the motorcycle to a UK location  albeit, I accept there were failings 
by MCE when doing so which Ill return to later. 
The main issue here however appears to be in respect of the condition of the motorcycle 
now that is back in Mr Ks possession. Ive therefore considered whether MCE is responsible 
for the damage and/or deterioration of the motorcycle. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr K but, based on the available evidence, I dont think they are. Ill 
explain why.
Mr K alleges that the condition of his motorcycle is significantly worse as a result of how 
MCE stored it. Hes also claimed that MCE deliberately damaged the motorcycle, in spite, 
due to his dissatisfaction with their service.  Ive given careful thought to the issues Mr K has 
raised. This includes rust on the chain and sprockets, the battery no longer keeping charge 
as a result of it not being disconnected, glue residue left from tape and exposed electrics 
that have flooded due to bolts being removed (as Mr K says) unnecessarily. Further, Mr K 
also highlights issues with marks on the bike due to it being written on along with cracks in 
the leather and discolouration. 
Im grateful for the effort Mr K has gone to in demonstrating the current condition of his 
motorcycle. However, it isnt in dispute that the motorcycle is in a worse condition than pre-
accident. What I must establish is whether this is as a result of MCEs actions. I understand 
the accident Mr K was involved in led to him being hospitalised for a couple of weeks. I 
therefore think its reasonable to conclude the accident was severe and that, most likely, the 
motorcycle wouldve suffered significant damage as result. Unfortunately, there isnt any 
evidence to confirm or show its condition at that time (and when it was recovered by MCE). 
The motorcycle was stored with W before later being taken to MCEs facility. MCE has 
confirmed that the motorcycle was stored indoors when at their facility but that it may have 
been kept outside while with W. I cant however be sure of the exact conditions it was kept in 
with W, or MCE.  
Our investigator requested Mr K obtain an independent inspection of the motorcycle by a 
professional engineer to establish what was most likely the cause of damage and/or 
deterioration. In the absence of this, I dont think I can fairly conclude the damage wasnt as 
a result of the accident. Or that, as a result of the accident, the parts that have suffered 
damage or deteriorated in condition wouldnt have required replacing/repairing in any event. 
I also consider some of the issues raised, such as the glue residue or marks left from the 
motorcycle being written on, are most likely cosmetic and therefore can be cleaned. It 
follows that, based on available evidence, that I dont think I can fairly conclude MCE is 
responsible for the issues Mr K has raised in respect of the condition of his motorcycle. I also 
havent seen anything to show MCE deliberately damaged it. So, while I know how strongly 
Mr K feels about this matter, Im not persuaded MCE has to do anything further in this 
regard.I have however considered the impact on Mr K as a result of MCE not arranging the return of 
the motorcycle with him directly. Having done so, I think £150 is a reasonable amount to 
recognise the trouble he experienced as a result of this and so I wont be increasing it 
further. If Mr K hasnt received the £150 then he should contact MCE to arrange this. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2020.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman