DRN-3949749
The complaint
Mr O complains  that Zurich  Assurance  Ltd has still not adequately  compensated  him for 
poor advice  to transfer  from his former  employer's  pension  scheme  in the 1990s.
What happened
Mr O worked for a major UK employer from September 1985 to June 1990 and was a 
member of its defined benefit (DB) pension scheme. After leaving service, an adviser from 
Allied Dunbar (now Zurich) recommended in 1994 that he transfer the accrued pension 
benefits to a personal pension with that firm.
From August 1995 to April 2008 Mr O again worked for his former employer and rejoined its 
pension scheme, but says he thinks this may have been a different section of the scheme 
(as his original scheme had by then closed to new joiners).
In November 2021 Mr O complained to Zurich that as a result of transferring out his first 
period of service, the terms of his second pension entitlement weren't as favourable. He also 
thought that his Zurich transfer had performed poorly. The reason being that his first five 
years of service were now worth £63,000 (within the Zurich plan), and he was now being 
offered a transfer value of £465,000 for the second period of 12 years' service.
Zurich didn't uphold Mr O's complaint. It said that he had previously taken up an invitation to 
have the sale of his pension transfer reviewed, and Zurich wrote to him in August 1999 to 
confirm that he hadn't suffered any financial loss as a result of the transfer. Its regulator 
(currently, the Financial Conduct Authority) didn't require it to revisit past reviews merely as 
a result of the financial assumptions made in the calculations not being achieved.
Zurich's outcome letter had made a number of assumptions about Mr O's former DB 
pension. This included that the earliest age he could have retired from that scheme without a 
reduction to benefits and without the employer's specific consent was age 65; and that the 
entitlement he transferred wouldn't have been affected by a later period of employment with 
the same or a connected employer. On its outcome letter it said it had made these 
assumptions 'where certain information we need isn't available'.
Mr O came back to our service, saying that he hadn't asked for a review in 1999. But in any 
event, he didn't have a transfer value from his second period of service to hand at the time to 
calibrate how much his Zurich pension should have been worth.
He set out that his understanding of the assumptions that had been disclosed in the letter 
was that Zurich had considered the impact of his second period of service. So he wouldn't 
now expect the transfer values of each to be so different. He says that 'as a defined benefits 
scheme, the years earned in the earlier time with [employer] would have simply rolled into 
the later scheme making my calculation representative.. .[and] I could have rejoined the 
more favourable [earlier] pension scheme had I not previously left [it].'
One of our investigators didn't think Mr O's complaint should be upheld because the 
industry-wide Pensions Review was intended by the regulator at the time to be a one-off 
calculation exercise. So, she was not able to require Zurich to carry out another review in 
2022.
Mr O didn't agree. He said that because he had rejoined the pension scheme, his calculation 
was a more like-for-like comparison than the one Zurich had done. He now remembered that 
he had agreed to Zurich carrying out the review, but he thought this was a self-serving 
exercise for Zurich and he wasn't surprised that this had not found a loss.
As agreement couldn't be reached, I issued a provisional decision on 12 January 2023. 
There was no need for me to consider six- and three-year time limit that applied to this case 
because Zurich had already told us that it consents under that rule. In the rest of my 
decision, I highlighted the possibility that under the Pensions Review, Zurich may have 
omitted to investigate whether Mr Os two periods of service would have been linked 
together under the DB scheme, had he not transferred out the first period of service. I said 
Zurich should investigate that now.
In response, Mr O provided one page of the details of his current benefit entitlement, 
showing which of his former employers schemes he was now in. Ill ask the investigator to 
copy this to Zurich, but it doesnt confirm either way what wouldve happened, if Mr O hadnt 
transferred from the DB scheme the first time around. Mr O was attempting to obtain 
definitive confirmation from the scheme trustees, and indicated this may take him a little 
while. He also asked how much his Zurich pension would need to be increased by to equal 
the benefits he has lost.
Meanwhile, Zurich responded saying that whilst [it] did not agree with [my] assessment 
that the assumptions in the Pension Review [outcome] Letter failed to meet the standards 
that were required at the time, [it was] willing to review the employment when the review was 
carried out.
Zurich has suggested that it approaches the DB scheme itself, using a letter of authority from 
Mr O, to obtain definitive confirmation of whether and how his benefits would have been 
linked. Mr O has let the investigator know that he is happy for Zurich to do this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill restate the key part of the reasoning which I gave in my provisional decision here. At the 
crux of Mr O's complaint are the figures which he thinks show he'd have been better off if 
he'd left his first period of service in his employer's pension scheme - and then linked that 
together with his second period of service.
Mr O seems to have misunderstood the purpose of Zurich stating in its 1999 outcome letter 
that he wouldn't have been affected by a later period of employment with the same or a 
connected employer. Zurich was stating this as a prompt for Mr O to let it know if he thought 
there would have been linked service, because it could affect whether the calculation was 
correct.
However, what strikes me about this case is that Zurich telling Mr O it had made this 
assumption 'where certain information we need isn't available' is in sharp contrast to what Mr 
O had already told Zurich when he responded to its invitation to have a review. The then regulator (Financial Services Authority) had required businesses to send their clients an 
'information request form'. The purpose of one the questions was to identify people who had 
rejoined the same or a connected employer, and might have linked periods of service.
Mr O had returned one of these forms in 1999. He told Zurich on the form that his then- 
current employer was in a group with the same name as the major UK employer whose 
scheme he had originally transferred from in 1994. In addition under the Pensions Review, it 
was standard practice to obtain a standard 'scheme information form' for transfers from 
affected occupational schemes, posing questions including (at question 55:) 'If the member 
was re-employed at a later date, would benefits from earlier service be affected (e.g. by 
linking them to the new period of service)? If yes, give details.'
So, my view is that whilst it would have been helpful for Mr O to alert Zurich in 1999 that it 
might have made the wrong assumption in its outcome letter, Zurich also had an opportunity 
to avoid making this potential mistake in the first place. It also had a second opportunity to 
address it at the time of responding to Mr O's complaint. I think it should have realised that 
Mr O was entitled to an explanation of how his second period of service was (or should) 
have been dealt with in the review it had already carried out - rather than being given the 
blanket answer that such a review can never be revisited. Mistakes can, of course, 
sometimes be made in such reviews and they may need to be revisited.
I'm only referring to this being a potential mistake, as I only have Mr O's word for it at present 
that it was known in 1999 that this employer would link both periods of service to his final 
salary for the second period  and/or that it would have readmitted him into the first scheme 
rather than the second, if he hadn't transferred out. These are all matters that could, and in 
my view should, have been established by Zurich at the time of the review.
In response to my provisional decision, Zurich appears to be saying that it doesnt agree it 
should have checked the possibility of Mr Os two periods of employment being linked at the 
time of the Pensions Review. If Ive misunderstood Zurich on this, then it does at least seem 
to be saying that it was sufficient to cover off this possibility with the generic assumption it 
made in its review outcome letter that there was no such linkage.
For the avoidance of any doubt, I dont consider either of these two conclusions would be 
fair. There was clearly no point making the assumption that Mr Os two periods of service 
wouldnt have been linked unless Zurich was aware that if there was a link, it would mean it 
had to change its calculation. And Mr O had already given Zurich information, which it had 
overlooked, that suggested the two periods of service might be linked.
In any event, the Financial Ombudsman Service considers complaints on the basis of what 
is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. Clearly if its proven that Mr Os two periods 
of service would have been linked, then the no loss calculation result from the Pensions 
Review could never, even at that time, have put Mr O back into the position he should have 
been in had he received appropriate advice. 
Putting things right
In order to identify definitively if Mr Os two periods of service would have been linked, I think 
Zurichs proposal to approach the DB scheme with a letter of authority is a reasonable one  
and I note that Mr O has agreed to this. The letter of authority Zurich would like Mr O to 
complete is attached to this decision.
If Zurichs enquiries determine that the two periods of service would have been linked, my 
directions are that Zurich must proceed to recalculate whether Mr O suffered a loss 'as at' the original date of its Pension Review calculation (1 May 1999). The requirement for these 
recalculations to be done as at the original date is set out in the guidance the FSA published 
for the Pensions Review. It ensures that Mr O is put back into no different a position than if 
he had notified Zurich of this error in 1999, or Zurich had done the calculation correctly at 
that time.
Where the result of any recalculation required is that there would have been a loss instead 
of a gain as at 1 May 1999, then the value of that loss needs to be brought up to date. 
Again, the regulator's guidance is designed to ensure that Mr O is in no worse a position 
than if the correct amount of redress had been added to his pension as at 1 May 1999. So, 
Zurich would need to express the loss as a percentage of the value of the Zurich plan on 1 
May 1999, and apply that same percentage to the Zurich plan on the date compensation is 
paid.
The compensation amount should if possible need to be paid into the Zurich plan if it still 
exists, or otherwise 'top up' any subsequent plans or benefits that the Zurich plan was used 
to purchase. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. 
The compensation shouldn't be paid into Mr O's current arrangement if it would conflict with 
any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the current arrangement isn't possible or has pension protection or 
allowance implications, it would need to be paid directly to Mr O as a lump sum after making 
a notional deduction to allow for income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 
25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed 
according to his likely income tax rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a 
notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
Why I will not be able to require Zurich to update its calculations for any other reason
The Pensions Review was intended to be a one-off exercise by the regulator. Assumptions 
were set out for such things as an achievable rate of future investment growth and what the 
rates would be at retirement for converting a pension pot into a guaranteed income 
(annuity). Plenty of people who were given a correct calculation of any loss according to 
those assumptions in 1999 will have found that any compensation paid into their pension 
plan then would not (with the hindsight we have now) have fully put right the loss. This is 
typically because both investment performance and annuity rates experienced since 1999 
have been lower than assumed in the calculations.
However, everyone who had one of these Pensions Review calculations in 1999 is in the 
same boat: this lower performance wasnt reasonably foreseeable in the assumptions the 
regulator set for the calculations in 1999. The loss calculations were intended to be similar to 
the outcome of a court claim, had this dispute been taken to court in 1999 - as the aim of the 
Pensions Review was to avoid many thousands of cases going through the courts. The 
purpose of the review was to draw a line under past mis-selling. 
Mr O has asked what amount it will be necessary to add to his benefits to make up for the 
shortfall. I cant answer that question here as Zurich will need to calculate it, assuming that 
its enquiries do prove that Mr Os two periods of service would have been linked. But to 
manage Mr Os expectations, even if Zurich does pay him compensation hes likely to find 
that it is still not be enough to make good the difference at the cost it takes to buy an annuity 
today. This is because the regulator expected a recalculation to still be based on 1999 
assumptions. And if Zurich confirms that his two periods of service wont have been linked, there wont be any need for Zurich to update its calculation at all. To do otherwise would put 
Mr O in a better position than other consumers whose calculations were carried out correctly 
in 1999.
There was a set way to carry out these calculations and I expect Zurich has retained (or has 
access to) the same expertise from the original Pensions Review to carry them out. The 
calculations will need to be performed by an Actuary on software designed for this purpose.
My final decision
I require Zurich to establish, to the standard that would have been expected in the Pensions 
Review, whether Mr Os second period of service in his employer's pension scheme should 
have been linked to the first. And if that proves to be the case, to calculate and provide  
appropriate redress to correct an error in a historical calculation - as set out in the Pensions 
Review guidance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2023.
If Mr O wishes to accept my decision, he should also complete the letter of authority 
attached to this decision for Zurich to obtain the necessary information.
 
Gideon Moore
Ombudsman