DRN-4044063
The complaint
Mr S complains that ReAssure Limited unreasonably delayed the payment of pension 
benefits and this meant he was worse off due to missing out on tax efficiencies.
What happened
I set out the background to this case and my findings in my provisional decision issued on 24 
February. Ive set this out below and this forms part of this decision:
Mr S enquired  about  taking  his benefits  through  ReAssure's  online  portal.  ReAssure  spoke  to 
him on 24 February  2021  and went  through  its regulatory  requirements.  Following  the call, it 
emailed him his retirement  options  pack.
Mr S couldn't access  the link and so called  them  the next day. It appears  they arranged  for 
Mr S to go through  the retirement  process  over the phone  and then Mr S would  need  to 
return  the forms  by post.
ReAssure  then sent him the retirement  information  by post on 7 March  2021.
Mr S signed  the forms  on 10 March  2021  and this was received  by ReAssure  on 12 March.  
Mr S included  a note asking  for the setup  to be processed  quickly  as he wished  to make  a 
withdrawal  before  the end of the tax year.
ReAssure  transferred  the amount  to his retirement  account  on 7 April 2021.
On 11 May and again  on 17 May 2021  Mr S asked  for an update  as he hadn't  been  told 
anything  about  what  had happened  to his request.  And so after hearing  nothing  by 20 May 
2021  he made  a complaint.
Mr S thinks  he's lost out on tax that he wouldn't otherwise  have  paid due to ReAssure's 
delays  and he's had to wait longer  to receive  all the funds.
Our investigator  looked  into matters  and felt that ReAssure  had unreasonably  delayed  the 
payment  but she didn't  think  it ought  to have  been  completed  in time for the 20/21  tax year.  She 
awarded  8% for loss of use of money  from the point  she determined,  29 April,  until the payment  
was made  (which  ReAssure  hasn't  told us when)  but we believe  to be the end of May . The 
investigator  felt the £100  already  paid was sufficient  for the distress  and inconvenience  caused.
Mr S disagreed  he still felt the payment  ought  to have  been  made  in time for the 20/21  tax 
year.  He maintained  he'd lost out by paying  more  tax. And he felt that he'd been  without  his 
money  for longer  than the investigator  had calculated  as his final payment  was now delayed  
by almost  a year due to having  to wait an extra  tax year to withdraw  all his funds.
What  I've provisionally  decided  - and why
I've considered  all the available  evidence  and arguments  to decide  what's  fair and 
reasonable  in the circumstances  of this complaint.
Due to the apparent  lack of investigation  on ReAssure's  side and lack of information  
provided,  it is a little difficult  to piece  together  exactly  what  happened  and what  should've  
happened.
Since  ReAssure  were  notified  of the complaint  coming  to us, there  has been  very little by 
way of explanation  of events  and its final response  lacked  any sort of detail.  ReAssure  has 
sent some  phone  calls but a key one appears  to be missing.
The investigator  attempted  to follow  ReAssure's  timescales  and the events  that occurred  to 
put a date on when  the payment  should've  been  made.  Based  on what  ReAssure  told her 
about  its timescales,  and Mr S returning  the forms  on 12 March  2021  - the investigator  
concluded  ReAssure  should've  made  the payment  to Mr S by April 29 at the latest.
However,  there  are still some  gaps  in our understanding  of the process  and what  happened.  
ReAssure  have  said in response  they didn't  receive  all their requirements  until 12 March  and 
then it would  take 10 working  days  to setup  the account  and a further  10 working  days  to 
process  the payment.  And therefore  it couldn't  have  been  done  in time.  But of the whole  
process,  Mr S took only a few working  days  to complete  the forms  and send  them  back.
It appears  Mr S went  through  a call with the Retirement Account  team  but then had to wait to 
receive  forms  and send  them  back  - which  added  12 working  days  to the process.  It seems  the 
forms  were  in part pre-populated presumably  from the call with the Retirement  Account  team.  
But I'm not sure why these  forms  couldn't  have  been  emailed  there  and then,  in the call the 
previous  day the member  of staff was able to email  his retirement  options.
Furthermore,  there  was an option  within  the Retirement  Account  Form  to select  withdrawal  
amounts,  although  this wasn't  selected.  Listening  to the calls we do have  Mr S had said he 
wished  for the full amount  to be transferred  over and then he'd like to make  his withdrawals.  
Seemingly  he chose  this as he didn't  want  any tax-free  cash  paid immediately.  But I don't  
know  exactly  what  was discussed  or what  Mr S was told in the retirement  call (as this hasn't  
been  provided).  However,  I can see on the application  form it has been  pre-populated  that Mr 
S doesn't  want  to make  any withdrawals  yet - which  I presume  is an accurate  reflection  of 
what  was discussed  in this call. So Mr S would  then presumably  have  to wait for notification  of 
the setup  of his retirement  account  before  he could  then start the process  of withdrawing  
funds.  Based  on what  I've heard  and seen,  if not withdrawing  immediately  has cost Mr S time, I 
don't  think  I can reasonably  hold ReAssure  responsible  as Mr S didn't ask to make  an 
immediate  withdrawal.  And in the initial  call with ReAssure  (before  the retirement  Team  
Account  call that we don't  have)  he wasn't  especially  clear  with his plans.
ReAssure  says  regardless  of what  was requested,  these  events  can't  happen  
simultaneously,  and it would  be ten working  days  to set up the account  and then a further  
ten working  days  for the payment  to be made.  However,  I haven't  given  that much  weight  
without  further  explanation  from ReAssure,  as 20 working  days  for an internal  transfer  with 
payment  of benefits  already  outlined  seems  excessive.
Mr S has told us he left employment  in 2019  and no longer  has any income.  He planned  to 
spread  his payments  out across  the tax years  and the tax-free  cash  element  across  
withdrawals  to be as tax efficient  as possible.  Mr S says  he's suffered  a loss as he'll pay 
more  in tax due to ReAssure's  delays.  And it also appears  ReAssure  hasn't  paid his 
withdrawals  in line with what  he wanted.
Mr S has told us he wanted  to take £10,000  in 20/21,  £20,000  in 21/22  (seemingly  spread  
across  two payments)  and approx.  £10,000  in tax year 22/23.
I understand  part of his plan was to use the tax-free  cash  element  spread  across  the 
payments  as to avoid  going  over his personal  tax allowance  in that year.  In reality  the 20/21  
payment  window  was missed  and he received  all his tax-free  cash  in one withdrawal  in 21/22.  
However,  I don't  think  this has changed  his tax position  - the £10,000  withdrawals  ought  to have  been  under  his personal  allowance.  And in relation  to the tax year with £20,000  
withdrawn,  irrespective  of how the tax-free  cash  element  was split,  the end result  would've  
been  the same.  He'd have  his personal  allowance,  plus the 25% tax free cash  element,  and 
any income  paid over this amount  would  likely  be taxed  at 20% regardless  of withdrawal  
strategy.  And he'll still be able to withdraw  the missing  £10,000  20/21  payment  at a later date 
with likely  the same  tax treatment.
Due to not making  the withdrawal  prior to April 2021  Mr S will have  to wait about  a year later 
to withdraw  all of his funds  in as tax-efficient  as way as possible.  But, now more  of his funds  
will remain  invested  for longer,  and so there  is a chance  he ends  up receiving  more  from the 
pension  than if his payment  had been  made  in the 20/21  tax year.
If Mr S thinks  we've  got this wrong,  I'd request  he provides  a clear  written  explanation  as to 
why.  As based  on what  he's told us, I don't  see how ReAssure's  errors  have  affected  his tax 
position.  I appreciate  he missed  the 2021  window  but if he has no income,  it will still be 
treated  the same  way for tax purposes  going  forward,  it will just take longer  for him to receive  
all his funds  from the plan.
Whilst  it's difficult  to be precise  about  what  date the first withdrawal  should've  been  paid,  I've 
considered  more  generally  whether  it would  be fair based  on the evidence  we have  to say 
ReAssure  ought  to have  made  the payment  prior to the end of the tax year.
I think  Mr S was aware  in leaving  it until late February,  he ran the risk of not receiving  the 
funds  in time.  I say this because  he asked  at outset  how long it would  take as he was trying  
to get the payments  made  in time.  Furthermore,  the end of the tax year would  have  been  a 
very busy  time and so the risk of processing  times  being  lengthy  are increased.
ReAssure  also didn't  make  any guarantees  it would  make  the payment  in time over the 
phone  to Mr S - and the standard  timescales  it's call handler  gave  and the timescales  given  in 
response  to this complaint  (whilst  covering  different  phases  of the process  and inconsistent 
- roughly  add up to the same  time)  meant  that it was unlikely  everything  would  be processed  in 
time,  especially  if accounting  for postage  times  (although  unclear  if post was a necessity).  
Based  on the limited  evidence  provided  by both parties, I don't  think  it would  be fair and 
reasonable  to say ReAssure  should've  processed  the payment  before  the end of the April  
2021  tax year.
However,  ReAssure  took too long to make  the payment  to Mr S regardless  of whether  it 
could've  been  made  within  the 20/21  tax year.  And once  the Retirement  Account  had been  
setup  it didn't  send  Mr S any information  as it said it would  and the first payment  wasn't  
received  until at least  late May (ReAssure  hasn't  confirmed  when  the payment  was made).  
The investigator  concluded  29 April 2022  was the latest  it reasonably  should've  been  paid and 
ReAssure  agreed  - I'm minded  to agree  with this without  any other  information  to go on.
But I do disagree  with the investigator  on the amount  of trouble  and upset  that represents  a 
fair settlement  here.  The £100  offered  was for not notifying  Mr S that his Retirement  Account  
had been  set up. Considering  Mr S was quite  obviously  in a rush to get the money  as soon  as 
possible  because  he had no other  income  and was relying  on this money  to tide him over the 
next few years,  I think  the £100  offered  was on the low side.  I think  it's clear  from the action  
log that Mr S was very frustrated  with the lack of progress  and I think  it would've  been  very 
frustrating  to find out his account  had been  setup  but ReAssure  hadn't  notified  him - therefore  
further  delaying  his receipt  of the funds.
But I also think  ReAssure  ought  to have  set Mr S's expectations  better  at outset,  if as it says  
now,  it wouldn't  have  been  possible  within  their normal  timescales  for Mr S to withdraw  the 
£10,000  in time for that tax year.  It didn't  tell Mr S this, whilst  it did give certain  timescales,  
these  were  not consistent  with what  ReAssure  has now told us. Had it been  explained  to Mr S 
that it would  take ten working  days  to set up the account  and another  ten working  days  to make  the payment,  he would've  then known  it was unlikely  he'd receive  it in time.
So overall  I think  another  £200  for the trouble  and upset  caused  on top of the £100  already  
paid would  represent  suitable  compensation  in the circumstances.
Alongside  this ReAssure  should  pay 8% for the late payment  of the first withdrawal  from  29 
April  2021  until the first withdrawal  was received  by Mr S. I appreciate  Mr S thinks  that the 8% 
should  run until he is able to make  the last withdrawal but as I've concluded  that 
ReAssure  likely  couldn't  reasonably  have  been  expected  to pay the first withdrawal  within  the 
April  20/21  tax year, it is the delay  between  the request  and the first payment that needs  to be 
compensated.
Both parties accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties accepted my provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from the findings 
in it  as set out above.
Putting things right
ReAssure should pay an additional £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
And 8% simple interest from 29 April 2021 on the initial £10,000 withdrawal until it was 
actually paid.
Both of the above payments should be made within 30 days upon receipt of Mr S's 
acceptance of my decision. Once 30 days has expired 8% simple interest should be added 
to both awards until payment is made.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint in part and direct ReAssure Limited to put things right as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman