DRN-3987032
The complaint
Mr P and Mrs P complain UK Insurance Limited (UKI) wrongly declined their claim for legal 
expenses insurance cover. They felt the policy covered them to pursue a claim against their 
surveyor for professional negligence in relation to a survey he prepared on the property they 
were buying.
What happened
In February 2021 Mr P instructed a firm of surveyors to prepare a HomeBuyer Report on a 
property he and Mrs P planned to buy. After theyd bought the property, they discovered 
defects the surveyor had failed to spot. Mr P and Mrs P wanted to make a legal claim 
against the surveyor for the costs they incurred in putting things right. In May 2022 they 
made a claim under the legal expenses insurance (LEI) section of their home insurance 
policy with UKI to cover their costs of doing so.
UKI considered the claim under the contract disputes section of the policy but said it wasnt 
covered. Broadly they said:
the policy covered the costs of, amongst other things, breach of contract claims for 
buying and selling your home; 
the contract with the surveyor related to buying a new home; 
the definition of home didnt cover the new property; and
professional negligence claims in connection with matters not covered under section 
4 of the policy (the LEI section) werent covered.
Mr P and Mrs P complained. They thought UKI should consider their claim under the 
contract disputes section of the LEI as a contract for buying services. 
UKI said the policy was only intended to cover professional negligence claims against a 
professional who was dealing with a matter covered under the policy. Since Mr P and Mrs P 
wanted to pursue a claim against the surveyor in relation to the report for their new property, 
it didnt fall under any part of the LEI cover, so UKI wouldnt cover a professional indemnity 
claim against him.
In response to Mr P and Mrs Ps point that their claim against the surveyor would be based 
on breach of a contract for buying services, UKI said a professional negligence claim was a 
subset of a breach of contract claim since the professional hadnt provided the duty of care 
expected by the party entering into the contract with them. But here it was arguable there 
was no breach of contract claim without the professional negligence claim  so there was no 
cover. 
Mr P and Mrs P werent happy with the outcome of their complaint. So, they brought it to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. While our investigator was looking into things, UKI clarified 
the reason theyd declined the claim. They said that as the policy covered claims for breach 
of contract theyd considered the claim under the contract disputes section. But theyd 
declined it since the policy excluded claims for breach of contract where advice was being 
given about a building that wasnt part of Mr P and Mrs Ps home. Since the surveyor was 
advising on a different property, there was no cover. If that hadnt been the case, they would 
have considered the claim as a professional negligence claim. 
Our investigator came to the view UKI had reasonably declined the claim although she 
accepted UKI could have been clearer in explaining why. But since Mr P and Mrs P said they 
would have brought the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service even if UKI had 
explained their position more clearly, she didnt think their failure to do so had adversely 
affected them.
Mr P and Mrs P didnt agree with our investigators outcome. They were unhappy UKI hadnt 
explained the reason for declining the claim initially and felt they shouldnt be allowed to 
change their position. They didnt agree either, broadly, that the surveyor was providing 
advice or that, even if he was, the exclusion UKI relied on was clear. 
Since Mr P and Mrs P didnt accept our investigators view, their claims been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of the costs Mr P and Mrs P incurred in putting right the issues that came to 
light in their new property. I note theyve tried unsuccessfully to pursue their claim through 
other processes. I can understand theyve had a stressful time. 
We expect insurers to deal with claims fairly and promptly, and not to decline a claim 
unreasonably. But LEI policies dont cover all eventualities and what is and isnt covered 
depends on the policy wording in each case. Ive considered Mr P and Mrs Ps complaint 
against that background. 
Subject to its terms, conditions and exclusions, the LEI section of their policy provided cover 
for reasonable legal costs, up to a limit, that Mr P and Mrs P incurred in pursuing a claim 
relating to certain contract disputes. UKI correctly considered the claim under that part of the 
policy, which said:
Contract disputes
We will pay costs for breach of contract disputes for:
Buying or hiring goods or services
Selling goods
Buying or selling your home.
We will only pay costs for claims relating to advice, specification, design, 
construction, conversion, extension, renovation or demolition relating to any land or 
buildings, if they are part of your home and the contract value is less than £20,000 
(including VAT).
Certain contracts were excluded including professional negligence in connection with any 
matter not covered under this section (Section 4). Section 4 was the whole of the LEI 
section of the policy, not just the cover for contract disputes.
Home was defined in the policy as The main residence occupied by you, at the address shown in your schedule, including its domestic garages and outbuildings. So, it didnt 
include the property Mr P and Mrs P were buying.
Theres been discussion about whether a claim against the surveyor would be based on a 
breach of contract. Clearly there was a contract between Mr P and Mrs P and the surveyor. 
They engaged him to prepare a HomeBuyer Report and they paid him for doing so. UKI 
have accepted that, although I acknowledge the way they explained things in responding to 
Mr P and Mrs Ps claim was unclear. 
The issue of whether the contract was for buying services or relating to the buying of a 
property doesnt affect the outcome of Mr P and Mrs Ps complaint. Thats because, in either 
case, the policy said UKI would only pay costs for claims relating to advice relating to any 
land or buildings, if they are part of your home. Ive considered Mr P and Mrs Ps view that 
the wording would generally be understood by customers to only cover things like extensions 
and home improvements. But I think it was sufficiently clear that claims about advice in 
relation to property other than Mr P and Mrs Ps home werent covered. 
Mr P and Mrs P dispute the surveyor was giving them advice. Broadly, they say he was 
providing them with information on which they based their decision as to whether or not to go 
ahead with the purchase. Ive considered the detailed points theyve made. But I disagree.  
The HomeBuyer Report prepared for Mr P and Mrs P refers to the advice in this report. It 
contains the professional opinion of the surveyor about, amongst other things, the condition 
of the property and its potential for resale. It sets out several recommendations, for example, 
holding back a contingency for possible repairs to the walls and updating windows, and 
keeping an eye on maintaining gutters. And it provides an opinion on the value of the 
property. Bearing that in mind, I think it was reasonable for UKI to consider any claim against 
the surveyor would be based on the advice he gave. And it was fair for them to decline the 
claim since it wasnt covered, and the policy made that clear. 
I acknowledge UKI referred in their correspondence with Mr P and Mrs P to their claim being 
excluded on grounds it was a professional indemnity claim, which couldnt be pursued 
unless there was cover under the LEI policy  section 4 of the policy. They were essentially 
right about that. As Ive explained, there was no cover under the contracts section because 
the advice the surveyor gave wasnt about their home. And there was no cover under any 
other part of section 4. Unless there was cover in section 4, the policy wouldnt cover a claim 
for professional negligence.
I agree UKI should have set out their reasons for declining the claim more clearly. But I dont 
think theyve changed their position substantively. Mr P and Mrs P have said they would 
have complained to us even if UKI had given the explanation theyve now given at the 
outset. So, I dont think their position would have been substantively different if UKI had 
explained things more clearly initially.
Whilst I empathise with the difficult situation Mr P and Mrs P found themselves in when they 
bought their new house, I dont think UKI unfairly declined their claim for the reasons Ive 
explained. Bearing everything in mind, whilst I understand they will be disappointed, I dont 
uphold Mr P and Mrs Ps complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr P and Mrs Ps complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 March 2023.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman