DRN-1095417
 
Complaint
Mr C has complained that HSBC Bank Plc mis-sold him a regular premium 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
Mr C took out the PPI in November 1996 at the same time as arranging a flexi loan. Our 
adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr C disagrees with the adjudicators opinion and so 
the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach 
to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in 
deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint and Ill explain why.
HSBC no longer has any of the documentation relating to the sale, which is not 
surprising given how long ago the sale happened. But this does make the complaint more 
difficult to decide. In reaching my decision I have therefore looked at the evidence that we do 
have and what I think is most likely to have happened. I have also considered how long ago 
the sale took place and how this may have affected Mr Cs recollection of events.
Mr C says that he had no idea that there was PPI on his flexi loan account, so it was 
added without his knowledge or consent. Although HSBC doesnt have the actual paperwork 
from the sale, it has provided copies of forms that were in use around the time that Mr C 
arranged his flexi loan.
The application form had a box that had to be ticked to request PPI. There was an 
equally prominent box that could be ticked to decline it. If an applicant chose the policy, 
an agreement for signing form would then be produced that included wording that said: 
I/We have decided to take Flexiloan Protection. If someone declined PPI on the application 
form then this wording was omitted.
Ive thought very carefully about what Mr C has said. But I think the sample forms that 
have been provided are likely to have been like the ones that Mr C would have completed. 
From the layout and wording of the forms, I think that Mr C would have known about the PPI 
and that he had a choice about buying it. It seems to me that Mr C probably decided to take 
it out, knowing that he didnt have to, even if he no longer remembers doing so.
Its likely that HSBC advised Mr C to buy the policy, given that he bought the policy when he 
was in a branch. Therefore, in recommending it to him, it needed to ensure that it met his 
needs. And from what I know of Mr Cs circumstances at the time, I think the policy was 
suitable for him.Mr C originally told HSBC that he would have received around 6 months sick pay from his 
employer. He then told this service that he would have received only statutory sick pay. 
Regardless of this, the policy would have paid out in addition to any sick pay and for longer 
than Mr C would have received full pay for, for up to 12 months. And Mr C said he didnt 
have any other means, such as savings, that he could fall back on. He did mention that his 
wife was working full time so could have helped him. Whilst its good to have family 
members who can help, financial circumstances can easily change so its not something that 
can always be counted on. 
It follows that I therefore think Mr C had a need for the policy and could have benefitted from 
it.
Its possible that HSBC didnt provide Mr C with as much information as it should have 
about the policy, particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr C wasnt affected by 
any of those things. Because I think that Mr C had an interest in the policy and decided to 
buy it, I dont think that further information would have caused him to change his mind.
This means that HSBC doesnt have to pay back all the cost of the PPI to Mr C. Its already 
paid back some of the cost of the PPI to him because when the policy was sold it expected 
to get a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium).  To 
put that right, HSBC has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium.  I think that offer is fair in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2019.
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman