DRN-1186424
The complaint
Mr F has complained about Eridge Underwriting Agency Ltds handling of his van insurance 
policy.
Reference to Eridge includes their agents.
What happened
Mr F took out van insurance with Eridge through a broker. He applied for the policy on 
12 December 2018. The policy started on 20 December 2018.
On 17 December 2018, Eridge asked Mr F for some information to validate the policy. They 
sent their request for the information by email and by post. The letter said Mr F had until 
24 December to provide the information otherwise the policy could be cancelled. When 
Eridge didnt hear back from Mr F they sent him a similar letter on 24 December 2018. That 
letter was also sent by email and by post and it asked for the information by 
31 December 2018. It said no extension would be given and that the policy would be 
cancelled on 31 December 2018. As the information requested hadnt been received, Eridge 
cancelled the policy on 31 December 2018.
On 31 December 2018, Mr F sent Eridge an email saying he had been on holiday, which is 
why he hadnt responded earlier. He said he would be able to send the information 
requested by 2 January 2019. Mr Fs email was sent to the broker. He received and 
automated response saying they would respond within one working day, which would have 
been on 2 January 2019.
Mr F complained. He said it was an honest mistake as he had been away with his family and 
didnt check his correspondence until the day of the cancellation. He said as a result of the 
cancellation, his premium had gone up. Eridge didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Mr F didnt think Eridge had treated him fairly, so he brought his complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into it. He felt that Eridge hadnt done anything wrong. As   
Mr F didnt agree with our investigator, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr F, but Im not going to uphold his complaint. Ill 
explain why.
Eridge asked for more information from Mr F to validate the policy. Thats not an unusual 
thing for an insurer to do. To ensure Mr F was aware of the request, Eridge sent the letter by 
post to his policy address and by email which I think was reasonable. Mr F said he received 
both. And when Eridge didnt receive a reply, they again sent a letter by post and by email 
on 24 December 2018. 
Mr F responded on 31 December asking for more time but the policy had already been 
cancelled. While I have sympathy for Mr Fs position, I dont think Eridge did anything wrong. 
Even if Mr F was away from home and didnt have access to his post, he could have 
checked his emails during the two-week period Eridge gave him. 
The policy says that Eridge can cancel the policy by sending at least seven days written 
notice by post and/or email. As they sent their letters both by post and email, I think they did 
enough to bring them to Mr Fs attention. I therefore think they acted reasonably.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2020.
 
Mehmet Osman
Ombudsman