DRN-3672579
The complaint
Mrs Cs complaint is about a mortgage account with Barclays Bank UK Plc. Mrs C says that 
Barclays refuses to transfer the mortgage into her sole name. Barclays says it is unable to 
do so because the property title is in the joint names of Mrs C and her former husband, 
Mr C. He is not a party to this complaint.
Mrs C has also complained that Barclays allowed Mr C to take out two secured loans in their 
joint names, one of which the bank later accepted had been done without her knowledge or 
consent.
To settle the complaint, Mrs C wants Barclays to remove any financial association between 
her and Mr C and to transfer the mortgage into her sole name.
What happened
This is a complex matter, so it is worth setting out the background of what happened in some 
detail.
In 2004 Mr and Mrs C took out a capital repayment mortgage with Woolwich, the residential 
lending branch of Barclays, secured on their home. They borrowed £95,000 over a 25-year 
term. The mortgage was on a fixed rate of interest until 31 May 2009. 
In 2007 a secured loan for £37,000 was taken out with another business connected to 
Barclays in the joint names of Mr and Mrs C. 
Unfortunately the marriage broke down, and Mr and Mrs C were divorced in 2009. Barclays 
later acknowledged that Mrs C wasnt responsible for the £37,000 secured loan.
On 13 January 2009 the court made a final order in relation to the financial issues between 
Mr and Mrs C. The court ordered (amongst other things) that, with effect from that date, the 
equitable interests in the property would be held as 100% to Mrs C and 0% to Mr C. The 
order said that  Mr C would transfer his legal interest in the property to Mrs C within 56 days;  
in other words, he would have his name removed from the property title at the Land Registry. 
Mrs C undertook to use her best endeavours to seek the release of Mr C from the Barclays 
mortgage. On 3 February 2009 Mrs Cs solicitors sent her a copy of the order and said they 
would await hearing from you once you have discussed matters further with Barclays.
Barclays wasnt a party to the court order, which meant that it wasnt under any legal 
obligation to remove Mr C from the mortgage account. However, the undertaking Mrs C gave 
to the court meant that she had to ask Barclays if it would do this.
This had no bearing on the provision in the order that Mr C was required to transfer his legal 
interest in the property to Mrs C within 56 days. That could have happened whether or not 
Barclays agreed to release Mr C from the mortgage.
On 14 January 2009 Mrs C wrote to Barclays to explain that Mr C had left the property On 
11 November 2007. She said that, after Mr C had had a heart attack a week after that, the 
mortgage had been paid by the mortgage protection policy. Mrs C asked if the mortgage 
could be transferred onto interest only. On 21 January 2009 Barclays declined the request 
by Mrs L but said that, if Mrs C wanted a new interest only mortgage, this would require a 
new mortgage application.
For reasons that are unexplained, rather than going ahead with the transfer of the property 
into Mrs Cs sole name instead, on 29 October 2009, Mr and Mrs C both signed a 
Declaration of Trust. This said that the property was in joint names and subject to the joint 
mortgage in favour of Barclays. Mrs C had the right to occupy the property, and if the 
property was sold, after paying off the mortgage, estate agents fees and legal costs, Mrs C 
would retain the entire net proceeds of sale. 
A letter from Mrs Cs solicitors dated 16 November 2009 says If at any time in the future you 
are financially able to remove [Mr C] from the mortgage, then please contact us and we will 
be happy to deal with that documentation for you.. 
On 28 September 2018 Mrs C took out a new fixed interest rate product on the mortgage.
On 23 February 2021 Mrs C made a complaint to Barclays. Mrs C explained that in 2018 
shed approached two other lenders to see if she could get a mortgage in her own name. 
However, this hadnt been possible because Mr Cs name was on the mortgage. So Mrs C 
approached Barclays, and, although the mortgage account was still in joint names, Barclays 
was satisfied Mrs C had been paying the joint mortgage by herself for many years. 
Consequently, an exception was made and a new interest rate was arranged for her. Prior to 
this, the mortgage had been on Standard Variable Rate (SVR) since 31 May 2009. 
Mrs C was unhappy that Barclays hadnt agreed to a transfer the joint mortgage into her sole 
name, and raised a complaint, which Barclays didnt uphold. Mrs C brought her complaint to 
our service. An investigator thought that Barclays had acted unfairly and that it should 
consider an exception to its policy and allow an application for a transfer of equity. 
Barclays initially agreed to consider an application but on further investigation the bank said 
it wasnt able to proceed with this. The reason Barclays gave was that the property title at 
the Land Registry is still in the joint names of Mr and Mrs C. As a result, Barclays wasnt 
able to transfer the mortgage out of joint names where both parties remained on the title 
deeds.
Provisional decision
On 15 August 2022 I issued a provisional decision in which I made the following findings.
Its correct that Mrs C was divorced from Mr C some years ago, and that in January 
2009 the court made an order that Mr C was to transfer his legal title in the property 
to Mrs C, subject to the mortgage. This is a perfectly standard arrangement in 
matrimonial proceedings and doesnt affect whether or not the mortgage lender will agree to the mortgage being transferred into the sole name of the party who is 
keeping the house. If the mortgage lender doesnt agree to one party taking over the 
mortgage, it will stay in joint names, notwithstanding that the house might have been 
transferred into one partys name.
I will explain here that in English law (which applies here), there are two parts to the 
ownership of property  the legal estate (which means the names in which the 
property is registered at the Land Registry) and the equitable estate (which means 
the way in which the owners have agreed to hold the equity in the property, for 
example, in equal shares or in any percentages they have agreed  in this case 
100% for Mrs C). 
The procedure for signing over the property to Mrs C would have been very 
straightforward in 2009. It would simply have required Mr and Mrs C to sign a Land 
Registry form known as a TR1, transferring the property from their joint names into 
the sole name of Mrs C. She would then have owned 100% of both the legal and 
equitable interests in the property. But rather than doing this (in line with the court 
order made on 13 January 2009), instead, in October 2009, Mr and Mrs C signed a 
Declaration of Trust. This kept the legal title to the property in their joint names, but 
explained that on any sale of the property, Mrs C would receive 100% of the 
equitable interest.
I dont know why Mrs C was advised to do this instead of her and Mr C signing the 
standard TR1  thats something Mrs C will need to ask her solicitors. But the 
implications of this are that, instead of Mr C being taken off the deeds, he has 
remained on the deeds the whole time. As a result, although he has no interest in 
the equity in the property, he is still, for legal purposes, considered an equal joint 
owner of the property, with him and Mrs C holding the equitable interest on trust for 
Mrs C to receive 100% of the equity. 
Barclays had no involvement in this  nor would I have expected it to; it was an 
arrangement made between Mr and Mrs C, presumably on legal advice. But the 
implications as far as the mortgage is concerned are that it is not possible for 
Barclays to grant a new mortgage by way of a transfer of equity into Mrs Cs sole 
name, because Mr C is still a joint owner of the property, and is still on the deeds. 
Although Mr C has no equitable interest in the property, Barclays isnt able  from a 
legal perspective  to grant a mortgage over a property to a sole borrower where 
there is another joint owner of the property registered on the title at the Land 
Registry. This is standard lending policy across the mortgage market, and Im 
satisfied Barclays is entitled to decide its own lending criteria. Im not persuaded its 
unreasonable of Barclays to decline a transfer of equity where Mr C is still a joint 
owner; in this type of situation, where there are joint owners but only a sole borrower, 
there is a risk to the Barclays security because another party has a legal interest in 
the mortgaged property that overrides that of the bank.
I know Mrs C thought Mr C had been taken off the deeds in 2009. But, 
unfortunately, that isnt the case; he is still a joint owner of the property. I must make 
it very clear that I am apportioning no blame to Mrs C; she isnt a lawyer and so I 
wouldnt expect her to have understood the legal nuances of what happened in 2009 
in relation to the Declaration of Trust.
But its created a really unfortunate situation, which I fully accept isnt the fault of Mrs 
C, who thought that the property had been in her sole name since 2009. And I cant find that Barclays to be at fault either for refusing to remove Mr C from the joint 
mortgage when he is still a joint owner of the property.
As I said at the start, it would have been possible in 2009 for the property have been 
transferred into the sole name of Mrs C (thereby taking Mr C off the deeds) but for 
the mortgage to have remained in joint names. That is what usually happens in 
matrimonial cases where a new mortgage in the sole name of the party staying in the 
property would be unaffordable; by keeping the mortgage in joint names, the lender 
has the security of both borrowers being liable for the repayment in the event of 
default. Indeed, it was on the basis of affordability that Barclays wouldnt take Mr C 
off the mortgage in 2009. But Mrs Cs solicitors could still have gone ahead with the 
transfer of the property title into Mrs Cs sole name, even if the mortgage remained in 
joint names.
In order for Barclays to go ahead now with be a transfer of the mortgage into Mrs Cs 
sole name (subject to meeting lending criteria), there would also need to be a 
transfer of the legal title out of the joint names of Mr and Mrs C into Mrs Cs sole 
name. Mrs C has explained that shes had no contact with Mr C for years and doesnt 
know where he is. I appreciate this is likely to cause difficulty in getting him to sign 
the TR1 to be taken off the legal title to the property. It might need an application to 
the court which made the order in the divorce proceedings to resolve the issue. I 
think initially Mrs C should speak to her solicitors to see what her options are in order 
to get the property transferred into her sole name.
However, for the reasons Ive explained above, I dont think Barclays has done 
anything wrong here.
Responses to the provisional decision
Barclays had nothing to add to the provisional decision. Mrs C asked if her case could 
remain open until the issue with legal title to the property had been resolved. Mrs C also 
wanted an assurance, if she was able to transfer the property into her sole name, that 
Barclays would agree to remove Mr C from the mortgage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the file again from the start and have noted the further points Mrs C has made. 
Ive also revisited my provisional decision. Having done so, I dont intend to change my 
mind.
I understand that Mrs C no longer any contact with Mr C and so arranging for him to sign the 
TR1 is likely to be difficult and might involve court proceedings; thats something Mrs C will 
need to discuss with her solicitors. But, as I explained in my provisional decision, whilst Mr C 
remains a joint owner of the property, its not possible for Barclays to remove him from the 
mortgage account. Its also not possible for us to leave the complaint open indefinitely while 
Mrs C tries to sort the problem out. We have to have finality to our process.
If Mrs C is able to remove Mr C from the title to the property, I cant give any guarantee that 
Barclays would then agree to remove him from the mortgage account; thats a matter for Barclays to decide, because Mrs C would need to meet the banks lending criteria. However, 
I would expect Barclays to give fair consideration to any request, and to take into account 
her specific circumstances, including the payment history. If, at that point, Barclays declines 
an application to remove Mr C from the mortgage, Mrs C can bring a fresh complaint to us 
about that.
I have considerable sympathy for the position in which Mrs C finds herself. As I said in my 
provisional decision, this is not a situation of her own making and I completely understand 
how upsetting it must have been for her to discover that Mr C is still on the deeds. I 
sincerely hope that Mrs C is able to sort out the legal issues with the title and that the 
property is transferred into her sole name without too much trouble or expense. 
I know Barclays is sympathetic to her situation too, but because of the legal implications (as 
explained above), its simply not possible to remove Mr C from the mortgage while he 
remains on the title to the property. In the circumstances, Im unable to find that Barclays has 
done anything wrong. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman