DRN-3810519
The complaint
Mr C complains about the service he received from Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, 
when attempting to make payments on his credit card while abroad. 
What happened
Mr C holds a credit card with Halifax. In August 2022, while abroad, Mr C attempted to make 
a payment using his Halifax credit card, but the payment was subsequently blocked. Shortly 
after, Mr C received a text message from Halifax asking whether the payment was genuine.  
Mr C confirmed it was, so the block was then lifted, and the payment went through. But a 
number of days later, while still abroad, Mr C attempted to make further payments, but they 
were stopped again. And when Mr C spoke with Halifax via webchat, they explained that he 
would need to call their fraud department in order for them to lift the block. 
Mr C explained that he was unable to call while abroad, as he hadnt activated data roaming 
before leaving the UK, so he couldnt make international calls. But Halifax said this was the 
only way for the block to be lifted. So, Mr C complained. 
Halifax considered Mr Cs complaint and apologised for the inconvenience hed experienced. 
But they said they had strict procedures in place when a transaction was deemed high risk, 
and that their process was to decline such transactions until they are able to speak to the 
customer to confirm theyre legitimate. 
But Mr C maintained that as he was able to confirm the previous transaction by text 
message, Halifax shouldve been able to do the same this time; or, if not, find an alternative 
way for the transaction to be confirmed. So, he brought his complaint to our service. 
An investigator considered Mr Cs complaint, but didnt recommend it be upheld. She said 
she appreciated the frustration Mr C wouldve likely experienced, but she didnt think Halifax 
were wrong to have strict processes in place. And within the opinion she issued, along with 
her follow-up correspondence, she explained that she felt Halifaxs decision to require Mr C 
to call in relation to the second transaction was not unreasonable. But Mr C remained 
unhappy, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To begin with, its useful to point out that most banks will have fraud prevention measures in 
place. And those measures will generally require certain processes to be put in place when 
they deem a transaction to be high risk. This is common practice, and equally, I can see that 
Mr C accepts this to be the case.  So, Ive gone on to look at how Halifax applied these 
practices, and whether I think they did so fairly. 
When Mr C reached his destination abroad, he explained that he had to make a payment to 
purchase some visas. And it seems this was the first payment attempt overseas that was 
stopped. It seems that following this payment attempt, Mr C was sent a text message 
requesting he confirm it was him making the payment. And when he did this, the payment 
block was subsequently lifted. 
This seems like a reasonable way for the transaction to be verified, and it seems Mr C was 
able to respond quickly and the block was lifted accordingly. I dont think Halifaxs processes 
here were unreasonable, and equally, Mr C seems to accept that this was an effective way 
for the issue to be resolved. 
Following the first block, a number of days later Mr C attempted to use the card again. This 
time to pay a restaurant bill and withdraw cash in order to purchase groceries. But on both 
occasions, Mr C says the payments were blocked again. Halifax initially seemed unable to 
locate information around these blocks, but later accepted that these issues did occur, and 
they said they could see there was communication between them and Mr C regarding the 
blocks that were applied. 
The communications were via Halifaxs webchat facility, where Mr C explained he needed 
the payment blocks lifted, as he was unable to make the payments required. He was told by 
Halifax that the payments had been flagged for a security check, and they asked whether he 
had received a text message to verify the transactions. They said that if he hadnt, he would 
need to call their security team. 
Mr C said that he didnt receive a text message this time, and he didnt have international 
roaming set up, so he couldnt call, so he asked instead for Halifax to call him. But Halifax 
said this wasnt possible, as this was not in line with their security process. They said that 
Mr C could call either using their international line, and they could arrange for the call 
charges to be reversed. Equally, they said that Mr C could try and call from a different phone 
in order for the block to be lifted. But Mr C said that neither of these were possible. 
I accept that Halifaxs standard process made things difficult for Mr C, and I understand that 
some of the options they were providing Mr C seem to have been unsuitable. But equally, I 
have to balance this with the fact that Halifax have strict processes in place in order to try 
and protect customers accounts. And that they did try and come up with solutions in order 
for Mr C to be able to verify the payments. I also cant hold Halifax responsible for Mr C not 
being able to make international calls as he hadnt set up data roaming before he left the UK. 
I accept this was a frustrating time for Mr C, and not being able to access his credit card did 
cause him significant inconvenience  hes explained that he couldnt purchase basic 
necessities and had to borrow money from family. But equally, I dont think its unreasonable 
for Halifax to have strict measures in place, when it comes to verifying that payments are 
legitimate, and I think that to veer too far away from those measures, especially when 
considering potentially fraudulent transactions, would likely put both them, and their 
customers, at risk of financial harm.
So, while I accept this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr C, and I know its not the 
outcome he was hoping for, on balance, Im not persuaded that the actions Halifax took were 
unreasonable in stopping Mr Cs payments. And I think they offered what were reasonable 
alternative options for him to try and contact them, to have the blocks lifted. So, for this 
reason, I dont require Halifax to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Brad McIlquham
Ombudsman