DRN-2675601
The complaint
Mr B complained that his interest only mortgage was mis-sold. He also complains about 
action that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax is taking now the term has ended.
What happened
Mr B took his mortgage out many years ago, in 1991. He also took an endowment policy 
with an investment provider, but later cancelled the endowment when it was 
underperforming. Hes now reached the end of the interest only term and has no way of 
repaying the capital short of selling his property, which he doesnt want to do.
Mr B complains that his mortgage was mis-sold. He said he would have preferred a 
repayment mortgage but was talked into taking an endowment. He says he later cancelled 
the endowment. And in the years since hes asked Halifax to convert his mortgage to 
repayment terms several times but it has refused. He says he was told to wait until the end 
of the term and deal with it then.
Once the term ended in 2016, Mr B agreed to put his property on the market. Halifax agreed 
to allow him six months to do so. By the end of the six months Mr B hadnt put the property 
on the market, so Halifax gave him a further year. When that ended, in November 2017, the 
property still hadnt sold. Over the next two years there was contact between Mr B and 
Halifax on several occasions, but no way forward could be agreed. Mr B has made previous 
complaints about some of that contact. 
By 2019, Halifax was able to carry out a full review of Mr Bs circumstances. It said it wasnt 
affordable to convert the mortgage to repayment. It said the full balance would need to be 
repaid and suggested Mr B take independent financial advice about his options. Halifax said 
that if the balance wasnt repaid it might need to take legal action.
Our investigator didnt recommend upholding the complaint and so Mr B has asked for an 
ombudsman to decide the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Another ombudsman has already decided what parts of this complaint we can and cant 
consider. She said we could only consider how Halifax has treated Mr B since the mortgage 
term ended in 2016. Thats because Mr B had complained to Halifax about the other matters 
before, and hadnt brought those complaints to our service in time. I agree with what the 
ombudsman said, and so in this decision I will only consider whats happened since the end 
of the term.
I can see that Mr B has asked the investigator for more time to respond to her assessment of 
the complaint. Ive considered that request carefully  taking into account everything Mr B 
has said about his health and his circumstances.
However, I dont think it would be fair to allow further extensions. I say this for several 
reasons. Firstly, I have a statutory obligation to resolve complaints quickly and with minimum 
formality. This complaint has been going on for some time now, and in my view its in the 
interests of both Mr B and Halifax that it be brought to an end sooner rather than later. 
Mr B has had many months to send us any information about his complaint that he wants us 
to consider, and has said several times that he is in the process of drafting documents. 
Although he hasnt sent us any documents, he has been in regular contact with us by phone 
and email and more recently letter, and I think he has had the opportunity to make any 
points that he wants to be taken into account. 
Im also satisfied that I have enough information already to be able to reach a fair outcome 
on this complaint, and I dont think its necessary to prolong matters any further. 
This mortgage came to an end in 2016. When he took it out, Mr B agreed to repay the 
capital in 2016, and its not unreasonable  as a starting point  for Halifax to expect him to 
have done so.
However, its clear that Mr B had no means of repaying the capital at that time, at least short 
of selling his property. Hed cancelled his endowment some years before. Mr B agreed that 
he would sell his property, and Halifax allowed first six months then a further year for that to 
happen. I think that was fair.
However, the property hadnt sold by late 2017, and Mr B then took it off the market. Hes 
said he wanted to carry out some refurbishments. Hes also discussed being in dispute with 
neighbours in the past. 
Following this, Halifax tried to discus with Mr B how his mortgage would be repaid. There 
were many occasions when Mr B and Halifax spoke, but it wasnt possible for a full mortgage 
review to be carried out.
There are many reasons for this. Mr B rang Halifax at the end of the day, just before its office 
closed, so there wasnt time to complete a review. Or he went into branches at the end of the 
day, again leaving insufficient time. When Halifax rang Mr B, he asked it to ring back at other 
times  but then wasnt available at those times. At other times, Mr B said he was unwell 
with the flu, or an injury. Or he was waiting for documents, or waiting to receive further 
information about his pension.
At other times, Mr B wasnt happy with the Halifax adviser he spoke to. He has at various 
times complained about their accents, or the way theyve spoken to him. He has wanted to 
speak to specific people who havent been available. On one occasion a mortgage review 
couldnt go ahead because Halifaxs offices were closed because of an extreme weather 
event.
In 2019, Mr B made some lump sum payments which reduced the balance, and more 
recently hes been overpaying by a small amount each month, so the balance is now 
reducing.
But its now five years since the mortgage term ended. The capital will need to be paid back 
at some point. I wouldnt expect Halifax to wait indefinitely for repayment  though it does 
need to explore with Mr B what his situation is and whether he has any proposals for 
payment.
Im satisfied its done that. Once it completed a review in 2019, it was clear that it wasnt 
affordable for Mr B to convert the mortgage to repayment terms and pay it off in a reasonable time, even though the balance is now relatively low. 
I think Halifax has been patient with Mr B over the years and has allowed him time to try and 
find a way of repaying his mortgage. If sale of the property isnt an option that Mr B wants to 
explore any more, there are other things he could consider  and its important that he gets 
some independent financial advice about his options.
Halifax will need to continue to act fairly, and if Mr B is able to put forward any concrete 
proposals it should give them fair consideration. But the mortgage was due for repayment 
five years ago, and if Mr B isnt able to find another way of repaying it, Halifax may feel it has 
no other option but to take possession proceedings. 
I do understand why Mr B feels strongly about the situation he is in. But having considered 
things carefully, I dont think Halifax has acted unfairly so far, and so I dont think I can 
uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2021.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman