DRN-3141318
The complaint
Mrs C says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
What happened
Mrs C bought the policy in 2002 in connection with a store card. Our adjudicator didnt 
uphold the complaint. 
Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Cs case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Cs complaint and Ive set out my reasons below:
Mrs C says she was told she had to take the PPI as part of the store card application 
process and that AXA didnt give her a proper choice about buying it. Ive noted 
everything Mrs C has said.
The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between Mrs C and 
AXA when the policy was sold. Im also mindful that these events took place nearly 
twenty years ago and that exact recollections of what happened can fade over time. 
But Ive seen a copy of Mrs Cs store card application form, and this was completed 
to show that she wanted the PPI. She signed the relevant section of the form to 
accept the cover. Card protection was also available on the form, but it seems Mrs C 
chose not to take that. So I think Mrs C wouldve realised she had a choice about 
whether or not to buy the PPI  although I can understand why she may no longer 
remember this, given the time thats passed. 
From what Ive seen, Im satisfied that AXA made Mrs C aware that the policy was 
optional. 
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs C so it didnt have to check if it was suitable 
for her. That means it didnt have to ask about her circumstances, or whether she 
had any other means to cover her repayments. 
But even if AXA had recommended the policy, it doesnt look as though it was 
unsuitable for Mrs C, based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. Mrs 
C has told me that she was entitled to generous sick pay from her employer, but the 
PPI wouldve paid out in addition to Mrs Cs employer sick pay, and wouldve meant 
she couldve used those benefits to pay for other expenses. So I think Mrs C 
wouldve had some use for the policy despite her existing arrangements.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But its unlikely Mrs C would have been affected by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover, and the policy had a reasonable benefit. So I 
dont think better information wouldve stopped her buying it.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman