DRN-3754393
The complaint
Ms M complains about the advice Quilter Financial Planning Solutions Limiteds appointed 
representative gave to transfer the benefits from her defined-benefit (DB) occupational 
pension scheme to a personal pension. She says the advice was unsuitable for her and 
believes this has caused a financial loss.
It was Quilters appointed representative, rather than Quilter itself, which gave Ms M advice. 
But, as Quilter is responsible for the appointed representatives actions I will refer to it 
throughout this decision. 
Professional representatives have helped Ms M to bring this complaint. But, for ease of 
reading, Ill refer to the representatives comments as being Ms Ms.
What happened
Ms M was a deferred member of her former employers DB scheme. In 2004 the employer 
was in financial difficulties and entered liquidation. It notified its scheme members that it 
wouldnt be able to cover the full liabilities of the DB scheme. In September 2004 the 
scheme administrators sent Ms M a statement of entitlement which said that her pension 
fund had a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of around £22,824. And that, assuming 
the scheme was 100% funded, she would be entitled to a full pension of £2,808 at the 
schemes normal retirement age of 62, which would rise to around £2,872 when she turned 
65. But it said that because the scheme was underfunded, the actual benefits were likely to 
be reduced to between 75% and 85% of the given figures. 
Ms M was introduced to Quilter with a view to discussing her pension options. She met with 
it in March 2005. As well as noting the information from the statement of entitlement Quilter 
obtained an illustration from a named personal pension provider. That showed what a 
personal pension might pay Ms M if she transferred her pension funds from the DB scheme 
and invested those in the named personal pension. 
Quilter recorded that Ms Ms attitude to risk was medium. It said in an internal document 
the growth rate required (the critical yield) to match the benefits from the DB scheme was 
less than 5%.
Quilter recommended that Ms M transfer her DB benefits to a named personal pension. 
Ms M signed the forms to go ahead with the transfer on 18 March 2005. Three days later, 
21 March 2005, Quilter wrote to Ms M setting out the reasons for its recommendation. 
Amongst other things it said:
Ms Ms DB scheme was underfunded and it would only pay her between 75% and 
85% of her full pension entitlement. But that amount could be subject to further 
reductions.
The DB scheme would offer an annuity guaranteed to increase with inflation of 3% or 
less. The personal pension wouldnt offer a guarantee but Quilter said a growth rate 
of 5% a year would allow Ms M to exceed the income from the DB scheme annuity. 
That calculation was based on 80% of the maximum scheme benefits being payable. 
By accepting Quilters recommendation Ms M acknowledged she was giving up a 
level of guarantee from her DB scheme. But the reduction in benefits from that 
scheme wasnt known and was likely to increase. 
Ms M accepted Quilters recommendation and transferred her DB benefits to the named 
personal pension.
Ms M complained to Quilter in 2021 about the suitability of the transfer advice. Amongst 
other things she said:
Quilter didnt discuss the benefits shed be giving up by transferring.
It didnt provide a report or analysis and as such she wasnt in a position to make an 
informed decision.
The benefits from her personal pension were based on investment performance and 
didn't match her profile as a cautious investor.
She wasn't aware that she was giving up a guaranteed pension and still thought it 
would be guaranteed. 
Quilter didnt explain the risks involved in investing in a personal pension.
It didnt act in line with the regulators principles and guidance.
Quilter replied. It said it couldnt find any evidence that it had given advice to Ms M.
Ms M brought her complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into it. After we provided 
Quilter with information it acknowledged that it had given Ms M advice to transfer her 
pension. But it said it thought its advice was suitable. It also said that it thought Ms M had 
brought her complaint outside of the allowable timescales for doing so. 
Our investigator provided his analysis of Ms Ms complaint. First the investigator said he 
believed that Ms M had brought her complaint in time. He said hed seen no evidence that 
Ms M should have brought her complaint sooner. Second the investigator looked into the 
merits of Ms Ms complaint. Amongst other things our investigator said:
Quilter hadnt provided a transfer analysis (TVAS) report and it doesnt appear it 
completed one. 
It appears that Quilter estimated the critical yield value. But he said, given the 
uncertainty surrounding the position of the scheme, it would have been difficult for 
Quilter to accurately compare benefits between schemes.
While the absence of a TVAS was a flaw in the process, that didnt mean that the 
advice to transfer was unsuitable.
Ms M had questioned Quilters assessment that she had a balanced (medium) 
attitude to risk. But Quilter had said this explicitly in its letter of 21 March 2005 and 
there was no evidence at the time to suggest the attitude to risk assessment was 
incorrect. 
The projected growth rates at the time (known as the discount rate) and Ms Ms 
medium attitude to risk indicated that there was a realistic prospect of her achieving 
higher benefits by transferring to a personal pension than she would receive from the 
DB scheme. 
The former employer was in liquidation and the DB scheme administrators had said 
that pension benefits were likely to be reduced to between 75% and 85% of their 
maximum level, so it was reasonable for Quilter to assume that the DB scheme 
wouldnt pay Ms M her full benefits. The Financial Assistance Scheme (FAS)1 was still in its infancy. It didnt begin 
operating until later in 2005. And little was known about what support it could offer.
The DB scheme did enter the FAS in 2013 but at the time of Quilters advice, in 2005, 
it couldnt reasonably have foreseen that.
There was a possibility that by the time of her retirement Ms M could have lost even 
more of her pension entitlement.
While Quilter didn't get everything right, our investigator thought its advice to transfer 
was suitable.
Ms M didnt agree with our investigators assessment of the complaint. Amongst other things 
she said:
The regulators guidance at the time was that advising firms should start by assuming 
that transferring from a DB scheme was unsuitable.
Ms Ms full benefits weren't transferred and as such she had benefits both in a 
personal pension and also from the FAS and our investigator didnt consider this.
Quilter didnt advise Ms M that her full benefits would not be transferred or what 
would happen with the remaining funds.
The former employer was discussing matters with FAS and Quilter should have 
deferred giving advice until the issue was clear.
Given Quilters failings in the advice process Ms M wasnt given the opportunity to 
make an informed decision. She said that she was simply presented with a sign and 
transfer option.
She doesn't agree with Quilters crude growth rate. She said the personal pension 
illustration shows Quilters rates are entirely incorrect.
Quilters comments that the benefits from a personal pension could be higher is 
incorrect and misleading. 
While the DB scheme was in deficit and the company in difficulty, transferring 
benefits wouldnt protect Ms M from the effects of this. 
Ms M said she would send us additional information about her FAS benefits. 
Our investigator replied. He said, amongst other things:
While there were failings in the process that didnt mean the advice to transfer wasnt 
suitable.
He believed that Ms M would have gone ahead with the transfer without those 
failings.
Although some work had begun on the FAS by March 2005 it didnt begin operating 
until September 2005. And the DB scheme didnt register with it until 2013. Our 
investigator didnt think Quilter could have known that in 2005.
Similarly he didnt think Quilter could have known that Ms M would have benefits 
from the FAS in 2005.
Despite any failings in the advice process he couldnt say the advice to transfer was 
unsuitable. 
Ms M didnt send us any further information about FAS benefits. But as she didnt agree with 
our investigators assessment of the complaint it was referred to me to make a final decision.
 
1 The FAS is a Government funded scheme which provides financial assistance to members of certain 
defined benefit pension schemes. Generally, eligible members had lost all or part of their pension 
following their scheme winding up due to being underfunded, between 1 January 1997 and 
6 April 2005. FAS began operating in September 2005.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms M has made a number of detailed points when bringing this complaint. I've considered 
everything shes said carefully. But in this decision I dont intend to address each and every 
point raised. Instead I will focus on what I see as being the key issues at the heart of Ms Ms 
complaint and the reasons for my decision.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business and the Code of Business rulebook 
(COB). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to 
have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Quilter's actions here.
In 2004 the regulators guidance, set out in its rulebook (COB - 5.3.29) was:
When advising a customer who is, or is eligible to be, an active member of a defined 
benefits occupational pension scheme whether she should opt out or transfer, a firm should:
(a) start by assuming it will not be suitable, and
(b) only then consider it to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate on the evidence available 
at the time that it is in the customer's best interests.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided not to uphold the 
complaint for broadly the same reasons given by the investigator.
Was Quilters advice suitable?
After meeting with Quilter in March 2005 Ms M signed documents to apply to transfer her DB 
scheme funds to the named personal pension. But Quilter hasnt kept the records I would 
have expected to see what it discussed with Ms M and whether or not it met all of its 
regulatory requirements. So theres little evidence that it did all it should have done when 
considering recommending a transfer from Ms Ms DB scheme.
Quilter did record details about Ms M DB benefit entitlements. It also assessed that Ms M 
had a medium attitude to risk, although it hasn't documented how it arrived at that 
assessment. But given that she had 20 years to retirement there was scope for her invested 
funds to grow during that period and to recover from a period of poor performance, so I think 
its likely she would have accepted that level of risk at the time. However, I would have also 
expected Quilter to gather details of Ms Ms financial circumstances and to obtain a TVAS 
report. But theres no evidence it did those things. 
I also would have expected Quilter to have compared the benefits available between the 
named personal pension and the DB scheme. Quilter did provide Ms M with a projected 
income illustration from the named personal pension provider. But I can't see that it gave Ms 
M a side-by-side comparison of the relevant benefits of both the DB scheme and the 
personal pension. And in order to advise Ms M clearly, I think it needed to do that. That said Ive seen that Quilter estimated the critical yield required to match the benefits 
from the DB scheme was around 5%. Given that it didnt obtain a full TVAS its not clear how 
it arrived at that figure. But looking at the sums involved and the fact that Ms Ms DB benefits 
were thought to be reduced by up to 25% because of the underfunding of the scheme, that 
critical yield figure seems reasonable. 
Ms M said she didnt agree with Quilters crude growth rate estimate. But she hasn't shown 
me any evidence beyond her comments that indicates the figure wasnt broadly accurate. 
And for the reasons I set out below I think Quilters estimated growth rate of 5% was 
reasonable.
At the time that Quilter advised Ms M the regulator was publishing discount rates (that is the 
likely investment growth rates) to enable advising firms to calculate loss assessments in an 
industry wide pensions review. And I consider those discount rates provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
Quilter gave its advice. Quilter estimated the growth rate required to exceed the occupational 
pension at retirement was around 5% a year. This compares with the discount rate of 7.6% a 
year for 20 years to retirement.
For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 9%, the middle 
projection rate 7%, and the lower projection rate 5%. I've taken this into account, along with 
the composition of assets in the discount rate, Ms M's recorded attitude to risk and also the 
term to retirement. I think Ms M was likely to receive benefits of a higher overall value than 
the DB scheme at retirement as a result of investing in line with her recorded medium 
attitude to risk. And on the basis of the financial information available at the time, the transfer 
was likely to have seemed an attractive prospect to Ms M. 
Ive noted Ms Ms comments that the personal pension illustration showed that Quilters 
estimated growth rates were entirely incorrect. But I don't agree. Quilter estimated that a 
growth rate of around 5% a year was enough to exceed the benefits from the DB scheme. 
The personal pension illustration shows Ms Ms expected yearly pension at age 62. It gives 
figures based on the regulators low, middle and high growth rate projections of 5%, 7% and 
9% respectively. Its worth noting that when showing those projected figures, the illustration 
doesn't give a single sum but instead gives the amounts in whats sometimes referred to as 
slices (because of changing pensions rules over time). So the projected yearly pension 
income is the amount when each of those slices is added together. And, when those figures 
are added together the illustration shows that the personal pension would pay her £2,282 a 
year at a growth rate of 5% and £3,704 at a 7% growth rate.
Further the DB administrators said that Ms Ms yearly pension income would be reduced 
from between 25% to 15% depending on the funding position of the scheme. And, when 
setting out the reasons for its recommendation Quilter said that for comparison purposes it 
had used a figure of 80% of Ms Ms benefit entitlement, which would have been a pension of 
£2,241 a year. That figure is less than the projected income from the personal pension if it 
grew at the regulators lowest projected growth rate of 5%. And, given that the discount rate 
at that time was 7.6%, then a projected growth rate of 5% seems fairly conservative. So I 
don't think its fair to say that Quilters growth rate was entirely incorrect or misleading.
Its notable that Ms M signed the forms applying for the transfer three days before Quilter 
sent her its letter setting out the reasons for its recommendation. That indicates that, as well 
as not gathering full information about Ms Ms circumstances or obtaining a TVAS, Quilter 
was prepared to go ahead with its recommendation without setting out its reasons for it in 
writing. Its likely that Quilter would argue that it had already explained the reasons for its 
recommendation to Ms M in person. But, transferring out of a DB scheme is a one-off event. Once transferred there's no going back, the benefits of the DB scheme are lost forever. So, I 
think Quilter should have ensured that Ms M had had sight of all the relevant information in 
writing before proceeding and that includes the information in Quilters letter of 
21 March 2005. But, while I think Quilter certainly could have improved its advice process 
and theres little doubt that it was flawed, I also think its likely that Ms M would have gone 
ahead with the transfer anyway even if Quilters advice had been faultless.
Thats because, as I've said above, the company sponsoring the DB scheme was in 
liquidation. It couldnt afford the full liabilities of the DB scheme and the pension 
administrators had already told Ms M that her pension entitlements would be reduced. 
Although at that point they couldnt say by exactly how much. So the DB scheme was facing 
a very uncertain future. 
At that time, the Government had passed primary legislation a year earlier to introduce the 
FAS. But the regulations setting out how that law would operate werent in place and 
wouldnt be so for a further six months or so. And in those circumstances, where little was 
known about how the scheme would operate, there was no certainty that Ms Ms DB scheme 
would be accepted into the FAS. In fact its notable that Ms Ms DB scheme didnt 
successfully enter the FAS until 2013, some eight years later. So I dont think Quilter or 
Ms M could reasonably have been expected to predict that the DB scheme would enter into 
the FAS at some point in the distant future.
Further, the DB trustees had offered Ms M a CETV of £22,824. And that sum was 
guaranteed. So, by transferring when she did and investing that money in an alternative 
fund, Ms M was ensuring that her pension fund wasn't further reduced because her former 
employer couldn't afford the DB schemes liabilities. 
Ms Ms said that Quilter didnt arrange the transfer of the full value of her fund and she now 
has an entitlement from the FAS. She hasnt provided us with any more details of what that 
entitlement is, when it began or when she knew she would receive it. But I've seen nothing in 
the paperwork the DB scheme administrators provided that indicates they were offering 
anything other than the full value of the fund to Ms M. So I dont think that Quilter would have 
known that Ms M had any entitlement under the FAS. Thats especially the case as  at that 
time  the FAS still wasnt operational. And, as I've said above, the DB scheme didnt enter 
into the FAS for another eight years. So I don't think Quilter did anything wrong in not 
realising that Ms M might have an entitlement under the FAS at some point in the future. 
Summary
At the time Quilter gave Ms M advice her DB scheme was in an uncertain and seemingly 
precarious position. The expected growth rate from a personal pension would most likely 
have indicated that Ms M would be better off by transferring than remaining in her DB 
scheme. So I think Quilters advice to transfer out of the DB scheme was reasonable in the 
circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2023.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman