DRN-2946177
The complaint
Mr A complains that Beneficial Life (London) Limited (Beneficial) should refund him for a
commercial vehicle insurance policy that he cancelled. 
  
What happened
In mid-September 2019, Mr A took out a van insurance policy with an insurer. He did so
through a company that was an adviser acting as an appointed representative of Beneficial.
The policy documents named Beneficial as an intermediary.
The cost of this was £3,260.77. But Mr A cancelled the policy in late September 2019 within
the 14- day cancellation period. So he had less than 14 days on cover with the insurer.
He complained to the adviser that it said it would refund him but never did.
Mr A contacted us in late January 2020. In April 2020, we directed his complaint to
Beneficial.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that Mr A
wasnt accountable for what happened with the adviser. The investigator recommended that
Beneficial should:
1. issue the refund of £3,260.77; and
2. compensate Mr A with £250.00 for the several emails and calls that he had to do 
in attempting to get his refund and for the worry of having to continue to pay 
interest on his credit card on this amount that shouldve been refunded.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr H 
and to Admiral on 1 July 2021. I summarise my findings:
The most likely explanation was that the adviser told Mr A which account to pay the 
money in to. And the adviser was an appointed agent of Beneficial. So  
notwithstanding that Beneficial didnt receive the payment  I held Beneficial 
responsible for any misdirection of Mr As payment. And I found it fair and reasonable 
to treat Beneficial as though Mr A had made the payment to Beneficial.
Beneficial hadnt shared with us any communication it received from the insurer 
about its charge for time on cover. But  provided that Beneficial could show that the 
insurer made that charge  I would accept that it was the insurer rather than 
Beneficial who was responsible for the amount of the charge for time on cover.
I was minded to find it fair and reasonable to direct Beneficial to refund Mr A as 
follows:
total cost £3,260.77
less non- refundable broker admin fee £   100.00
less insurers charge for the time on risk £   117.87
total to be reimbursed to Mr A £3,042.90.
As Mr A has been out of pocket since about 26 September 2019, I was minded to 
direct Beneficial to add interest at our usual rate.
By not making the refund earlier, Beneficial has also caused Mr A distress and 
inconvenience. Much of that was to do with being out of pocket. Keeping in mind the 
intended award of interest, I was minded to find that £100.00 was fair and reasonable
compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Subject to any further information from Mr A or from Beneficial, my provisional decision was 
that I upheld this complaint in part. I intended to direct Beneficial Life (London) Limited to pay 
Mr A:
1. £3,042.90 in refund of his cancelled insurance policy;
2. simple interest on that amount at a yearly rate of 8% from 26 September 2019 to 
the date of the refund. If Beneficial considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr A how much its 
taken off. It should also give Mr A a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so 
he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate; and
3. £100.00 for distress and inconvenience.
Mr A agrees with the provisional decision.
Beneficial disagrees with the provisional decision. It says, in summary, that:
It has still not been given the details of the account where this money was paid, only 
that it had the reference Beneficial Life. 
The likelihood is that either Mr A never paid anyone, or he has had his money back 
and is trying to get extra money. It would like to confirm all accounts held by Mr A.
The payment with reference Beneficial Life doesnt necessarily mean it was paid to 
it, or anyone for that matter. It could actually have been paid to his wife, sister or 
even his own account. This wouldnt be the first fraudulent attempt to claim money 
from us by a person associated with the adviser.
Whilst the most likely explanation would normally be that the adviser gave Mr A the 
account to pay, this isnt a normal situation and unfortunately the evidence of Mr A 
cannot be taken at face value.
If misdirection is the problem, then Mr A should pursue the adviser for misdirecting 
him. In its experience of both the adviser and their customers, it seems theyre all working 
together to gain as much profit as possible and we are allowing them to use us as a 
conduit to do this. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service may deal with a consumers complaint against a
regulated financial firm. In our final decision we name that firm, but we dont identify any
other party.
Mr A has shown us documents including credit card statements. From those documents, Im
satisfied that he paid £3,260.77 into an account which showed on his statement as
Beneficial Life. I have no reason to think that account was controlled by him.
I have no reason to doubt Beneficials evidence that it didnt receive that payment. But 
Beneficial is making allegations of fraud against its appointed agent and Mr A. So Beneficial 
carries the burden of providing evidence to support those allegations.
I find that the most likely explanation is that the adviser told Mr A which account to pay the 
money in to.
And the adviser was an appointed agent of Beneficial. So  notwithstanding that Beneficial
says it didnt receive the payment  I hold Beneficial responsible for any misdirection of Mr
As payment. And I find it fair and reasonable to treat Beneficial as though Mr A had made
the payment to Beneficial.
I accept that £100.00 was a non-refundable fee.
Mr As card statements for the months September 2019 to February 2020 dont show any
refund for the insurance. And I dont find it likely that Mr A wouldve sent the emails he sent
or brought his complaint to us if hed already received a refund.
From what Beneficial has said, the adviser owed money to the insurer for various 
transactions and Beneficial has settled the overall balance due. I find it likely that  in making
that settlement  Beneficial has had the benefit of a credit due from the insurer on the 
cancellation of Mr As policy. That credit is likely to have been calculated after deduction of
the insurers charge for time on cover.
Despite the provisional decision, Beneficial still hasnt shared with us any communication it 
received from the insurer about its charge for time on cover. Beneficial says that was 
£117.87. And  for the period from about 17 to about 26 September 2019 (about ten days) - 
£117.87 looks somewhat higher than a pro-rata charge.
But Mr A has accepted the provisional decision. So I will accept that it was the insurer rather 
than Beneficial who was responsible for the amount of the charge for time on cover.
Putting things right
I find it fair and reasonable to direct Beneficial to refund Mr A as follows:
total cost £3,260.77
less non- refundable broker admin fee £   100.00less insurers charge for the time on risk £   117.87
total to be reimbursed to Mr A £3,042.90.
As Mr A has been out of pocket since about 26 September 2019, I will direct Beneficial to 
add interest at our usual rate.
I dont doubt that  by not making the refund earlier  Beneficial has also caused Mr A
distress and inconvenience. Much of that was to do with being out of pocket. Keeping in
mind the intended award of interest, I find that £100.00 is fair and reasonable compensation 
for distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct 
Beneficial Life (London) Limited to pay Mr A:
1. £3,042.90 in refund of his cancelled insurance policy;
2. simple interest on that amount at a yearly rate of 8% from 26 September 2019 to the 
date of the refund. If Beneficial considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr A how much its 
taken off. It should also give Mr A a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate; and
3. £100.00 for distress and inconvenience.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2021.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman