DRN-1906673
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain esure Insurance Limited have unfairly declined their home insurance 
claim.
What happened
In February 2020 Mr and Mrs M noticed their driveway had been damaged following a flood.
They made a claim on their home insurance policy. esure sent an engineer to inspect the
damage. In their report, they said a culvert that takes water from a stream running
underneath the driveway became blocked. They said the force from the escaping water had
lifted Mr and Mrs Ms driveway and caused the damage. But as Mr and Mrs Ns drains didnt
enter the culvert, it didnt serve the property  it wasnt covered.
Mr and Mrs M were unhappy with the decision. esure reviewed their decision, but their
decision remained unchanged. So, Mr and Mrs M brought their complaint to our service.
Our investigator recommended we uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. She thought the
culvert itself wasnt covered under the policy - as it doesnt service Mr and Mrs Ms property.
But having reviewed the policy she felt the damage to the driveway was a separate claim
which should be considered under the flood section of the policy  so she believed esure
should accept Mr and Mrs Ms claim.
As she felt esure already had the information needed to accept the claim in February 2020,
she recommended they pay Mr and Mrs M £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr and Mrs M agreed with our investigator. But esure didnt agree Mr and Mrs Ms driveway
had been damaged by flood. They said the cause of the damage was the culvert failing and
the flood only highlighted the failing in the culvert.
I issued a provisional decision for this complaint on 26 May 2020. In that decision I said:
The policy wording under the underground services section says it covers pipes, cables and
tanks providing services to and from a customers property. As esures engineer confirmed
the culvert doesnt serve any drains running to the property Im satisfied it isnt covered
under the underground services section of policy. And as Mr and Mrs M have agreed with
our investigators view of this, I will focus my comments on the outstanding issues.
esures engineer said during the heavy rainfall the culvert became blocked and the force of
escaping water lifted the tarmac on Mr and Mrs Ms driveway. So, although the culvert had
failed, the actual event that caused the damage to the driveway was an escape of water.
Looking at the policy I can see under section 7, Escape of water/burst pipes it says the
policy covers for damage to buildings or contents as a result of water escaping from things
such as a water tanks, pipes and domestic appliances. The policy defines driveways as part
of the building. and there are no exclusions under the escape of water or the general
exclusions section that persuade me Mr and Mrs Ms claim is excluded from cover because
of the culvert.
So I think they do have a valid claim under the escape of water section of the policy - and
esure should deal with the claim for the driveway.I also think esure had the information needed to accept the claim in February 2020. The
engineers report does say there is no cover as the culvert doesnt serve the property, but It
also says the cause of damage is due to water escaping from the culvert. So I think this
wouldve reasonably been enough for esure to recognise Mr and Mrs M had a valid claim ---
and by not accepting the claim they have caused unnecessary delays.
So I think esure should pay Mr and Mrs M £150 compensation as I think this fairly reflects
the distress and inconvenience this has caused them.
Neither Mr and Mrs M or esure have provided any further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive no additional information or comments from either party my findings 
remain unchanged from my provisional decision.
Putting things right
As I explained in my provisional findings, to put things right esure Insurance Limited should 
deal with Mr and Mrs M's claim and pay them £150 compensation for the inconvenience 
caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs M's complaint.
esure Insurance Limited should deal with Mr and Mrs M's claim and pay them £150 
compensation for the inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 July 2020.
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman