DRN-2400763
The complaint
Mrs H says she didnt receive any proceeds from the sale when her property was sold in 
possession by Nottingham Building Society in 1983. She also says she had a mortgage 
endowment policy and has asked what happened with the proceeds of that.
What happened
Mrs H says she took the mortgage out in 1976 in joint names with her then-husband.
The property was taken into possession and was sold by Nottingham in 1983.
Nottingham wrote to Mrs H in 2002 in response to contact from her. In that letter it confirmed 
it took possession and sold the property in 1983. It said how much it sold the property for 
and how much was left as a surplus after the mortgage was repaid. It said due to the amount 
of time that had passed it was unable to say who the surplus funds were paid to.
Mrs H complained about this in 2019. Nottingham said it no longer had any records relating 
to Mrs Hs mortgage so it couldnt provide any information.
Mrs H asked about Nottinghams data retention schedule, saying she had good reason to 
ask. Nottingham said, I quote:
The Nottingham must retain records of customer identity, transactions and other 
significant records in order to ensure compliance with the relevant legal and/or 
regulatory requirements in the UK. As a matter of best practice records must be 
retained for a minimum of six years once the relationship has ceased, and be easily 
accessible and retrievable.
To clarify, we abide by date retention rules which state that unless we have an valid 
reason we are unable to retain any information about a customer who does not have 
a relationship with us for longer than 6 years. We had no reason to keep any 
information relating to a redeemed mortgage.
Please note this is in conjunction with the GDPR regulations. Once the time period 
for retention has passed all information is confidentially destroyed.
This has been explained to [Mrs H] previously along with the dates involved to 
ensure that she had all the information available to answer her question. 
Unfortunately we have no record of her mortgage or endowment payment due to the 
timescales involved. We are unable to assist her with her enquiry due to this.
Mrs H then said about the letter Ive mentioned above from 2002 and asked what valid 
reason Nottingham would have had to retain her information past 1989, to be able to write 
her the 2002 letter. She questioned whether it was to do with the mortgage endowment 
policy.
Nottingham said:
After reviewing this with our compliance department, the documentation retention 
schedule in 2002 is in line with the scheme from 2020 (i.e. six years unless there is a 
legitimate reason for documentation to be held longer).
Unfortunately, this element of the complaint has not been raised before and therefore 
has not been investigated. However, in line with the documentation retention 
schedule, we no longer have any documentation to enable us to investigate or 
respond upon the customers comments.
As Mrs H remained unhappy the matter has been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Nottingham has provided us with screen prints of its systems that shows it has no 
record of Mrs H. In order to uphold a complaint, I must be able to find that the 
financial business made a mistake or omission. In this case, because it has been so 
long since the events complained about, there is quite simply no evidence. In the 
absence of evidence, I cant conclude Nottingham did anything wrong and so I cant 
uphold the complaint against it. 
I understand Mrs H is concerned that Nottingham was able to write to her in 2002 as 
that was 19 years after the mortgage had ended. Unfortunately, as it has been 
another 18 years since that letter was sent, Nottingham no longer has any records at 
all, so it cant say how or why it had the information available in 2002 to be able to 
write that letter. Even if Nottingham had retained Mrs Hs information for longer than 
it needed to, she wasnt caused any financial loss by that retention of information 
therefore I make no order or award.
For these reasons, although I understand Mrs Hs frustration, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint about Nottingham Building Society. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman