DRN-3174220
The complaint
Mr C had motor insurance with One Insurance Limited (One). He complains about the 
repairs arranged by One following an accident. One is responsible for the actions of its 
authorised repairer, so the complaint is against One.
What happened
Mr Cs car was damaged in an accident. One arranged for the car to be repaired, but Mr C 
says that the repairing garage caused new damage to the car. 
While the car was being repaired, One arranged for a hire car, but Mr C says it was 
unsuitable and paid extra to upgrade to another model.
When Mr Cs car was returned he says the paintwork was badly repaired and so the car was 
returned to the repair garage without Mr C even driving it. The car was returned to Mr C 
again but he says there were still issues with the paintwork, plus a knocking noise which 
hadnt been there before the accident. Mr C says the repair garage told him the problems 
were caused by a previous accident, which he disputes, saying the car was in perfect 
working order before this accident. The car was collected again and a hire car provided, 
which Mr C was happy with. The repair garage again said the knocking noise was caused by 
a previous accident and wouldnt repair it. Mr C collected the car but says a part came loose 
underneath on the drive home. Because Mr C and the garage didnt agree, One arranged for 
an independent engineer to inspect the car. 
The independent engineer identified a number of issues with Mr Cs car. He said the loose 
part underneath the car could have been caused in the accident, and the clicking/knocking 
noise needed further investigation and could also be due to the accident. He said it was 
impossible to tell the cause of a dent and the paintwork issues but classed them as repairer 
responsibility. The engineer also said some damage to an alloy wheel looked new and was 
likely to have been missed by the repairer, and a few other minor issues were also repairer 
responsibility.
Mr C says the engineer told him the car was unsafe to drive and needed to be inspected by 
a main dealership. Mr C says the hire car then had to be returned as it had been supplied via 
the repair garage, leaving him without a vehicle. Mr C says he then arranged for the main 
dealership to collect the car and One did provide a hire car. 
However One then ended the arrangement for the hire car. Mr C says he wasnt told this and 
didnt return the car, and so it was reported stolen by the hire car company and a payment 
taken from his credit card. Mr C says this caused him a great deal of stress. Mr Cs car was 
still at the dealership, where it has remained for many months. Mr C says the dealership 
wouldnt do the repairs without authorisation from One, but One refused to authorise them. 
One says the dispute is between Mr C and the repair company.
Mr C complained to One. One upheld his complaint and offered him £350 compensation. 
However Mr C wasnt happy with this response as his car still wasnt repaired, so he 
complained to this service. Our investigator upheld Mr Cs complaint. He said the 
independent engineers report showed the repairs hadnt been carried out properly and One 
should have ensured that they were completed to the required standard without undue 
delay. He said One should agree for the dealership to carry out the necessary repairs or 
explain clearly why they arent covered by the terms and conditions of Mr Cs policy. The 
investigator also said One should provide Mr C with a hire car while any repairs it agrees to 
cover are carried out, refund him any hire car costs that should have been covered by his 
policy, and pay him £400 compensation.
In response, One said the independent reports said the issues raised after the accident 
arent accident related and so not covered by Mr Cs policy. One said the £350 already 
offered to Mr C was satisfactory.
Because One didnt agree with what the investigator said, the complaint has been passed to 
me. Mr C wants One to authorise the outstanding work, provide him with a hire car while its 
being done, and compensate him for his time and stress. He says further damage has been 
caused to his car due to the length of time it has been off the road.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I uphold Mr Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
Im not an engineer. Its not my role to say how the damage to Mr Cs car was caused. Its 
my role to decide whether One acted fairly and reasonably in dealing with Mr Cs claim. 
One hasnt provided any reports which say the issues raised after the accident arent 
accident related. The independent engineers report suggests at least some of the damage 
was caused by the accident. Accident damage is covered by Mr Cs insurance policy. So I 
think it would be fair and reasonable for One to either authorise the necessary repairs or 
explain exactly why it thinks they arent covered.
I can see that Mr C has had to spend a considerable amount of time contacting One, the 
repair garage, the dealership, the hire car companies, the independent engineer, and other 
organisations involved in the claim. Mr C tried on numerous occasions to get a copy of the 
independent engineers report before it was provided. He has been left without a car for an 
extended period. One has only arranged for a hire car for some of this time, and on one 
occasion caused a hire car in Mr Cs possession to be reported as stolen. This has all meant 
a significant amount of inconvenience and stress for Mr C. Although One offered Mr C £350 
compensation, this was over six months ago. Problems have continued since this and Mr C 
is still without the car. So I dont think this amount adequately compensates Mr C for the 
distress and inconvenience he has been caused.
So overall I dont think One acted fairly and reasonably in handling Mr Cs claim.
My final decision
One Insurance Limited must
Liaise with the dealership about what repairs are needed and decide whether any or 
all of them will be covered by Mr Cs policy. This to include any damage caused by 
the length of time the car has been off the road. Any work that is covered should be 
carried out without further delay. If One Insurance Limited decides any or all of the 
necessary repairs arent covered by the policy, it must fully explain why, with reference to expert reports and the terms and conditions of Mr Cs policy.
Provide Mr C with a courtesy hire car while the repairs are carried out, if it decides 
any of them are covered by his policy, in accordance with the terms of the policy. 
Refund Mr C any amount he has paid out for a hire car which should have been 
covered by the terms of his policy, not including any upgrades Mr C chose to pay for 
himself. This to include interest at 8% a year simple from the date Mr C paid for the 
hire to the date of payment. If One Insurance Limited considers that its required by 
HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr C 
how much its taken off. It should also give Mr C a certificate showing this if he asks 
for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Pay Mr C a further £400 compensation, making a total of £750, to compensate him 
for the continuing inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2022.
 
Sarah Baalham
Ombudsman