DRN-2432751
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complained to us about the service theyd received from a contractor 
instructed by their home insurer Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited in respect of a 
storm damage claim.
What happened
On Sunday 9 February 2020 Mr and Mrs P found that the flat felt roof on their garage had 
been torn off. The roof continues over their utility room but, at the time, just the portion over 
the garage was compromised. Mr and Mrs P made a claim on the Monday morning and 
temporary repairs were agreed. 
On Wednesday an assessment company appointed by Lloyds attended to assess the 
damage. The assessor noted a quote Mr P had obtained and said he felt it was high. 
Measurements were taken and Mr P was asked to obtain a second quote. He provided this 
on Friday and was told hed have an answer within 48 hrs. It was more than a week before 
settlement was agreed. Work started the day after, Wednesday 26 February.
Mr P was unhappy with the service received to that point. Hed had to chase matters up 
most days and hed been very worried throughout due to the possibility of the utility room 
becoming damaged. Whilst Mr P was pleased work was progressing, some issues remained 
outstanding. For example hed asked about VAT being paid but got no answer. Later the 
VAT amount was paid to Mr P as part of a larger payment. But Mr P wasnt notified of the 
payment or the way it was broken down. Mr P was also asked at one time to send details to 
the assessment company via recorded delivery which he felt was unreasonable given the 
pandemic and his vulnerable status. This enquiry was then resolved in another way.
Lloyds considered a complaint from Mr P about everything that had gone on. Over two final 
responses it accepted it had handled things badly which had caused a lot of distress and 
inconvenience. It offered a total of £150 compensation. Mr and Mrs P werent happy with this 
and complained to this service. 
Our investigator noted everything that had gone on and explained to Mr and Mrs P that he 
understood how frustrating this situation had been for them. But he also explained that he 
felt £150 was fair and reasonable compensation in the circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs P objected to the findings. They felt that a large part of what went wrong had 
occurred due to professional negligence on the part of the original assessor. They noted our 
guidance on compensation awards and said that given it had taken over four months for the 
whole situation to be fully resolved, and considerable upset and inconvenience had been 
caused, Lloyds should pay them £500 to £2,000 compensation.  The complaint was passed 
to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and with regret for any disappointment this may bring Mr and Mrs P, I dont 
intend to make Lloyds pay any further compensation. I accept that it failed Mr and Mrs P, 
causing them distress and inconvenience which is not acceptable. But I think the 
compensation already paid by Lloyds, to make up for the upset caused by its failings, is fair 
and reasonable.  
Ive read Mr Ps submissions in full. I can see that what should have been a relatively simple 
claim was made much more difficult due to the failings of Lloyds assessor. Not only did he 
take incorrect measurements whilst assessing the damage, but he then failed to deal with 
the matter in the timescales agreed. Whilst the work was ultimately agreed to be done within 
what I would often think to be a reasonable timescale  it wasnt reasonable when 
Mr and Mrs P had been told the matter would be resolved much more quickly than this. 
I havent set out in my background all of the issues Mr P has explained gave him cause for 
concern. But I agree with him that the whole situation could have been handled much better. 
Because it wasnt a lot of distress and inconvenience was suffered which could and should 
have been avoided.  
Whilst I understand why Mr and Mrs P think their upset warrants an award of £500 or more, 
Im not persuaded that is the case. I appreciate they feel their upset was considerable. But 
I have to put that in the context of other complaints we see and the awards of compensation 
we make. Our awards are also not designed to be punitive or to make an insurer change the 
way they do business. Whether an error was caused by professional negligence or by 
mistake the upset caused is the same. And where a mistake is put right relatively quickly and 
or the claim is ultimately resolved, bar any snagging issues such as how/when VAT might be 
paid, in a relatively short time frame, that also limits the impact of the error. 
Furthermore, if a prudent policyholder acts to mitigate their situation and avoid further upset, 
I cant award compensation for the distress and inconvenience that was avoided or might 
have been. My focus is on that which actually occurred on account of the insurers failings.
Given everything I have seen here, I am satisfied that an award of £500 or more would be 
punitive and/or unfair and unreasonable in the circumstances. Im further satisfied that £150 
compensation, as already paid by Lloyds, is fair and reasonable, as well as being in line with 
other awards made by this service in similar circumstances. 
My final decision
I dont make any award against Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 January 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman