DRN-2497810
The complaint
Ms P complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc has turned down a cancellation claim she made 
on her travel insurance policy.
What happened
On 4 February 2020, Ms P booked a trip to Italy. She paid for the trip using a credit card 
account for which she was an additional account holder. She was due to travel on 10 March 
2020 and return on 13 March 2020. On 25 February 2020, she took out a single trip travel 
insurance policy through a broker to cover the trip.
However, on 9 March 2020, the Italian government placed Italy into national lockdown, as a 
result of the Covid-19 pandemic. And on 10 March 2020, the Foreign & Commonwealth 
Office (FCO) advised against all but essential travel to Italy. So Ms P couldnt travel as 
planned. She didnt make a claim for the costs of her lost flights and her accommodation 
provider said her accommodation costs were non-refundable. She made a claim on her 
travel insurance policy for her flights and accommodation costs.
AXA turned down Ms Ps claim. It said the cancellation section of the policy specifically 
excluded claims which happened because of changes to FCO guidance.
Ms P was unhappy with AXAs decision and she asked us to look into her complaint.
Our investigator didnt think AXA had treated Ms P fairly in the way it considered her claim. 
Thats because she noticed that while the policy specifically excluded cancellation claims 
related to changes to FCO guidance, it also excluded any cover if a policyholder travelled 
against FCO advice. This meant that Ms P wasnt covered for cancellation, but she wouldnt 
have been covered for anything if shed still travelled as planned. The investigator didnt 
think this was a reasonable position for Ms P to be left in.
But the investigator didnt think AXA needed to pay Ms Ps claim. Thats because the policy 
said that AXA would only be liable to pay irrecoverable unused travel and accommodation 
costs. It specifically excluded cancellation costs which were recoverable from a credit or 
debit card provider. As Ms P had paid for her trip by credit card, the investigator considered 
it would be unreasonable to recommend that AXA settle the claim without evidence that Ms 
P had tried to make a s75 claim with her credit provider, which was unsuccessful. 
Ms P disagreed. She considered the investigators view was unlawful. She said that s75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act (CCA) only applies if a supplier has breached its contract. She 
didnt think either her airline or hotel had done so. She added that additional card holders 
arent entitled to any benefit under s75 of the CCA if the contract was for their benefit alone. 
She also told us that if she pursued a s75 claim which she knew was wrong in law, it could 
impact upon her professional life.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.  
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Ms P has shown that her cancellation costs cant be recovered. 
Ill explain why.
First, I should explain how I make decisions. I make decisions which are fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances. I will take into account any relevant law, regulatory rules; good 
industry practice etc. But Im not bound by the law and I can depart from the strict legal 
position if I consider it produces an unfair result.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive carefully considered the terms of Ms 
Ps policy and the circumstances of her claim to decide whether AXA should reasonably pay 
it.
Theres no dispute that on 9 March 2020, the Italian government placed Italy into a national 
lockdown and that on the following day  the date Ms P was due to travel  the FCO advised 
against all but essential travel to Italy. So its clear that there was no choice but for Ms Ps 
trip to be cancelled  especially given that if she had travelled against FCO advice, she 
wouldnt have been insured at all. And I can understand why she was frustrated when AXA 
turned down her claim because it didnt cover cancellation claims caused by changes to 
FCO guidance.
But in the specific circumstances of this complaint, I dont think I need to consider whether 
AXAs decision was wrong at this point. I say that because Ive looked closely at the 
applicable policy terms and conditions, which form the terms of Ms Ps contract with AXA. 
The cancellation section states it covers: any irrecoverable unused travel and 
accommodation costsand other pre-paid charges. (Bold is my emphasis).
The cancellation section also includes a list of things which are specifically excluded from 
cover. Ive set the relevant clauses below:
What is not covered
Any costs incurred by You which are recoverable from the Public Transport operator or their 
booking agents,
Any costs incurred by You which are recoverable from Your credit/debit card provider or for 
which You receive or are expected to receive compensation or re-imbursement.
The policy definition of public transport includes a publicly licensed aircraft which a 
policyholder is booked to travel on.
Ms P confirmed to our investigator that she hasnt pursued her flights costs through her 
airline or made a s75 claim for the trip costs she paid by credit card. She says this is 
because the airline didnt officially cancel flights, so she wouldnt be entitled to 
compensation. And that as an additional credit card holder, she isnt entitled to make a s75 
claim to the credit provider.
Ive considered what Ms Ps told us carefully. But it seems to me that given the policy terms 
and conditions; even if AXA had agreed to consider the claim at the outset, it would most 
likely have expected Ms P to show shed attempted to recover her cancellation costs both 
through her airline and through her credit card provider. And I think it would be fair for AXA to conclude that Ms P needs to take reasonable steps to try and recover her costs from the 
airline or her card provider before it agrees to consider the claim. Im satisfied the policy 
terms make it clear that a policyholder needs to try and recover their costs from their travel 
provider or credit card company. In this case, Ms P has told us she hasnt taken any steps to 
do so. This means, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to find that AXA should 
settle Ms Ps claim when she hasnt sought to obtain a recovery from either third party.
I cant comment on whether a claim through Ms Ps airline or a s75 claim with her credit card 
provider would be successful. That would be for those parties to investigate. If Ms P is 
unhappy with the outcome of any s75 claim she may make, she may be able to refer it to us 
to consider separately. And if she is unhappy with any decision of her airline should she 
make a claim to it, she may be able to complain to the Civil Aviation Authority. 
But I am satisfied AXAs terms make it clear that Ms P needs to show that shes tried to 
recover her losses through her flight operator and through her credit card provider. And she 
also needs to show that she hasnt been successful in doing so, before AXAs liable to settle 
any claims. As Ms P has confirmed she hasnt pursued recovery through either of these 
parties, Im not persuaded shes shown her losses cant be recovered from elsewhere. So on 
this basis, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to direct AXA to pay Ms Ps claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman