DRN-3397369
The complaint
Mr Ls complaint is about his Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) with Suffolk Life 
Pensions Limited (trading as Curtis Banks Pensions). 
Mr L is unhappy that a property held in the SIPP doesnt legally belong to him, and is instead 
owned by Suffolk Life. He considers the SIPP was a bad investment, and the advice he was 
given to take it out was wrong. And Mr L also thinks the level of charges relating to the 
management of the property are too high, and says the firm does little work to justify its fees.
What happened
Mr L was advised to set up a SIPP by a financial adviser who worked for a firm I will refer to 
as Firm A. The SIPP started in June 2007, and was initially funded with two transfers into it 
totally approximately £243,000. In September 2007 the SIPP bought a property. Its cost was 
around £178,000. Between 2008 and 2010 the property was renovated, and the costs of the 
renovation were taken from the SIPP. 
Mr L complained about the SIPP in 2020. He raised a number of concerns, and as he wasnt 
satisfied with the firms explanation he referred the matter to us. 
Mr Ls complaint was considered by one of our investigators. The investigator sent his 
assessment of the complaint to both parties in January 2022. The investigator didnt think Mr 
Ls complaint should be upheld. 
In summary, he said although Mr L was unhappy with the advice that hed been given to 
invest in the SIPP and buy a commercial property, that advice hadnt been given by Suffolk 
Life. Mr L said he hadnt been aware of the financial advisers charges and fees for setting 
up the SIPP. But the investigator said any fault in the advice process was the responsibility 
of the firm that provided the advice, and that Mr L should take up any complaint he had 
about those issues with the advising firm  Firm A. The investigator provided the contact 
details for that firm.
The investigator explained that although the assets in the SIPP were technically owned by 
the Suffolk Life/the SIPP, Mr L, as the SIPP owner, enjoyed the benefits from it.
The investigator said this was explained in the original terms and conditions. 
All investments are held by us in our name. All allocations of investments to your SIPP are
notional only and neither you nor any other person who may be entitled to benefit under your
SIPP will acquire any legal or beneficial interests in those investments.
The investigator said this should also have been explained to Mr L by the firm that advised 
him about the SIPP when it was first set up  Firm A. 
The investigator said Suffolk Life applied its own particular charges for the SIPP in 
accordance with its schedule of fees. He said the fees should again have been explained to 
Mr L by the adviser when the SIPP was sold to him. The investigator said the SIPPs terms 
and conditions provided that where Suffolk Life made any changes to its terms Mr L would 
be given the opportunity not to accept them. This happened in 2019 and 2020, when Mr L 
was sent letters informing him of changes to the SIPPs fees and when they would become 
effective. Mr L was told he could transfer to another SIPP provider without incurring the 
transfer fee usually applied if he chose to do so. 
The investigator said Suffolk Life wasnt a property management company, but it could 
engage a property manager who would effectively do a number of the things that Mr L had 
said it expected it to do, such as visiting and maintaining the property. But that this would 
incur additional fees. 
Mr L had also said that the value of the property had fallen significantly since he had bought 
it. And that he hadnt seen any growth or received any benefit from the SIPP since he had 
invested into it. However the investigator said that Suffolk Life wasnt responsible for 
changes in property values and that this was explained in the terms and conditions. 
Accordingly, the investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ls complaint should be upheld. 
Mr L didnt agree with the investigators assessment. He asked if the investigator could 
request a copy of my acceptance of their terms and conditions that include the acquisition 
of my property. The investigator requested a copy from the firm, however it said it couldnt 
locate it. 
Mr L asked how Suffolk Life could lose such an important document that allowed it to claim 
his property without his permission. Mr L said the principal problem still remained; the 
unauthorised possession of the property that was bought with his life savings, and which 
Suffolk Life now said it legally owned, and would remain so even after his death.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and largely 
for the same reasons. 
Mr L is clearly very concerned about the ownership of the property. However I can assure  
Mr L that the SIPP isnt unusual in the way it has been set up. And that nothing underhand is 
going on in relation to its legal ownership. 
Although Mr L doesnt technically own the property or other assets that are held within the 
SIPP, those assets are held for Mr Ls benefit. Mr L chooses what he wants to do with the 
SIPP and the assets in it, subject to the usual laws and regulations applying to these types 
of pension scheme. Whilst I can see that Mr L is very suspicious about the arrangement, the 
firm hasnt done anything wrong in the way the SIPP has been set up or in its technical 
ownership of the commercial property. Ultimately the assets in the SIPP will be used to 
provide benefits for Mr L (or if he passed away before all the benefits were taken from it, 
then what was left to his beneficiaries).
Mr L has asked to see a copy of the document from the time of the sale that gives his 
authority for the property purchase. The firm hasnt been able to provide a copy. However 
that doesnt necessarily mean that Mr L didnt authorise it. There is other documentation 
available from the time of the sale of the SIPP which I think shows that Mr L was likely aware 
of the property going into the SIPP, and that hed agreed to the transaction. Section 3 of the SIPP application form signed by Mr L confirmed that it was Mr Ls intention 
to invest in commercial property. The application form also recorded that Mr L appointed 
Firm A to act as his financial advisors. A letter from Suffolk Life to Firm A dated 20 June 
2007 said it had received the application form for the SIPP and went onto say:
I can confirm that our property department have received the completed property form, and 
will contact you shortly. In the meantime, if you have any property related queries, please 
contact my colleague .on the above number.
I think its highly unlikely that Suffolk Life would have bought the property without being 
instructed to do so by Mr L (or through his adviser on his behalf). 
Ordinarily Mr L could (subject to the usual rules relating to pensions) choose when he wants 
to take benefits from the SIPP. And I understand he has taken some benefits from it. If the 
SIPP was invested in funds or shares traded on mainstream markets, even though those 
assets would technically have been owned by Suffolk Life/the SIPP,  he could instruct for 
them to be sold and take the money derived from those sales out of the SIPP. There is a 
difficulty when owning a property because its not as easy to sell. However it needs to be 
sold if Mr L wants to take its monetary value out of the SIPP.  If Mr L owned the property 
himself directly, it would clearly still need to be sold before he could use the money from its 
sale. 
So if Mr L wants to sell the property either another buyer has to be found. Or Mr L could buy 
it from the SIPP - subject to the conditions that Suffolk Life has previously explained; that it 
has to be on an arms-length basis. Mr L isnt effectively paying twice for his own property  
he would own it outside of the SIPP and also be able to take the monetary value out of the 
SIPP if he wanted. 
I accept that such a transaction would incur charges, and Mr L is unhappy about this. 
However, as the investigator said, Mr L was advised to start the SIPP and buy the property 
by a financial adviser working for Firm A. That firm was authorised by the financial services 
industry regulator in its own right, and it had its own obligations and responsibilities to Mr L. 
The adviser from Firm A was responsible for explaining all the features of the SIPP, how it 
worked, including the ownership of the assets in it, and all the associated charges. Firm As 
adviser should have explained them to Mr L and taken them into account when advising Mr 
L whether a SIPP and property purchase were suitable for him; in other words, whether it 
was a good idea. 
Firm A was also responsible for telling Mr L what fees it (Firm A) would be paid so that Mr L 
could agree to them. So if Mr L feels Firm A gave him bad advice, or failed to tell him about 
any of the above, he needs to complain to Firm A about those issues; Suffolk Life isnt 
responsible for any failures on the part of Firm A. What Suffolk Life is responsible for is 
administering the SIPP as it agreed to do in its terms and conditions, including applying 
charges in accordance with those terms.
Mr L has said the SIPPs charges are high; in particular the fees associated with the 
administration of the commercial property. He has said Suffolk Life does little for its fees. 
It is largely a matter for Suffolk Life to set its own charges and fees - its a commercial 
decision for the firm; if they are set too high compared to its competitors it wont attract new 
customers, and will likely lose existing customers over time. Mr L has said that he does a lot 
of the work associated with the commercial property himself; such as the maintenance, and 
contact with the lessees. And that the firm merely receive the rent. I appreciate Mr L thinks 
the amount of work done relative to the charges is poor value in his particular circumstances. But as I said, Firm A should have explained all the charges to Mr L and what they were for 
when it was advising him that the SIPP and commercial property investment was suitable. 
So again, if Mr L thinks they werent explained or that because of all the charges he was 
wrongly advised, he needs to complain to Firm A.
I can see that Suffolk Life has changed its charging structure whilst Mr L has had his SIPP. 
And that Mr L has raised issues about the charges over a long period of time. However as 
noted by the investigator, when Suffolk Life changed its charges it said Mr L could transfer 
his SIPP to another provider without incurring the transfer out charge. On the face of it, this 
appears to be fair, albeit I accept there may be other costs involved with a transfer. However 
it doesnt appear that Mr L explored transferring to another SIPP provider or other options if, 
for example, he thinks, as I said above, the charges provide poor value for money. Mr L may 
wish to seek advice from a financial adviser about his options as there are a number of 
different factors to consider.
As Ive said, I realise that Mr L is very concerned about the legal ownership of the SIPP. But 
as I explained, ownership in this was isnt unusual  its how SIPPS are structured, and the 
firm isnt doing anything wrong in this respect, or being underhand.  I think one of the 
problems for Mr L is that the value of the commercial property may have fallen and he may 
be reluctant to sell it at a loss  or it might be difficult to find a buyer. But that would also 
have been the case if hed bought the property outside of the SIPP. Falling property values 
isnt the fault of the firm.
I appreciate that Mr L will be disappointed with my findings. However taking all the above 
into account, Ive not been persuaded, on the balance of the evidence, that Mr Ls complaint 
should succeed.
My final decision
Accordingly, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2022.
 
David Ashley
Ombudsman