DRN-1787567
 
The complaint
Mrs B says Provident Personal Credit Limited irresponsibly lent to her. 
What happened
This complaint is about eight home collected credit loans Provident provided to Mrs B 
between September 2002 and November 2012. A summary of Mrs Bs borrowing history is 
below:
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount
1 07/09/2002 15/03/2003 54 £200.00
2 22/03/2003 07/08/2004 55 £350.00
3 07/08/2004 23/08/2005 55 £300.00
4 12/06/2006 20/02/2007 37 £200.00
Break in lending
5 19/08/2010 17/01/2012 52 £300.00
Break in lending
6 17/07/2012 09/10/2012 23 £100.00
7 09/10/2012 outstanding 110 £800.00
8 08/11/2012 outstanding 52 £400.00
Loans 1 to 4 were applied for and given before Provident fell under our jurisdiction, so we 
are unable to consider them. Loans 7 and 8 appear to have an outstanding balance.  
Mrs Bs complaint about loans 5 to 8 was reviewed by one of our adjudicators and they didnt 
think it should be upheld. They thought that whilst Provident should have done further 
checks, as it wasnt clear those checks would show, they couldnt say Provident was wrong 
to lend to Mrs B. 
Mrs B didnt agree. She said Provident didnt perform any credit checks before lending to 
her. And that she was encouraged to take out further loans before a previous one had been 
repaid to avoid having to perform a credit check on her. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it was passed to me to issue a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about irresponsible lending - including all the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Provident needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs B 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Provident should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
As explained by our adjudicator, Im unable to consider loans 1 to 4 as these were applied 
for before Provident fell under our jurisdiction. But I can look into Mrs Bs complaint about 
loans 5 to 8. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mrs Bs complaint. Having done this, Im not upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators view because she thought Provident hadnt done 
enough checks on her before lending to her. 
Loan 5
Loan 5 was taken out over four years after Mrs B repaid her previous loan. I think it would be 
reasonable for Provident to view this gap as an indication that Mrs Bs finances had 
stabilised after whenever had led to her to need to borrow previously. A break in the chain of 
lending, in effect, starts the clock ticking again on what we would consider to be 
proportionate checks a business should carry out when considering the length of the 
borrowing relationship with the consumer. So, Mrs B was back to being early on in her 
lending relationship with Provident. 
Provident hasnt been able to supply full information about the checks it did before approving 
loan 5. And Mrs B also hasnt been able to supply much about her circumstances at the time 
of sale. This is understandable given that the loan was taken out ten years ago.
The information I have shows that its likely Provident would have looked at Mrs Bs income 
and expenditure before lending. I think would have been proportionate for loan 5 given that this would have been considered early in the lending relationship and the amount being 
borrowed was relatively small. On this basis, I dont think Provident did anything wrong when 
it approved loan 5.
Loans 6, 7 and 8
Mrs B borrowed and repaid loan 5 without any obvious difficulty. There was then a six-month 
gap between Mrs B repaying loan 5 and taking out loan 6. Again, I think it would be 
reasonable for Provident to view this gap as an indication that Mrs Bs finances had 
stabilised. 
Provident has told this service about the checks it carried out before approving these loans. 
It has said it asked Mrs B about her employment status and she confirmed she was 
employed and  for loans 6 to 8  she had a weekly income of between £370 and £450. She 
also declared her outgoings were between £139 and £300 at the time of loans 6 to 8.
So, even though she had to make weekly repayments, the highest repayment would have 
appeared affordable based on the information she had declared to Provident. 
Provident says it also searched Mrs Bs credit file each time it lent to her. Due to the time 
that has passed since Mrs B applied for her loans, Provident has only been able to provide 
the results of its searches for loans 7 and 8. Ive looked at the credit checks and there wasnt 
any recent adverse entries like county court judgements (CCJs) recorded on the credit files 
at the time the loans were taken out. So, there was nothing in the credit report which would 
have made Provident carry out further checks or to have declined Mrs Bs applications.
For loan 6, looking at what Ive been given, there wasnt anything in the information Mrs B 
provided which ought to have given Provident cause for concern. So, I think it was 
reasonable of Provident to have relied on what Mrs B told it. Given this, I think the checks 
Provident did before lending this loan went far enough and I wouldnt have expected it  at 
this stage  to undertake any more in-depth checks. 
So, whilst the information Mrs B declared to Provident at the time of loan 6 may not have 
been an accurate reflection of her financial circumstances, I think Provident was entitled to 
rely on that information. At this stage of the lending relationship, and what Provident knew 
about Mrs B, I wouldnt have expected Provident to verify the information Mrs B gave it. This 
therefore means, I cant say that Provident have done something wrong in lending Mrs B this 
loan.
It is possible for loans 7 and 8 that Provident should have made more detailed checks into 
Mrs Bs circumstances before approving these loans. I say this because loan 7 was taken 
out on the same day loan 6 was repaid. It was for a significantly larger amount and Mrs B 
was extending her indebtedness to Provident by a much longer length of time. And loan 8 
was taken out whilst loan 7 was still running. This kind of behaviour could be an indication of 
someone who is struggling with their finances. So, I think this ought to have given Provident 
some cause for concern about what Mrs B was telling it about her financial positions. I think 
Provident needed to take steps to verify the information Mrs B was providing. And it could 
have done this in several ways, such as asking to see her bank statements, or for copies of 
her payslips and/or bills.
But in saying this, Mrs B hasnt provided us with any information about her circumstances at 
the time. So, without further information, I cant say an error has been made because I dont 
know what Provident would have likely seen had it carried out what I consider to be 
proportionate checks. So, I dont know whether Provident would have thought the loan was unaffordable for Mrs B. As such, I cant say Provident was wrong to have provided these 
loans to Mrs B. 
I appreciate that my findings are likely to disappoint Mrs B. But I hope my explanation will 
help her to understand why Ive reached this conclusion. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2020.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman