DRN-2564832
The complaint
Mr T has complained that Cia Insurance Services Limited (CIA) mis-sold a landlords home 
insurance policy to him. Mr T claimed under his policy and received a reduced settlement as 
the building was underinsured. 
What happened
Mr T bought a landlords insurance policy through a broker, CIA in January 2016. At renewal 
in January 2017, Mr T said he asked CIA to increase the Buildings Sum Insured (BSI) from 
£150,000 to £200,000. He accepts he didnt read the policy documents CIA sent him. But 
when he made a claim under the policy in December 2017, the insurer didnt meet his claim 
in full. Mr T says this is because the policy didnt provide enough cover as Mr T had 
underinsured the BSI at £154,500. 
Mr T complained to CIA. In January 2020 CIA didnt uphold his complaint. It provided a 
recording of the calls between it and Mr T in January 2016 and at renewal in 2017. 
Unfortunately the call at renewal was corrupted. But CIA said that from the call at inception  
and the policy documents it sent Mr T  it highlighted the need for Mr T to check the BSI was 
correct. And if it wasnt, it was for Mr T to contact CIA. 
Mr T remained unhappy and asked us to look at his complaint. 
Our investigator thought CIA hadnt been clear enough in the inception call in 2016. He 
thought that due to the way the call was handled, this led Mr T to underinsure his property 
and didnt alert him to the importance of correctly insuring the building. So he recommended 
CIA should pay Mr T the declined portion of his claim settlement that he didnt receive from 
the insurer due to being underinsured.
Mr T accepted the investigators findings, but has asked if he would be entitled to interest on 
the settlement. 
CIA didnt agree. It said its carried out further checks and discovered that the correct BSI for 
the property was £321,000. It accepts that Mr T gave a sum insured of between £150,000 
and £200,000. But it advised Mr T if the sum was incorrect, he could contact it to increase 
the BSI. 
So it says even if CIA had set the BSI at £20,000, Mr T was still well underinsured. And 
under the Insurance Act 2015, which applies to this commercial policy, the onus is on Mr T 
to make a fair presentation of the facts. 
CIA has reiterated important information was highlighted in the policy documents at inception 
and at renewal, which alerted Mr T to check the BSI cover was adequate, and that this is his 
responsibility. 
So for these reasons, CIA would like an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under CIAs Terms of Business it says:
We offer products from a range of Insurers for Commercial Business, Commercial 
Buildings, Landlords, Motor, Home/Contents and Travel..
We will advise and make a recommendation for you after we have taken details of, 
and assessed your needs. Our recommendation will normally be on the basis of the 
lowest premium for the cover you need.
So from CIAs Terms, I think it was a fair expectation of Mr T to believe that CIA had 
sufficient knowledge to advise and recommend a suitable landlord insurance policy to meet 
his needs. 
In the key call from January 2016, Mr T called to purchase a policy through CIA. The agent 
asked Mr T what the rebuild cost of the property was? Mr T said he had no idea. He asked 
CIA what their normal policy was. 
CIA said every property is different and so they couldnt advise Mr T. However, the agent 
went on to say; What would you be happy to insure it for?
Mr T says he thinks he previously insured for around 1 million. CIA said, oh no you wont 
need that. Mr T then said; I would say 2   
Before Mr T finished, CIA asked Mr T what the market value of the property was. Mr T said it 
was around £120,000. The agent said:
OK so when youre buying the property youre buying the land as well. So if it was costing a 
ridiculous amount more to build than to buy them, thered be no point in them building them.
Mr T then said it wouldnt be more than £150,000, £200,000. CIA ask Mr T if hed like them 
to quote at £150,000, and Mr T can increase it if hed like to. Mr T said yes.  
CIA is correct that in this case, the Insurance Act 2015 applies. And so as a commercial 
customer, he is a customer operating a business and the onus is on Mr T to make a fair 
presentation of the facts. However, Ive kept in mind that although Mr T was a landlord for 
the residential property in question, it was clear that the BSI Mr T gave was nothing more 
than a guess. And in its role of selling insurance, I think CIA had a duty to ensure the 
information it provided was clear, fair and not misleading. 
While CIA said it couldnt advise Mr T, I think the agent then went on to provide information 
which helped guide Mr T. I believe that Mr T was going to suggest a figure of at least 
£200,000, but CIA asked Mr T what the market value of the property was before he finished. 
I think the information provided by the agent that followed, led Mr T to re-evaluate his 
estimate and then suggest and agree to a lower figure of £150,000. 
I appreciate that the agent said Mr T could increase this sum at a later date. However, the 
importance of providing an accurate BSI  and the responsibility and consequences of failing 
to do so  was highlighted in the policy documents CIA sent to Mr T. Yet at no time during 
the inception call did the agent explain to Mr T the importance of providing accurate 
information about the BSI or the consequences if this sum was inaccurate. I think the discussion about the market value of the property and the land wasnt helpful. I dont think 
CIA did enough here to check the BSI was accurately recorded to meet Mr Ts needs.
CIA sent Mr T his policy documents and I think they clearly highlighted that he was 
responsible for ensuring the BSI was correct. But in this case I think CIA failed in the 
inception call to impress on Mr T the importance of checking the BSI. So I dont think its fair 
for CIA rely on the quality of its documentation alone  as the initial contact, which was the 
phone call, in my view led Mr T to the incorrect conclusion that he correctly insured his 
property.
CIA says that the correct BSI for Mr Ts property was in fact £321,000. And so even if it had 
increased the BSI to £200,000 based on the initial call, Mr T would have still been 
significantly underinsured. But as I think CIA failed to alert Mr T to the importance of 
accurately checking the BSI in the inception call, I think on balance its responsible for the 
fact Mr T was underinsured when he made a claim. 
Mr T complained that during his renewal call he requested the BSI be increased. He said he 
was advised by CIA that the index linked increase to £154,500 would be enough for his 
needs. Unfortunately, this call recording is corrupt and so it isnt possible to evidence what 
was discussed. But based on all of the available evidence, I dont think CIA acted in a fair 
and reasonable way when it sold a policy to Mr T. I dont think it did enough to ensure Mr T 
was provided with a suitable product to meet his needs. 
Putting things right
So I agree with the investigators recommendations to put things right. And I think a fair 
outcome is for CIA to pay interest on the settlement sum(s) it pays Mr T from the date the 
insurer accepted his claim(s) to the date it pays him at a rate of 8% simple interest a year.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Cia Insurance Services Limited to pay Mr T the declined portion of his claim(s) settlement 
that he didnt receive from the insurer due to being underinsured.
Cia Insurance Services Limited should pay interest on this amount from the date the insurer 
accepted the claim(s) to the date Cia pays at a rate of 8% simple interest a year.
If Cia Insurance Services Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr T how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr T a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman