DRN-2038265
The complaint
Mr P complains about Great Lakes Insurance SEs (Great Lakes) handling of a claim under 
his home emergency insurance policy.
What happened
Mr P held a home emergency insurance policy, provided by Great Lakes. On 15 December 
2019, Mr P called Great Lakes to report a leak from his shower bar or mixer (the valve that 
mixes both the hot and cold water in a shower). On 18 December 2019 an approved 
contractor (AP) arrived to stop the leak. The AP advised that the wall tiles surrounding the 
mixer needed to be broken and he needed to cut into the underlying wall so the pipe could 
be cut and capped. Mr P agreed to this and signed a hand-written disclaimer relieving the 
AP of any responsibility for any damage caused by the access procedure. The AP 
proceeded to break the wall tiles around the mixer, he cut into the wall and he cut and 
capped the pipes.
Later that day a private plumber arrived to fix the problem. However, when he saw the 
gaping hole around the shower mixer, he advised that there had been no need to break 
through the tiles or the wall or to cut the pipes. He advised that if the AP had just removed 
the mixer from the wall, the exposed pipes couldve been capped allowing Mr P to turn back 
on the water. 
So, Mr P complained to Great Lakes. He said that having spoken to a plumber, and having 
consulted the shower manual, the AP had caused unnecessary damage, and the piping 
couldve been accessed by just removing the shower mixer/bar. 
However Great Lakes doesnt agree. It says that Mr P signed a waiver allowing the AP to 
gain access to fix the leak. It also says that Mr P hasnt provided any independent evidence 
to explain how the pipes couldve been isolated without gaining access by breaking the tiles 
and accessing through the wall.
So, Mr P complained to our Service. An investigator reviewed this complaint and asked 
Great Lakes to pay for the damage to the wall, along with £150 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
However Great Lakes doesnt agree, and its asked for an ombudsman to review this 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
This is an emergency assistance policy that protects homeowners from different 
emergencies that can happen to their homes. Great Lakes says it gives customers access to 
its nationwide network of approved contractors.
An approved contractor is defined as a qualified tradesman who we regularly check and 
have agreed can temporarily or permanently repair or prevent further damage to your home.
The policy also says you are not covered for any damage that is caused directly from 
tracing the problem or carrying out repairs. This exclusion will not apply if our approved 
contractor has been negligent.
The AP arrived at Mr Ps house and they discussed the emergency. Mr P took advice from 
the AP and signed a disclaimer. Mr P says he was told by the AP that the pipes needed to 
be isolated and could only be accessed through the wall. And this required breaking the tiles, 
cutting through the wall/plasterboard, and then cutting the pipes. 
But Mr P discovered afterwards that the pipes couldve been isolated by just removing the 
mixer from the wall. He says that having spoken to a professional plumber he was told there 
was no requirement to break the tiles, cut into the wall or cut the pipes.  
So, Mr P wrote to Great Lakes and said the AP who attended this emergency was negligent. 
He wants Great Lakes to pay to repair the unnecessary hole the AP put in his wall and to 
reconnect the pipes that were unnecessarily cut. He sent the shower unit installation guide to 
Great Lakes to show how the mixer could be removed and told them about what hed been 
told by a professional plumber  that the damage to the wall was unnecessary. 
But Great Lakes says that Mr P hasnt provided any documentation to support his claim and 
that the documentation he sent doesnt show how the pipes couldve been isolated, without 
cutting into the wall. It says Mr P signed a disclaimer and Mr P was happy for the works to 
be carried out as required. Its also pointed out that the professional plumber who attended to 
repair the problem hadnt provided a report. Mr P says the professional plumber who 
attended the shower wouldnt provide a report as he didnt want to get involved in a dispute. 
So, I looked at what Mr P has provided us. Hes submitted two quotations for repair from two 
separate building services companies. Both estimates state that breaking the tiles and the 
wall and cutting the pipes was unnecessary and a simpler solution wouldve been to remove 
the cap on the mixer, remove the mixer unit itself and to fix a stopcock on the pipes.  
Mr P has also provided the shower installation manual, the one he originally sent to Great 
Lakes. And I can see that this shows, in steps, how to remove the mixer valve fascia and 
how to lift the upper shroud assembly clear from the back plate. You can then remove the 
lower shroud assembly from the back plate, exposing the pipes as required. 
Further to this Mr P has provided a copy of an email chain he had with the shower 
manufacturers helpdesk, which sets out in detail how to isolate the pipes, and a further 
screenshot of a conversation he had on social media with the manufacturers social media 
account. During this thread on social media he provided the manufacturer with a photo of the 
exposed pipes and the hole in his shower wall. In reply to this conversation the manufacturer 
set out how to remove the mixer. The manufacturer specifically explained how to detach the 
unit from the wall to expose the pipework behind. 
The question I need to decide is whether the AP was negligent. Did he cause unnecessary 
damage to Mr Ps shower wall? The role of the AP is to apply an emergency fix only. The 
consumer is then expected to hire a professional to fix the issue. But in applying an 
emergency solution I would expect the AP to approach the job without causing unnecessary 
damage or adding to the damage already caused within reason. And, based on the evidence Ive been presented with I think that the AP did cause unnecessary damage to the wall 
surrounding the shower mixer and the pipes. 
When the mixer was removed it was determined that it had a leaking valve. And from the call 
recordings Ive listened to, Mr P clearly states that the shower tap or bar was leaking. So, 
the AP shouldve been aware that the bar or mixer was likely to be the problem. Mr P had 
also turned off the water in the house. So, there was no immediate necessity to apply an 
emergency cap on the pipes. The AP shouldve known to remove the mixer or the bar first, 
and then cap the exposed pipes so the water could be turned back on whilst waiting for a 
plumber to arrive. 
Instead, from the photograph Ive seen, the mixer wasnt removed, and that the AP made a 
hole in the wall to access the pipes. And whereas Great Lakes has called into question the 
fact that Mr P hasnt provided a report from a professional plumber to prove that breaking the 
tiles and cutting into the wall was unnecessary, even if we discount the notes provided by 
the two building services companies, its pretty clear from the two electronic conversations 
Mr P has had with the shower manufacturer, both via email and on a social media thread, 
that removing the mixer wouldve given the AP the required access to the pipes and there 
was no need for him to cut into the wall or the pipes to cap the pipes.
So even though Mr P signed a disclaimer and agreed to having the pipes accessed in this 
way, I think he only did so based on the advice given by the AP. So, I think we can discount 
the disclaimer, as it was signed based on incorrect advice. To me it looks like the AP wasnt 
aware there was a specific way to access the piping behind the mixer, which would indicate 
that he hadnt read the instruction manual for this specific shower. So, I think the AP was 
negligent in his duty, and because of this the exclusion in the policy terms and conditions 
doesnt apply. 
So, I think Great Lakes should pay for the damage caused by the AP. Great Lakes isnt 
responsible for any damage caused by the emergency (i.e. the initial leak) itself. But I think 
Great Lakes is responsible for the damage to the tiles, the wall and the pipes. Having taken 
all of the circumstances into account, I think it would be fair and reasonable for Great Lakes 
to pay to reconnect the pipes within the cavity, replace and re-plaster the wall and replace 
any broken tiles. 
Other issues
Mr P has also mentioned a claim he made for a hotel stay whilst waiting for the repair. He 
initially said that he hadnt received the £150 allowance for this. But he then confirmed that 
he had, but that the hotel had cost £169, and he wanted the difference. However, I can see 
from the policy terms and conditions that any claim for overnight accommodation is only 
covered up to £150 including VAT. I think Great Lakes has fulfilled its duties here. So, I wont 
be asking Great Lakes to make any further payment for this aspect of the claim.
Distress and inconvenience
I have no doubt Mr P experienced distress and inconvenience as a result of what happened. 
Im conscious that Great Lakes werent responsible for the initial leak, and that the initial leak 
was reported on a weekend, which probably affected its call out times. 
But it was Christmas time, and Mr P was left with a hole in his shower wall well into the new 
year. Mr P has a young family and hes advised that not having access to a shower was an 
inconvenience. So, I agree with our investigator and I think Great Lakes should pay Mr P an 
additional £150 in compensation for the inconvenience he was caused.My final decision
My final decision is to uphold this complaint.
Great Lakes Insurance SE must do the following;
pay Mr P the cost of the repairs Ive outlined above (reconnecting the pipes, 
replacing and re-plastering the wall and replacing damaged tiles).
pay Mr P £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience he has experienced.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2020.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman