DRN-2973159
The complaint
Mrs N complained because she was unhappy with the way Tesco Underwriting Limited 
handled her claim. 
What happened
Mrs N reported an accident to Tesco on 1 November 2020. The car was assessed by 
Tescos approved engineer who deemed the car a total loss having established the car 
needed extensive repairs. On 12 November 2020, following the assessment, Tesco settled 
the claim and paid Mrs N £21,733.00 representing the total value of the car less the policy 
excess of £650.00. Mrs N was also paid an additional £300.00 for two childrens car seats. 
On 18 January 2021, Mrs N made a formal complaint. In her complaint, she stated that she 
was contacted over the weekend of 16 January 2021 by a stranger who had purchased her 
total loss vehicle. The stranger enquired about the spare key and car manual and mentioned 
that the car was purchased from auction for £13,000.00. Mrs N also mentioned that the 
stranger said that the car only needed four new tyres to get it back on the road and that he 
had since driven 800 miles. 
Mrs N was unhappy with this. She says she was led to believe that her car had sustained 
extensive damage to the underside of the car including the suspension, fuel tank, wheel and, 
that the value of the repair would exceed 60% of the value of the car. When she 
subsequently rang Tesco, she found out that the car was declared a category N, something 
she alleged she was never told during the claim process. She said that this would have 
made a big difference to her decision. Mrs N also argued that she was never offered the 
opportunity to retain the car.
In its final response letter dated 22 January 2021, Tesco stated that it handled the claim 
fairly and within reasonable timescales and, that it followed the correct process. It noted that 
while the new owner may have advised that the car only needed four new tyres, its qualified 
approved garage estimated that it would cost £20,942.05 to carry out a safe repair. Finally, it 
said that although it doesnt proactively offer retention on total loss cars, had Mrs N 
expressed an interest in keeping the vehicle, it would have looked into it and discussed it 
with its engineer. 
Mrs N didnt agree. She feels she shouldnt have been told the car was a total loss when it 
was actually declared category N. And if she had known this, she would have asked to keep 
the car. So, she asked us to consider the complaint. 
Our Investigator looked into the complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. To summarise, 
he concluded that Tesco handled the claim fairly and in line with the policy terms. Mrs N 
didnt agree with our investigators opinion. She felt she wasnt given enough information to 
make an informed decision at the time. So, the case was passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators findings for broadly the same reasons.
Claim 
Mrs Ns policy is a comprehensive car insurance policy and covers her for any damage if 
shes involved in an accident which causes damage to another person or car. It also covers 
her for loss of, or damage to her car and injury to herself. Mrs Ns policy also covers her for a 
courtesy car of a similar size to her own while her car is being repaired following an accident. 
Section A of the terms and conditions of Mrs Ns policy states:
 We will pay for damage to the car caused by accidental or malicious damage, or 
vandalism. 
We will choose whether to repair the car or pay you a cash amount equal to the cost of the 
loss or damage. 
If the car cannot be driven because of damage that is covered under this policy, we will 
arrange and pay for the car to be protected and taken to the nearest approved repairer. 
We will replace any child seats which are fitted to the car at the time of an insured incident, 
even if there is no apparent damage, up to and not exceeding a value of £300 per incident.
Ive thoroughly reviewed how Tesco handled Mrs Ns claim after reporting the accident. In 
line with the policy terms, Tesco arranged for Mrs Ns vehicle to be inspected and assessed 
by an approved engineer which is what I would expect under the circumstances. Having 
reviewed the approved engineers report which detailed the damage to the vehicle and what 
the cost would be to carry out a safe repair, I can see that the vehicle status upon inspection 
was declared as unroadworthy. The steering as unsatisfactory and the severity of impact 
as heavy. 
The report noted several arears of damage which included damage to the underbody, 
mechanical damage as well as an extensive list of things that needed to be repaired or 
changed. The grand total including VAT required to get the vehicle safely back on the road 
was noted as £20,942.00.
It isnt unusual for insurers to declare a vehicle as a total loss if they deem the vehicle 
uneconomical to repair. In Mrs Ns case, her vehicle was declared as a category N which 
means that the damage wasnt to the structural frame or chassis. A category N can be 
repaired but an insurer can decide not to which is what Tesco decided to do. And this was in 
line with its terms and conditions, where it says: 
We will choose whether to repair the car or pay you a cash amount equal to the cost of the 
loss or damage.
As the repair costs noted by Tescos approved engineer exceeded more than 60% of the 
cars pre-accident market value, I dont think it was unreasonable for Tesco to declare Mrs 
Ns car as a total loss and pay her the pre-accident market value. I also dont think that 
Tesco was unreasonable to rely on the expert report it was provided by its approved 
engineers. This is a standard process and Im satisfied that Tesco has followed it. Ive also considered the third-party engineer report provided by Mrs N. The report is a 4- 
minute recording of the underneath of the car. In the recording, the engineer noted that the 
front bumper grille, fog light grille, spoiler and plastic trim under the radiator had been 
replaced. He also noted that the engine protection guard had been replaced and the wheel 
ash line reattached. Overall, he felt that most of the damage to the underneath of the car 
was superficial and that other parts including the suspension, fuel tank and exhaust system 
were undamaged. 
I can see how this report contradicts the report provided by Tesco however, part of the 
damage mentioned in Tescos report was mechanical damage and I cant safely conclude 
that this was taken into consideration by the third-party engineer given that the report mainly 
focused on areas underneath the vehicle. 
It is also possible that the salvage company that purchase the vehicle may have carried out 
some repairs prior to selling it at auction. In addition to this, while Mrs N may have been told 
that the third party only needed to change four wheels, its difficult to say whether this is a 
safe and lasting repair and if the car is in fact road worthy. 
So, having considered all the available evidence, I dont think Tesco did anything wrong by 
relying on the expert opinion it based its decision on. Im satisfied that it fulfilled its 
obligations under Mrs Ns policy which is to pay out the market value of the car immediately 
before the accident. I consider its actions to be fair and reasonable. 
Not given the option to keep the car 
Under certain circumstances, customers may be allowed to keep a vehicle once its declared 
a total loss however, the customer needs to have first expressed an interest in keeping the 
car. Having reviewed the claim notes, I cant see that Mrs N expressed an interest in 
retaining the salvage and I dont feel Tesco was under any obligation to offer the salvage. 
While I accept the point Mrs N has raised about not being told her car was declared category 
N (and if she had been told this she would have asked to keep the car) on balance, I am not 
satisfied this would have resulted in a different outcome being reached. I say this because, 
the approved engineer reported extensive damage to the car and that it was unroadworthy. 
As such, even if Mrs N had been told the car was declared a category N and asked to keep 
the car, Tesco would have still needed to discuss this option with its engineer. Although I do 
accept, that we wed usually expect an insurer to allow this, its not guaranteed as it has a 
duty to ensure the car is safe to retain.  And given the engineers comments and list of 
extensive damage, I think it is unlikely it would have agreed to the car being retained. 
As such, I cant agree that Tesco treated Mrs N unfairly. My final decision My final decision is 
that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mrs N to accept or reject my decision before 9 September 2021.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2021.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman