DRN-4342483
The complaint
Mr H complains that Highway Insurance Company Limited (Highway) declined his claim for 
storm damage to his garage roof under his home insurance policy.
What happened
Following a named storm, Mr H contacted Highway to report damage to his garden wall and
garage roof. Highway agreed that there were storm conditions and sent a surveyor to assess
the damage. It accepted the claim for the garden wall but not the garage roof. It said that
although there were storm conditions, the winds were not the dominant and effective cause
of the damage. It said that the roof was weakened by wear and tear prior to the storm.
Mr H complained to Highway, but it didnt change its decision. It said there were existing
cracks in the roof panels and breakages around the roof nails which appear to have
occurred over time. It said that wear and tear to the roof affected its ability to withstand the
storm and that the storm wasnt the main cause of the damage. Mr H wasnt happy and
brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She thought that Highway had
applied the terms of the policy fairly and that the storm wasnt the primary cause of the
damage.
Mr H didnt agree. He pointed out that he had spent many years in the construction industry
and so had relevant expertise. He didnt think the surveyor carried out a fair assessment of
the roof and although he accepted it was weathered, he said it was intact and waterproof
with no loose fittings or evidence of decay. He asked for an ombudsmans decision.
My provisional decision
On 30 August 2023 I issued a provisional decision. I said :
Not all damage a home sustains will be covered by home insurance. Only the damage
caused by one of the one-off perils (or events) listed in the policy will be covered. If the 
damage can be shown to be caused by such an event, then the insurer must pay the claim
unless it is able to rely on one of the policy exclusions to decline it.
Mr Hs home insurance policy includes storm damage. A storm is defined at page 9 of the
policy booklet as winds in excess of 47mph. On page 16 of the policy booklet there is a list of
things that are not covered under the policy including Any loss, damage or liability arising
from wear and tear that you know is happening gradually over time.
When considering complaints about storm damage claims, we ask three questions:
Is there evidence of a storm event on or around the time the damage was caused?
Is the damage claimed for typical of damage that would be caused by a storm?
Was the storm the main cause of the damage?
The answer to all three questions needs to be yes for this service to be able to recommend
that a storm complaint is upheld.
Is there evidence of a storm event on or around the time the damage was caused?
Highway said that there were wind speeds of between 59mph and 74mph around the time of
the damage and that there were storm conditions under the terms of its policy. Ive checked
weather records at the time and am satisfied that there is evidence of a storm.
Is the damage claimed for typical of damage that would be caused by a storm?
Strong winds are known to cause structural damage. In this case there were particularly
strong gusts of wind, so Im satisfied the damage to the garage roof was consistent with
damage typically caused by a storm.
Was the storm the main cause of the damage?
Highway say that wear and tear was the main cause of the damage. My role is to decide
whether Highway fairly declined the claim based on the evidence.
The surveyors report gives no detail of the damage to the roof  or its cause. Its more of an
estimate for repairs with photos attached. Ive therefore looked at the surveyors notes from
his inspection of the roof. He says there were many signs of roof deterioration  but gives no
detail of what the signs were. He refers to historical street view pictures that he says shows
the roof already lifting up in 2018. There are two street view pictures attached to his report
but these dont show the garage or its roof. Highway has also noted during one of its reviews
that its not possible to see the corrugated sheets from the images. I therefore havent seen
any evidence of the prior damage that the surveyor refers to.
I note the surveyors inspection didnt take place until some three months after the damage
occurred. In the meantime, temporary emergency repairs had been carried out so the
surveyors photos dont show the full extent of the damage caused. Mr H says that about 2
square metres of the roof sheeting blew off in the storm and I can see in the photos that this
had been put back and was being held in place with bricks. The surveyor doesnt mention
the temporary repairs at all in his notes  or what the original damage was  he simply
concludes that the damage was caused gradually rather than by the storm. Without any
explanation for this conclusion, I dont find the surveyors report or notes very persuasive.
Im aware that Mr Hs claim was reviewed a number of times by Highway. It says that the
roof was corrugated with a bitumen coating which was peeling away exposing the roof to the
weather. It refers to cracks in the roof sheets some of which were weathered indicating that 
they had been this way for some time. Highway also says a number of fixing caps had
perished allowing rainwater to penetrate.
Mr H says that before the storm his roof was intact and the garage was dry indicating that
there was no damage before the storm. Ive seen Mr Hs photo of the inside of his garage
and I cant see any evidence of damp or mould which would suggest the roof wasnt
waterproof. I therefore dont think there is any evidence of deterioration resulting in rainwater
ingress, as suggested by Highway.
Ive viewed the surveyors photos carefully to see what they show. Photos 9 and 12 appear
to show some of the bitumen coating coming away, and photos 7, 8 and 11 show evidence
of a small amount of cracking. Mr H refers to this as having been caused in the storm when
the edge sheets lifted slightly and broke through the roofing screws. Its not clear to me
whether these cracks are old or new, but if they are old cracks as Highway suggest none of
them appears to be in the area where the roof came off. Other photos show the area ofstorm damage, but as these were taken from a distance, I cant see whether there was any
pre-existing damage to this section.
When an insurer relies on an exclusion in the policy to decline a claim, as Highway has done
here, the onus is on it to show the exclusion applies. I dont think Highway has done this.
Whilst I accept the roof has signs of weathering in places, Im not satisfied that Highway has
shown that the roof lifting and blowing off was due to wear and tear. Ive taken into account
the severity of the storm. There were very strong gusts of wind up to 74mph which I think
would have been enough to cause considerable structural damage. On balance I think that
the storm was more likely to have been the main cause. I dont think Highway acted fairly
when it declined the claim and I therefore intend to uphold this complaint.
I intend to require Highway to consider the claim under the remaining terms of the policy. Mr
H had the garage roof replaced rather than repaired and is asking Highway for a contribution
equivalent to the cost of repair. If Highway accepts the claim, it must also pay interest at 8%
on the settlement sum from the date that Mr H made payment to the date the monies are
refunded to him. I think this is fair as Mr H has been without the money during this time. If he
has not already done so, Mr H should provide proof of payment to Highway.
As I think Highway unfairly declined the claim, Ive gone on to consider compensation. This
was a frustrating situation for Mr H and I can see that he spent considerable time
corresponding with Highway. Declining the claim has led to delay in the matter concluding
and think it fair for Highway to pay £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Responses to my provisional decision
Highway accepted my provisional decision and had nothing further to add. Mr H also 
accepted my provisional decision and said that he has now agreed a settlement of the claim 
with Highway. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither party has provided any new information, I see no reason to change my 
provisional decision. My final decision and reasoning remain the same as my provisional 
decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Highway Insurance Company 
Limited to:
consider the claim under the remaining terms and conditions of the policy;
pay simple interest on any settlement sum at 8% a year from the date Mr H paid for 
the roof repairs to the date any monies are refunded to him; and
pay £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience.If Highway considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr H how much its taken off. It should also give Mr H a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2023.
 
Elizabeth Middleton
Ombudsman