DRN-3422145
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc refused her application for a COVID payment 
deferral and then commenced debt collection proceedings against her.
What happened
Mrs B was granted a loan by Sainsburys in April 2016. In March 2020, she called 
Sainsburys to explain her household income had been adversely impacted by the effects of 
the global pandemic. She wanted to discuss how they might assist with her repayments.
Sainsburys said they had no specific support available but suggested Mrs B call them back 
before her next loan repayment fell due towards the end of April 2020. They could then see 
what they could do to help her.
Mrs B attempted to call Sainsburys again on a number of occasions but was unsuccessful 
speaking to someone. She was able to apply for a payment deferral using an online tool on 
Sainsburys website. She did this on two occasions but didnt receive a response. 
Mrs B finally spoke to Sainsburys in June 2020. They confirmed details about the payment 
deferrals available. But they said Mrs B wasnt eligible because her loan was already two 
months in arrears. So, Mrs B complained as she didnt think Sainsburys had treated her 
fairly. She was concerned about further late payments and arrears.
Later in June 2020, Mrs B received an arrears letter from Sainsburys giving her notice that 
debt recovery action would be taken if arrears werent repaid. Despite speaking to 
Sainsburys again, Mrs B says they couldnt do anything more for her other than to put her 
loan account on hold. They also removed charges and interest.
Mrs B was keen to reach an agreement to and offered token payments of £20 per month. 
But Sainsburys couldnt accept this and required at least £125 per month to stop 
proceedings. Given Mrs Bs concerns, she decided to refer her complaint to this service.
Sainsburys responded to Mrs Bs complaint in August 2020. They apologised that support 
was not made available resulting in arrears on her loan account. They refunded a months 
loan repayment and also credited an amount to cover the arrears and ensure they were no 
longer reported. This amount needed to be repaid by the time the loan was scheduled to 
finish. Sainsburys agreed to a payment deferral for August, September and October 2020 
meaning Mrs B didnt need to make her next repayment until November 2020. They also 
removed any adverse information reported on Mrs Bs credit file and paid her £300 
compensation as an apology.
Mrs B wasnt happy with Sainsburys response to her complaint. Following expiry of the 
payment deferral in November 2020, Mrs B wasnt able to make further repayments at the 
contracted level. This led to Sainsburys taking further steps to recover the arrears owed. 
Mrs B asked this service to look into her complaint further.
Our adjudicator investigated the circumstances of Mrs Bs complaint. He agreed that 
Sainsburys had made mistakes. But he also thought the steps theyd taken to resolve this 
were fair and reasonable.
Mrs B didnt agree with our adjudicators findings. She thought Sainsburys had continued to 
be unsupportive and their subsequent actions were unfair. She felt theyd ignored her 
attempts to reach a resolution.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, Mrs Bs complaint has been passed to me to 
consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset, I want to provide some clarity around the scope of the complaint Im able to 
consider here, and therefore the extent of my decision. Mrs B referred her complaint to this 
service around mid-2020. The basis of that complaint is summarised above and is specific to 
her request for a payment deferral and Sainsburys complaint response. Subsequent events 
and concerns raised by Mrs B about Sainsburys would need raising as a separate 
complaint, enabling Sainsburys to investigate and respond to any specific points including 
her right to refer any outcome to this service, if she so chooses.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued guidance to lenders in April 2020 which 
explained what they expected from businesses during the exceptional circumstances arising 
out of the global pandemic. They provided guidance asking businesses to consider payment 
deferrals of up to three months under regulated credit agreements. 
The FCA said their guidance applied where consumers were already experiencing or 
reasonably expect to experience temporary payment difficulties as a result of the pandemic. 
They also said that firms should ensure that there is no negative impact on the consumers 
credit file because of the payment deferral.
The FCA said their guidance applies in the exceptional circumstances arising out of 
coronavirus and its impact on the financial situation of personal loan customers. This 
guidance is not intended to have any relevance in circumstances other than those related to 
coronavirus. The FCA also said that where a customer was in pre-existing financial 
difficulty, our existing forbearance rules and guidancewould continue to apply. 
Further guidance was issued by the FCA in July 2020. This extended these measures, and 
where consumers were still struggling due to the global pandemic, businesses were advised 
to freeze or reduce their payments for a further three months. 
Mrs B originally contacted Sainsburys in March 2020. At that stage, specific guidance wasnt 
available. But, I believe Sainsburys shouldve been aware guidance was due to be issued. 
Further, I think Mrs Bs call made it clear to them that she needed support once it became 
available. Sainsburys left Mrs B to contact them again.
Unfortunately, despite multiple attempts to call, Mrs B was unsuccessful in speaking to 
Sainsburys before her next two repayments fell due. This wouldve undoubtedly been 
frustrating and worrying for her. But Sainsburys, like many businesses at the time, would 
have experienced high call volumes for help, coupled with the impact the global pandemic 
had on their ability to deliver their own services. So, I cant reasonably say that Sainsburys 
did something wrong here.
When Mrs B finally spoke to Sainsburys they declined to assist because of the arrears that 
had already accrued on her loan. Given Mrs B had previously spoken to them, and 
Sainsburys had recorded this in their file notes, I think it was clear that Mrs Bs financial 
problems were directly linked to the effects of the pandemic. In these circumstances, I 
wouldve expected Sainsburys to consider back dating any support available.
Ultimately this led to Sainsburys following their usual arrears and collection processes. The 
FCAs credit sourcebook (CONC) provides rules and guidance for situations where a consumer is experiencing financial difficulty. These rules are distinct and separate from the 
FCAs COVID payment deferral guidance and generally apply where any difficulties are 
considered to be more long term or serious by nature. 
Following Mrs Bs call in June 2020, Sainsburys agreed to place a 30 day hold on her loan. 
This provided some breathing space while she considered her options and her complaint 
was being investigated. This appears sensible and is what I would expect in these 
circumstances.
In their response, Sainsburys agreed they shouldve done more. So, it was important that 
any resolution put Mrs B back into the position she wouldve been, had they agreed to her 
original request when the guidance was introduced in April 2020.
Sainsburys refunded payments to Mrs Bs loan to clear all the arrears that had accrued. This 
ensured arrears would no longer be reported on her credit file. Had a payment deferral been 
agreed, while Mrs B wouldnt have made repayments, they would still have been payable 
later. Sainsburys said she would need to repay the amount theyd refunded. So, I think this 
proposal effectively mirrors what would have happened had a deferral been agreed. 
Sainsburys also removed all adverse information reported on Mrs Bs credit file. This also 
mirrors what would have happened had a payment deferral been agreed. 
Sainsburys agreed to provide a payment deferral for August, September and October 2020. 
This meant Mrs B would benefit from an equivalent total of six months deferral  the 
maximum available under the FCAs guidance. 
Finally, Sainsburys paid compensation of £300 to Mrs B to apologise for their lack of support 
and the delays experienced while they investigated her complaint. 
Overall, I think the resolution offered by Sainsburys did put Mrs B back into the position she 
wouldve been had they agreed to provide the payment deferrals, when first requested. I also 
think the compensation paid feels fair in all the circumstances here. So, while I appreciate 
that Mrs B will be disappointed, I dont think Sainsburys need to do anything more.
Im aware that since expiry of the payment deferral period in November 2020, Mrs B 
continued to experience financial difficulties. This resulted in Sainsburys commencing 
recovery action under the terms of the loan agreement. Mrs B has expressed dissatisfaction 
with how Sainsburys have handled this. But as this doesnt form part of Mrs Bs original 
complaint, Im unable to explore this further. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman