DRN-3771160
The complaint
Mrs C complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt update her account following a stock split 
and she couldnt sell her shares. By the time her account showed the new shareholding, the 
share price had moved. She wants HSBC to compensate her for the financial loss.
The complaint is brought on her behalf by a solicitor.
What happened
Mrs C has an investment account with HSBC. She had a holding of shares Ill refer to as A. 
On 15 May 2022, A announced a 19 for 1 stock split. Mrs C says she expected her account 
to be updated but on 7 June, when she wanted to sell 8,500 shares, her account was still 
showing a holding of 659 shares. She reported this to HSBC, but she says it didnt update 
her account until after close of business on 9 June. So the earliest she could have sold 
shares was on 10 June, but the price had gone down, and she says she lost around 
£95,000.
HSBC said the additional shares werent received from its custodian until 8 June and were 
credited to Mrs Cs account the following day. It apologised that it had originally told her it 
expected the shares to be received on 3 June and it failed to update her when the date was 
moved due to a bank holiday. It paid her £50 by way of an apology.
Our investigator concluded that HSBC had allocated the new shares to Mrs Cs account in a 
timely manner. But he didnt think it had paid her enough to compensate her for the distress 
and inconvenience caused by not telling her about the change of date. He recommended 
HSBC pay Mrs C an additional £150, which it accepted.
Mrs C didnt agree. Her solicitor replied in some detail to say, in summary, that:
HSBC failed to meet the terms of its contractual relationship with Mrs C.
HSBC acknowledged an error on its platform as to Mrs Cs shareholding.
Mrs C should have been able to place a sale by phone to minimise her loss.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and in 
my own words. Mrs Cs representative has set out her complaint in considerable detail but 
Im not going to respond to every single point made. No discourtesy is intended by this. 
Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this. 
This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If 
theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied 
I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the 
right outcome.
I appreciate Mrs Cs disappointment that she wasnt able to sell shares on 7 June when she 
wanted to, and when the price was favourable. But Im satisfied from the evidence provided 
by HSBC that it didnt receive the new A shares from its custodian until 8 June 2022. As a 
nominee holding, HSBC needed to reconcile the number of shares received before it was 
able to allocate them to individual account holders. This is normal practice and its not 
unusual for there to be short delay in nominee shareholders receiving their entitlement 
because of the need to reconcile the shares received. HSBC allocated the shares at the end 
of the working day following receipt. I dont consider this timescale to be unreasonable. 
Mrs Cs representative says HSBC should have allowed her to give telephone instructions to 
sell the shares. But it couldnt sell shares before it had allocated them to Mrs Cs account. 
And it certainly couldnt sell her shares on 7 June as this was before it had received them.
When HSBC wrote to Mrs C to tell her about the stock split, it said it expected to receive the 
shares on 3 June and that these would be allocated to her account as soon as possible. So 
its understandable she was disappointed on 7 June when the shares hadnt been allocated. 
But thats because the expected date changed, and HSBC failed to tell Mrs C of the new 
date. In the circumstances, I agree with our investigator that its fair and reasonable for 
HSBC to pay Mrs C £150, in addition to the £50 already paid, for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay Mrs C £150 (in addition to the £50 
already paid).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2023.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman