DRN-3732798
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited (AXA) declined to cover his treatment 
claim under his private medical insurance policy.
What happened
Mr W has a private medical insurance policy with AXA through his employer.
Hes been having treatment for cancer since November 2019 and AXA had covered his 
treatment for radiotherapy and chemotherapy previously under his policy.
In November 2021, Mr W had further check-ups and needed treatment for the cancer. He 
was offered some radiotherapy treatment which is known as Papillon radiotherapy 
treatment by his consultant and Mr W was treated under the NHS. The treatment wasnt 
conventional and was recommended by Mr Ws consultant. Mr W chose to have undergo 
this form of treatment.  
He made a claim for this under his policy, but it was declined by AXA. It said the Papillon 
treatment was considered to be unproven and unconventional and this type of treatment 
wasnt covered under Mr Ws policy. 
Mr W was unhappy with AXAs response and brought the complaint to this service. Our 
investigator looked into it and didnt uphold the complaint. He thought AXA hadnt declined 
Mr Ws claim for the treatment unfairly or unreasonably. There was no cover under the policy 
terms and conditions for the type of treatment Mr W had and it also wasnt considered to be 
a suitable equivalent treatment. 
Mr W disagreed and has asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. So, its 
been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly.
Ive started by looking at the policy terms and conditions. Page 21 of the policy booklet sets 
out the relevant policy wording for treatment that is unproven. This says:
What happens if my specialist says I need treatment that is not conventional 
treatment? 
We know our members may wish to have access to emerging treatments as they 
become available. So, we will consider covering the following treatment when its 
carried out by a specialist: 
 surgery not listed and identified in the schedule of procedures and fees; and 
 other treatments and diagnostic tests which are not conventional treatments. 
In this handbook we refer to this treatment as unproven treatment. 
The cover for unproven treatment is more restrictive than for conventional 
treatments. 
Unproven treatment must: 
 be authorised by us before it takes place, and 
 take place in the UK, and 
 be agreed by us as a suitable equivalent to conventional treatment; and 
 have high quality evidence of its safety. 
Are there restrictions on what you pay for unproven treatment? 
If there is no suitable equivalent conventional treatment, there wont be any cover 
for the unproven treatment. 
If you receive treatment as part of a registered clinical trial, we will not cover the 
costs of the treatment, or the specialist, hospital or any other costs associated to 
the trial.
Based on the above terms and conditions, there is no cover under Mr Ws policy for 
unproven treatment. There is further information about unproven treatment under the policy 
which says it must be agreed by the insurer as a suitable equivalent to conventional 
treatment. 
I can see that AXA considered the medical information provided by Mr Ws treating 
consultant and referred this information to its medical team. However, following a review, it 
said there was no suitable equivalent to the Papillon radiotherapy treatment which Mr W 
was undergoing and therefore no part of the cost of this treatment was eligible as a benefit 
under Mr Ws policy. 
AXA has also said while conventional treatment is covered under the policy, the Papillon 
treatment isnt conventional as it isnt approved under the National Institute for Health and 
Care Excellence (NICE) guidance.  
Ive considered the NICE guideline for this treatment. This says:
Current evidence on the safety and efficacy of low-energy contact X-ray 
brachytherapy (the Papillon technique) for locally advanced rectal cancer is 
inadequate in quantity and quality.
I appreciate and understand why Mr W has opted for treatment which he believes will help 
him, with the support of his consultant. However, that is not in dispute as its his right to be 
able to make that choice. 
The crux of the complaint is that AXA has declined Mr Ws claim for the cost of his Papillon treatment. The terms and conditions of the policy are clear in that there is no cover for 
unproven treatment and under the circumstances that there is no other suitable conventional 
equivalent to the Papillon therapy. I therefore think AXA has considered the claim in line 
with the policy terms and conditions and for the treatment that Mr W is undergoing, and Im 
satisfied there is no cover. 
Ive also carefully considered Mr Ws treating consultants comments which Mr W provided. 
This says that NICE has no legal powers on their guidance but the General Medical Council 
(GMC) has full legal powers. I appreciate the comments, but the claim has been considered 
in line with the terms and conditions of the policy and the NICE guidance has been 
considered in accordance with that. There is no dispute that the GMC has legal powers but 
when a claim is considered under the policy terms and conditions, in the circumstances of 
this case, it is the NICE guidance that is followed and this currently says the evidence for the 
Papillon treatment is inadequate in quality and quantity. I dont think its unfair to use the 
NICE guidance when assessing the claim and taking into account all the available evidence.
Overall, while I understand Mr W is going through a challenging time, Im not persuaded that 
AXA has declined his claim unfairly or unreasonably.  I dont think there are any reasonable 
grounds upon which I could fairly ask AXA to pay the claim. It follows therefore that I dont 
require AXA to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint against AXA PPP Healthcare 
Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman