DRN-3769925
The complaint
Miss A complains that Sainsbury's Bank Plc was irresponsible in its lending to her.
What happened
Miss A was provided with a Sainsburys Bank credit card in February 2021. The credit limit 
was set at £3,000. Miss A says that the credit card was provided irresponsibly, and that 
Sainsburys Bank didnt ask her about her mental health. She says since having the card she 
has only been able to make the minimum repayments and that these became unaffordable 
when interest was applied. 
Sainsburys bank says that before the credit card account was provided it gathered 
information form Miss A and carried out a credit check which showed no adverse 
information. It said Miss As application was auto approved and that she signed the credit 
card agreement which set out the terms and conditions of the account.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She didnt think that based on the information 
available to Sainsburys Bank at the time the credit card was provided that it should have 
been aware the lending wouldnt be affordable for Miss A.
Miss A didnt agree with our investigators view. She provided evidence of her medical 
conditions which was provided to Sainsburys Bank. Our investigator confirmed the 
additional information didnt change her view. Miss A and didnt accept that Sainsburys 
Bank had done enough to help her.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Sainsburys Bank will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
The rules dont set out any specific checks which must be completed to assess 
creditworthiness. But the checks should be reasonable and proportionate to the type, and 
amount of credit being provided, the length of the term, the frequency and amount of the 
repayments, and the total cost of the credit.
In this case, before providing the credit card account. Sainsburys Bank asked Miss A about 
her income and mortgage / rent. Miss As annual income was recorded as £30,000 and her 
monthly mortgage/ rent payments as £1,200. Sainsburys Bank also carried out a credit 
check, but the details of these results havent been provided. Therefore, I have considered 
the information contained in the credit report that Miss A has provided as a good indication 
of what Sainsburys Bank would likely have seen during their checks.
Miss As credit report shows she had other credit card and catalogue accounts as well as a 
loan, bank accounts and utility accounts. While I note some of the accounts were taken out 
around the time of Miss As application (and may not have been present on her credit file at 
the time of application) others had been in operation for a reasonable period of time. There 
was no adverse information recorded on these accounts, such as missed payments, and 
there were no defaults or county court judgments recorded on her credit file at the time. 
Therefore, I do not find that the credit search results would have meant that Sainsburys 
Bank should have been concerned that Miss A was in financial difficulty at the time or that a 
credit card account shouldnt have been provided.
The credit limit applied to the credit card was £3,000. This wasnt increased. I have looked 
through the information to see whether it was reasonable for Sainsburys Bank to consider 
this limit as affordable to Miss A. I note Miss As comments that she made only minimum 
repayments on the card until February 2022 when the interest free periods ended, and she 
then could no longer afford to make the repayments. However, I have to consider whether, 
based on the information available to Sainsburys Bank at the time of the application, it 
should have been concerned that the credit limit was unaffordable for Miss A.
Miss As income was recorded as £30,000. I note that other household income of £30,000 
was also noted and that Miss A was recorded as living with a partner but in this case, I have 
focused on Miss As income of £30,000. I think that given the size of the credit limit being 
considered it would have been reasonable to have verified Miss As income. I have looked 
through Miss As bank statements for the three months leading up to her application and 
these show her monthly income to be from benefits and total around £1,900. Her mortgage/ 
rent was recorded as being £1,200 (her bank statements show this as £1,250) and the credit 
check showed loan repayments of £92 a month. Additional to this Miss A would have 
needed to make payments towards her other credit card and catalogue accounts. I do not 
have information of the balances on Miss As credit card and catalogue accounts at the time 
and have based my estimate on the credit limits available. Estimating sustainable 
repayments towards these accounts I think gives further credit commitments of around £100 
to £150. Basing Miss As repayments for the Sainsburys Bank credit card on the £3,000 
credit limit would leave Miss A with around £450 of disposable income after her 
mortgage/rent and credit repayments.
While I note Miss A has explained that she is a single parent and struggling with the costs of 
living, her application didnt note any dependents and based on the information provided, 
along with an income verification and credit check, I do not find that I have enough to say 
that Sainsburys Bank should have considered the lending unaffordable.
Miss A has explained her current situation and I am very sorry to hear of the difficult time she 
has had and continues to experience. Sainsburys Bank has said that she should contact it 
to go through an income and expenditure assessment. I think this is reasonable and given 
Miss A's circumstances we would expect Sainsburys Bank to work with her in a sympathetic 
and positive way in regard to her outstanding balance.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman