DRN-2339869
The complaint
Mr D believes AvantCredit of UK, LLC trading as Avantcredit, acted irresponsibly by 
agreeing two loans hed applied for.
What happened
In September 2015 Mr D took out a £1,000 loan with Avantcredit, to be repaid over 12 
months with repayments of £98.48 a month. This loan was repaid in December 2015 when 
Mr D took out a second loan with Avantcredit. The second loan was for £1,000, to be repaid 
over 36 months with repayments of £47.15 a month and was repaid in February 2018.
Mr D has complained that Avantcredit didnt act responsibly when approving the loan  he 
didnt think the checks Avantcredit did were thorough enough, and he didnt think they 
shouldve approved the loan. Avantcredit didnt agree, so Mr D brought his complaint to us 
for investigation.
Our investigator said that the checks Avantcredit carried out for each loan were reasonable 
and proportionate  they checked Mr Ds income and expenditure and carried out a credit 
search each time. She said that Mr D had declared an income figure higher than his actual 
income for each application, and Avantcredit used his actual (lower) income when looking to 
see if each loan was affordable. And from the information available to Avantcredit, both 
loans were affordable at the time. So the investigator didnt think Avantcredit needed to do 
anything more.
Mr D didnt agree. He said he had a gambling problem at the time, and this shouldve been 
obvious from the bank statements he sent to Avantcredit. Hes also said he had a number of 
different loans with other lenders, so Avantcredit shouldve known he was borrowing 
irresponsibly. Mr D has provided bank statements for the period 4 July to 31 December 2015 
to show his financial situation when he took out the loans. And hes asked for an 
ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When someone complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending, I need to 
consider whether the lender completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that the lending was affordable, and that the affordability was sustainable. Where reasonable 
and proportionate checks were carried out, I need to consider if the lending decision was 
fair. And if reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if the 
loan wouldve been approved if the checks had taken place. 
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportional checks are, but Id expect lenders to 
consider things such as the amount, duration and payments of the loan being applied for; as 
well as the borrowers personal circumstances at the time of each application. 
Ive seen the documents Avantcredit checked at the time they approved Mr Ds loans. For 
the first loan Mr D declared a monthly income of £1,875. But the bank statements hed 
provided showed his income was only £1,352 a month. Mr D also declared that his monthly 
household bills and other expenses were £620.
The credit search showed that Mr D paid £439 a month for his credit commitments, that he 
hadnt missed any payments in the last 12-months, and that he didnt have any defaults. The 
credit search also showed that Mr D had used short-term pay day lenders in the past, and 
anything he still owed to these lenders was included in his credit commitments.
Ive noted the bank statements Mr D provided to Avantcredit showed his monthly outgoings 
were £186. Added to the £439 credit commitments, this would make £625 a month. And Mr 
D declared total outgoings of £620 a month. So, this £620 may have included Mr Ds credit 
commitments, or it may have included items such as food and transport instead.
The bank statements also show some gambling transactions. But the presence of these 
doesnt necessarily mean that Mr D had a gambling problem. And I dont think the number or 
value of these transactions would mean that Avantcredit shouldve automatically declined 
the loan because of this. Mr D has also said that there are transactions on his bank 
statements to an online financial services company. Mr D has said that these were also for 
gambling. But, as this company is also a popular payment portal for online purchases, 
Avantcredit wouldnt have known what these payments were actually for unless Mr D told 
them. And I havent seen that he did.
Based on the verified income, and after paying his verified monthly expenses and credit 
commitments, Mr D had £727 disposable income each month. This was more than sufficient 
to pay Avantcredits payment of £98.48 and still leave Mr D with ample disposable income 
for things such as food and transport.
But, even if the declared £620 was in addition to the £439 credit commitments, and so 
included things such as food and transport; Mr D would still have had £293 disposable 
income with which to pay Avantcredits loan. And, as Mr D had said he intended to use this 
loan to repay some existing debts, doing so wouldve further reduced his monthly outgoings.
Given the above, and the value and term of this loan, Im satisfied that the checks 
Avantcredit did were reasonable and proportionate at the time. So I wouldnt expect them to 
do anything more. Ive also seen that Mr D made all of the payments to the first loan on time, 
and without any apparent problems.
For the second loan, Mr D again declared a monthly income of £1,875 and monthly 
outgoings of £620. Because this was only three months after the original loan, Avantcredit 
used the same bank statements to verify Mr Ds income. And because of the short time 
thatd passed, I dont think it was unreasonable for them to have done this.
The credit search for the second loan showed Mr Ds credit commitments payments were 
£688 a month  an increase of £249 a month (£99 of which wouldve been Avantcredits 
loan). This shows me that Mr D was still borrowing money, but I dont think its enough for 
me to say he was either reliant on borrowing or borrowing irresponsibly  his borrowing had 
increased in the period October to December, a time where its more likely purchases would 
be put on credit cards, or funded by other borrowing, to be paid off at a later date.With the increased credit commitments, Mr D would have disposable income of either £478 
a month from which to pay food, transport etc.; or £44 after his food and transport had been 
taken into consideration. But whats important here is that this includes loan one, which 
would be repaid. And the payment for loan two is lower than loan one, so Mr Ds disposable 
income would increase, not decrease, if loan two was approved.
Given the above, Im also satisfied that Avantcredit did reasonable and proportionate checks 
for loan two, and I wouldnt expect them to do anything more.
Mr D has provided six months bank statements to show his full financial position at the time 
he applied for these loans. But Avantcredit didnt see these, and for the reasons explained 
above, I wouldnt have expected them to have asked for them. It was reasonable they relied 
on what theyd seen to make the lending decisions. 
While the bank statements may show things that werent on the credit search, I cant say 
Avantcredit did anything wrong by not taking into consideration things they werent aware of 
at the time. So I wont be asking them to refund any payments, charges or interest.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint about AvantCredit of UK, 
LLC trading as Avantcredit.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman