DRN-3135323
The complaint
Mr B complains about the way he was treated whilst visiting a branch of HSBC UK Bank Plc. 
What happened
Mr B visited a branch of HSBC to reset his online banking password. Mr B was asked to 
return with identification and did so a short time later. 
During this visit, Mr B says he gave his identification documents to a member of staff. Mr B 
says the member of staff asked him to verbally confirm a previous address, despite the 
information being included on the identification hed handed over. Mr B says he asked the 
advisor to use the address on the identification but they refused and rudely insisted he 
confirm it verbally as well. 
A manager became involved. Mr B says the manager interrupted him and told him to leave 
the branch. Mr B says the manager told him to go somewhere you will be respected. Mr B 
has explained he remained calm throughout and didnt shout. But Mr B says HSBCs branch 
staff were rude and he feels they discriminated against him because of his race and religion.
HSBC has provided a statement from the staff involved that differs to what Mr B says 
happened. HSBCs branch staff said Mr B was asked to provide answers to standard 
security questions as part of the process of obtaining a new online banking password. HSBC 
claims Mr B became agitated and started to shout I require respect as a customer of your 
bank. When a manager came to assist they say Mr B continued to shout and was asked to 
leave the branch. 
Mr B complained and said HSBC had discriminated against him due to his race and religion. 
HSBC sent Mr B a final response but didnt agree it had treated him unfairly. 
Mr B referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. The 
investigator requested copies of any CCTV or audio recordings available. But HSBC 
confirmed it doesnt record audio in branch and the CCTV footage had been deleted. 
The investigator upheld Mr Bs complaint and said HSBC shouldve done more to help him 
understand the process of resetting his online banking password and questions that may be 
asked. But the investigator didnt think HSBC had treated Mr B differently based on his race 
or religion. The investigator thought HSBC shouldve handled Mr Bs visit better and upheld 
his complaint. 
HSBC agreed to pay Mr B £150 but he asked to appeal. As a result, Mr Bs case has been 
passed to me to make a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank Mr B for the level of detail hes provided concerning his experience in 
branch. Mr B has told us he feels discriminated against by HSBCs branch staff due to his 
race and religion. I understand why Mr B is upset and appreciate he feels HSBCs staff 
treated him unfairly. 
As a service, its not our role to say whether a business has breached the Equality Act 2010 
or discriminated against its customer. Were an informal alternative to the courts and decide 
complaints on a fair and reasonable basis. But I want to assure Mr B that as the Equality Act 
2010 is relevant law in this particular case, Ive taken that legislation and what it says about 
how businesses should treat consumers into account when considering his complaint. 
Mr B and HSBC have provided very different versions of what happened in branch. Mr B 
asked for the CCTV and audio recordings to be considered. But HSBC has confirmed it 
doesnt record audio in branch and didnt retain the CCTV footage. I agree with Mr B that the 
absence of the CCTV footage is frustrating as hes consistently asked for it to be reviewed 
since raising a complaint. And theres nothing to indicate HSBC reviewed the footage during 
its investigation. But Im satisfied weve got enough information on file to reach a fair 
decision in this case. 
Where both parties provide different versions of what happened or what was said Ill base 
my decision on the balance of probabilities. That is what I consider most likely to have 
happened having considered all the available information. In this case, Mr B says the advisor 
he spoke with didnt explain why he was asked to verbally confirm an address that was on a 
piece of identification hed just handed over. And its clear Mr B found the way he was asked 
to be rude. I agree with the investigator that HSBCs advisor shouldve explained why he 
needed to ask questions about Mr Bs address history more clearly. And I think that mightve 
helped resolve the situation before it escalated. 
Both parties confirm there was a disagreement between Mr B and the advisor. Mr B says he 
remained calm throughout but the advisor was rude and used an arrogant tone with him. The 
advisor claims it was Mr B that became agitated and shouted when he was asked questions 
about his address history. I think its most likely that matters became heated with voices 
being raised on both sides. But I think that came about because the advisor failed to clearly 
explain the purpose of their question, not on the basis of Mr Bs race or religion. And Im not 
persuaded that Mr Bs race or religion played a part in the questions he was asked. HSBC 
says it wanted to confirm Mr Bs old address verbally. I think the representative is likely to 
have made the same enquiries with any customer in the circumstances.
Mr B has told us the manager said he should go somewhere he is respected when he was 
asked to leave the branch. And HSBCs manager says Mr B repeatedly told him he required 
respect from the branch staff. I dont doubt what Mr B has told us or how the comment made 
him feel. But I think both Mr B and the manager most likely made comments about respect 
during his visit. And whilst I agree the situation shouldve been handled better and the 
manager ought to have done more to restore calm, I dont think the comments were made 
on the basis of Mr Bs background or religious beliefs. 
I can see how the situation in branch made Mr B feel and I dont seek to diminish what hes 
told us. But I think the issues raised most likely came about when matters escalated after the 
parties disagreed. As Ive said above, I think HSBC shouldve done more to explain why it 
was asking Mr B further security questions and calm things down. HSBC has agreed to pay 
Mr B £150 in recognition of the service provided in branch. 
Whilst I know my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr B, Im satisfied £150 reflects 
the impact of how his branch visit was handled and is a fair way to resolve his complaint. As 
a result, Im going to uphold Mr Bs complaint on that basis. My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint and direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay him £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman