DRN-1712935
complaint
Mr S says that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him a mortgage payment 
protection insurance policy (MPPI) policy.
Mr S was sold a Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP) alongside a mortgage in 2002. 
TMPP can be split in to sections, namely Mortgage Repayment Cover (which is a form of 
MPPI), Life Cover and Critical Illness Cover (CIC).
Mr S has made a complaint about the MPPI cover, so Ive only looked at the sale of the 
MPPI element of the package in this decision.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr S disagreed, so the 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mr S says that he was forced in to taking the MPPI, and it was added without his knowledge 
 but I think its likely that Halifax made it clear that he didnt need to take out the MPPI  
and that he chose to do so. Although as the sale took place so long ago, I can understand 
why he doesnt remember.
Halifax doesnt have the original paperwork for the sale  but this isnt unusual for a sale that 
took place so long ago, and businesses arent required to keep records indefinitely. But 
Halifax has shown us paperwork that was in use during this type of sale at the time  and 
these show that the MPPI was presented as optional  and that an active choice needed to 
be made in order for the policy to be set up. And I havent seen anything to suggest that 
Mr S wouldve completed any different type paperwork or that Halifax did anything other than 
follow its usual sales process when it sold the policy to Mr S.
Halifax recommended the MPPI to Mr S  so it had to make sure that the policy was right for 
him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example, given what hes told us it doesnt appear that he wouldve been affected by any of 
the exclusions or limitations of the MPPI policy  and it seems that he had a need for the 
cover.
Its possible that the information Halifax gave to Mr S wasnt as clear as it shouldve been  
but as I think its likely he chose to take it out, it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it 
seems like it couldve been useful for him if something went wrong. It also looks like it was 
affordable. So, I dont think better information about the MPPI wouldve put him off taking out 
the cover.
Ive thought about everything that Mr S has said  but these points dont change my 
decision.
other considerations
Ive also thought about whether Halifax needs to give Mr S some of the commission he paid 
back. 
But the Supreme Court ruling, and new rules and guidance only applies to credit agreements 
(in this case, Mr Ss mortgage) taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements taken out 
before then which were still running on 6 April 2008. From the information Ive seen, Mr Ss 
doesnt fit into these dates - and so Bank of Scotland (trading as Halifax) doesnt  have to 
refund any of the commission paid on this MPPI policy.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2020.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman