DRN-4219712
The complaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc wont refund the money he lost after he fell victim 
to an authorised push payment (APP) scam.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat it all here, 
But briefly, and based on the submissions of both parties, I understand it to be as follows.
Mr B was looking to buy a vehicle and had a particular model he was interested in buying. 
He saw a vehicle for sale, on a well-known online marketplace, that he was interested in 
buying. Hes told us that he contacted the seller, who told him that the vehicle was abroad 
due to them moving overseas for work. But that the vehicle was being sold in the UK, as the 
seller had been unable to find a buyer abroad, due to there not being much of a market for 
right hand drive cars. The price of the car was £5,630, which included international shipping 
to the UK.
Mr B has said he carried out a DVLA check on the vehicle and saw that it was taxed and had 
a MOT. Mr B agreed to buy the vehicle and the seller told him that he would be contacted by 
a  third-party company that would handle the payments and the shipping. Mr B has said he 
researched the third-party company and has said they appeared on Companies House and 
had a professional looking website. Believing everything to be genuine, Mr B went ahead 
and made the following payments to who he thought was the shipping company;
14 May 2020 £1,630
14 May 2020 £2,000
14 May 2020 £2,000
Mr B realised he had been scammed when the vehicle wasnt delivered at the time that had 
been arranged. He then found he was unable to make any further contact with either the 
seller or the shipping company.
Mr B raised the matter with Barclays. Barclays is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code which requires firms to reimburse customers 
who have been the victims of APP scams like this in all but a limited number of 
circumstances. Barclays says one or more of those exceptions applies in this case.
Barclays issued its final response to Mr B on 31 January 2023, upholding his complaint in 
part. In summary it accepted that the payments Mr B made for the vehicle were out of 
character and substantial, when compared to previous payments he had made from his 
account. It added that it didnt defer the payment or provide a payment warning, so accepted 
that education regarding fraud wasnt clearly available to Mr B, so it thought it should carry 
some liability for Mr Bs loss.
But Barclays added that it considered Mr B should be held jointly liable. It said this because 
it was unclear what research Mr B had undertaken before making the payments. It said the 
value of the vehicle appeared disproportionate to others advertised at the time and that Mr B 
could have asked further questions about the vehicle before agreeing to buy it. Overall, 
Barclays thought it should share the blame with Mr B and agreed to refund him 50% of his 
loss, being £2,815.
Unhappy with Barclays response, Mr B, through his representatives, then brought his 
complaint to this service. One of our Investigators looked into things and thought the offer 
Barclays had made to refund 50% of Mr Bs loss was fair. In summary, this was because he 
felt Mr B shouldve done more checks to make sure the payment he was making was for a 
legitimate vehicle. He noted that the price of the vehicle was way below market value and 
that Mr B ought to have been aware of this and it ought to have raised some suspicions that 
this was too good to be true.
Our Investigator also considered what Mr B had said about his personal circumstances. But 
he didnt consider Mr B would have been unable to have protected himself from this 
particular scam. Our Investigator was also satisfied that Barclays did what it could, once it 
had been made aware of the scam, to try and recover the money from the beneficiary bank 
(the bank to which the payments were made), but unfortunately no funds remained.
Mr B didnt agree with our Investigators view. In summary, through his representatives, Mr B 
maintained that he had carried out sufficient checks and said that he shouldnt reasonably 
have been expected to know the current market value of the vehicle he was purchasing.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
As Ive mentioned above, the CRM Code provides additional protection for the victims of 
APP scams. Im satisfied that the payments Mr B made fall within the scope of the CRM 
Code. But despite offering additional protections, the CRM Code includes provisions 
allowing a firm not to reimburse APP scam losses fully where the firm can establish that the 
customer failed to take sufficient care when making the payment (often referred to as the 
exceptions to reimbursement).
Under the CRM Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish 
that*: 
- The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that: 
the payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted 
was legitimate.
- The customer ignored an effective warning by failing to take appropriate steps in 
response to that warning.
-
*There are further exceptions outlined in the CRM Code that do not apply to this case. In this case, Barclays has accepted it didnt provide an Effective Warning and that it 
shouldve made checks with Mr B about the payments he was making  - which is why its 
refunded 50% of the payments made. However I think Barclays has been able to establish 
that it may choose not to fully reimburse Mr B under the terms of the CRM Code. Im 
persuaded one of the listed exceptions to reimbursement under the provisions of the CRM 
Code applies.
Taking into account all of the circumstances of this case, including the characteristics of the 
customer and the complexity of the scam, I think the concerns that Barclays has raised 
about the legitimacy of the transactions Mr B was making are enough to support its position 
that Mr B didnt have a reasonable basis for believing the person he transacted with was 
legitimate. I am not persuaded Mr B had a reasonable basis for believing that the payee was 
the person he was expecting to pay, the payment was for genuine goods or services and the 
person or business he transacted with was legitimate. Ill explain why.
Mr B has explained that he had carried out a DVLA search on the vehicle and could see it 
had been taxed and had a MOT. I can understand how that would have reasonably given 
him some assurance. But the vehicle Mr B was trying to purchase was advertised at just 
over £5,000 and having reviewed recognised industry trade guides, that provide average 
vehicle sale prices based on make, model, vehicle age and mileage, this price is 
considerably less than what comparable vehicles were being sold for at the time of the 
scam. The information I have seen suggests the market value for this vehicle in this 
condition was over £9,000. On this basis, I think the price the vehicle was advertised for was 
too good to be true and ought to have raised concerns, especially considering this price 
would also have included international shipping.
Im mindful, through his representatives, Mr B has said he shouldnt reasonably have been 
expected to know the current market value of the vehicle he was purchasing. But given Mr B 
has said he was looking for this particular type of vehicle, because hed always wanted to 
own one, I think its fair and reasonable to reach the conclusion that he would have had a 
least a broad idea of what he could expect to pay for a vehicle of this kind.
Whilst I accept that people can and do arrange to sell items at a discount for a quick sale, I 
think there were things about the situation that in the cold light of day did not add up. I 
consider that Mr B ought to have had greater concerns about the legitimacy of the seller and 
vehicle and that, in turn, ought to have led to a greater degree of checking on Mr Bs part.
In addition to this, Mr B was paying an individual. I think he ought to have been more 
concerned about this than he ultimately was, especially against the backdrop that he could 
not view the car in person. Mr B has said that he checked the shipping company and could 
see it on Companies House, so he thought he was dealing with a legitimate company. But 
the person he was paying, doesnt appear as an officer for the company and the nature of 
the business isnt consistent with a company dealing with the international shipping of 
vehicles.
I accept that Mr B did undertake some checks, but he ultimately placed a lot of trust in 
strangers. I consider that Mr B ought to have had greater concerns about the deal and that, 
in turn, ought to have led to a greater degree of scrutiny on his part. Buying a car unseen at 
a considerable discount was always a big risk. I think Mr B should have done more than he 
did to question the arrangement before paying any money.
Im mindful that, taking any of the individual factors above in isolation, they may not have 
been enough to have prevented Mr B from proceeding. But when considering the specific 
circumstances of this case and the factors in the round, on balance, I think that there was 
enough going on and sufficient red flags that Mr B ought reasonably to have taken further steps to protect himself. Buying a vehicle, unseen, at a considerable discount, without 
seeing any official documentation, was always a risk. I think Mr B should have done more 
than he did to question the deal and to satisfy himself that it was legitimate before making 
the payment.
With the above in mind, in the particular circumstances of this case, I consider that Mr B 
ought to have had concerns about the legitimacy of the goods hed been offered and that, in 
turn, ought to have led to a greater degree of checking on Mr Bs part. In not carrying out 
sufficient checks I dont find he had a reasonable basis for believing the goods were 
genuine. I therefore consider, in line with the provisions of the CRM code, liability should be 
shared equally between Barclays and Mr B, and that the refund Barclays has already made 
of 50% of Mr Bs loss is fair and reasonable.
Mr B has told us his circumstances made him vulnerable. The CRM Code talks about 
customers being reimbursed in full, despite exceptions (such that I have outlined above) 
applying, if the individual was vulnerable to the extent that they were unable to protect 
themselves from the scam. So, I have also considered what the CRM Code says about 
vulnerability and when it might lead to a full refund, even if Mr B didnt have a reasonable 
basis for belief.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr B has told us. When considering the relevant part of the 
CRM Code, it says:
A Customer is vulnerable to APP scams if it would not be reasonable to expect that 
Customer to have protected themselves, at the time of becoming victim of an APP scam, 
against that particular APP scam, to the extent of the impact they suffered. This should be 
assessed on a case-by-case basis.
So Ive considered whether there are vulnerabilities present to such an extent that Mr B was 
unable to take steps to identify the scam he fell victim to or to recognise steps he might take 
to test the legitimacy of what he was being told by the fraudster. To do so I must consider 
the details of the scam, Mr Bs actions throughout, and the wider circumstances.
I dont doubt what Mr B has said about his medical conditions. But Ive not seen anything to 
suggest that because of his condition Mr B was unable to protect himself from this particular 
scam. Mr B wanted to purchase a vehicle  a decision he proactively made. He found the 
advert on an online marketplace for the precise model of vehicle he wanted and he 
contacted the seller, asking questions and for further details about the vehicle.
Given this, Im not persuaded that it would be unreasonable to expect Mr B to have 
protected himself against the particular scam he fell victim to. And so I dont find Barclays 
needs to refund Mr Bs entire loss under the vulnerability clause of the code.
Finally, Ive considered whether Barclays did all it could to try and recover the money Mr B 
lost once he had reported the scam to it. From the evidence Ive seen, Barclays did contact 
the beneficiary bank when he raised the matter, but unfortunately the beneficiary bank told it 
that no funds remained. So I think Barclays has done what could reasonably have been 
expected of it to try to recover the money.
Mr B has my considerable sympathies. Hes found himself in an unenviable situation where 
he has lost money to a fraudster. And I understand the whole experience has been deeply 
upsetting for him and I dont underestimate his strength of feeling. But overall, for reasons 
explained Im persuaded that the offer Barclays has already made, to refund 50% of the 
money lost, is fair and reasonable considering the circumstances of this case. So I dont 
think Barclays has to refund any more of the money Mr B lost.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2023.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman