DRN-3900117
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complained their claim was unfairly declined due to a misrepresentation made 
at policy inception. Their policy was voided. They had a home insurance policy with Wakam.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P made a claim on their policy following a burglary at their home. Wakam 
validated the claim. Wakam identified that Mr and Mrs P had a county court judgement 
(CCJ) against them. Wakam thought Mr and Mrs P had misrepresented their circumstances 
when they took out the policy. Wakam said it wouldnt have insured Mr and Mrs P had it 
known about the CCJ. Therefore, Wakam decided to void the policy and declined the claim / 
wouldnt consider it.
Mr and Mrs P said they hadnt knowingly made a misrepresentation. They said they werent 
aware of the CCJ, as all the paperwork related to it had been posted to their previous home 
that they no longer resided in. They said they had their post re-directed for six months after 
the move and had tried to update their postal details with various parties. However, details of 
the CCJ werent sent until after the six-month re-direction service expired.
Mr and Mrs P wants their claim to be considered and their policy reinstated. Wakam 
acknowledged Mr and Mrs P didnt misrepresent their circumstances on purpose when they 
arranged the policy, but it did say they were careless. It decided to refund the premiums for 
the remaining term after the policy was voided.
Our investigator decided to uphold the complaint. He thought Mr and Mrs P answered the 
question about CCJs to the best of their knowledge at the time, which means no qualifying 
misrepresentation took place under the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). Wakam disagreed, so the case has been referred to 
an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer must show it wouldve offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out several considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
So, Ive considered Mr and Mrs Ps circumstances in respect to CIDRA.
Was there a misrepresentation?
Mr and Mrs P applied for their policy through Wakams online website. They were asked if 
any of the insured parties had ever been declared bankrupt, served with any CCJs, 
individual voluntary arrangements or arrangements with creditors. There is a message on 
the screen where these questions were asked that states these questions are very 
important and if answered incorrectly could invalidate your cover.
I can see from the statement of fact (where all the answers from this questionnaire are 
recorded) that Mr and Mrs P said they hadnt experienced any of these circumstances, 
including CCJs.
When Mr and Mrs Ps claim was validated, there was evidence that Mr and Mrs P did have a 
CCJ against them. They havent denied this, although they have explained some mitigating 
circumstances that I will describe later. 
Strictly speaking though, as Mr and Mrs P didnt disclose the correct facts about themselves, 
they have misrepresented their circumstances. Therefore, I think Wakam has been fair in 
saying there was a misrepresentation. However, Ive considered whether Mr and Mrs P took 
reasonable care when providing this information to Wakam.
Did the consumer take reasonable care?
Mr and Mrs P has provided information explaining why they werent aware of the CCJ at the 
time of taking out the insurance policy  which led to the misrepresentation when the 
question was asked about CCJs.
Mr and Mrs P have explained that they werent aware of the CCJ as they hadnt received 
notification of it. They had moved to a new house and the CCJ wasnt sent to the new house. 
They had their mail forwarded for six months after the move from the old house to the new 
house. The notification was sent to their old house after their mail forwarding service had 
ended.
Wakam said we believe that an insurer (or another financial services business) is entitled to 
rely on the fact that a court considers a judgement correctly served (and still on the record) 
to be evidence that a reasonable customer should have known about the judgement, and 
declared it correctly.
I appreciate Wakams position, but I think the circumstances in this case are rare. I am 
persuaded that when Mr and Mrs P answered Wakams questions, they did so truthfully and 
based upon what they knew to be correct at the time. Therefore, I do think they took 
reasonable care.
Mr and Mrs P have provided evidence that they had their mail forwarded and that they 
notified authorities of their house move. I cant be sure how the authority who sent the CCJ 
wouldve sought out the correct address for Mr and Mrs P. However, I can see the CCJ was 
sent to Mr and Mrs Ps old residence after they had moved out, so Mr and Mrs P wouldnt 
have seen this.I think Mr and Mrs P have taken reasonable actions to ensure their affairs are in order. I 
dont think there is anyway Mr and Mrs P wouldve been aware of the CCJ unless theyd 
received the notice. I have no reason to doubt if they had known about it, theyd have 
ensured the authority could send it to the correct address.
However, as I think Mr and Mrs P took reasonable care, I am upholding this complaint. 
Therefore, I require Wakam to re-instate the policy and I require them to consider the 
burglary claim and any other subsequent claims that may have been made in the remainder 
of the term. Wakam are entitled to recover any premiums theyve refunded.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Wakam to:
Re-instate the policy
Consider the burglary claim and any subsequent claims under the term.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 April 2023.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman