DRN-2745229
The complaint
Mrs S complains about the level of compensation awarded by Tesco Underwriting Limited 
following a claim against her home insurance. 
Mrs S says Tesco should significantly increase the compensation amount to recognise the 
impact the claim handling had on her and her family. 
Mr S brought the complaint to this service on Mrs Ss behalf. Mrs S is named on the policy 
schedule, but Mr S also lived at the property at the time of the claim. For ease of reading, Ill 
refer to them both as Mrs S, unless stated otherwise.
What happened
Mrs S has provided detailed submissions to support her complaint about Tesco  including 
statements to describe how the claim impacted her and her family. 
The background is already known to all parties, so I wont repeat in detail what happened. All 
parties accept the claim  which has now been settled  should have been handled much 
better. So, in this decision, Ill summarise my understanding and focus on setting out the 
outcome Ive reached  and why. 
To summarise, Mrs S reported a claim in 2019 following damage caused to her kitchen. 
Tesco accepted the claim and told Mrs S it would take approximately three weeks to settle it. 
Unfortunately, this wasnt the case, and the claim wasnt settled until 14 months later. Mrs S 
told us the impact this had on her and her family was devastating. 
There were significant delays, some of which were due to a lack of communication, 
organisation and authorisation of works by Tesco. There was also a severe gas leak whilst 
Mrs Ss daughter was home alone, and the electrics were left unsafe for a period. 
The relationship between Mrs S and Tesco broke down during the claim process. This was 
due to the quality of work carried out and the delays caused. Also, Mrs S said members of 
Tesco staff had acted unprofessionally whilst discussing her circumstances and the gas 
leak. Mrs S said she lost all trust in Tesco and their contractors and didnt feel safe in her 
own home, causing her sleepless nights. She also said the way in which the claim was 
handled impacted her health, along with her families, and they had to take several days 
annual leave due to this, accommodating contractors and chasing updates.  
Mrs S made an initial complaint following the gas leak in 2019. Tesco paid her £600 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience the gas leak and claim delays caused. Mrs 
S said a local gas engineer advised an incorrect washer had been fitted which caused the 
gas leak to occur. Thankfully, the gas leak had no serious implications other than causing 
worry and concern to Mrs S and her family. 
Once the claim was settled and Mrs S was satisfied with the reinstatement of her kitchen, 
Tesco sent a second final response letter to her. They accepted the claim wasnt handled 
well and offered to pay her £3,500 compensation  this was in addition to the £600 already 
paid. They also listed the other items and works they had paid for. And they included the 
market value of Mr Ss motorbike that had been left outside whilst the garage and pantry 
were being used for storage. Mr S told us the motorbike had sentimental value. Tesco paid 
him £6,350 and he was able to keep it, albeit he felt it was in a worse condition than it had 
been before the claim. 
Tesco also said they paid Mrs S a disturbance allowance totalling £11,790 and offered her 
alternative accommodation. Mrs S declined alternative accommodation to stay in her home, 
though she accepted this for one week in 2020. 
Mrs S didnt think the compensation amount fairly reflected the impact the claim handling 
had on her and her family. So, she brought the complaint to this service and provided 
statements to describe the impact this had. Whilst this isnt a full list, some of the things Mrs 
S told us about were: 
The impact the claim handling had on her, her family and their health and wellbeing; 
Her home was left in a dangerous condition and a gas leak occurred when her 
daughter was home alone which could have had serious consequences; 
The amount of days Mr and Mrs S had to take off work accommodating contractors 
and due to their health; 
Contractors had caused damage to her home, garden patio and furniture; and 
The distress of experiencing Tesco staff members conducting themselves 
unprofessionally about her circumstances.
Mrs Ss complaint was passed to an investigator here who considered it. 
Our investigator accepted the claim wasnt handled well and understood the impact this had 
on Mrs S and her family. However, she felt the compensation amount paid by Tesco was fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances. She also considered the works and items Tesco paid 
for outside the claim fairly recognised their failings in this matter. So, she didnt recommend 
Tesco should do anything else. 
Mrs S didnt agree. She didnt think the compensation fairly reflected the human impact 
Tescos failing had on her and her family. She also said the claim has made it difficult for her 
to find new insurance. She asked for an ombudsman to decide so its now been passed to 
me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I absolutely accept this was a deeply distressing and upsetting experience 
for Mrs S and her family. Ive read the statements and Im saddened to hear of the effect this 
had on them as a family  and their health and wellbeing. Its clear to me what was expected 
to last 2-3 weeks with some minor inconvenience turned into a rather worrying and upsetting 
time, prolonged over 14 months. 
Tesco accepted the claim wasnt handled well. There are several issues here that have been 
addressed, and Tesco paid Mrs S a total of £4,100 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. I think its fair to say what Mrs S and her family had to endure for 
over a year was severe. But I should also explain my role here isnt to punish or discipline a 
business for errors made during a claim. My role is to consider whether I think Tesco has taken reasonable steps to fairly put matters right in the circumstances. And, whilst Im sorry 
to disappoint Mrs S, in this case, I think they have. Ill go onto explain why. 
It's accepted here the claim surpassed everyones expectations in terms of time and 
inconvenience. What did happen was inadequate repairs were carried out  which could 
have had more severe consequences, which Ill address later in my decision. There was a 
lack of communication and proactiveness which led to Mrs S chasing for information to find 
out when works would start and then restart. Some of the works were carried out incorrectly 
which had to be redone. 
Returning to the point around the safety of Mrs S and her family. I absolutely accept Mrs S 
finding her daughter was home alone when there was a gas leak would have been extremely 
worrying and distressing. Mrs S said her daughter was able to smell gas and her health was 
also impacted by this. 
I take nothing away from the severity of these circumstances. Things could have been much 
worse given what happened and I was pleased to note a local gas engineer was able to 
prevent something severe occurring. 
Mrs S also told us about how she was made to feel by Tescos staff. She said she was 
disappointed her kitchen had to be stripped out following the claim damage. She said shed 
purchased the property with one of the main reasons being she really liked the kitchen. She 
said when things didnt go as they should have done, she was made to feel as though she 
was being difficult and trying to gain from the claim. 
There was another instance where a conference call took place which Mrs S asked to be a 
part of, but this didnt happen. There was commentary between Tesco members of staff 
where her circumstances were being discussed and the gas leak. The notes from what was 
discussed are unprofessional and I understand why Mrs S has told us she felt the way she 
did during the claim process. Tesco said they conducted an internal investigation into this 
which I think was the right thing to do. 
Mrs S also told us how the claim experience impacted her and her familys health. I can see 
from the statements and medical information Mrs S provided, that this was a very difficult 
time for them  made incredibly more difficult by the way things were handled by Tesco 
overall. And as a result, they had to take time off work. 
So, having considered everything Mrs S told us, I absolutely accept those 14 months whilst 
the claim was ongoing would have been extremely distressing and inconvenient for her and 
her family  over and above whats naturally expected following a claim. Particularly as Mrs 
S said she was told the claim and minor inconvenience would last approximately three 
weeks. 
As above, Ive considered the steps taken by Tesco in order to put things right for Mrs S. Mrs 
S says the compensation amount doesnt take account of the human impact this had on her 
and her family. I accept monetary amounts cannot always truly reflect what someone has 
experienced or felt due to circumstances outside their control. 
Tesco paid Mrs S a total amount of £4,100 compensation. I mentioned above I agree the 
impact the claim handling had on her should fall into the category of severe. Whilst its 
fortunate Mrs S didnt experience severer circumstances due to the quality of works or the 
gas leak, I am unable to award further compensation for something that  thankfully  didnt 
occur. Though I must explain Im not removing the severity of the issues Mrs S faced. Ive also 
taken into account the additional works and items paid for outside of the claim liability. For 
example, the contractor fitted a dishwasher in Mrs Ss utility room and found a leak had been 
occurring over time. Tesco agreed to carry out repairs at a cost of £2,807. Generally, this 
would be treated as a new claim with a separate policy excess. I also note Tesco agreed to 
pay for the carpets, flooring, the patio and garden furniture to be cleaned which was fair.
Mr Ss motorbike was also left outside which was said to have caused damage to it. He told 
us hed had the bike for five years and it meant a great deal to him. I understand he wasnt 
happy with the amount Tesco paid him for it. Ive looked at how Tesco arrived at this figure, 
and note our investigator provided information on our approach to this. Im satisfied Tesco 
approached this fairly and reasonably based on what Ive seen, and Mr S was able to keep 
it. 
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied Tesco took reasonable steps to put things right 
for Mrs S. Im not in any way saying Tesco didnt do anything wrong  because clearly, they 
did  just that I think the compensation theyve paid is appropriate in the circumstances. So, 
Im not directing Tesco to do anything further here. 
I accept my decision will come as a disappointment to Mrs S. I hope my decision provides 
assurances that Ive considered everything shes told us about the impact the claim handling 
had on her and her family. But my decision ends what we  in attempting to resolve her 
dispute with Tesco  can do for her. 
My final decision
It is my final decision that I dont uphold Mrs Ss complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2021.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman