DRN-3188571
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE declined their claim against their
travel insurance policy. Reference to Great Lakes includes its agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, in September 2019, Mr and Mrs M renewed an annual travel 
insurance policy with Great Lakes under the Avanti brand. Their cover was Essentials 
(rather than Classic or Deluxe). In September 2019, Mr and Mrs M also booked a trip to 
three countries with intended departure and return dates of 25 February 2020 and
6 April 2020 respectively.
On 23 March 2020  during Mr and Mrs Ms trip  the Foreign Commonwealth and 
Development Office (FCDO) advised all British tourists who were abroad to return to the 
UK and the UK government announced wide-ranging restrictions on movement, commonly 
referred to as lockdown. The country Mr and Mrs M were visiting closed their borders, as 
did the country that they were planning to travel onwards to. Mr and Mrs M say that they 
were in isolation in one of their destination countries and struggled to arrange a return 
flight. They returned home on 9 April 2020.
Mr and Mrs M made a claim against their policy in relation to cancelled and unused 
flights, additional accommodation and flight costs and medical costs. Great Lakes 
declined their claim. It said that what happened here wasnt covered by the policy.    
Mr and Mrs M didnt agree. They say that their original policy was taken out in
September 2017, before Covid-19 was a known risk, so Great Lakes should cover their
claim.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She thought that Great Lakes 
hadnt acted fairly. The investigator said that what happened here wasnt an insured event 
in the curtailment section of the policy. But a general exclusion in the policy in relation to 
travel against the advice of the FCDO meant that Mr and Mrs M werent covered if they 
remained abroad. The investigator didnt think the combined effect of the policy terms was 
clear to Mr and Mrs M. She thought that it was fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to deal 
with Mr and Mrs Ms claim under the remaining terms of the policy.
Great Lakes didnt agree with the investigator. It said, in summary:
No policy or insurer covers every unforeseen event and changes in the FCDOs 
advice isnt an insured event in the curtailment section of the policy.
The logical conclusion of the investigators view is that it should cover claims as a 
result of other excluded events.
It has followed standard industry practice.
Mr and Mrs M were provided with the policy terms and conditions.
When Mr and Mrs M renewed their annual policy, Great Lakes wasnt aware of 
Covid-19 and it wasnt specifically mentioned in the exclusion section of the 
Insurance Product Information Document (IPID).
Mr and Mrs M bought their policy on-line and in the sales journey, they would 
have been required to confirm acceptance and their understanding of the policy 
terms at the point of sale.
Its not feasible to list every exclusion in each section of the policy and its entitled 
to rely on the general exclusions.
The investigator considered what Great Lakes said but it didnt change her view.             
Great Lakes asked than an ombudsman consider the complaint, so it was passed to me to 
decide.
My provisional decision
On 1 November 2021, I sent both parties my provisional decision in this case in which I 
said that I didnt intend to uphold the complaint. I said:
Industry rules and guidance
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS). 
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly 
and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
The relevant documentation
The relevant policy terms are those in force when Mr and Mrs M renewed their policy in 
September 2019. Thats the terms dated August 2019. Ive considered the policy terms and
conditions and the IPID in this case.
An IPID is designed to give consumers a summary of certain information about a policy in a 
way that is easy to understand. This includes excluded risks. The IPID Great Lakes has 
provided as relating to Mr and Mrs Ms case says:
You will not be covered if you travel to a country or region where the Foreign 
and Commonwealth Office has advised against all travel or all but essential 
travel. For further details, visit gov.uk/foreign-travel-advice
The terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ms policy set out what events leading to 
curtailment it covers. Curtailment following changes to FCDO advice isnt an insured event. 
This means their claim isnt covered under the terms and conditions of their policy.
Ive also looked at the remaining sections of Mr and Mrs Ms insurance policy, but I 
dont think they held any cover which would pay a benefit in the circumstances that led 
to the claim.has the claim been declined unfairly?
Ive considered what I think is fair and reasonable in the overall circumstances of the 
case, taking into account industry rules and guidance and the relevant law.
The policy includes the following:
What is not covered: under Sections 1 and 2
[]
18. anything mentioned in the General Exclusions.
General Exclusions  applying to all sections
No section of this policy shall apply in respect 
of: []
24. Your travel to a country or specific area or event to which the Foreign & 
Commonwealth Office, or the World Health Organisation (WHO), or similar 
governing body have advised against all, or all but essential travel.
As Ive mentioned above, this was also mentioned in the IPID.
There are some limited situations where, if I didnt think an insurer had clearly 
and transparently signposted a policyholder to certain policy exclusions such as 
an exclusion for claims for travelling against FCDO advice, I might think its fair 
and reasonable for an insurer to accept a claim outside of the policy terms and 
conditions. However, I think there are other reasons why Great Lakes could 
have fairly declined Mr and Mrs Ms claim.
Mr and Mrs Ms policy also says:
What is not covered: under Sections 1 and 2
[]
16. prohibitive regulations by the Government of any country, or delay 
or amendments of the booked trip due to Government action.
Its hard to say with any certainty that there was one specific reason 
for Mr and Mrs Ms claim. I think a combination of factors  the spread 
of Covid-19, FCDO advice and government restrictions both in the UK 
and abroad  are all likely to have impacted to some degree on          
Mr and Mrs Ms trip and what they did when the FCDO advice 
changed. 
Mr and Mrs Ms trip was delayed and amended after 23 March 2020  
which was the date the UK government advised all UK tourists to return 
home and restrictions on movement were announced. That 
government action remained in force after Mr and Mrs Ms returned to 
the UK. Mr and Mrs M were also impacted by government action in the 
country they were visiting at the time as the borders closed. And they 
couldnt have travelled on to their final destination as the borders were 
shut there too.
So, not only are the reasons for the claim not covered as listed, insured 
events under Mr and Mrs Ms policy, I think its likely the exclusion 
relating to government action which Ive quoted above would apply to 
the circumstances of their claim in any event.Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs M, but I dont think their claim is 
covered under the terms and conditions of their policy and I dont think 
there are any reasonable grounds upon which I could fairly ask      
Great Lakes to accept their claim.
Responses to my provisional decision
Great Lakes didnt provide a substantive response to the provisional decision.  
Mr and Mrs M said:
When they bought the policy and booked their trip, Covid-19 was 
unknown. 
When they left for their trip there were no restrictions on travel. 
If they had cancelled their trip they would have lost all their money as 
foreign travel was allowed at the time.
As soon as travel restrictions were imposed, they tried every day to 
return to the UK.
The country they were in stopped all internal flights, so they couldnt 
get to their point of departure to return to the UK.
Neither their travel agent nor their original airline could help them.
They registered for UK government repatriation flights but received no 
response.
They booked their own repatriation flights.
They followed government advice and are out of pocket for something 
beyond their control  neither their travel insurance nor their credit card 
provider helped them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considerable sympathy for Mr and Mrs M. Through no fault of their own, they were in 
a very worrying and difficult position whilst abroad. Ive considered what theyve said in 
response to my provisional decision but Im afraid that it doesnt change my view.
Insurance policies dont cover everything that might go wrong on a trip. An insurer will decide 
what risks its willing to cover and set these out in the terms and conditions. Im looking at 
whether Great Lakes acted in accordance with the policy terms and fairly and reasonably in 
declining Mr and Mrs Ms claim. For the reasons Ive explained, I think it did. 
Mr and Mrs Ms policy doesnt cover what happened here. And, in any event, I think that 
Great Lakes could fairly rely on the exclusion relating to government action, so I dont think 
there are any reasonable grounds on which I could fairly ask Great Lakes to accept their 
claim.My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I dont 
uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman