DRN-3431706
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc, as the receiving bank, didnt do enough to 
prevent them losing money to a scam.
The loss came from a joint account, but for ease of reading Ill mostly only refer to Mr R. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. In 2019 Mr R made two payments from his 
own bank (outside the UK) to fund what he believed were genuine investments. The 
payments each went to different accounts that were held with HSBC. Details of the two 
payments are provided below:
Date Amount Beneficiary Account 
Ending
28 August 2019 £10,000 85
18 September 2019 £20,433.84 04
But unfortunately, the investment firm had been cloned  that is scammers were 
impersonating the genuine firm. When the website hed been using disappeared, Mr R made 
further enquiries and realised hed been the victim of a scam. He reported matters to 
relevant parties which included the police and his own bank. No funds were recovered from 
either account. 
Mr R complained to HSBC as the receiving bank. He believes they should refund him under 
the contingent reimbursement model (the CRM) code. He also doesnt think they did all 
they should in relation to the accounts held with them. 
One of our Investigators considered the complaint but didnt recommend it should be upheld. 
She said that the CRM didnt apply to international payments. And she didnt think there 
were any failings by HSBC in relation to either account which caused any of Mr Rs loss. 
Mr R disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. In July 2022 I issued 
a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear Mr R has been the victim of a cruel and callous scam and has lost such a 
significant amount of money. But being the victim of a scam doesnt automatically entitle him 
to a refund from the bank that received his funds on behalf of their customer(s). 
I can quite understand why Mr R would like HSBC to refund him under the CRM. The CRM 
is a voluntary code through which victims of Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams can 
sometimes get their money back from the banks involved in the payments. But unfortunately 
the CRM only applies to transfers between UK banks. The CRM doesnt apply here because 
Mr Rs payments were international. As such I cant use it as a consideration in this 
complaint or as the basis for asking HSBC to do more. 
Ive carefully looked at the account opening of both bank accounts involved. Im satisfied that 
HSBC correctly followed their processes for doing so. I dont think there was anything at that 
stage that would have indicated that either account might later go on to be used in 
connection with a fraud or scam. So, I dont think HSBC could have prevented Mr Rs loss in 
relation to the opening of the accounts. 
Ive looked at the activity on the relevant accounts prior to Mr Rs payments arriving. I dont 
necessarily agree with our Investigator that this wouldnt have been worthy of further scrutiny 
by HSBC. Ill deal with each account in turn. 
Account ending 85.
The account was relatively newly opened. And the activity on the account largely took the 
form of incoming payments (some of which were for significant amounts), that were then 
paid away soon after arriving. This differs from what the accountholder said the activity 
would be during the account opening process.
It seems that on two occasions during August 2019 HSBC too had concerns about outgoing 
payments from this account. They held the payments and contacted their accountholder who 
confirmed them to be genuine. At this point I think HSBC were obliged to have done some 
further due diligence. But even if they had, the accountholder appears to have been 
complicit in the scam and its most likely they would have provided a plausible explanation 
for the activity on the account. 
And given there is no evidence that any of the incoming payments had a mismatch between 
the name associated with the account and the named payee on the payment instruction, 
there was nothing that HSBC could have obviously picked up on when it did intervene. There 
also werent any notifications of fraud in relation to that account at that time. So there would 
have been no basis upon which HSBC reasonably could have restricted their customers 
access to their own account. 
Even if Mr R were to argue the two interventions that did take place ought to have been 
more detailed (or if they ought to have come sooner), I dont think this would have made a 
difference for the reasons Ive already shared above.
Account ending 04
The activity before the arrival of Mr Rs funds followed a similar pattern to the account ending 
85. And again HSBC intervened in outgoing payments (prior to the arrival of Mr Rs funds). 
But in each case the accountholder confirmed the payments to be genuine.
I think HSBC should have conducted some further ongoing due diligence at this point. The 
activity here again didnt match what the accountholder had said during the account opening 
process. But given the similar lack of beneficiary name mismatches on the incoming 
payments or any notifications of fraud, there wasnt any basis for HSBC to have restricted 
the account or to have taken further action. And regardless of at what point (and the extent 
to which) the intervention took place, the outcome most likely would have been the same. I 
think its reasonable to assume that as both accounts received funds from the same scam, 
the accountholder here too was most likely complicit and would have responded in a similar 
way to what Ive described above in response to any questions from HSBC. Mr Rs funds were all paid away from each account soon after they arrived. So by the time 
HSBC were notified that there was a problem with the payments, there was nothing left to 
return. 
Mr R has made some further submissions in which he alleges HSBC have been fined by 
regulators in the UK and the USA in relation to money laundering. Im not able to comment 
on any wider issues. Im limited to the circumstances of this specific complaint. 
I accept that the scam Mr R fell victim to was sophisticated and the documentation hes 
provided from the cloned investment firm looks genuine and plausible. So this isnt a case 
where I think Mr R himself has been negligent. Ultimately the responsible party are the 
criminals behind the scam. Mr R says the police have closed their file. And so I understand 
why my intended outcome will be particularly disappointing. But despite my natural sympathy 
for the situation, as I dont think HSBC are either responsible for the loss or hindered its 
recovery  there isnt a reasonable basis upon which I can tell them to do anything further to 
resolve this complaint.
 
HSBC didnt respond to my provisional decision. Mr R submitted some further comments 
and evidence which Ill address below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R reiterated the impact being the victim has had on both him and Mrs R and that, given 
their respective ages, the funds lost arent replaceable and represent a significant proportion 
of their life savings. He also said that:
1. No proven services were performed by the accountholders.
2. The deposits were clearly intended for investments.
3. The police reported that the fraudsters had fled the UK and the funds were cleared 
almost immediately after the deposit. Why wasnt this suspicious activity investigated 
by HSBCs monitoring controls?
He also supplied further information and media reports about HSBC being fined by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). Again, as I mentioned in my provisional decision, I can 
only comment on the circumstances of this particular complaint. Ive read the information 
provided and have taken it into consideration, but it doesnt change my mind as to the 
outcome of this complaint. 
I accept that Mr R was the victim of a scam that was most likely perpetrated by the account 
holders or their associates. I dont think HSBC could reasonably have known when 
processing the payments that they werent intended for the accountholders or that they 
related to investments. HSBC werent required to check references or beneficiary names on 
receipt of payments. But even if they did (for reasons such as the payment being unusual or 
suspicious or triggering their systems), the reference Mr R provided to his own bank might 
have indicated an investment was involved, but the references sent to HSBC for both 
payments was a series of letters and numbers. And as the beneficiary names broadly 
matched those associated with the account, I cant say that HSBCs suspicions should have 
been raised when looking at the incoming payments from Mr R. 
I dont think HSBC reasonably could have known that their accountholders had left the UK. I 
agree that HSBC should have done more in response to the activity on the accounts in 
question. But Im not persuaded that, at that time (or even upon further investigation), there would have been sufficient grounds for them to have inhibited their customers accounts. 
And given its most likely the accountholders were complicit (and there is evidence they had 
responded to previous contact from HSBC asking about the activity on one of the accounts), 
I think, on balance, if questioned they would have responded and provided reasonable 
reassurance to HSBCs questions. 
I dont doubt that this whole situation has had a significant impact on Mr and Mrs R. But it 
would only be fair for me to direct HSBC to do more, if I thought there were failings that 
caused or contributed to the outstanding loss. And as I dont, Im not going to require HSBC 
to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 September 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman