DRN-2967065
Complaint
Mr and Mrs S say Bank of Scotland plc (BoS), trading as Halifax, mis-sold them a Total 
Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP) in May 2003. The policy was sold to them alongside a 
joint mortgage, although only Mr S was covered by it. 
A TMPP is a type of insurance protection policy which typically includes mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) together with other features, such as life insurance and critical 
illness cover. The individual elements of the TMPP can be added or taken out as the 
consumer wishes. Mr S was covered for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Mr and Mrs S, who are represented by a third party, say the policy wasnt something they 
needed or requested. 
Background
One of our adjudicators has already provided Mr and Mrs S with an answer about this 
complaint. They said that they didnt think the TMPP was mis-sold. 
I note that Mr and Mrs S have already been compensated by for the commission and profit 
share that BoS received on a goodwill basis. 
Mr and Mrs S disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans final decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
I dont doubt Mr and Mrs S genuinely believe now that the cover was mis-sold to them, so 
Ive first thought carefully about whether or not they agreed to take the PPI part of the policy 
out. Most of the sale paperwork is no longer available, which isnt unusual given how long 
ago the sale happened. But BoS sent me screenshots of its computer system which show 
that mortgage protection was discussed during the sale. In particular, I can see that Mr S 
was asked several questions about his work situation and health to check that he was 
eligible for the cover. 
Ive also considered the sale in light of what I already know about the way PPI sales were 
carried out at this time. Having done so, I think Mr and Mrs S knew or ought to have been 
aware that they had a choice about having this type of protection with their mortgage. In 
particular, their mortgage offer  which is a document I would have expected them to read  
would have been likely to describe the PPI as being something that was optional and would 
also have set out the cost per month of having the cover. I also think Mr and Mrs S would 
have needed to include a signed authorisation or direct debit form to enable the monthly 
premiums to be paid.
Taking all this together, I think Mr and Mrs Ss consent to take out PPI was properly 
obtained. 
Ive next looked to see if the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs S, because BoS 
recommended the policy to them as part of an advised sale. I think it was suitable.
I say this because Mr S seems to have been eligible for the cover and not caught by any of 
the major exclusions we tend to see in these policies. He told us he was only entitled to 
statutory sickness protection with his job, which suggests to me that there was a real need 
for the cover. And whilst he also told us that his wife could have been in a position to help 
him out financially if necessary, thats not something that can be guaranteed to always be 
available. Given that the mortgage was a significant and long-term financial commitment 
and secured against Mr and Mrs Ss home, the consequences of not being able to make 
the repayments could have been serious. The PPI cover, on the other hand, was designed 
to pay a monthly sum for up to 24 months if Mr S needed to make a claim. 
BoS also had a duty to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading. From 
what Ive seen in this complaint, evidence about the cost of the policy would have been set 
out in the mortgage offer. Once theyd accepted the offer, Mr and Mrs S would have been 
given a schedule of cover that would have summarised the cover, including the cost, and 
also giving them the option to cancel it if they wished to. So I think the cover did broadly 
what Mr and Mrs S probably expected it to do when they agreed to buy it. I therefore think 
they had enough information on which to make an informed choice.
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs S. But to uphold this complaint Id need to think it 
was more likely they never gave their consent or that there were other flaws in the sale. I 
simply dont have that evidence and I think its more likely they saw the cover as being 
suitable for their needs of the time. 
It follows that Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint and therefore I dont require Bank of Scotland plc 
to do anything to put things matters right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 February 2022. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman