DRN-3356624
The complaint
Mr P complains that a van acquired with finance from Motonovo Finance Limited wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
What happened
In December 2020 Mr P was supplied with a van and entered into a hire purchase 
agreement with Motonovo. He experienced issues with the van including brake failure in 
April 2021 and engine failure in July 2021. Mr P complained to Motonovo, who arranged for 
an independent inspection. The engineer was unable to start the van but found a fault 
relating to the camshaft position sensor. The engineer said this was most likely a fault 
relating to the crankshaft to camshaft correlation due to deterioration of the wet belt. The 
engineer said this wouldnt have been present at the point of supply. Based on these 
findings, Motonovo didnt uphold the complaint. Mr P complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said the van wasnt durable and that Motonovo 
should cover the costs of repair and refund all payments made by Mr P since July 2021. 
Motonovo didnt agree. It said the van was durable because it had covered 8000 miles since 
the point of supply. It also said the engineer had said that the fault wasnt present at the 
point of supply.
I issued a provisional decision. I said that based on the engineers report I was satisfied that 
there was a fault with the engine. I said I didnt think the engineers diagnosis was complete 
because the engineer had said that further investigation of the wet belt was required. I said I 
didnt think the engineer was in a position to reach a conclusion that the fault wasnt present 
at the point of sale.
I also said that because Mr P had only been in possession of the van for around 6 months 
and had only covered 8000 miles since the point of supply when the engine failed, I didnt 
think the van was durable, and therefore wasnt of satisfactory quality. I said Motonovo 
should cover the cost of repairs.
I invited both parties to let me have any further evidence or arguments they wanted to 
advance.
Mr P said that matters had moved on and hed received a recall from the manufacturer 
relating to the wet belt. He said the car was in the garage having an engine replaced at no 
charge. He said hed had to hire several vans in the months since his van had broken down.
Motonovo said it agreed that the wet belt needed further investigation and said this should 
happen before liability was established.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account the further comments from both parties. Mr P has said that the engine 
is now being replaced at no cost to him following a recall. This service contacted the 
repairing garage, who have confirmed that the van is having a new engine due to timing belt 
failure, and that the costs of the repairs are covered under the timing belt recall. In the 
circumstances, I no longer think its necessary to ask Motonovo to cover the costs of this 
repair.
Mr P has had to hire vans whilst hes been waiting for his van to be repaired. Hes also 
continued to make monthly payments under the agreement. I dont think its reasonable to 
expect Mr P to make payment for a van he was unable to use, so I remain of the view that all 
of his monthly payments made since July 2021 should be refunded. But I dont think its fair 
to ask Motonovo to refund the van hire costs as well. 
Putting things right
To put things right, Motonovo Finance Limited must:
Refund the cost of repairs to the wiper motor and brake pump (upon Mr P providing invoices)
Refund all payments made by Mr P since July 2021 until the van is repaired plus 8% simple 
interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Motonovo Finance Limited must take the 
steps set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman