DRN-3642955
The complaint
Mrs M complains that British Gas Insurance Limited mishandled her home emergency 
insurance policy.
Where I refer to British Gas, I refer to the above-named insurance company and I include 
other companies and individuals insofar as I hold British Gas responsible for their acts or 
omissions. 
What happened
For the year from July 2021, Mrs M had a British Gas HomeCare policy. We categorise that 
as a home emergency insurance policy. It covered repairs to Mrs Ms central heating system 
and an annual service.
Unfortunately, on 15 December 2021 (a Wednesday), Mrs M reported to British Gas that her 
boiler wasnt working properly. British Gas said it couldnt visit until 22 December 2021 (the 
following Wednesday). It suggested Mrs M should contact another provider and it would 
reimburse the costs for any repair that its policy would cover.
Mrs M complained to British Gas that it wasnt providing the service she was paying for. By a 
final response dated January 2022, British Gas said the matter was closed. Mrs M brought 
her complaint to us in late May 2022.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. The investigator 
didnt think that British Gas had treated Mrs M unfairly.
Mrs M disagreed with the investigators opinion. She asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. She says, in summary, that:
She paid someone for about 30 minutes of their time to fix the problem. She's not 
bothered about the money she paid. She can't go back asking for an invoice.
British Gas shouldnt have asked her to arrange her own engineer.
British Gas shouldve arranged an engineer. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since at least June 2020, the British Gas policy terms have included the following:
Reasonable timescales
Well carry out any repairs or visits youre entitled to within a reasonable time, unless
something beyond our control makes that impossible  in which case well let you 
know as soon as possible and give you another time when we can visit.
During epidemics or pandemics, we will adhere to Government guidelines concerning 
restriction of non-essential travel and may have to reschedule your repair or visit until 
such time as the restrictions have been eased.
Our engineers
Normally, well send a British Gas or [associated plumbing and drainage company]  
engineer to carry out the work. In some cases, we may send a suitably qualified 
contractor instead.
So British Gas had undertaken to carry out any repairs Mrs M was entitled to within a 
reasonable time. And it had said it would normally send one of its own engineers.
Mrs M reported that she had no central heating or hot water in December, when the weather 
is usually cold. So Im sure that her view of a reasonable time was a day or two. 
But a reasonable time is more flexible than that. In my view it must include some 
consideration of the limited supply of British Gas engineers and the competing demands on 
their time. 
I havent seen enough evidence to say that  in the circumstances in December 2021 - a 
week was more than a reasonable time.
British Gas let Mrs M know as soon as she called that it couldnt visit until 22 December 
2021.
I dont share Mrs Ms view that British Gas hadnt offered the service it had promised.
In any event, British Gas went beyond its policy terms by offering to pay for an engineer if 
Mrs M could get one to visit before 22 December 2021 and carry out a repair that the British 
Gas policy wouldve covered. 
British Gas would need to know what repair the other engineer had done and what it cost. 
So I dont find it unfair or unreasonable that British Gas should expect to see an invoice 
before reimbursing Mrs M.
I consider that the British Gas final response shouldve contained much more detail.
But overall, I dont find that British Gas treated Mrs M unfairly. I dont find it fair and 
reasonable to direct British Gas to do any more in response to this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct British Gas Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2022.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman