DRN-3542126
The complaint
Mr Bs complaint is about his private medical insurance policy with BUPA Insurance Limited.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Bupa gave Mr B the option to choose from three hospital network lists when he 
bought the policy. Bupa explained that hospital fees would be covered if Mr B had 
eligible treatment in a hospital that was included in his chosen list. 
Bupa asked if Mr B had a specific hospital in mind where hed like to be covered for. 
Mr B said he didnt, but hed like one in London. Bupa found a hospital near Mr B and 
confirmed it was included in the middle list  the Extended Choice, as well as the 
most expensive list. Mr B chose the Extended Choice option.
I think Bupa gave Mr B sufficiently clear information about hospital fees. Bupa 
explained to Mr B over the phone that if he had treatment in a hospital that wasnt 
included in the Extended Choice list, hed need to pay 40% of the hospital fees. 
This is also outlined in the membership certificate: Charges from a facility that is 
Bupa recognised but isnt on of the facilities you have chosen as part of your 
Recognised Facility network (as shown in Section eight of this Certificate)  we pay 
60% of each claim and you pay 40%.
I know Mr B doesnt think Bupas online system is clear when searching for a 
consultant. But Bupa explained to Mr B that consultant fees were separate to hospital 
fees, which is what seemed to be causing confusion. Bupa also sent Mr B a list of 
consultants he could see, and it gave him sufficiently clear information about the 
hospital fees as above.
Its not for this service to tell Bupa how its online system should work, or what and 
how the information should be displayed. In this complaint, Ive considered what 
happened in the circumstances of Mr Bs complaint. Having done so, for the reasons 
Ive set out above, I think Bupa has acted fairly and reasonably in all the 
circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint about BUPA Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2022.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman