DRN-3862528
Complaint
Miss T has complained about loans Bamboo Limited (Bamboo) provided to her. She says 
the loans were unaffordable.
Background
Bamboo provided Miss T with an initial loan for £1,000.00 in August 2019. This loan had an 
APR of 49.7% and a term of 12 months. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of 
£1,235.72, including interest, fees and other charges of £235.72, was due to be repaid in 12 
monthly instalments of just under £103. This loan was settled with some of the proceeds 
from loan 2.
Bamboo provided Miss T with loan 2, which was for £1,481.21 in December 2019. This loan 
also had an APR of 49.7% and a term of 12 months and some of the proceeds went towards 
settling the outstanding balance on loan 1. The total amount to be repaid of £1,830.37, 
including interest, fees and other charges of £349.16, was due to be repaid in 12 monthly 
instalments of just under £153. 
One of our investigators reviewed Miss Ts complaint and he thought that while Bamboo 
didnt do anything wrong when providing loan 1 to Miss T, it ought to have seen that it 
shouldnt have provided Miss T with loan 2. So he thought that Miss Ts complaint should be 
partially upheld. Miss T didnt disagree with the investigators assessment but Bamboo did 
disagree. So the case was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
As the parties are in agreement about the outcome on loan 1, this decision is only looking at 
whether Bamboo acted fairly and reasonably when providing loan 2.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Ts complaint. Having 
carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Miss Ts complaint. Ill explain why in 
a little more detail.
Bamboo needed to make sure it acted fairly and reasonably when lending to Miss T. In 
practice, what this means is Bamboo needed to find out enough about Miss T such that it 
could have a reasonable understanding of whether Miss T could afford to repay any credit it 
provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
The information Bamboo has provided suggested that it carried out a credit check before 
loan 2 was provided. The results of which showed that Miss T was even more indebted than 
she was when shed applied for loan 1 a mere four months earlier. She owed more than 
double what she did before and was close to her limits on her revolving credit accounts too. 
I also have concerns that the recorded purpose of this loan was debt consolidation. This is 
because Miss T was supposedly going to consolidate her debts when she was provided with 
loan 1. Given that this hadnt happened and Miss T was even more indebted at the time of 
loan 2, its unclear to me how this loan, which was on such disadvantageous terms, was 
going to improve Miss Ts already precarious financial position going forward and how 
Bamboo could accept what Miss T said at face value in these circumstances.
Overall and having considered everything, Im persuaded by what Miss T has said about 
already being in a difficult financial position at the time she took out loan 2. And while its 
possible Miss Ts difficulties reflected her choices rather than financial difficulty, Id add that 
my experience of these types of cases suggest this is unlikely, in the absence of any 
reasonable or plausible arguments from Bamboo, Ive been persuaded to accept  Miss Ts 
version of events. 
As this is the case, I do think that Miss Ts existing financial position meant that she was 
unlikely to be able to afford the payments to this loan, without undue difficulty or borrowing 
further. And Im satisfied that reasonable enquiries into Miss Ts circumstances would more 
like than not have shown Bamboo that it shouldnt have provided this loan to her. As 
Bamboo provided Miss T with this loan, notwithstanding this, Im satisfied it failed to act fairly 
and reasonably towards her. 
Miss T ended up paying and is still being expected to pay interest, fees and charges on a 
loan she shouldnt have been provided with. So Im satisfied that Miss T lost out because of 
what Bamboo did wrong and that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Bamboo needs to do to put things right for Miss T
Having thought about everything, Bamboo should put things right for Miss T by:
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to loan 2 from the outset. The 
payments Miss T made, whether to Bamboo or any third-party debt purchaser, 
should be deducted from the new starting balance  the £1.481.21 originally lent. If 
once all adjustments have been made this shows that Miss T has made 
overpayments, these overpayments should also be refunded to Miss T together with 
interest at 8% simple a year from the date they were made by Miss T to the date of 
settlement
if no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made then all 
adverse information recorded on Miss Ts credit file as a result of this loan should be 
removed. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Bamboo to take off tax from this interest. Bamboo must 
give Miss T a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss Ts complaint. Bamboo Limited should 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman