DRN-2310950
The complaint
Mr T complains that Phoenix Life Limited has not fairly operated the life insurance policy he 
took out in 1984 (through the original predecessor company). He says he was told this sum 
was guaranteed for life. It also worked as a savings plan promising to deliver a lump sum 
pay-out to help with his retirement and/or health needs. Mr T would now like Phoenix to 
close his plan and pay a fair settlement value.
What happened
He also complained that Phoenixs immediate processor company, Abbey Life, closed the 
Far East fund - in which his premiums had been invested  without his permission. The 
replacement fund does not pay bonuses and is a very different fund to the one he had 
chosen to invest it.
Phoenix rejected his complaint, saying:
There were no rules in place in 1984 requiring an advisor to consider or record a 
clients circumstances, objectives or what was discussed during any meeting; the 
advisor was merely required to make an appropriate recommendation
It was for the client to read the terms and conditions to ensure they understood the 
way the plan worked and to decide if this was suitable for them
This documentation made clear that the sum assured was only guaranteed for the 
first 10 years, after which it would be reviewed in the light of investment returns and 
the changing cost of providing ongoing cover
Review letters from 2006 on spelt out that the premiums could no longer guarantee 
the original sum assured indefinitely and that the policy could eventually lapse 
without value; these letters gave Mr T the opportunity to increase his premiums or 
reduce the cover in order to increase the sustainability of the policy; but he did not 
take up either of these options
This plan has provided cover for 35 years, meeting Mr Ts original objective of 
securing insurance protection till retirement age
There was no indication that this policy was a form of savings plan delivering an 
eventual pay-out
The Far East fund was closed in 2015 due to insufficient reserves to be able to 
maintain its commercial viability. Its predecessor company sent investors including 
Mr T information about this and included the options available to them. It was not, 
however, required to consult investors about taking this action
An investigator at this service did not believe Mr Ts complaint should be upheld, largely for 
the reasons outlined by Phoenix. 
He explained that Mr Ts premiums had paid for two things: the annual cost of cover each 
year, along with the providers costs/charges, and an investment element to try and build up 
a pot to help subsidise the inevitably increased cost of cover in later life. However, in Mr Ts 
case this pot had not grown sufficiently to pay for the increased cost of providing life cover 
and this is why the policy now had very little value left.
Mr T did not agree, and said:
This policy was sold to him by a representative of Hill Samuel (a predecessor 
company) and monitored by him advisor until he died; surely the company should 
have appointed someone else to look after his policy from then on?
Phoenixs predecessor company locked him into a fund with diminishing assets and 
pillaged the fund to pay for increasing and excessive charges
It did not inform him of the impact on his policy, the increased charges or of the likely 
effect on his premiums/sum assured
None of the companies through which his policy has changed hands have 
communicated clearly the value of his policy, the changing cost of charges, the 
overall deductions, the underlying value of the fund or the reasons for these 
alterations
Mr T also made a series of further points about the various companies failures to disclose all 
the necessary information and about Phoenixs alleged failure to respond to his various 
queries and requests. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the investigator and for the same reasons.
I fully understand Mr Ts disappointment and dismay that a policy he has been paying into 
for more than 36 years is likely to lapse without value in the near future. But I have seen 
nothing to indicate that Phoenix or its predecessor companies have done anything wrong.
I cannot possibly know what Mr Ts original advisor said when recommending this policy in 
1984 but there is definitely not enough evidence to fairly conclude that he misled Mr T  or 
that Mr T would not have taken out the policy if fully aware of the fact that the sum assured 
was not guaranteed for life.
From what I have read, this is a fairly standard whole of life insurance policy where the 
premiums and sum assured are reviewed (after the first 10 years) in the light of investment 
returns and the ongoing cost of providing life cover (which invariably increases whatever the 
investment returns).
Put simply, the cost of life cover rises as one gets older as the annual risk of dying 
increases. So in most cases customers eventually find the cost of their premiums have to 
increase to maintain the sum assured. The size of any increase is heavily influenced by the 
size of their investment pot (typically built up in the early years when the cost of cover was 
relatively cheap) although the performance of the underlying investments also affects things. 
However, as investment returns have fallen dramatically in the past 20 years, it is highly 
likely that policies taken out in the 80s and 90s will not have built up a sufficient pot to 
obviate the need for very large premium rises at some point whatever the insurance 
provider.
This is fundamentally why Mr Ts policy is currently predicted to lapse without value in the 
near future.
I have considered Mr Ts numerous points about the Far East fund, its closure, the 
replacement fund, the alleged hidden and increased charges etc. but in my view these do 
not account for the steady decline in the value of his policy (the surrender value) or its likely demise without value in the near future. Most of this decline occurred while the Far East fund 
was still active. While the surrender value of Mr Ts policy has fallen even further since the 
fund was closed, this has coincided with minimal investment returns generally and the cost 
of Mr Ts cover inevitably increasing as he approaches the age of 70.
Phoenixs predecessor business was entitled to close the Far East fund to new business and 
reinvest policyholders money in a new fund  and without seeking their permission. This 
was well within its legitimate commercial remit and I have seen no evidence it did anything 
wrong or inappropriate. It set up the default new fund in which policyholders money would 
be switched into and offered alternative funds which they could select instead.
I have also seen no evidence that customers were treated unfairly as a result of this change. 
Nor do I believe there is persuasive evidence to support Mr Ts contention that these 
changes unfairly reduced the value of his policy, whether via hidden/additional charges or in 
other ways.
I therefore do not believe there is sufficient evidence to conclude that Phoenix or its 
predecessor companies have done anything wrong.
Finally, I recognise that Mr T has raised numerous additional points and has sought various 
additional information from Phoenix  and that I have not addressed each of these issues. 
But my role is to consider whether there is, overall, sufficient evidence to uphold a complaint; 
not necessarily to address every concern or to insist on a business providing specific 
information unless I feel it might affect the merits of that complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2021.
 
Tony Moss
Ombudsman