DRN-3580335
The complaint
Mr H complains about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral), who declined his 
claim under his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr H returned home from work and found that his home had been broken into. The 
perpetrators had forced his front door open and broke some windows. Every room in his 
home was affected as they ransacked it. Mr H said that the thieves stole money, cash and 
electrical items. 
He contacted the police and Admiral and reported the theft. He was given a crime reference 
number and told by the police that it was unlikely that the thieves would be caught as they 
had worn gloves. There had been some CCTV footage which showed three hooded men 
affect entry and leave around 20 mins later.  Mr H provided a witness statement to police, 
but despite this they closed the investigation. 
During Admirals investigation of the burglary, it interviewed Mr H in order to ascertain 
whether he had complied with the policy requirement, of all security devices that were fitted 
to be operational when the home was empty. 
Mr H had an alarm and told Admiral when he was asked that it had been on and that when 
he arrived home, he noticed that one of the zones had been activated. He also told Admiral 
that following the burglary, he had updated his alarm system to one which could notify him 
on his phone. 
Admiral noted that there was no damage to the alarm or its box and requested sight of the 
police statement that Mr H provided. It said that in the police statement, there was no 
mention by Mr H that he had set the alarm, the neighbours hadnt respond to the alarm, Mr H 
couldnt recall if he had heard the alarm when he arrived back home and the thieves didnt 
tamper with the alarm or its box. So, it declined the claim. 
Mr H complained to Admiral due to the delays and the declined claim. In its final response, 
Admiral agreed that there had been delays and offered compensation of £250 for the trouble 
and upset this caused. It also said that it had been correct to decline the claim, as Mr H 
could not prove that he set his alarm and it was active at the time the thieves broke in. 
Mr H was given his referral rights and referred a complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. He said he wasnt 
persuaded by Admiral that it had enough evidence to show that the alarm had been 
tampered with or that it wasnt working. It also didnt provide enough evidence that it had 
spoken to Mr Hs neighbours, to see if they had heard the alarm. So, he felt that it was 
unreasonable for Admiral to have declined the claim. He recommended that Admiral re-
consider the claim in light of the policy terms and conditions.  He also said that the £250 
offered for the poor service was fair. 
Mr H accepted the view, Admiral did not. It maintained its position and commented on the 
report that Mr H obtained from the private contractor, who installed his updated alarm 
system. Admiral queried whether the contractor existed at all and requested a decision from 
an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I will be upholding this complaint. I hope my findings go some way in 
explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
Admiral accepted that there were avoidable delays and some poor service that Mr H 
experienced. For this it offered £250 compensation, for the trouble and upset caused. I have 
during the course of this complaint, considered whether this amount is fair in the 
circumstances. 
Mr H said that on occasion he was told that he would receive call-backs from Admiral, which 
he never received. He also described having to chase Admiral and the delays in receiving 
updates. For these errors, I think it is fair and right that Admiral offered compensation. I also 
think that the amount offered, for the impact that these errors no doubt caused Mr H, is 
reasonable and what I wouldve recommended had Admiral not already done so. So, I wont 
be asking it to increase the £250 compensation. 
I have next considered what the main issue of this complaint is. Admiral said that Mr H 
provided no evidence that he had set his alarm. It based this on Mr H not mentioning 
anything about his alarm, in the witness statement he gave to police. Similarly, it said that 
during the interview that it had with him, he also didnt mention setting the alarm. 
Moreover, Admiral said that it wouldve been reasonable for Mr Hs neighbours to be alerted 
to the alarm  yet none appeared to react to it. And Mr H also couldnt recall whether he had 
heard the alarm when he returned home to discover the burglary. For those reasons, 
Admiral felt that it was fair to decline Mr Hs claim.  
Its not unreasonable for insurers to ask for information and evidence when investigating 
claims, and the nature of that evidence may vary depending on the circumstances. But once 
it has declined a claim, the onus and burden of proof is then on the insurer. In that, Admiral 
would have to provide sufficient evidence to show that when Mr H left his home all security 
devices fitted to the home werent in operation. So, Ive considered what evidence Admiral 
has provided to support this. 
Admiral said that it gave Mr H several occasions to provide evidence that he set the alarm 
before leaving his home, as his policy had a specific endorsement regarding this. And 
because he failed to provide the evidence requested, the claim was declined. 
I have reviewed the police witness statement which is an eight-page document. On page 
five, this provides information regarding the alarm. Mr H confirmed that it was on and when 
he arrived home, he noticed that the alarm panel indicated that the alarm had been 
activated. He also mentioned that the alarm had been in good working order. 
Conversely, I dont think Admiral has provided any evidence to refute Mr Hs account.It noted that Mr H lived in a residential area and that neighbours wouldve likely heard an 
alarm had it been set. But I dont think there is any evidence to show whether it spoke to Mr 
Hs neighbours to confirm if they had heard the alarm going off or not. It seems that Admiral 
had made assumptions, as to how the neighbours may or may not have responded.
Nor has Admiral provided any evidence to show that it inspected the alarm to see if it had 
been tampered with in any way. I think it would have been reasonable, had it believed that 
the alarm had been tampered with, for it to have inspected it when it interviewed Mr H at his 
home, but this was not done either. 
Admiral also said that because Mr H didnt mention that he heard the alarm when he 
returned home, this evidenced that the alarm was not set. But I dont agree, and Ill explain 
why.
Mr H said that from the CCTV evidence the intruders entered around 8.00pm for about 20 
minutes. He also said that he didnt return home until around 02.45, several hours after the 
theft occurred. So, I think Im not persuaded that an alarm would still be sounding for several 
hours after the theft took place, as some alarm systems will go off on a timer basis. So, I 
think Admiral shouldve provided evidence that the alarm hadnt been working at the time, 
which it didnt do. 
Consequently, Im not persuaded that Admiral provided enough evidence that shows that the 
alarm wasnt set, and I think it was unreasonable for it to have declined Mr Hs claim. 
Putting things right
In the circumstances, to put matters right, I direct Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited as 
outlined below.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold this complaint. 
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to pay Mr Hs claim. 
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to pay Mr H £250 compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused unless it has already done so.
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited must pay the compensation and claim within 28 days 
of the date on which we tell it Mr H accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must 
also pay interest on the above amounts from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2022.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman