DRN-3482469
The complaint
Mr J complains about a membership fee charged by American Express Services Europe 
Limited (Amex). 
What happened
At the end of September 2021 Mr B applied for a new card with Amex that came with a £250 
annual fee. The application was approved at the beginning of October 2021. 
A few days later, Amex ran a promotion that offered reward points and a complimentary first 
years membership for the same card. 
At the beginning of November 2021 Amex charged Mr J a £250 membership fee. 
Mr J went on to complain but Amex didnt agree it had acted unfairly. Amex said that whilst 
Mr J had opened a new card, the offer didnt come into effect until after it his application had 
been approved. Amex didnt agree to backdate its offer or refund the membership fee. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Js complaint but thought Amex had dealt with it 
fairly. Mr J asked to appeal and said he felt it was insulting to receive promotions about a 
product hed already signed up for. As Mr J asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed 
to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Mr J asked Amex to refund his membership fee  hes an existing card 
holder and successfully applied for the qualifying product. But, Mr Js application was 
completed and approved before Amexs promotion was active. I appreciate that Mr J May 
well have taken advantage of the offer if hed applied a couple of weeks later, but as it wasnt 
active at the time of his application he didnt qualify. I cant tell a business to give a 
consumer something theyre not eligible for. And Im satisfied Mr Js application wasnt 
eligible for a refund of his membership fee. 
Mr J has pointed out he received promotional information about a card he had already been 
approved for. Amex has told us its not always possible to ensure marketing information is 
tailored to each card holder. I can see Mr J was disappointed to find out the card hed 
recently applied for was subsequently available with promotional features, like waiving the 
membership fee. But I havent been persuaded that Amex treated him unfairly by relying on 
the terms of his card at the point it was applied for. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr J but as Im satisfied Amex has dealt with his complaint fairly Im 
not telling it to do anything else.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Js complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman