DRN-1931700
 
The complaint
Miss A complained on behalf of Mrs B that her insurer Ageas Insurance Limited, unfairly 
applied a single item policy limit on her home insurance policy and as a result her claim for 
lost jewellery wasnt paid in full.
What happened
Mrs B first took out home insurance through a broker several years ago. The broker said that 
at that time and on each renewal, it had sent her the policy schedule which included a 
£5,000 single article limit on jewellery. Mrs B disputes this and has brought a separate 
complaint about the broker.
Mrs B made a claim after she lost a bangle. Miss A said the bangle was worth about £11,000 
and provided proof of purchase. Ageas said it was only liable to pay £5,000 in respect of the 
bangle because of the single article limit. Mrs B refused this offer saying she hadnt received 
any terms and conditions stating the single item limit. 
Ageas said the policy documents sent to Mrs B set out the single item limit along with 
confirmation that no single items had been disclosed by Mrs B. Ageas said Mrs B had been 
asked about specified items when the policy started, and she had the opportunity to add 
items at each renewal but hadnt done so.
Miss A brought Mrs Bs complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold it. She said it 
was reasonable for Ageas to apply the policy limit for Mrs Bs bangle and it had treated her 
fairly. She said the policy was sent to Mrs B with her schedule and Miss A had sent pictures 
of the policy booklet which included the policy limit. She said the renewal document asked 
Mrs B to check the information is correct and stated that she hadnt specified any items.
As Miss A on behalf of Mrs B didnt agree, the complaint has been referred to me. Miss A 
said that Mrs Bs claim was within the overall contents limit of £35,000 and should be paid.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs B believes she is covered under her policy for jewellery to the value of £35,000 as this is 
her contents limit. Her claim for jewellery she said is worth £11,000 has been restricted by 
Ageas policy term that imposes a limit on single articles of £5,000.
Its not my role to tell insurers what limits they should place on articles at risk, this is for their 
underwriters to determine. My role is to decide if it was fair for Ageas to impose the policy 
limit on Mrs Bs claim. In doing so I have looked to see if the policy terms are clear and apply 
to Mrs Bs circumstances. The policy states:
How we settle claims for jewellery and watches The most we will pay (unless we state otherwise) will be: 
 £5,000 for any item, pair or set for jewellery and watches unless the item, pair or set 
concerned is individually listed in your policy schedule as a specified contents item.
A limit for single items is standard in insurance policies and this term appears to be very 
clear about the limit and that it will apply to claims such as Mrs Bs. The policy booklet is 
available online or in hard copy at request and we consider that to have been adequately 
brought to policyholders attention.
The renewal documents sent to Mrs B each year confirm that no items of jewellery have 
been specified. They state that this information should be checked. Im sorry to learn that 
Mrs B didnt receive these, but this wasnt the responsibility of Ageas and is the subject of 
the complaint about the broker. The policy was available to check, and this contained the 
information about the single item limit.
I think the policy limit for jewellery was clear from the insurance policy, but unfortunately Mrs 
B didnt request the cover that she needed. This may be because Mrs B didnt know the 
value of her bangle, but that isnt Ageas fault. Ive reached the view that Ageas has treated 
Mrs B fairly and in accordance with her contents policy, and so I cant uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17July 2020.
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman