DRN-3149794
The complaint
Mr C is complaining The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) wont refund a cash withdrawal 
he made as part of a scam.
What happened
Mr C was the victim of a complex, sophisticated scam where he was told to withdraw 
and handover €2,000 in cash as part of a major investigation involving the police and 
his bank. 
He reported the scam to RBS, but they didnt refund the money he lost. So he 
brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator didnt think RBS had done anything wrong. He didnt think the 
withdrawal was so unusual or uncharacteristic that RBS ought to have intervened. 
And he didnt think it couldve done anything more to recover the money given Mr C 
received cash that was later passed to the fraudster. He also felt RBS took 
appropriate steps to review matters. 
Mr C disagreed. In summary, he said:
oHe was coerced into making the withdrawal  he didnt have an option. 
oHe rarely used his account prior to the withdrawal, so RBS ought to have 
stepped in.
oHe felt RBS was dismissive. He didnt believe it had carried out an 
investigation or tried to contact him  instead, RBS passed his account onto 
collection agencies.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), the starting position is 
that Mr C is liable for a transaction he authorised. 
To decide whether Mr C authorised this, Ive again got to consider the PSRs. 
Broadly, these explain that it depends on whether the transaction was authenticated 
correctly and whether he consented to it.
Its not disputed here that Mr Cs card and PIN was used to make the withdrawal. So 
Im satisfied the transactions were authenticated.
So Ive gone on to consider whether Mr C gave his consent. The PSRs also state 
how consent is given  so its not something thats open to interpretation or subject to 
exceptional circumstances. They say it must be given in the form, and in accordance 
with the procedure agreed, between Mr C and RBS. In other words, consent happens 
when Mr C uses the steps agreed for making a transaction. 
Here, Im satisfied that it was Mr C that went through the steps for making the cash 
withdrawal. Thats not to say he wanted the transaction to happen. But, under the 
PSRs, theres no distinction made for why someone makes a transaction or allows a 
transaction to be made. Its enough that they did it. 
It follows that I think RBS has acted fairly in treating this as an authorised transaction.
I have still considered what Mr C has told us about how this scam unfolded  I was 
very sorry to read what hes been through. But I must emphasise that the complaint 
Im considering is between Mr C and RBS. And its not as simple as saying that 
because this was a scam, RBS should refund him  after all, it wasnt the perpetrator. 
So instead, the relevant question here is whether RBS ought to have done more to 
identify this was happening  and whether they failed to act as they should have 
done.
Mr C hadnt used his card in the months before this transaction. But I dont think that 
meant it ought to have been flagged as unusual. Its common for people to use credit 
cards infrequently, and specifically to make larger value transactions.  And while I 
accept this was a large amount, I also dont think its value was so large that it ought 
to have given RBS cause for worry. Thats also bearing in mind that it used up less 
than half of Mr Cs available credit limit. 
Taking this all into account, I dont think enough was going on to have caused RBS to 
challenge the withdrawal.
I also accept RBS couldnt have reasonably recovered Mr Cs losses, given that it 
was a cash withdrawal. 
Ive finally considered RBSs investigation into what happened. Overall, Im satisfied 
it looked into what happened and ultimately, I agree with the outcome it reached. I 
realise why Mr C feels very strongly otherwise, particularly given his loyalty with RBS. 
But thats not enough to say its done something wrong here  and is responsible for 
putting right his losses. 
So my conclusion is that I dont consider RBS liable to refund Mr C. That means that 
any associated fees and interest in connection with the transaction remain. If Mr C 
cant repay the amount, he should contact RBS for help. And if hes unhappy with 
how hes treated, that would be a separate complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2022.
 
Emma SzkolarOmbudsman