DRN-3398363
The complaint
Mr G complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) provided poor service and inaccurate 
information when he asked them about exchanging currency and depositing into his 
currency account. 
What happened
Late September 2021, Mr G called HSBC to ask questions about a currency account hed 
opened with them. He wanted to know whether he could pay currency into the account if he 
was to purchase it through a third party. Mr G says that after various calls, he was eventually 
transferred to someone who understood his requirements.
Mr G explained to HSBC he wanted to exchange a large sum of UK currency into Euros and 
transfer it into his currency account. HSBC confirmed they could arrange this. So, Mr G 
asked HSBC to provide details of the exchange rate that would be used to convert the 
currency. He says HSBC told him the rate of exchange would be 1.183. Mr G was pleased 
with the rate provided and explained he needed to arrange for the amount to be transferred 
to his current account first, as it was being sourced from various savings and investments. 
Mr G called HSBC again the following business day. He says he was on the phone to them 
for two hours, during which time, his call was transferred to various different agents at 
HSBC. Mr G says HSBC then told him the exchange rate was 1.12. He wasnt happy with 
this as it was considerably less than hed been told the previous business day. He accepted 
that rates were prone to fluctuation, but he thought the movement wasnt right. 
Mr G asked HSBC to check the rate from the previous day. But HSBC said they couldnt do 
that as they only had access to live exchange rates. Mr G wanted HSBC to allow him to 
listen to a recording of his original conversation the day before. But HSBC said they couldnt 
do that either.
HSBC agreed to raise a complaint and transferred Mr Gs call to a manager. HSBCs 
manager agreed that the service Mr G had received wasnt good enough and offered to 
compensate Mr G financially for his experience. Mr G told HSBC he didnt want that. He 
insisted they listen to the original telephone call and feed back to him their findings.
Mr G then received a letter from HSBC apologising that hed had cause to complain. HSBC 
said they hoped Mr G was satisfied with how the complaint was resolved. Mr G wasnt 
satisfied with HSBCs response as they hadnt returned to him with the outcome of their 
investigation. So, he decided to refer his complaint to this service.
Our investigator contacted HSBC for information relating to Mr Gs experience with them. 
HSBC provided the information and agreed Mr G had been provided an incorrect exchange 
rate. But they didnt agree that any rate difference should be paid as they would never have 
been able to provide the original rate given. HSBC offered compensation of £100 to reflect 
the incorrect information theyd provided. 
Having considered all the circumstances here, our investigator thought HSBCs offer was 
fair. But Mr G didnt think HSBCs offer was enough. Hed arranged for funds to be released 
from savings and investments on the strength of the exchange rate HSBC had quoted. He 
thought any compensation should reflect any losses as a result.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, Mr Gs complaint has been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to recordings of the various calls and discussions Mr G had with HSBC across 
the two days concerned. And I agree that Mr G appears to have spent considerable time in 
his attempts to obtain advice and guidance so that he could complete the transaction he 
wanted to. However, I think its relevant that there were elements of those calls that related 
to Mr Gs request to release funds from an investment he held with HSBC. And as this was a 
separate, albeit related matter, I dont think its unreasonable that this might involve speaking 
to different agents within HSBC. This is part of HSBCs own processes and procedures.
It isnt the role of this service to ask a business to alter its procedures or processes or 
impose improvements on the level of service offered to their customers. These aspects fall 
firmly within the remit of the regulator  in this case, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
But it is our role to examine and decide whether a business has been fair and reasonable in 
the manner in which those policies and procedures are applied in the individual 
circumstances of Mr Gs experience with them.
In a conversation on the first business day, Mr G asked HSBC what the exchange rate was 
for exchanging UK currency into Euros. He told HSBC, Im trying to bank the rate as it is at 
the moment by going through a currency company or yourselves. HSBC told Mr G, Ill get 
you an indicative value of what that will be just nowSo that rate, its £1 is worth 
€1.194073. 
Having listened to further calls from the following business day, Mr G was told the rate was 
lower. He was quoted a rate of 1.128053 this time. HSBC agree Mr G was provided with an 
incorrect rate on the first occasion. But they dont believe they should be held liable for that 
rate as they would never have been able to provide it as part of a currency exchange 
transaction. Their systems wouldnt have allowed that.
I agree Mr G was given an incorrect indicative rate. But as its indicative, I dont consider it to 
be binding. A rate would only be binding if confirmed as part of a live currency exchange 
transaction. And Mr G wasnt in a position to complete the transaction on that day as he still 
needed to transfer funds into his current account.
I think its also relevant that Mr G confirmed hed also had discussions with, and presumably 
had access to, other currency exchange providers. So, in the event that he wasnt happy 
with any rate quoted by HSBC, he still had the option to use another provider. That would be 
his choice. 
Mr G made the decision to realise funds from various savings and investments. And he says 
that decision was based upon the indicative rate given by HSBC. But as currency exchange 
rates are constantly subject to live fluctuation, there was never any guarantee about the rate 
he would ultimately secure. So, while I appreciate and understand Mr Gs point of view, I 
cant reasonably hold HSBC responsible for his decision. 
Putting things right
As Ive already said, I agree HSBC provided Mr G with inaccurate information during a call. 
HSBC have acknowledged this and offered £100 to Mr G by way of an apology. 
Compensation is a personal thing. What is seen as reasonable by one party may not be 
considered so by another. Mr G was given inaccurate information. But I think the amount 
offered feels fair in all the circumstances here. I appreciate Mr G doesnt agree. But it isnt 
the role of this service to make awards in order to penalise HSBC for their mistake. Any 
award is considered based upon the impact HSBCs mistake had upon Mr G. And I think 
HSBCs offer does that here. I will be upholding Mr Gs complaint. But while I appreciate Mr G will be disappointed, I wont 
be asking them to pay any more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Gs complaint. 
I require HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay Mr G £100 in full and final settlement of his complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman