DRN-1269626
 
The complaint
Mr W complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc, (BoI), mis-sold him a mortgage payment 
protection insurance, (MPPI), policy.
What happened
Mr W took out a monthly premium MPPI policy in 1996. Subsequently, in late 2001, he took 
out MPPI. Because it was a long time ago BoI hasnt been able to send us copies of the 
paperwork Mr W signed at the time of the sale. Nor does it have definite details of how the 
policy was sold. But BoI has told us that all its records indicate that the sale took place 
following a mailshot. And Ive decided this case on the basis that this is how the sale was 
made.
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. Because BoI disagreed 
the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our general approach to complaints about the sale of payment protection 
insurance on our website. Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ws case.
Because Ive very little information about the sale Ive made my decision on what information 
I do have and what I think is most likely to have happened.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ws complaint. I explain why below.
It seems probable that the sale was by post and Ive no information about any other contact 
between the parties. So I think its unlikely that BoI advised Mr W to take out the policy. But it 
still had to give him clear, fair and not mis-leading information about the insurance so that he 
could make an informed decision whether he wanted it or not.
BoI hasnt been able to send us full details of what it sent to Mr W about the MPPI. But it has 
sent us a sample of the application form which it says is from the time of the sale. This asks 
the applicant to confirm that they have been employed or self-employed continuously for the 
previous six months. BoI has also sent us a copy of the policy terms and conditions booklet. 
This consists of 16-pages of printed type. 
There is nothing on the front of the application form, or in the booklet, that highlights the 
terms of the policy that specifically applied to self-employed people. And I havent seen 
anything else, that may have been sent to Mr W at the time, that may have done this. I think 
this would have mattered to Mr W because he has told us he was self-employed at the time 
of the sale. And the terms and conditions of the MPPI for making a claim for unemployment 
were more onerous for self-employed people than I think he would have expected. They 
required him to prove that he had been declared involuntarily insolvent. 
Had BoI made the above-mentioned requirement as clear to Mr W as it should have done  
and Ive not seen anything to show me that it did - I dont think Mr W would have taken the 
policy. So I think Mr W has lost out as a result of what BoI did wrong and it needs to put 
things right.
Putting things right
BoI should put Mr W in the position he would be in now if he hadnt taken out MPPI. BoI 
should:
Pay Mr W the amount he paid each month for the MPPI;
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The rate 
of interest is 8% a year;
If Mr W made a successful claim under the MPPI policy, BoI can take off what he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him.
 If BoI considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr W how much its taken off. It should also give Mr W a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given my decision is that I uphold this complaint. And I require Bank of 
Ireland (UK) Plc to pay Mr W compensation as set out above
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2020.
 
Ros Barnett
Ombudsman