DRN-2412076
The complaint
Mr D complains that esure Insurance Limited (esure):
requires him to continue paying the premium for his motor insurance policy, even 
after his car was written off, when it was in an accident and he claimed on the policy; 
and
wont pay out under personal injury cover he took out as part of his policy. 
What happened
In May 2020 Mr D took out a motor insurance policy with esure to cover the 12 months from 
19 June 2020. In July 2020, it appears that Mr D blacked out while driving his car and 
crashed. Because of the extent of the damage to the car esure treated it as a total loss.
Mr D had arranged to pay his premiums to esure by monthly direct debit instalments. After 
esure wrote off his car Mr D stopped the direct debits. Esure pointed out that Mr D had made 
a claim on the policy which it would have to meet as no third party was responsible. So 
under the policy terms, Mr D had to pay the remainder of his annual policy premium.
When Mr D refused to pay, esure cancelled the policy and said it would refer his debt to a 
debt collection agency.
Mr D also said his policy included personal injury cover. Following his accident his medical 
condition meant he was unable to work, and so esure should pay out under this section of 
his policy. Esure said he wasnt entitled under the terms of the policy. So Mr D complained to 
us.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He pointed out that 
the policy included the following term:
If any incidents have arisen during the period of cover and a claim has been made by
you, or against you, we will cancel your cover if you ask us to but not refund any
premium. If you are paying by instalments, you must still pay us the balance of the
full annual premium. If you or we cancel your policy or any Optional Extras, you must
pay all costs you incur in relation to the claim after cancellation.
The investigator said Mr D was paying his premium by monthly instalments. So as he had 
made a claim on his policy the balance of the full years premium, which amounted to 
£1,168.80, would have to be paid in full. This remained the position although Mr D said he 
had been unable to work since the accident, and couldnt afford to pay. The investigator said 
esure had done nothing wrong by requiring him to pay the balance.
Mr D had taken out additional personal injury cover under the policy, which provided as 
follows:
We will pay the following benefits to the policyholder or named driver if they were driving the
insured car in the event of a fault accident claim which occurs within the personal injury
benefit territorial limits that results in bodily injury during the period of cover:
 Death  £100,000
 Permanent Total Disablement - £100,000
 Loss of, or loss of use of, two or more Limbs  £100,000
 Loss of, or loss of use of, one Limb  £100,000
 Loss of Sight in both eyes  £100,000
 Loss of Sight in one eye  £100,000
 Loss of Hearing in both ears  £100,000
 Loss of Hearing in one ear  £100,000
 Loss of Speech  £100,000
 Third Degree Burns  £100,000
We will only make payment of one of the above benefit payments to an insured person in
respect of any one accident.
The maximum amount we will pay an insured person for bodily injury sustained in one
accident under this section of the policy is £100,000.
Esure had rejected his personal injury claim because it said the injuries he had suffered 
didnt come within the above list.
The investigator said Mr D had confirmed he was still unable work, having had a cardiac chip 
put in after the accident to monitor his heart and try to find out what caused his black out in 
the first place. He had suffered from really bad headaches since the crash and was under 
mental health supervision. His doctor was signing him off work every three months due to 
these conditions and his current medication.
The investigator said he appreciated that these conditions had changed Mr Ds life and so 
far prevented him from returning to work. But based on the information provided he couldnt 
say that what Mr D had been suffering from fell within the list of conditions listed in his 
personal injury cover. So he couldnt say that esure was wrong to reject Mr Ds claim.
Mr D responded to say, in summary, that he wasnt at fault for the accident as he didnt know 
he was going to black out. He asked for his complaint to be reviewed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On the issue of the premium, I agree with what the investigator has said. Mr D entered into a 
contract for 12 months insurance cover in return for an annual premium. Esure allowed him 
to pay the premium by monthly instalments, but the policy terms, as quoted above, make it 
clear that if a claim is made the whole premium remains due. So the balance of £1,168.80 
remains owing by Mr D to esure.
Esure has so far paid out £8,548 as the market value of the car less Mr Ds policy excess. 
As the car was on finance, it paid this direct to Mr Ds finance company, and so reduced 
what he owed his finance company by this amount. So Mr D has benefitted to this extent 
from the premium that he still owes under the policy.On the question of the personal injury cover, it appears the circumstances of the accident 
were such that no other person was involved, and there was no other person against whom 
a claim could be brought. However, Mr D had taken out additional personal injury cover in 
the terms quoted above.
To make a claim under this cover, Mr D needs to show that his injuries fall within the above 
wording. On the information I have seen, as at the date of this decision I cant say that they 
do,.
I would, however point out to Mr D that the benefit described as Permanent Total 
Disablement is defined in the policy terms as follows:
A physical injury sustained during a road traffic accident which is assessed after 52 weeks 
as resulting in the permanent inability to complete any occupation whatsoever.
The accident only occurred in July 2020. So if after July 2021 Mr D is assessed as being 
unable to work in any occupation whatsoever as a result of physical injuries sustained in the 
accident, it will remain open to him to raise a claim at that stage under the policy for 
permanent total disablement. The benefit payable in the event of a such a claim being 
successful would be £100,000.
If Mr D brings such a claim, and he isnt satisfied with the way esure deals with the claim, it 
will be open to Mr D to bring a complaint about such handling to this service.
However, at the present time, I cant say esure has done anything wrong in the way it has 
dealt with Mr Ds claim.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, and make no order against esure Insurance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2021.
 
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman