DRN-2803738
The complaint
Mr A says Western Circle Ltd trading as Paydayloansnet lent to him irresponsibly.  
What happened
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be partially upheld. Paydayloansnet disagreed 
with the adjudicators opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision saying that Mr As complaint should be upheld in part. I 
reached the same outcome as the adjudicator, but I changed the compensation to account 
for the County Court Judgement (CCJ) Mr A was now subject to in respect of this lending. A 
copy of the background to the complaint and my provisional findings are below in italics: 
This complaint is about three loans Paydayloansnet provided to Mr A between May and 
November 2018.
loandate 
startedamountmonthly 
instalmentsdate repaid
1 16/05/2018 £500 4 25/06/2018
2 03/07/2018 £500 4 15/11/2018
3 27/11/2018 £500 4 outstanding
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. He thought that loans 2 and 3 were lent 
irresponsibly. This was because Mr A had a significant amount of other credit when he took these 
loans and this would have affected his ability to repay them. Paydayloansnet knew about this and 
so it shouldnt have approved these loans.
Paydayloansnet disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. It said that this was very early on in the 
lending relationship. Mr A had been consistently employed and had a reasonable income. His credit 
profile showed he was repaying his other debt and there are no regulations that say a consumer 
shouldnt have more than one loan at a time.
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all of the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Paydayloansnet needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr A could repay the 
loans in a sustainable manner.
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being 
lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the 
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Paydayloansnet should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive decided to uphold Mr As complaint in part and Ive explained why below.
Mr A didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion about loan 1. Because of this, I dont think there 
is any ongoing disagreement about this loan. So, I wont be making a decision about it. But it was 
part of the borrowing relationship Mr A had with Paydayloansnet. So, it is something I will take into 
account when considering the other loans he took.
The information that Paydayloansnet obtained at the time of sale showed that it was likely that Mr 
A had some financial problems. And a proportionate check wouldve confirmed this.
Amongst other things, Mr A had other short-term loans. He also had a significant amount of other 
debts across a large number of other providers, and he was struggling to repay all of these at 
times. And his situation had worsened after loan 1, and it would worsen again before loan 2. This 
information was largely available in the credit agency information that Paydayloansnet obtained.
This should have indicated to Paydayloansnet that Mr A wouldnt have been able repay this loan 
in a sustainable way. I dont think it is reasonable to say that Paydayloansnet didnt need to 
consider this information as it was early on in the lending relationship. It was just as important as 
his employment information.
Whilst I accept that this was Mr As second and third loans, and the repayment amounts werent 
unreasonable in relation to his income, it still doesnt mean it was affordable to him. 
Paydayloansnet had information that showed this was unlikely to be the case. And Mr A did 
struggle to repay this lending going forward.
I think that Paydayloansnet shouldnt have given loans 2 and 3 to Mr A and I think hes lost out as a 
result of this. So, Im upholding Mr As complaint about these loans.
Both Paydayloansnet, and Mr A, received of my provisional decision. Paydayloansnet, didnt 
agree with my provisional decision. it, said that:
the checks it made before approving loans 2 and 3 were reasonable and within the 
regulators guidance
it did attempt to work with Mr A to help him pay the arrears on the accounts, as this 
failed it was entitled to start court action to recover the amounts owed 
the interest on loan 2 is less than the capital owed on loan 3 so court action may still 
have been necessary 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Paydayloansnet didnt raise any new arguments, or provide any new evidence, in respect of 
the sale of loans 2 and 3. So I still think it shouldnt have approved them for the same 
reasons I gave in my provisional decision. As no new arguments or evidence have been 
provided I wont add anything to what I have already said. 
Paydayloansnet feels that it was reasonable to pursue Mr A for the unpaid loan, and 
ultimately doing this through a court. And I do appreciate that Paydayloansnet may have 
worked with Mr A to try and repay what he owed. And he may still owe some capital. 
But I have found that Mr A shouldnt have been lent these loans. It follows that he shouldnt 
have been in the situation where he was struggling to repay them. And so I dont agree that 
Paydayloansnet was right to pursue this, in the way that it did. This is especially the case 
where it should have been clear to Paydayloansnet that he was already in financial difficulty 
before it lent. 
That said, I do accept it is now difficult to put things back to how they would have been if 
Paydayloansnet had not approved loans 2 and 3. But I think the compensation I have said 
out is fair given the circumstances and would put Mr A back in a reasonable position, as far 
as it is possible to do.  
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Paydayloansnet should fairly pay in this case Ive thought 
about what might have happened had it stopped lending to Mr A from loan 2, as Im 
satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Mr A may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative 
 assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would 
(or ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly 
dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender 
would have been able to lend to Mr A in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr A would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Paydayloansnets liability in this case 
for what Im satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Paydayloansnet shouldnt have given Mr A loans 2 and 3.
If Paydayloansnet has sold the outstanding debts Paydayloansnet should buy these back 
if it is able to do so and then take the following steps. If Paydayloansnet is not able to buy 
the debts back then Paydayloansnet should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
Its important to note that Mr A now has a County Court judgement against him in relation 
to loan 3. And the change I am making will reflect that his should not be the case as Mr A 
was lent to irresponsibly.
A) Paydayloansnet should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr A 
towards interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, 
not including anything it has already refunded.
B) Paydayloansnet should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments 
made by Mr A which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr A 
originally made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Paydayloansnet should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on 
any upheld outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Mr A as though they 
had been repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Mr A 
having made overpayments then Paydayloansnet should refund these overpayments 
with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Paydayloansnet 
should then refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in a 
surplus then the surplus should be paid to Mr A.
E) Paydayloansnet should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr As credit 
file in relation to loans 2 and 3.
F) in addition to the above calculation Paydayloansnet should also ensure it refunds 
any costs Mr A incurred when Paydayloansnet started legal proceeding against him. It 
should add 8% interest to these as in B above,
G) Paydayloansnet should apply to the court to have the CCJ set aside it should 
pay any costs associated with this.
H) Paydayloansnet should pay Mr A £200 for the distress and inconvenience being 
subject to court action and any future inconvenience he will incur in relation to the 
needed to the CCJ.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Paydayloansnet to deduct tax from this interest. 
Paydayloansnet should give Mr A a certificate showing how much tax Paydayloansnet 
has deducted, if they ask for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Mr As complaint.
Western Circle Ltd should put things right by doing what Ive said above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2021.
 
Andy BurlinsonOmbudsman