DRN-3284530
The complaint
Mr A complains that Mallard Leasing Limited trading as Mallard Finance irresponsibly gave 
him a hire purchase agreement he couldnt afford. 
What happened
In July 2019, Mr A acquired a used car using a hire purchase agreement from Mallard. The 
cash price of the car was £4,500 and the total repayable under the agreement was around 
£6,300. Mr A was required to make 35 monthly repayments of £170.46 followed by a final 
optional payment of £370.58 if he wanted to own the car. 
Mr A began to struggle with the repayments and the car was eventually repossessed and 
sold at auction with the proceeds being used to reduce the outstanding balance. Mr A later 
complained to Mallard to say that the agreement had been unaffordable to him and that 
Mallard ought to have realised this if it had completed adequate affordability checks. 
Mallard said it asked Mr A about his income, completed a credit check and estimated his 
reasonable living expenditure and this indicated that he could comfortably afford the 
repayments. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought that Mallard had 
completed reasonable and proportionate affordability checks and that these didnt show any 
affordability concerns. 
Mr A didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Prior to granting credit, Mallard were required to complete affordability checks to ensure 
Mr A would be able to repay the finance without difficulty. There isnt a set list of checks 
Mallard were required to complete, however, it needed to ensure that any checks it did 
complete were proportionate in the specific circumstances of that lending decision. In 
deciding what is proportionate, Mallard needed to take into account factors such as (but not 
limited to): the total repayable, the size of the repayments, the cost and type of finance and 
Mr As specific circumstances. 
Mr A confirmed that he earned £2,500 per month. Mallard hasnt provided us with a copy of 
the credit checks it completed or the figures it used to estimate Mr As living costs. However, 
Ive reviewed a copy of Mr As credit file which, in the absence of anything else, I think gives 
a good indication of what Mallards credit check will most likely have revealed. 
This shows that Mr A had some existing commitments including a number of credit cards 
and other hire purchase agreements. In total, it appears he would be required to repay 
around £750 per month towards these commitments. Other than a couple of late payments 
around six to seven months prior to the application, it seems that Mr A had managed these 
credit commitments reasonably well. After taking into account the payment hed be making 
to Mallard, this would have left Mr A with around £1,500 towards his general living costs. Ive 
not seen anything to make me think that Mallard ought to have reasonably considered this to 
be insufficient given Mr As specific circumstances. 
The repayments under Mallards agreement were around £170 per month. This was 
relatively low compared to other commitments Mr A had at the time that he was successfully 
repaying. Given this, the total repayable, cost of the agreement and Mr As specific 
circumstances (e.g. his income and credit commitments), Im satisfied that Mallard 
completed proportionate affordability checks in these specific circumstances. 
Having thought about the information Mallard gathered and what they could see, Im also 
satisfied that it made a fair lending decision. I dont think there was anything in the evidence 
and information Mallard gathered to indicate that Mr A was going to likely struggle to afford 
the repayments in a sustainable way. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2022.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman