DRN-4207223
The complaint
Mrs C complains Aviva Insurance Limited didnt include the two additional named drivers to 
her motor insurance policy that shed requested through a price comparison website when 
plying for it.
What happened
In August 2022, Mrs C took out a motor insurance policy through a price comparison website 
- which Ill call C in this decision. She went through to Avivas website  having been 
transferred from Cs website  to set up the policy. 
After the policy was purchased, Aviva sent through the policy documentation and the policy 
went live. Mrs C says when she received the policy documents, she noticed the two named 
additional drivers werent on the certificate of insurance. So, she asked C and Aviva to add 
them and issue a new certificate to her. 
C told Mrs C her information, including two additional drivers, was correctly sent to Aviva. 
Mrs C complained to Aviva but it didnt uphold her complaint. It said the drivers were added 
but then removed before she bought the policy. This was reflected on the certificate. 
However, it said if Mrs C wanted to add the two additional drivers, she was able to do so but 
there may be a cost for this. 
Mrs C was unhappy with this and brought her complaint to this service. Our Investigator 
looked into matters and thought the policy documents which were issued in August 2022 
were correct. So, they didnt uphold Mrs Cs complaint. This is because Mrs C had removed 
the additional drivers before completing the purchase of the policy. As a result, it was fair for 
Aviva to say additional charges may apply to add them to the policy. 
Mrs C disagreed. She says she didnt remove their details and questioned whether the 
evidence from C had been considered. 
This matter has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks 
more likely to have happened in light of the evidence.
Having done so, I must tell Mrs C that I think the Investigator has reached a fair outcome 
here. So, I dont uphold her complaint in this matter. Ill explain why.
Ive been sent evidence from Aviva which shows each time Mrs C opened and/or changed 
the quote on its website after she was referred to it from Cs website. This shows when she 
was referred to Avivas website, the quote included two named additional drivers, which 
aligns with the evidence she sent to this service from C. 
The evidence from Aviva shows this was the position until the next day when the quote was 
opened, and a further quote produced without the two named drivers on the policy. It was 
this policy which was purchased by Mrs C. 
Aviva has also sent evidence to show a consumer can remove additional drivers late in the 
customer journey - just before proceeding to make payment and completing the purchase of 
the policy. This is even after accepting the quote on Cs site - with additional drivers shown - 
and at the outset of joining its own site - where the additional drivers continue to be included 
on the policy.
I havent seen any evidence to persuade me its more likely Aviva got something wrong 
which caused the two additional drivers on Mrs Cs policy to be removed by it. So, whilst I 
accept it may have been a mistake for Mrs C to buy a policy having removed the two 
additional drivers herself after being referred to Avivas website, it seems to me more likely 
this is what happened based on the information Ive seen. 
I know Mrs C will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision ends what we  in 
trying to resolve her dispute with Aviva  can do for her.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman