DRN-2813460
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that Amtrust Europe Limited (Amtrust) unfairly declined the claim 
they made under the five-year warranty they took out for their sofa.
 
What happened
In July 2018 Mr and Mrs P had their new corner sofa delivered. When they bought it they 
also bought a warranty that provided cover for individual incidents of accidental staining and 
accidental damage. 
The terms and conditions went on to explain the limitations on cover  what isnt covered by 
the warranty. Included in this was any stains or damage arising over time, gradual wear and 
tear, or your product becoming gradually dirty and out of condition over time. 
In July 2020 Mr and Mrs P made a claim on the warranty for damage to their corner sofa. 
They said there were two marks/stains where their four-year old son had tipped something 
sticky onto the sofa and then tried to clean it himself with a scouring pad.
Amtrust sent out a technician to examine the furniture. His report said that the
damage to the sofa had happened over a period of time rather than during a single incident.
Amtrust declined the claim as it considered that the damage had occurred gradually over 
time, which was excluded under the policy terms. 
Mr and Mrs P didnt accept this and complained. When Amtrust didnt change its decision 
they referred their complaint to this service. 
Our investigator upheld their complaint. He felt that Mr and Mrs Ps version of events 
matched the specific areas of damage. And that Amtrust were wrong to decline the claim on 
the basis that the damage was due to general wear and tear. He felt they should reconsider 
the claim within the remaining terms, conditions, and exclusions to decide if the claim should 
now be settled.
Mr and Mrs P accepted this conclusion. Amtrust didnt. It said that its technician believed the 
damage was caused over time and therefore didnt meet the policy terms for an incident of 
accidental damage. It said it was entitled to rely on the opinion of experts, and so believed its 
decision to decline the claim was correct.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
I issued a provisional decision on 22 April 2021. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having looked at all the evidence from both Mr and Mrs P and Amtrust, I dont intend to 
uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Insurance policies - including warranties such as Mr and Mrs Ps - are designed to provide 
cover for one-off events. They dont provide for general wear and tear associated with the 
normal use of an item. And they dont cover maintenance requirements. 
In Mr and Mrs Ps case, the warranty provides for the cleaning of stains thatve occurred due 
to one-off events, such as spills. 
 
There will usually be a time limit contained within such warranties as to when a claim must 
be made by  within a certain period after a stain has happened. This is because the longer 
a stain remains before an attempt to remove it, the less likely it is that cleaning will succeed. 
This is why a build-up of staining is excluded from a policy because it means that some of 
the stains willve been there for some time. And cleaning will be more difficult. Overall, there 
is far less chance of success. Insurers dont generally agree to cover things that they know 
they are unlikely to be able to successfully repair.  
Mr and Mrs P say that rather than accumulating over a long period of time, the damage 
theyre claiming for happened when their son used a metal scourer to clean the sofa after 
hed spilled something on it. Mr and Mrs P say that because Amtrust took over a month to 
assess the damage, due to coronavirus restrictions, it was bound to get worse.
In the claim notes, I can see that the technician said: Damage looks too severe to be a 
spillage and clean by the child given the ingrained dirt and the staining. He estimated that 
the staining was at least 18 months to 24 months old. 
As an expert in issues of this nature, Im satisfied that the technicians comments mean that 
the damage happened over a period of time. Im not persuaded that the month it took before 
the technician carried out his assessment was enough time for the level of ingrained dirt the 
technician reported to have appeared. Stains or damage happening over a period of time are 
excluded from the cover available under the warranty. 
It is difficult in cases like these where the accounts of the damage are different. I must 
decide, based on the evidence I have, which one is more persuasive and, therefore, likely. 
Given that the technician does this kind of assessment daily as part of his job, I consider it 
reasonable that his comments and opinion be considered as expert evidence when I make 
my determination. 
I know that this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs P, but Im not persuaded that 
the technician is wrong in his conclusions that the two large areas of colour loss have 
happened over an extended period of time. So I cant find that Amtrust did anything wrong 
when it declined their claim. 
Response to my provisional decision
Amtrust didnt respond to my provisional decision. 
Mr and Mrs P disagreed with my provisional decision. They said the staining had happened 
the day before they reported it. They said it hadnt built up over time. They told me theyd 
only had the sofa for two years at the point it was damaged. So they disputed the 
technicians comment that the staining was at least 18 to 24 months old. 
Mrs P also said that the worry over this complaint had been distressing for her. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand how disappointing this is for Mr and Mrs P, but with no new evidence Im not 
able to change my previous decision. Im very sorry that the complaint process has been 
worrying and distressing for Mrs P. But no new information has come to light to change my 
opinion. So I remain of the view I set out in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 June 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman