DRN-2498184
The complaint
 Mrs E is unhappy with Legal and General Assurance Society Limiteds decision to decline 
her claim.
This complaint has been brought through a representative, but for simplicity Ill refer to all 
submissions as being made by Mrs E personally. 
What happened
Mrs E had an income protection policy with L&G, provided by her employer. She was 
employed as a disability analyst in an office-based role that also involved daily face to face 
assessments of her clients. 
In early 2019 Mrs E was unable to work due to anxiety. She described her symptoms as 
nausea, overthinking, shaking and breathlessness. Mrs E was doing a course of cognitive 
behavioural therapy online through the NHS to help her cope. She had declined any 
medication from her GP at this stage.
Mrs E submitted a claim. Following a phone call with their rehabilitation team on 7 March 
2019, L&G said the evidence showed Mrs Es absence was caused by workplace stress 
rather than an illness. In particular, the issues Mrs E was facing with her replacement 
manager.  
Mrs E disagreed and raised an appeal in June 2019 and provided updated medical records. 
She said her anxiety had increased and she was depressed due to a number of different 
factors including the sad recent passing of two family members. By this time Mrs E had 
started taking medication prescribed by her GP and was speaking to a counsellor. The claim 
was declined again by L&G who said Mrs E was still suffering from work related stress and 
this was the cause of her absence from work. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and upheld the complaint. He agreed that 
initially Mrs E didnt initially meet the policy definition of incapacity. But he said there had 
been a change in Mrs Es health and the medical evidence persuaded him that from 11 June 
2019 Mrs E did meet the definition of incapacity set out in the policy. So L&G had unfairly 
declined Mrs Es appeal. 
He recommended that L&G pay the claim and backdate it to this date, together with 8% 
simple interest. And pay an additional £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
L&G didnt agree. They said Mrs Es work place issues remained unresolved so they thought 
it was unlikely she would engage in a return to work, as her concerns had not been dealt 
with by her employer. It also said Mrs E would not be eligible at the point of her appeal 
because she was not actively at work. 
The case has now been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  L&G has a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a
claim unreasonably.
It is for Mrs E to demonstrate that she meets the definition of incapacity in order to make a
successful claim. That definition is met when Mrs E can show she is unable by
reason of illness or injury to perform the material and substantial duties of her job.
Based on the medical evidence provided, Im satisfied L&G acted fairly in declining the claim 
initially. In summary, Mrs E referred to issues with her new manager and being unhappy in 
the workplace following this change. Although she was receiving online therapy, Mrs E had 
declined any medication from her doctor. 
But things moved on with Mrs Es health. And there was a change in Mrs E diagnosis. So Im 
upholding Mrs Es complaint because I dont think it was reasonable for L&G to decline the 
claim a second time, on the basis of work related stress. 
At the point of the appeal, Im persuaded the definition of incapacity had been met so L&G 
shouldve paid the claim. Ill explain why.
L&G maintain their position that Mrs Es absence is still due to work related stress. 
But I disagree. I havent seen any mention of work-related issues causing Mrs E 
stress in any of the medical evidence since June 2019.  In July 2019 the occupational 
health consultant said he did not believe the condition is work-related. He confirmed 
the current reason for Mrs Es absence is exacerbation of anxiety with depressive 
elements secondary to the bereavement/grief reaction. This is supported by the 
additional evidence provided by her GP following their meeting on 11 June, where 
again there is no mention of work related stress. The GP records that its anxiety and 
depression preventing Mrs E from working. 
The medical evidence shows that Mrs Es health declined whilst she was absent from 
work. So I think it is unreasonable for L&G to say work stress remained the reason 
she was unable to work. As explained above, the medical evidence showed things 
had progressed and Mrs Es health had deteriorated further, despite no longer 
working. She was now taking medication because her anxiety had increased and she 
was suffering from depression. 
By June 2019, Mrs Es condition had changed in such that had already decided to 
take medication prescribed by her GP. Her dosage was then doubled on 11 June. So 
at the point Mrs E raised her appeal and provided this updated medical evidenced, I 
think it was unfair for L&G to continue to decline the claim on the basis of Mrs E 
suffering from work related stress. 
I think more weight ought to have been given to the wider circumstances of Mrs Es 
claim at the time of the appeal, which cited a number of non-work reasons for her 
anxiety and depression. Im not persuaded that L&G gave adequate weight to the 
later reports which explored Mrs Es circumstances more broadly or the wider context 
of the information provided by the GP. 
Ive noted L&Gs comments regarding Mrs Es eligibility at the point of her appeal 
because she wasnt actively in work. But Im satisfied the reason she wasnt at work 
was because she was unwell, and this had been the start of her current illness. So 
the fair and reasonable outcome in the circumstances of this case is that the claim 
became payable from the point L&G declined it again in June. L&G also said Mrs Es 
work place issues remained unresolved so it is unlikely she would engage in a return to work.  But I havent seen any evidence to suggest that would be the case. 
Putting things right
L&G needs to put things right by paying:
The outstanding policy benefit to the policyholder from the date the claim was
rejected a second time, to date. L&G should add 8% simple interest to the settlement 
figure.
£200 compensation for the trouble and upset caused to Mrs E by having no income 
at a particularly challenging time for her. 
My final decision
Im upholding this complaint against Legal and General Assurance Society Limited and 
direct them to put things right in the way Ive outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman