DRN-3267860
The complaint
Mrs C is unhappy that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A. wont refund her travel insurance premium in full. 
What happened
In January 2020 Mrs C purchased an annual travel insurance policy. Cover was due to start 
in March 2020 and last for 12 months. Mrs C said that she brought the policy for a specific 
trip. The purpose of the trip was to collect the ashes of a very close relative who had very 
sadly died.
Unfortunately, due to the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on international travel Mrs C was 
unable to go on the trip shed planned. She rearranged the trip for 2021 but, due to further 
restrictions, was unable to go. Mrs C has now arranged for a family member to bring the 
ashes to the UK instead and so she doesnt need to travel. 
Mrs C wants a refund of the premiums because she says she didnt use the policy. Mapfre 
initially offered Mrs C a refund of around £14 but, since the complaint was brought to our 
service, its increased the offer to £32.40 to reflect that shed not used 41 days of the policy.
Our investigator set out the details of the relevant cancellation rights and how they applied in 
the circumstances of this case. The investigator also explained that it is a fundamental 
principle of insurance law that if the insurer had started to bear risk  for however short a 
time  the premium paid is not returnable. That means its not unreasonable for an insurer to 
keep any premiums relating to the risk it covered during that time. The investigator also 
explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the contract of insurance to be 
performed because cover under the policy started in March 2020 and the policy covered 
various risks during that time. 
The investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. 
They thought that the fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of this complaint 
was for Mapfre to offer Mrs C a pro-rata refund, which theyd already done. Mrs C didnt 
agree and asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. In summary, she says that shed 
only planned to take one trip and she wasnt able to go on it. So, she thinks Mapfre should 
refund the premiums.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
The relevant policy terms and conditions say: 
Cancelling this policy
Should you wish to cancel your policy outside of the 14-day cooling off period or 
where a change to your existing policy means we are unable to continue with your 
cover, then the following terms apply:  
Annual multi -trip policies - Provided you have not made a claim (irrespective of 
whether your claim was successful or not) on the policy and you confirm in writing 
that there is no claim pending, should you choose to cancel and understand that all 
benefits of the policy will be cancelled, we will refund 5% of the total premium paid, 
for each full calendar month remaining on the policy from the date of cancellation.
Im not upholding this complaint because: 
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling off period and so there is no 
requirement under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for Mapfre to offer a 
refund to Mrs C. 
As Ive outlined above the contract of insurance says that Mrs C is entitled to a 
refund of 5% of the total premium paid for each calendar month remaining on the 
policy from the date of cancellation. So, the offer Mapfre has made goes beyond 
whats required by the policy terms and conditions.  
Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
complaint including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding Covid-
19. In the circumstances of this case I think the insurers offer is fair and reasonable 
because Mrs C had the benefit of cover during the time that the policy was in place. 
Mapfre has agreed to refund her for the unused 41 days and I think thats fair. 
Ive taken into account what Mrs C has told us about her circumstances  including 
that she was sadly travelling to collect a close relatives ashes in very sad 
circumstances. And, I accept what shes said about only having one trip booked 
which didnt take place. However, I dont think there are any grounds upon which I 
can fairly and reasonably ask Mapfre to refund her premiums as shes had the 
benefit of cover during the time the policy was active. Whilst Im sorry to disappoint 
Mrs C Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2022.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman