DRN-3871657
The complaint
Mr G has complained that ACI-UK LIMITED (ACI) searched his credit file without his 
knowledge or consent, and didnt tell him it had taken on his loan from another company, or 
checked whether there was any outstanding debt.
What happened
Mr G had a loan with a third party. The loan account was assigned to ACI. Mr G discovered 
that ACI had searched his credit file, and he explained he didnt know this was going to 
happen, or consent to it. Further, he says ACI didnt tell him it had taken over his account.
Oner of our investigators looked into what had happened, but didnt think ACI had done 
anything wrong. This was because it had operated with the rules of both the financial 
regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) and the data regulator (the Information 
Commissioners Office). As Mr G disagreed, his complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im satisfied that ACI has behaved reasonably. This is for the same reasons 
as those given by the investigator.
The Information Commissioners Office makes it clear that a lender doesnt need a 
borrowers consent to carry out a credit search. And as ACI has had the loan assigned to it, 
it too had the right to do so, without obtaining consent.
The Financial Conduct Authority doesnt require a business to tell a borrower that its bought 
the account, or to verify any outstanding balance, before conducting a credit search. Its also 
important to note that it was a soft search, so nobody can see it has been carried out, 
except Mr G.
Although I accept that Mr G was likely surprised to see the search had been carried out, Im 
satisfied ACI was within its rights to do so, without informing him first. And Im satisfied that it 
has had no detrimental effect on Mr G, as it is a search that only he can see.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2023.
 
Elspeth Wood
Ombudsman