DRN-2789590
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold them a life 
assurance policy. They say, while life assurance was a condition of their mortgage, it wasnt 
explained to them that it could be sourced from a different provider. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
In 1994 Mr and Mrs W set up a mortgage with NatWest and were also sold a decreasing life 
assurance policy that provided an initial sum assured of £25,000 over a 15-year term. The 
policy premiums were about £18 per month. 
Mr and Mrs W complained to NatWest about the sale of policy in 2019. They said the adviser 
didnt explain to them that they had the option to buy life cover through a different provider. 
And that the paperwork provided to them at the time also inferred they were required to take 
cover out with NatWest. Mr and Mrs W claimed they were led to believe the policy was a 
compulsory part of their mortgage application. Furthermore, they said they werent informed 
about the commission that would be received from the sale of the policy.
NatWest didnt uphold the complaint. In short, they said:
At the time the mortgage was arranged, it was a condition of lending for 
Mr and Mrs W to have a suitable life assurance policy in place. This requirement 
wouldve been confirmed in the mortgage agreement. 
Their adviser was responsible for providing advice on a suitable product that would 
meet the conditions of the mortgage offer. And the policy recommended to Mr and 
Mrs W did this. 
Mr and Mrs W werent required to take a policy with NatWest and were free to set up 
cover with another provider. 
The policy provided valuable benefits to Mr and Mrs W as it ensured that if one of 
them died, the surviving spouse wasnt left to repay the mortgage.
The adviser didnt receive a commission payment for the sale of the policy. 
The complaint was referred to our service. Mr and Mrs W explained that they thought 
NatWest had misunderstood their complaint as it wasnt about the necessity of the policy or 
whether it was a condition of lending. Instead, it was about how it was sold to them and that 
they were made to believe life cover had to be taken through NatWest or it would impact 
their mortgage application. And so they lost the opportunity to purchase similar, and possibly 
cheaper and better value cover elsewhere.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but he didnt think NatWest had to do 
anything further. He said he couldnt be sure what was discussed between Mr and Mrs W 
and the adviser when the policy was sold. But, while the available paperwork said life cover 
was a requirement of the mortgage, our investigator didnt think it said it had to be provided 
by NatWest. So, he didnt think he could fairly conclude Mr and Mrs W were pressurised in to 
taking the policy with NatWest or that it was mis-sold. 
Mr and Mrs W disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs W dont dispute that life cover was a condition of their mortgage. Nor do they 
question the suitability of the policy they were sold by NatWest. So, I wont be looking at 
these aspects here. Instead, Mr and Mrs W say they were pressurised in to taking the policy 
with NatWest as they were sold it alongside the mortgage, and other protection products, as 
a package. And that they were made to think if they didnt take the policy with NatWest it 
would impact their mortgage application. Mr and Mrs W say they werent told by the adviser 
that they couldve sought similar life cover through a different provider which might have 
been better value.
Ive therefore considered whether, based on the evidence thats available, Mr and Mrs W 
were pressurised or mis-led in to taking the policy with NatWest. I know this wont be the 
outcome theyre hoping for but, having done so, I dont think I can fairly conclude that 
happened. Let me explain why. 
There isnt any documentary evidence  such as a recommendation letter - to confirm what 
was discussed when the policy was sold. Given I wasnt present at the meeting, I cant be 
sure what Mr and Mrs W were told by the adviser about life cover  and, specifically, 
whether as a condition of their mortgage it had to be taken with NatWest or not. 
Mr and Mrs W argue that the paperwork they received at the time doesnt make it clear they 
couldve chosen to take out life cover with another provider, and that this reflects the 
conversation they had with the adviser.
Ive looked at the paperwork Mr and Mrs W were provided and, amongst it, it says:
A GUIDE TO THE INSURANCE YOU WILL NEED
SPECIAL OFFERS

Do I need life assurance?
For a capital and interest repayment mortgage a decreasing term or whole of life 
policy will be required.
NatWest Life can provide you with the appropriate policies for the mortgage you have 
chosen.
and;
THE CAPITAL & INTEREST REPAYMENT MORTGAGE
Do I need life assurance?
You will need to take out either a decreasing term or whole life policy to repay the 
loan in the event of your death, unless you already have sufficient cover.
NatWest Life is able to provide you with either of these policies.and;
WHAT YOU CAN EXPECT FROM NatWest
Theres more to a mortgage than money
Your Mortgage Adviser is there to guide you every step of the way.
They will arrange a property valuation and assist in the completion of any insurance 
formalities  NatWest Life offers a range of life assurance and pension policies to 
accompany your mortgage
and;
Policies needed in connection with a mortgage
Capital and interest repayment mortgage
With a capital and interest repayment mortgage, your monthly payments pay off both 
the interest and part of the capital. If you have this type of mortgage, you must 
normally also take out a Decreasing Term Assurance.
The purpose of a Decreasing Term Assurance policy is to pay off the outstanding 
balance of the mortgage in full if you die during the repayment term. But you do not 
get any money at the end of the policy term.
We will be pleased to provide you with a quotation for a Decreasing Term Assurance 
policy and full details of what it covers. We will then arrange the policy for you. 
From the above, Im satisfied NatWest informed Mr and Mrs W that they could offer/provide 
life cover. But I dont think it says life cover had to be taken with NatWest for the mortgage to 
proceed (or that it was linked to the success of the application). I also havent seen anything 
else to this effect. 
Ive noted Mr and Mrs Ws point that the paperwork only refers to NatWest products. While 
that may be true, I wouldnt expect NatWest to promote other providers products. But, given 
the paperwork only refers to NatWest being able to offer/provide life cover, I think it can 
reasonably be taken to mean that cover couldve been sourced elsewhere. So, Mr and Mrs 
W couldve chosen to do this if they wished. 
I understand Mr and Mrs W say they were pressurised in to taking the policy with NatWest 
and that they werent given any other choice. As Ive said, I cant be sure what was exactly 
discussed at the time. Given life assurance was a condition of lending for the mortgage and 
a policy was sold, I can confidently assume that it was covered to some point. But, as the 
available paperwork doesnt say it had to be taken with NatWest, I dont think I can 
reasonably conclude that the adviser mis-led Mr and Mrs W about their options or that they 
were pressurised in to taking cover with NatWest.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs W say they lost the opportunity to find a cheaper policy elsewhere 
and that this couldve been up to 6% of what they paid. But given I dont think NatWest mis-
led them about their cover options, I cant say they were in any way disadvantaged.
On a final note, Im aware Mr and Mrs W have referred to their PPI complaint being upheld. 
And they say, as this was sold alongside the mortgage and life cover as a package, they 
consider this supports their argument that the life cover was mis-sold too. As Mr and Mrs W 
are aware, PPI is a very different product to life cover and wasnt a condition of lending for their mortgage. I also havent seen anything to show that the policies were sold as a 
package as Mr and Mrs W claim. So, it doesnt necessarily follow that the life cover was mis-
sold as a result of the PPI being mis-sold. 
Ive noted Mr and Mrs Ws strength of feeling about this matter and Id like to reassure them 
that Ive taken everything theyve said in to consideration when deciding their complaint. But, 
for the above reasons, I dont think I can fairly conclude that the life assurance policy was 
mis-sold.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 July 2021.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman