DRN-3770843
The complaint
Mr E complains International Breakdown Limited trading as National Breakdown (NB) gave 
him an incorrect email address.
What happened
Mr E bought an insurance policy through a firm Ill call A. NB handled claims against the 
policy. There were some issues with Mr E receiving the policy documents. Mr E wanted to 
complain. NB referred Mr E to A, which was responsible for the sale. At Mr Es request, NB 
provided an email address for A, as well as a phone number and a signpost to a contact 
form on As website. Mr E emailed his complaint to A.
Not getting a satisfactory response from A, Mr E referred a complaint against A to our 
service. A colleague found the email address NB had given Mr E was for an unmonitored 
inbox, but that an automated reply with alternative contact details was in place. She 
accepted it seemed Mr E didnt get the automated reply and therefore understood his 
frustration. But she considered Mr E had other ways to chase A for a response.
Mr E later complained to NB saying by giving him an incorrect email address for A, it had 
caused him unnecessary inconvenience. Dissatisfied about not getting a response to his 
complaint from NB, Mr E referred a complaint against NB to our service. The investigator 
concluded, in summary, that NB wasnt an agent of A, so by providing As contact details it 
was acting on a goodwill basis, and Mr A could have followed up his complaint about A via 
other means. She didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr E didnt accept the investigators recommendation. He considered his complaint point 
about NB not responding hadnt been addressed. And he considered NBs mistake wasnt 
mitigated by the provision of other contact details. As an agreement couldnt be reached the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I find NB did provide Mr E with an email address for an inbox which went unmonitored. But I 
dont find I can fairly hold NB responsible for the trouble Mr E says this caused him. I say this 
for the following reasons:
- A was responsible for providing Mr Es policy documents, not NB. And Mr E didnt 
receive the documents initially because he entered his email address incorrectly. 
- Mr E was in contact with A - and therefore knew how to contact it - before NB gave 
him the email address. 
- NB doesnt have a duty to provide the contact details of other firms. Mr E asked for 
As details, and NB provided the details it had in good faith. 
- That the inbox was unmonitored isnt NBs fault. Nor is it responsible for Mr E not 
receiving the automated reply.
In any case, things dont always go smoothly. And not every mistake warrants 
compensation. Here, were I to find NB did do something wrong, I wouldnt make an award as 
I dont consider the detriment Mr E alleges sufficient to justify one. 
Mr E is dissatisfied NB didnt respond to his complaint. From what Ive seen Im not satisfied 
that it did respond, so I agree Mr E has a point here. However, complaint handling isnt a 
regulated activity (or ancillary to a regulated activity), so its not within my powers to make an 
award for any distress and inconvenience this may have caused Mr E. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2022.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman