DRN-3636876
The complaint
Mrs G and Mr R are unhappy with the amount Aviva Insurance Limited is proposing to pay 
them to put right damage caused by poor quality workmanship.
What happened
Aviva previously carried out some repair works at Mrs G and Mr Rs property. However, they 
have since been found to be of poor quality and have failed, causing additional damage. 
Both parties have since agreed what repair works and costs will be covered by Aviva. Aviva 
has also confirmed it will pay the £200 compensation recommended by our investigator. 
The issue that remains outstanding for me to decide is whether Aviva should pay a 25% 
uplift on the cost of repairs that were originally quoted, due to the time that has since 
passed. Aviva does not believe it should pay the uplift as it originally offered to make a cash 
settlement to Mrs G and Mr R but they refused the offer. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for the following 
reasons:
Both parties have agreed that costs relating to health and safety documentation and 
personal protective equipment (PPE) will not be covered by Aviva.
Aviva has said due that to the time passed and previous readings, the property 
should now be dry therefore no further drying costs should be covered. While I agree 
that seems a sensible assumption, should the builder Mrs G and Mr R engage to 
complete the work provide evidence that further drying is in fact required, I would 
expect Aviva to cover this cost. 
The area where the work is taking place has already been tested for Asbestos which 
has given a negative result. As such, I agree Aviva shouldnt cover any further testing 
costs.  
Aviva has agreed to cover the cost of removing a refitting pipework. I agree this is 
required in order for the necessary repair work to take place. 
Aviva chose to offer Mrs G and Mr R a cash settlement.  This means that in order to 
fully indemnify them, it needs to pay them what it would cost them to engage a 
builder to do the necessary works. 
While Aviva did offer a cash settlement, it did not pay any money to Mrs G and Mr R 
or make any sort of interim payment at a later date. So, its liability remains 
outstanding. Im mindful Mrs G and Mr R declined the original offer, but I think they 
had reasonable grounds to do so. However again, I dont think this would have 
prevented Aviva making an interim payment for the cost of work it had already 
accepted. 
Mrs G and Mr R have explained they could not afford to fund the works themselves, 
so they were dependant on the money being released by Aviva.
Wholesale costs have increased considerably over the past year and as such I think 
it is reasonable, given my thoughts above, that Aviva should absorb those costs. 
Otherwise, it will not be fully indemnifying Mrs G and Mr R. And we must remember 
the reason these works are required in the first place is to poor workmanship of the 
contractor Aviva sent to Mrs G and Mr Rs property. 
The builder Mrs G and Mr R approached explained in July 2022 that they anticipated 
they would need to bill at least a 25% uplift on the cost of the previous quotation they 
gave in January 2022. If, when Mrs G and Mr R arrange the works the builder, given 
the time passed is unwilling/unable to honour his previous thoughts, then a new up to 
date quotation should be obtained. Aviva will then need to pay the costs set out on 
that quotation for the works agreed to. I would encourage Mrs G and Mr R to contact 
the builder as soon as possible and provide an update to Aviva.
It is clear from the submissions made Mrs G and Mr R have been caused trouble and 
upset by the situation that has developed. I think Aviva should pay Mrs G and Mr R 
£200 compensation to reflect this.
For the above reasons, I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
To put things right Aviva should do the following:
Pay the costs of drying works, should the builder Mrs G and Mr R engage provide 
evidence they are needed. 
Make a payment to Mrs G and Mr R equivalent to the amount it will now cost them for 
the repairs to be completed. 
Pay Mrs G and Mr R £200 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold Mrs G and Mr Rs complaint against Aviva Insurance 
Limited. I direct Aviva Insurance Limited to put matters right as I have set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman