DRN-2097853
The complaint
Mr P complains about Bank of Ireland (UK) Plcs handling of a loan application. Mr P says he 
was told the application had been approved, but it was then declined following further 
checks.  Mr P says Bank of Ireland misled him and has breached financial guidelines. Hes 
also unhappy about how Bank of Ireland handled his complaint. 
What happened
On 5 February 2020 Mr P applied online (through a third-party business) for a loan with Bank 
of Ireland. He completed an eligibility checker with the third party before he applied for the 
loan, the result of which was a 95% chance of the loan being approved. 
Mr P received an acknowledgement saying the loan had been approved. He phoned Bank of 
Ireland on 14 February 2020 and was told the loan had been declined. He complained 
because he felt the wording used during the application process had misled him into thinking 
the loan had been approved. 
Bank of Ireland didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. It said it had made it clear in a letter dated 
5 February 2020 that a final decision would be made once it had received the signed credit 
agreement. 
Mr P was unhappy with this response, so he brought his complaint to our service. He said 
the application process was misleading and Bank of Ireland had mishandled his complaint. 
Mr P said he should receive £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint but didnt think Bank of Ireland had treated Mr P 
unfairly.  He said information about the application process was available to Mr P via Bank of 
Irelands website, and he felt Mr P hadnt been misled into thinking his loan application would 
be approved. Although our investigator did ask Bank of Ireland to review its wording to make 
it clearer that decisions are provisional until all checks are complete. Our investigator didnt 
think £100 compensation was justified. 
Mr P disagreed and has asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He said the 
process he went through online in applying for the loan didnt direct him to pre-application 
information on Bank of Irelands website. And Mr P didnt accept that Bank of Ireland had 
made it sufficiently clear that his application was subject to further checks, despite saying it 
had been approved. Mr P was pleased our investigator had asked Bank of Ireland to review 
the wording it used in the application process. But thought he was still due some level of 
compensation for what he felt had been a misleading process, and because Bank of Ireland 
hadnt handled his complaint well. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mr P feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a 
disappointment to him, so Ill explain why. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is 
the right outcome.
Mr P accepts we cant question why the loan application was refused nor ask Bank of Ireland 
to accept the application now. I should also add that as an informal dispute resolution 
service, its not our role to consider breaches of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
regulations. If Mr P wants to pursue this, then he may wish to contact the FCA. 
My review focuses on whether Bank of Ireland treated Mr P fairly and if the information he 
was given during the application process misled him into thinking the loan had been 
approved. Ive also looked at how Bank of Ireland dealt with Mr Ps complaint. 
I can see detailed information about the application process, including the required checks, 
was available on the Bank of Irelands website. So, Im satisfied clear guidance was 
available had Mr P wanted further information about the process. But I accept Mr P wasnt 
specifically directed to that information when he applied for the loan through the third party. 
Mr P says immediately after he submitted his application, he received an on-screen 
message saying his loan had been approved. Ive not seen a copy of exactly what Mr P saw, 
but dont doubt what he says. I can see from Bank of Irelands records that at no point was 
the loan approved, and that a letter was emailed to Mr P on 5 February 2020 which he says 
included the wording:
One more step for your loan application: Congratulations  youve nearly completed your 
application for a loan with us. All we need now is a signed copy of your credit agreement.   
This letter also said:
What happens next:
Once youve uploaded your Credit Agreement this will be reviewed by our relevant teams. 
Well then provide you with our final decision within 2 working days from when we receive 
your documents.
Given the outcome of the eligibility checker with the third party and the status of Mr Ps 
application showing as approved  I can understand how he interpreted this as confirmation 
that all checks had been completed and the application had been successful. Mr P has also 
said he took the wording final decision to mean Bank of Ireland needed to check all the 
documentation was in order before releasing the money. And that it was unfair of Bank or 
Ireland to rely on this wording as a means of indicating the application had not been fully 
assessed and more checks were needed, given hed already been told it was approved.   
I can understand the point Mr P is making, and hes correct to say Bank of Ireland wouldve 
needed to check the documentation was in order. But that was part of the application 
process. And having looked at the information contained in the letter issued to Mr P on 
5 February 2020, I think its clear a final decision as to whether to approve the application 
had not yet been made.Taking everything into account, I dont think Bank of Ireland misled Mr P and so I wont be 
asking it to pay him any compensation. 
Mr P also believes he should be compensated for Bank of Irelands handling of his 
complaint. I can see he had to clarify what his complaint was about, and this meant he 
needed to contact Bank of Ireland on more than one occasion before it looked into matters 
for him. I can understand how this was frustrating for Mr P. But Bank of Ireland did 
eventually consider his complaint and issued a final response within the eight weeks its 
given to respond. So, I dont think Bank of Ireland needs to compensate Mr P here. 
I fully appreciate Mr Ps strength of feeling on this matter. But having looked at the case 
independently, I cant find that Bank of Ireland treated him unfairly. Im pleased to see Bank 
of Ireland has said it will pass the investigators feedback about the wording it uses in the 
application process on to the appropriate team. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2021.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman