DRN-3070110
The complaint
Mrs S has complained about the way Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) has handled a claim 
made under her home insurance policy, following a burglary at her home in 2018.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 16 September 2021, explaining why I 
was not intending to uphold this complaint. 
Heres what I said in my provisional decision:
What happened
Mrs S reported a burglary at her home, to Aviva, in June 2018. While most of the 
claim has already been settled, Mrs S claim included damage to her floor tiles and a 
wardrobe which remain outstanding. 
Mrs S complained to Aviva about how the claim was progressing and asked for 
another surveyor to attend the property to address the outstanding issues. 
On 18 January 2021 Aviva issued their final response to Mrs S in relation to the claim 
for the tiles and wardrobe. In that response they said they wouldnt send another 
surveyor but having completed a review of the information available, offered Mrs S a 
cash settlement of £1000.00 for the replacement of tiles and the repair of the 
wardrobe. Mrs S was unhappy with this as it was lower than the offer of around 
£1,700.00, she said was previously made and she believed it didnt cover the cost of 
replacing all of the damaged tiles.
Unhappy with Avivas offer and response to her complaint she referred the complaint 
to this service.
After looking into the complaint, our investigator agreed that the service Mrs S had 
received wasnt what wed expect to see and asked that Aviva pay £250 
compensation to Mrs S to account for this. 
Our investigator also said that Aviva would be responsible for paying 100% of the 
cost to replace the damaged tiles and 50% of the cost to replace any undamaged 
tiles where matching replacements couldnt be found. She said the cost of this should 
be based on three quotes to be provided by Mrs S. She also concluded that Aviva 
should cover the cost of repair of the wardrobe, also based on three quotes.
In response to this Aviva made a further offer of £1,300.00 for the work to replace the 
damaged tiles and repair the wardrobe and £2,756.80 for the replacement of the 
undamaged tiles.
Mrs S remained unhappy with Avivas offer and requested an ombudsmans decision 
on her complaint. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There have been a number of issues that Mrs S has complained about in relation to 
this claim. But, some of these were brought to this service out of time and we have 
already considered whether we could look at those issues under a different case. 
Mrs S has also asked a number of questions about the claim, which our investigator 
has addressed in detail, while investigating the complaint. 
This decision will focus on the two key issues that remain to be decided in order for 
Mrs S claim and complaint to be settled. Ill first address the question of whether 
Avivas offer to pay £4056.80 to settle the claim and complaint is fair in all of the 
circumstances. Ill then go on to consider whether Mrs S has suffered distress and 
inconvenience, as a result of any action, or lack of action on Avivas part that she 
should be compensated for.
Amount to settle the claim
The policy terms and conditions, on page 21, state that Aviva may elect to make a 
cash payment to the insured based on the cost of repair or replacement. They also 
state, on page 11, under the heading: 9. Matching of items Aviva wont pay for 
replacing or working on any undamaged or remaining items just because they form 
part of a set.
Aviva has accepted Mrs S has a valid claim in respect of damage to a wardrobe 
door, and damage to approximately 3m2 of floor tiles. Aviva has also accepted our 
investigators recommendation to pay 50% of the cost of the undamaged floor tiles to 
compensate Mrs S for any loss of match. And Aviva has said they will pay the cost of 
repairing the damaged wardrobe door. 
So, what remains for me to decide is whether the amount Aviva has offered Mrs S, to 
cover these items, is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Our investigator concluded that the cost Aviva ought to pay, is the cost to Mrs S, as 
shed requested Aviva carry out the works, so it was Avivas choice to offer a cash 
settlement. However, in reviewing Avivas contact notes for this claim, I can see that 
on 1 August 2018, Mrs S advised Aviva that she wanted to use her own contractors 
to do the works. This didnt appear to be communicated to the contractors by Aviva, 
so they went to Mrs S property to do the works, but Mrs S refused to allow them 
entry to the property. Aviva authorised Mrs S to use her own contractor, on 6 August 
2018, and covered the attendance fee and cancellation fee for their own contractor. 
On 5 October 2020, Mrs S told Aviva that she wanted their contractors to do the 
works, and Aviva declined saying that a cash settlement only, would be available. 
Given the history of the claim, I dont think Aviva was unreasonable in insisting on a 
cash settlement at this point in time. And as Mrs S had originally requested the cash 
settlement, Im satisfied that the settlement sum only needs to be the cost to Aviva, of 
having the works done.
Mrs S didnt accept Avivas revised offer of £4,056.80 to settle the claim. Our 
investigator asked Mrs S to provide three quotations for the works, which she would consider in deciding whether or not to recommend that Aviva pay an increased sum 
to settle the claim. The quotes were first requested in February 2021, and between 
that date and 16 July 2021, our investigator followed up six times with Mrs S, to 
request the quotes. No quotes were provided as Mrs S was only willing to go to the 
trouble of getting quotes if Aviva would be bound by them.
It is now seven months since Mrs S was first given the opportunity to provide 
quotations for our service to consider, in support of her view that Avivas offer wasnt 
sufficient to fairly settle her claim. So, Im of the view that Mrs S has had a fair 
opportunity to provide her own quotations for the outstanding works, should she have 
wished to do so.
Ive carefully considered the details of the offer made by Aviva, and in the absence of 
any other quotations to consider, Im currently of the view that it provides the best 
evidence available, of the likely cost of completing the repairs. Im therefore currently 
intending to decide that Avivas offer to pay £4,056.80 to settle the claim is fair in all 
the circumstances of this complaint. 
Compensation for distress and inconvenience 
Ive next gone on to consider whether Aviva should pay Mrs S compensation for the 
way theyve handled the claim. But before I can award any compensation for delays, 
and any inconvenience or distress suffered by Mrs S, in relation to those delays, I 
need to be satisfied that the delays were avoidable, and resulted from any action, or 
lack of action, on Avivas part. 
In response to the view Mrs S told our investigator that Aviva had made no attempts 
since 2018 to bring the case to a fair conclusion but had strongly hindered 
progressing the claim every step of the way. While I accept this is Mrs S honest 
recollection, the evidence Ive seen on the case file doesnt support that version of 
events. 
In addressing this aspect of Mrs S complaint, Ive considered the timeline of events 
apparent from the information provided to this service.
The burglary took place in mid-June 2018. On 1 August 2018, Avivas contact notes 
show that Mrs S advised them that she wanted to use her own contractors to do the 
works. 
The contact notes also show that Aviva tried to contact Mrs S between 6 August 
2018 and 23 August 2018, in relation to her buildings claim, and as they received no 
answer or response from her, they closed the claim. 
On 9 October 2018, Aviva spoke to Mrs S about her contents claim, and she 
expressed some concerns about the contractor theyd sent to the property in relation 
to the damage caused to the property. At that point in time, Aviva were of the 
understanding that Mrs S was going to use her own contractors to do the works.
On 24 June 2019, Aviva again spoke to Mrs S about her contents claim and, 
following that call, appointed a contractor to deal with the tiled floors, and later, the 
wardrobes. Aviva refunded Mrs S £150 as a gesture of goodwill for the delays and 
confusion caused.
On 1 August 2019, Avivas case notes show that the contractor had agreed to cash 
settle with Mrs S.On 22 October 2019, as Aviva wasnt able to get hold of Mrs S, they again closed the 
claim.
On 28 January 2020 Mrs S contacted Aviva and asked for an update on her claim 
relating to the tiles. Mrs S was unhappy about the lack of progress and complained to 
Aviva, who advised that the final decisions on her complaints had been issued so the 
next step was to refer her complaint to this service.
In April 2020 Mrs S brought her complaint to our service.
On 30 September 2020, Mrs S again contacted Aviva and said that she wanted the 
wardrobe and the floor tiles repaired by Avivas contractors. Aviva spoke to Mrs S 
again on 5 October 2020. At that time, she refused the offer of a cash settlement and 
said she wanted the works to be completed. Aviva requested a copy of the police 
report and pictures from the time of the burglary to establish that the tiles were 
damaged during the burglary, but Mrs S declined to provide that information and told 
Aviva they needed to obtain the information directly from the police. 
Following that, Mrs S complained to Aviva about the way the claim was progressing 
and asked for another surveyor to attend the property. On 18 January 2021 Aviva 
issued their final response to Mrs S. In that response they said they wouldnt send 
another surveyor but following their review of the information available they were 
offering Mrs S a cash settlement of £1000.00 for the replacement of tiles and the 
repair of the wardrobe. Mrs S was unhappy with this as it was lower than the offer of 
around £1,700.00, she said was previously made and she believed it didnt cover the 
cost of replacing all of the damaged tiles.
Having considered the timeline of events, I dont think it was unreasonable of Aviva 
to close Mrs S claim, after they were unable to solicit a response from her to their 
enquiries. And I note that on each occasion that Mrs S contacted Aviva about the 
claim, following a period of months of no contact (for example in June 2019 and 
January 2020) Aviva promptly re-opened and sought to progress the claim. In June 
2019 Aviva paid Mrs S £150 compensation for delays up to that point in time, which I 
think was fair in the circumstances. 
In considering the period of June 2019 to April 2020 when Mrs S brought her 
complaint to our service, I havent been able to identify any unreasonable or 
avoidable delays on Avivas part. I therefore dont think Aviva needs to pay any 
additional compensation to Mrs S, for the way the claim was handled during that 
time. 
Mrs S told our investigator that Aviva had deliberately prejudiced her and 
discriminated against her since the contactor came to her house in 2019 to measure 
the floor and wardrobes and allegedly made comments that she felt were due to her 
ethnicity. However, I havent seen any evidence on the case file to support that 
aspect of Mrs S complaint so I wont be awarding any compensation in relation to 
those concerns.
I concluded that Avivas offer to pay £4,056.80 to settle Mrs S claim was fair in all the 
circumstances and I wasnt intending to require Aviva to pay Mrs S any additional 
compensation for the way theyd handled the claim.Aviva didnt provide any further information for me to consider in response to the provisional 
decision. However, Mrs S has now provided a number of quotations and the following 
submissions: 
she says that the protracted and drawn out nature of her dispute with Aviva has had 
a material adverse impact on her mental wellbeing and has caused her a significant 
amount of stress;
she wishes to have the matter resolved and reach a financial settlement with Aviva, 
however, she believes the actual costs are likely to be far above the suggested sum 
of £4,056.80;
she considers the settlement of the issue must be contingent upon the actual cost of 
the works and she believes that should include the cost of removing and refitting the 
kitchen, and if required, the replacement of some or all of the kitchen units; and
Aviva should pay £11,206.25 in relation to the tiles, £11,400 to repair the wardrobes.
Our investigator sent Aviva a copy of the quotations provided by Mrs S, for their comment. 
After reviewing the information, Aviva responded to say they felt the invoices were excessive 
for the works required.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will address Mrs Ss submissions and supporting evidence under the headings: Amount to 
settle the claim; and Compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Amount to settle the claim
Aviva agreed to cover the cost of repairing the wardrobe doors, to settle that part of Mrs S 
claim. The contact notes provided by Aviva further clarified that the hinges of the wardrobe 
doors needed to be replaced. In addition, the schedule of works provided by Avivas 
contractors, included the following description of works: Allowance of 2 days for Joiner to 
take off damaged door frontals, replacement of hinges, re alignment of door frontals, re-
fixing of pelmets. 
Mrs S has provided the following estimates in relation to her claim for the damaged 
wardrobes:
£11,400 to replace the fitted wardrobes in bedrooms 1 & 2 with the same quantity 
but with a similar style colour and quality (company SC);
£11,648 (company S)
£9,395.61  fitted furniture (company H)
£7,666.15  fitted furniture (company H)
Ive considered the quotations provided by Mrs S, but as I set out in my provisional decision, 
Mrs S policy provides cover for repair or replacement. As the wardrobes could be 
repaired by replacing the hinges, I think it was reasonable for Aviva to offer to settle Mrs S 
claim on that basis. Her policy doesnt provide cover that would extend to replacing 
wardrobes in two bedrooms in these circumstances, and I dont think it would be fair to 
require Aviva to do that, in order to settle the claim.With regard to the floor tiles, Aviva agreed to pay the cost of replacing the ten damaged tiles, 
and they agreed to pay 50% of the cost of replacing the undamaged tiles. Aviva provided a 
scope of works from their contractor which set out the floor area for each room that was tiled 
and calculated the cost of the replacement tiles on the basis of £40.00 per m2. The scope of 
works also allowed for costs for taking up and re-laying the screed that the tiles would sit on 
top of. Aviva explained that the unaffected tiles within the kitchen/diner area had been 
calculated at £5,513.60 including VAT, so a 50% contribution towards that sum would be 
£2,756.80. When that contribution was added to the £1300 already offered for the 
replacement of the damaged tiles, and repair of the wardrobe doors, Avivas total offer to 
settle the claim came to £4,056.80. 
However, Mrs S has argued that Aviva should pay a minimum of £11,206.25 plus VAT, 
together with the cost of removing, refitting and potentially replacing the kitchen. She has 
provided the following estimates to support that total:
£16,128 for the tiles, labour, removal and disposal of the existing materials, removing 
and refitting the kitchen, and a further £15,000 to £20,000 for a like for like 
replacement of the kitchen if required (company SC)
£16,800 for removing and relaying similar tiles, removing and reinstating the kitchen 
units, and a further £15,500 to £21,000 to replace the kitchen if required (company 
A).
Ive carefully considered the quotes provided by Mrs S, but, as I said in my provisional 
decision, Mrs S policy does not provide cover for matching sets. Applying our fair and 
reasonable remit, I provisionally concluded that Aviva should pay 50% of the cost of 
replacing the undamaged tiles, which Aviva accepted. I remain of the view that this provides 
a fair and reasonable settlement of this element of Mrs S claim. It would be wholly 
unreasonable to require Aviva to cover the cost of removing, refitting and potentially 
replacing the kitchen, when all the policy actually covers is the repair or replacement of the 
ten damaged floor tiles. 
The first quotation provided by Mrs S allocated £4,990 plus VAT to the cost of the tiles. The 
second quotation provided by Mrs S allocated £5,250 plus VAT to the cost of the tiles. 
However, neither of the quotations set out either the cost of the tile, or the area which the 
tiles would cover, so Im not persuaded they reflect a fair cost to replace the tiles. 
Aviva calculated their settlement offer on the basis that tiles costing £40.00 per m2 would be 
used, and their contractor set out on a room by room basis, the floor area that the tiles would 
need to cover. 
In the absence of any persuasive evidence showing that the cost of the tiles would be 
significantly in excess of £40.00 per m2, I remain of the view that Avivas offer is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Compensation for distress and inconvenience
Mrs S has emphasised the toll that her dispute with Aviva has taken on her mental 
wellbeing. And while Im sorry to hear of the difficulties Mrs S has encountered, as I said in 
my provisional decision, I can only award compensation for any distress and inconvenience 
caused to Mrs S as a result of Avivas actions or avoidable delays. Mrs S further 
submissions havent led me to come to a different conclusion on this element of her 
complaint. I therefore remain of the view that the £150 compensation Aviva paid to Mrs S 
was sufficient to compensate her for any distress or inconvenience shes suffered as a result 
of the way theyve handled the claim.So, for the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that 
Avivas offer to pay £4,056.80 to settle Mrs S claim is fair in all the circumstances. I make no 
other award against Aviva Insurance Limited. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Aviva Insurance Limited should pay Mrs S £4,056.80.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
Carolyn Harwood
Ombudsman