DRN-2827006
The complaint
Mrs K says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mrs K took out a credit card in 1998. The first available statements from 2000 show that 
there was PPI on the credit card. So the PPI was added at some point between 1998 and 
2000. The policy covered Mrs K in case she was off work sick or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs K disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ks case.
Having done that, I have not found this policy to have been mis-sold  Ill explain why.
This sale was over two decades ago, and the account involved has long since closed. So 
I think its completely understandable that neither side still have original documents from the 
sale. Indeed, under data protection rules Lloyds were required to dispose of Mrs Ks data 
rather than hold onto it for too long. Meanwhile, Mrs K doesnt remember being sold PPI, 
and I also think thats understandable given that buying insurance is not often memorable 
and this sale was particularly long ago. Ive thought carefully about whats most likely to have 
happened based on the limited evidence I have.
From what Ive seen of Lloyds sales process for this particular product from around the time, 
they would normally have offered a choice about buying the PPI, and in order to get it Mrs K 
would need to have actively chosen it. Ive not seen any wider problems with Lloyds sales 
process from the time, nor anything which shows that Mrs K was misled into buying PPI 
here. So I think its most likely that Lloyds made Mrs K aware she had a choice about buying 
the PPI, and that she chose to take it at the time  though I can certainly understand if she 
no longer recalls doing so after so many years.
Its not clear whether Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mrs K, or not. The requirements were 
stricter on Lloyds if they did recommend it, so to be as fair to Mrs K as possible, Ive 
assumed they did. That means Lloyds had to check the policy was right for her  and based 
on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, it looks like 
Mrs K was eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of its main exclusions or 
limitations. She didnt have any significant savings, and the PPI wouldve paid out on top of 
her work benefits and covered her for longer. So the policy could have been useful for Mrs K 
in case she was off sick or lost her job.
Its possible that the information Lloyds gave Mrs K about PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have changed 
her mind. But as I explained above, it doesnt look like Mrs K was affected by any of the 
policys main exclusions or limitations, and it could have been useful for her in case 
something went wrong. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mrs K could 
cancel it at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think better information about the PPI 
was likely to have put her off taking it out.
Lastly, Mrs K explained that she had a different policy which was mis-sold around the same 
time, and I do understand why she raised this. But different policies worked in different ways, 
were sold using different methods, were suitable in different circumstances, and so on. So 
even if one given policy was mis-sold, it doesnt necessarily mean that a different one was, 
too. We look at each case on its individual merits. And in this case, I have not found that this 
particular PPI policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mrs Ks complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman