DRN-2552046
The complaint
Mr C complains that the balance on his student loan account is incorrect because payments 
should have been deferred between 2013 and 2016. His account is administered by Link 
Financial Outsourcing Limited, which Ill refer to as HSL.   
What happened
Mr C took out three student loans in the 1990s. The loans had a 60-month repayment 
period, but for much of the time since he took them out Mr Cs income has been below the 
government threshold for repayment. Because of this, payments have been deferred. At the 
time Mr C brought this complaint, his account balance was over £9,000, more than half of 
which was arrears.    
HSL took over the administration of those loans in January 2016. 
In June 2016 Mr C contacted HSL to say that he had been eligible for deferment in 2013 but 
that, due to family circumstances at around that time and in the period following, there had 
been a delay in making a deferment application. Payments were deferred before April 2013 
and from around May 2016. 
HSL contacted the Student Loans Company, which was responsible for dealing with 
deferment applications. It said that Mr Cs deferment application in March 2013 had been 
declined because his income was above the government threshold. 
Mr C provided more information about his employment history between 2013 and 2016. His 
account of what happened in that time does suggest that he had a series of jobs, some of 
them temporary and not well-paid. He also says that both he and his wife were made 
redundant during that period. He appears to have struggled financially for much of that time. 
HSL said however that it could only back-date deferment applications for a maximum of 
three months and that it had done so when Mr C applied for deferment in 2016. It could not 
however backdate that deferment to 2013 unless there were exceptional circumstances 
which had delayed the deferment application. It didnt consider that the circumstances Mr C 
had described satisfied that test. 
Mr C referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered it. She 
noted that the Student Loan Company, not HSL, was responsible for decisions about 
deferments. HSL was and is responsible for the administration of the account. She noted 
that HSL needed to recognise Mr Cs financial difficulties but did not recommend any specific 
actions that it should take. Specifically, she did not consider that HSL had treated Mr C 
unfairly in respect of the period when he said his payments should have been deferred or in 
respect of its refusal to backdate the deferment.
Mr C did not accept the investigators conclusions and asked that an ombudsman review the 
case.          
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, however, Im broadly in agreement with the investigators conclusions, and 
for similar reasons. 
Mr C says that he did send in deferment applications and that he met the necessary criteria. 
He feels that he is being penalised because he no longer had evidence of that. There is 
evidence that he sent an application in 2013, but that it was not accepted by the Student 
Loans Company. After that, there is no evidence that any further application was sent to or 
received back from Mr C until 2016. 
It is not for me or for HSL to review any deferment application or to say whether, had one 
been made, it would have been approved. So, even if he were able to provide evidence of 
what he sent the Student Loans Company, I do not believe that HSL would be in a position 
to review it and reach a decision about deferment. I am satisfied however that HSL did not 
make any error in not deferring payments in the period relevant to this complaint. No 
deferment application had been approved and so it was not obliged to administer Mr Cs 
account differently from the way it did.   
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I do not require Link Financial Outsourcing 
Limited to take any further steps to resolve Mr Cs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 
25 March 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman