DRN-2617661
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Skipton Building Society reduced the interest rate on her 120-day 
notice account. And didnt offer her a new account which was later introduced offering a 
better interest rate. 
What happened
In March 2020 Mrs W opened a 120-day notice account (issue 4) with Skipton which 
attracted a variable interest rate. 
Shortly afterwards, Skipton wrote to Mrs W to tell her the interest rate on the account was 
reducing due to changes in the Bank of England Base Rate. It said that Mrs W had 
approximately one month to move her money to another account without penalty if she 
wanted to do so. 
Skipton set out several ways in which Mrs W could discuss her options. This included: 
contacting the branch, calling a specific telephone number or via the internet. Mrs W also 
received separate correspondence encouraging account holders to use alternative ways of 
contacting the society. For example: online messaging, social media, webchat or a video 
meeting, due to the Covid-19 pandemic and the associated restrictions. 
But Mrs W says that to avoid being a victim of fraud, she doesnt bank on-line, and she 
doesnt use social media or have a smartphone to enable a meeting to be held via video. 
Shes also explained that she has a medical problem that can make using the telephone 
difficult. She added that she took government advice to stay at home seriously and didnt 
leave her home during the National lockdown. So, she didnt make any changes to her 
account. 
Later, in September 2020, Mrs W contacted Skipton by telephone as she became aware that 
in the interim period it had launched two new notice accounts (issue 5 and 6). And that these 
accounts offered a better rate of interest than what her account  issue 4, was receiving. 
Ultimately, she raised a complaint as she was unhappy Skipton was offering better rates of 
interest to new customers, but it hadnt offered her  as an existing account holder, the 
same.  
Skipton responded to Mrs W complaint. But didnt uphold it. It said that Mrs W was offered 
the opportunity to make a change to her account, but it had no record of her contacting it to 
do so.   
Mrs W didnt accept Skiptons response. She said Skiptons correspondence had 
discouraged her from visiting her branch and it hadnt taken into account that she had 
behaved like a responsible citizen and remained at home unless it was absolutely essential. 
So, she referred her complaint to us.
One of our investigators looked into it but she didnt think Mrs W complaint should be upheld. 
She said that Skipton had made a commercial decision to reduce the interest rate on         
Mrs Ws account and that she was given the option to discuss alternative savings options 
when this happened. She recognised that Mrs Ws preferred way to do her banking was by 
visiting a branch. But she felt Skipton had offered enough alternative methods for doing what 
she needed given the wider circumstances happening in the country at the time.
Mrs W didnt accept this outcome and asked for complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman. So, the complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to broadly the same overall conclusions as our investigator. I 
know Mrs W will be disappointed with my decision, so Ill explain why.
Ive started by looking at the terms and conditions which apply to the 120 Day Notice 
Account Issue 4 which Mrs W agreed to when she opened the account. These say: Can 
Skipton Building Society change the interest Rate. They go on to say: Yes, the interest rate 
is variable, so it can go up and down. And in Section 22, it says: we may make these 
changes for any one or more of the following reasons:.to enable us to respond to changes 
in the Bank of England Base Rate. The terms also say that 14 days notice of any change 
will be provided.
And I can see that Skipton wrote to Mrs W on 6 April 2020 to explain it was reducing the 
interest rate on her account from 23 April 2020 as the Bank of England Base Rate had 
reduced on 11 and 19 March 2020. 
So, Im satisfied that Skipton didnt do anything wrong when it reduced the interest rate on 
Mrs Ws account. This was in line with the account terms, it wrote to her to explain what 
action it was taking and why, and it provided the required period of notice. 
Ive also seen that the letter Skipton sent Mrs W explained that if  in light of the interest rate 
reduction, she wanted to move her money into another account or close it without giving 
notice or incurring a penalty, she could do so up to 9 May 2020. And I think this is fair given 
Mrs W had signed up a 120-day notice account.  
But, from what Ive seen, the crux of Mrs Ws complaint is that she feels Skipton has 
penalised her as she says she unable to contact it during the Covid-19 pandemic to make 
changes to her account when the interest rate was reduced. So, Ive thought carefully about 
this, taking into account what Mrs W has told us about being concerned about the risk of 
banking on-line and that she doesnt have access to social media or a smart phone.
And Ive seen that, in addition to the letter about the interest rate deduction, Skipton also 
wrote to Mrs W more generally to explain alternative ways of contacting it during the 
pandemic. So, I can see why Mrs W thought visiting the branch or phoning was being 
discouraged. But I think such correspondence was sent to encourage account holders  who 
perhaps had non-essential enquiries and were able to use alternative forms of contact, to do 
so. Thereby reducing call waiting times. But, given the circumstances here  Mrs W was 
given a deadline to move her money to another account, I think Mrs W did have the option to 
phone Skipton to discuss her savings account both when the interest rate reduced and at 
any point thereafter. 
I acknowledge what Mrs W has told us about her medical condition and the difficulties she 
has using the phone. But she has also told us that she did subsequently phone Skipton on more than one occasion. And she describes one call as being a lengthy. So, whilst using 
the phone may not be Miss Ws preferred option, it does appear that this method of 
communication is an option available to her when needed. And I think she could have called 
Skipton to discuss her account. 
I can see Mrs W thinks that Skipton should have contacted her with a view to obtaining her 
consent to transferring her savings to one of the new accounts (issue 5 and 6) when they 
were launched. I can appreciate Mrs Ws frustration that this didnt happen. But 
unfortunately, banks and building societies dont have to tell customers of other accounts 
when they are introduced. And I dont think it would be reasonable for a savings account 
provider to automatically move funds to different accounts that are subject to their own terms 
and conditions. I also think its up to Skipton to decide how it prices its products and Ive not 
seen anything that would make me think it should have increased the interest rate on issue 4 
when issue 5 and 6 were introduced. 
In summary, I think Skipton did enough when it gave Mrs W the opportunity to change her 
savings arrangements when the interest rate changed on her account. I acknowledge that 
Mrs Ws preferred way of doing business would have been to visit a branch. But I think that 
Skipton did give other alternatives  at least one of which Mrs W could have used. And I 
dont think this was unreasonable given the wider circumstances in the UK at the time. So, I 
wont be asking Skipton to take any further action in respect of this complaintt.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2021.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman