DRN-3121817
The complaint
Mrs P has complained that Covea Insurance plc unfairly declined a claim under her business 
interruption insurance policy after her business was impacted by Covid-19. For ease of 
reading, reference to Covea also includes its agents.
What happened
Mrs P held a business interruption insurance policy with Covea. She claimed on her policy 
after her business was impacted by the Governments response to the Covid-19 pandemic. 
Covea said Mrs Ps claim wasnt covered by the policy because, although the policy included 
an extension for infectious diseases, Covid-19 wasnt one of the diseases listed in the policy.
Covea also said that the extension for public emergency didnt provide cover for Mrs Ps 
claim because it excluded cover where the emergency was caused by infectious and 
contagious diseases. When Covea continued to refuse to pay Mrs Ps claim, she brought her 
complaint to us. She thought Covea should pay her claim because the policy covered 
infectious diseases. 
Our investigator looked into Mrs Ps complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He found 
that the policy covered business interruption as a result of a specified list of diseases but that 
didnt include Covid-19. He also explained why he didnt think other areas of the policy 
provided cover for the circumstances of Mrs Ps claim. 
Mrs P asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint as she thought the policy covered 
business interruption as a result of any infectious diseases.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact on 
Mrs Ps business. However, Im not going to uphold her complaint. Ill explain why. 
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see 
if Covea have acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy 
when declining Mrs Ps claim. 
Mrs P doesnt seem to dispute that other areas of the policy dont cover her claim for closure 
due to Covid-19. So, I will focus my decision on the extension for infectious diseases. For 
completeness however, I would add that I also dont think any other part of the policy 
provides cover for the circumstances of Mrs Ps claim.
 
The relevant part of the extension for infectious diseases says:
 
The insurance by this Section extends to include interruption of or interference 
with Your Business in consequence of closure of the Premises or part thereof on 
the order advice or stipulation of any government or local authority as a result of
 1) any human infectious or human contagious Disease (excluding Acquired 
Immune Deficiency Syndrome [AIDS] or an AIDS-related condition) manifested 
by any person whilst at the Premises or within a 25 mile radius of the 
Premises 
Disease being capitalised shows that it has a specific definition within the policy. The 
definition sets out a list of covered diseases however, Covid-19 isnt on that list. I understand 
Mrs P thinks her policy provides cover for any infectious disease. However, that is only any 
the diseases listed in the definition.
Given Covid-19 wasnt in existence at the time the policy was entered into, I wouldnt expect 
it to be included in the list. There are similar policies on the market that can provide cover in 
the circumstances of the pandemic, e.g. policies which cover all notifiable diseases as set 
out and updated on a Government-defined list. Mrs Ps policy is not like this  rather it sets 
out a defined list of the diseases which are covered. And there is nothing in the wording of 
the policy which implies it would provide cover for any new diseases which might emerge. 
The list of covered diseases does include SARS, so Ive considered whether this would 
extend to cover Covid-19. However, I dont think SARS and Covid-19 are the same disease. 
The Governments list of notifiable diseases lists them as two separate diseases. And the 
World Health Organisation has also confirmed that while related, the two viruses are 
different and it announced that Covid-19 was the name of this new disease. So, based on 
the evidence Ive seen, I dont think I can reasonably say that these two diseases are the 
same. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mrs P was hoping for, but having considered the matter 
very carefully, I dont think I can fairly require Covea to pay her claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman