DRN-3082044
The complaint
Mr H complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc has voided (cancelled) his business combined 
insurance policy and declined his claim for theft.
What happened
Mr H took out his business combined insurance policy with AXA in mid-October 2019. In 
November 2019 his premises experienced a break in and stock was stolen. Mr H made a 
claim to AXA which it settled for £67,000.
Mr H experienced a further break-in in December 2019 and lodged a second claim. AXA 
appointed a loss adjuster to validate the claim and the policy cover. In January 2020, a 
special investigator was appointed to look into the circumstances of the claim and consider 
policy liability. 
During the course of its enquiries AXA discovered that Mr H had reported to police that only 
£5,000 of stock had been taken in contrast to the £56,000 hed told AXA about. And it found 
out that the alarm contract for the premises was held in the name of one of Mr Hs suppliers, 
and that there was no VAT number for the business despite Mr H stating the opposite. AXA 
also noted that Mr H exceeded the VAT threshold and should therefore be VAT registered. 
And AXA also raised concerns with Mr H about the uncharacteristically high level of stock 
purchases just before the first theft - £67,000 worth in a 10-day period.
Mr H responded to AXAs queries to say he didnt recall telling the police only £5,000 of 
stock had been taken, to clarify the situation with the alarm and to enclose his VAT 
certificate.
AXA then instructed solicitors to make further enquiries of Mr H. They wrote to him in 
December 2020 to set out AXAs thoughts about Mr Hs claim and policy. They said that 
Mr H had provided no proof of payment for the high amount of stock hed purchased prior to 
the second theft. And they mentioned the much lower value of stolen stock Mr H had given 
to the police noting that Mr H had failed to provide a satisfactory explanation for the 
discrepancy in the two figures. 
AXAs solicitors also referred to the Market Presentation of Risk document produced on 
Mr Hs behalf prior to the policys inception. They said it stated: 
Material Facts regarding directors and/or partners:
None.
Convicted or charged but not tried for a criminal offence (non-motoring) 
Declared bankrupt or the subject of bankruptcy proceedings
Involved in another company within 6 months before receivership/insolvency.
AXAs solicitors noted Mr H had ticked the box marked none but that investigations had 
shown him to have been the director of another business which had an unsatisfied county 
court judgement against it from February 2017 and which went into liquidation in mid-July 
2017. It was noted the liquidation was ongoing. AXAs solicitors said that this meant the 
answer Mr H had given in the Market Presentation of Risk was therefore untrue and 
incorrect. They went on to note that in the statement of fact Mr H had declared that neither 
he or any business partner had been declared bankrupt or been involved in a business that 
went into liquidation or had become insolvent. So AXAs solicitors told Mr H that hed 
breached his duty of fair presentation to AXA. 
AXAs solicitors went on to say that under the Insurance Act 2015, Mr H had a duty to fairly 
present the risk he was asking AXA to take on and that included a duty to disclose the 
details about the ongoing liquidation he was involved in. Consequently they told Mr H that 
AXA was entitled in law to void the policy because, but for his breach of that duty, it wouldnt 
have entered into the insurance contract with him at all.
AXA told Mr H it wasnt paying his second theft claim and was voiding his policy back to 
inception because hed failed to disclose some information when he was taking the policy 
out. It also said it was reserving its right to recover the sum itd paid to Mr H for the first 
claim. AXA said it was willing to let Mr H provide an explanation for his failure to disclose the 
insolvency and ongoing liquidation. 
Mr H instructed his own solicitors who replied to AXA in January 2021. They said that Mr H 
had reasonably interpreted involved in a company within 6 months before receivership to 
mean was he involved within a company 6 months before the policy incepted? They said 
Mr Hs involvement in the insolvent company had ceased in July 2017, some 27 months 
before inception so, they said, AXAs statement was ambiguous. And they stated that the 
declaration hed made in the statement of fact about never having been involved in a 
business that had gone into liquidation was limited (in Mr Hs mind) to the previous reference 
to 6 months. They also said the two businesses were unrelated so the insolvency of one 
couldnt be said to be a material circumstance relevant to the other.
Mr Hs solicitors also addressed the factual discrepancies highlighted by AXAs solicitors (for 
example, they accounted for the high stock levels by stating that it was around Christmas 
time) and said that it was possible the police had omitted a zero from the figure in its report. 
AXA maintained its decision to decline Mr Hs claim and void his policy back to inception.
Mr H complained to AXA. AXA looked into his complaint and but didnt uphold it. It said that 
his claim had progressed more slowly than it would normally like but AXA considered the 
delays hed experienced to be unavoidable given the investigation it was undertaking. AXA 
said it considered its decision to void Mr Hs policy back to inception was the correct one 
because Mr H had failed to disclose relevant information. 
Unhappy with the outcome of AXAs investigation, Mr H complained to this service in April 
2021. Mr H told our investigator that he told his broker about the insolvency but he hadnt 
passed the information onto AXA. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Hs complaint but didnt recommend that it was upheld. He 
thought it wasnt unreasonable for AXA to have cancelled Mr Hs policy given it had been 
able to show hed failed to fairly present the risk he was asking it to take on. He also thought 
that, whilst a year was a long time for AXA to reach a decision on Mr Hs claim, the 
investigations it was carrying out meant the delay wasnt an unreasonable one. 
Mr H disagreed with our investigators findings. He said his version of events hadnt been 
taken into account and that the findings of our investigator were unfair. Mr H said again that 
hed told his broker about the insolvency and that other insurers were happy to cover him. 
The complaint was passed to me for a decision. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a commercial customer buys an insurance policy the insurer will ask them questions 
about themselves and what they want to insure. The insurer uses the answers to the 
questions its asked, and the information provided, to assess the risk it is being asked to 
cover. From there it will decide if it is willing to offer the customer a policy and at what price. 
The insurer relies on answers and information given as accurate. If an answer is inaccurate 
or incomplete it can amount to a misrepresentation. Commercial policyholders such as Mr H 
have to volunteer information  to make a fair presentation of the risk to the insurer. The 
relevant law that applies in his situation is the Insurance Act 2015. 
Mr H has said that he was re-appointed as a director of the other business in order to wind it 
up. He also said that the issue with the outstanding balances owed to HMRC has now been 
resolved. But, under the Act he had a duty, as an individual operating in a commercial 
capacity, to make AXA aware of any risks that he knew, or ought to have known, about that 
would impact its decision to offer him a policy. 
When Mr H took out the policy, he was asked the question about insolvencies that Ive set 
out above. The question asks if any of the directors of the business were involved in another 
company within 6 months before insolvency. I appreciate that Mr H has said the question 
was obscure and that hed interpreted it to be asking if hed been involved in insolvencies in 
the last six months (before taking out the policy) but based on the wording I dont think that 
was a reasonable interpretation to have made. I think its fair to say that the question is 
asking whether Mr H had gone through an insolvency within six months of being a
director of that business.
And the answer to that question should have been yes (or, as I understand it the box next 
to it shouldve been ticked) because Mr H had been appointed as director of the other 
company in June 2017 and the insolvency process began in July 2017. So, I think its fair to 
say he shouldve made AXA aware of this risk, and, the fact that he didnt means theres 
been a qualifying breach under the Insurance Act 2015. And I can see that, not only was the 
correct box not ticked on the Market Presentation document, but that Mr H went on in the 
statement of fact to state that hed not been involved in a business that had gone into 
liquidation when, in fact, he had.
I know that Mr H has said, in the alternative, that he told his broker about the insolvency and 
that it was his broker that failed to tick the correct box. That may of course have been the 
case but that is a matter for his broker to address first; I cant look at that here. This 
complaint is about AXAs decision to void the policy and decline the claim. 
I think, within this complaint, AXA has been able to show that Mr H made a qualifying breach 
 that he failed to fairly present the risk he was asking AXA to insure by not answering the 
question posed about directorships and insolvencies. 
That being the case, AXA has to show that, had it been made aware of the insolvency, and 
through the further investigations that wouldve followed that disclosure, become aware of 
the outstanding balances the other company had, then it wouldnt have offered cover under 
any terms. I can see that AXAs underwriters have confirmed this to be the case; they would 
not have offered to cover Mr H if they had known about the insolvency of the other company 
he was involved with. I appreciate Mr H has provided letters showing the outstanding debts with HMRC were 
under question, but Ive also considered the information provided in the Notice of Statement 
of affairs on the Companies House website. I think its fair to say this showed there were 
outstanding debts exceeding the level that AXA wouldve accepted in order to provide cover.
Where a qualifying breach under the Act can be said to reckless or deliberate, AXA is 
permitted to avoid the policy, refuse all claims and retain the premiums. I can see this is 
what AXA has done and I dont think, taking all the circumstances into account that its done 
so unreasonably. Given the policy has been cancelled back to inception, I can see that AXA 
has said the Act also permits it to recover the sums it paid out in relation to the first claim 
but, to date, AXA hasnt done so and has reserved its position in this respect. 
As such, I cant say its unreasonable for AXA to have cancelled Mr Hs policy and, as I think
its shown he was reckless in not making it aware of the previous insolvency its fair for AXA 
not to refund the premiums paid.
Ive also thought about Mr Hs complaint about the time taken for AXA to reach a decision on 
the outcome on his claim which was around a year. Im sure this seemed like a long period 
of time to Mr H but, given the extent of the investigations AXA was carrying out, I dont think 
it caused any unreasonable delays. Insurers are entitled to take some time to validate a 
claim and assess policy liability; thats only fair. And I can see that AXA gave Mr H a number 
of opportunities during that year to answer its concerns. And I can see too that AXA 
requested information from multiple parties, including the police, HMRC and Mr H during the 
course of its investigation before reaching a conclusion. I can also see it referred the claim to 
its underwriters and legal team to confirm the outcome it was reaching was fair.
As such, whilst I appreciate the outcome took time to provide, I dont think the investigations
carried out by AXA and time taken was unreasonable. 
It follows that this is a complaint I cant fairly or reasonably uphold. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2021.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman