DRN-2004518
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy at how Zenith Insurance Plc dealt with a claim made against his motor 
insurance policy after a road traffic accident.
What happened
In May 2018 Mr B was involved in a road traffic accident. He reported this to his insurers, 
Zenith, and explained that he thought that the accident had been staged by the other driver  
he said the other driver had stopped for no reason having set off from a junction and I made 
contact with the back of their vehicle. Zenith recorded the details of the incident and told Mr 
B they would let him know if the other driver made a claim.
In April 2019, Mr B received his renewal quote from Zenith and his premium had increased. 
He contacted them and was told that, because of a claim made against his policy relating to 
the accident in May 2018, his no claims discount (NCD) had been reduced.
Mr B complained that Zenith told him about the claim too close to the renewal date for him to 
find cheaper insurance elsewhere. Hes also unhappy that Zenith paid out on the claim at all, 
because he believes it was fraudulent and he feels the costs were inflated. Mr B wanted his 
renewal premium to be reduced to the same as the previous year, and his NCD reinstated. 
Zenith didnt agree, so he brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator said Zenith shouldve informed Mr B about the claim when they originally 
received it, and Zenith have accepted that shouldve been the case. Zenith had paid Mr B 
£75 by way of an apology for this, and the investigator thought this was reasonable.
The investigator also said that Zenith accepted Mr B had driven into another car  it was Mr 
Bs responsibility to maintain a safe breaking distance and, after investigating the claim, 
Zenith couldnt prove this wasnt legitimate. So he thought Zenith had acted reasonably by 
accepting liability and paying out the claim. And he didnt think that them telling Mr B about 
the claim earlier wouldve made any difference to this.
Because Zenith accepted liability, Mr Bs NCD was reduced in line with the terms of his 
policy. And the investigator thought Mr B had had sufficient time to obtain an alternative 
quote  he received his renewal quote from Zenith on 17 April 2019, he spoke to them about 
it the following day, and the policy renewal date was 9 May 2019. And the investigator said 
that Mr B had a 14-day cooling off period following renewal, so he couldve cancelled his 
policy with Zenith during this period. So he didnt think Zenith needed to do anything more.
Mr B didnt agree with the investigator. Hes said he didnt know what was going on with the 
claim, so he was unable to seek alternative quotes in either 2019 or 2020  he feels trapped 
with Zenith. He also feels that the accident was staged, the claim costs excessive, and 
because Zenith had a relationship with the claims management company who acted for the 
other driver, the claim wasnt properly scrutinised.
So this matter has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent 
commented on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the 
right outcome.
Id like to start by explaining that its not my role to re-underwrite the claim and decide 
whether it was fraudulent or not. My role is to consider if Zenith reached a fair decision 
based on the evidence available to them at the time.
The terms of Mr Bs car insurance policy allowed Zenith to conduct the claim and gave them 
full discretion to agree a settlement. Because of this Zenith didnt need Mr Bs agreement or 
approval to accept liability for the claim. But I would expect them to base any decision, even 
if its cost related, on things such as:
The versions of events provided by Mr B and the third party.
Any evidence provided to support or challenge the version of events.
Legal precedent, legislation and the Highway Code.
When he reported the incident to Zenith, Mr B admitted driving into the rear of the other 
drivers car. I aware hes said they braked suddenly, and for no reason, but it was Mr Bs 
responsibility under the Highway Code to maintain a safe braking distance.
Zenith say they investigated the claim - the damage caused to the other drivers car reflects 
the circumstances of the accident and matches with what damage Mr B said was done. 
Theyve also confirmed that they believe the hire car charges to be justified, as the other 
driver was entitled to have a car while theirs was being repaired. And, given Mr Bs 
concerns, Zeniths fraud department investigated the accident and found nothing suspicious.
Given this, Im satisfied Zenith handled the claim reasonably and Ive seen nothing to 
suggest that their decision to accept liability and pay out on the claim wasnt fair.
But I do think Zenith shouldve told Mr B what theyd done. And it wasnt fair for him to find 
out whatd happened when he received his policy renewal premium almost a year later. Im 
glad to see that Zenith acknowledge this and have paid Mr B £75 compensation for the 
shock that finding this out wouldve caused him. I think this payment is fair and in line with 
what Id direct in similar circumstances. So I wont be asking Zenith to pay any more.
Ive seen Zenith also confirmed the claim, and the amount theyd paid out (almost £6,500), to 
Mr B in a webchat on 18 April 2020. And on this chat Mr B told Zenith hed be looking at 
alternative insurance quotes now he was able to do so. 
The Motor Insurance Database (MID) contains details of any claims thatve been made, and 
this is accessible to all insurers. Because of this, Mr B didnt need to know the full 
breakdown of his claim. Any quote would be based on the information Mr B provided and the 
information on the MID. So I dont agree that Mr B was trapped with Zenith because they 
didnt provide him with a breakdown of his claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint about Zenith Insurance Plc.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2020.
Andrew Burford
 
Ombudsman