DRN-3067453
The complaint
 Mrs S, who is represented by her husband Mr S, complains that Santander Consumer (UK) 
Plc was irresponsible in granting her a loan to fund the acquisition of a car.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
Firstly, I will address the issue of Mr Ss financial situation and its relevance to the loan and 
to this complaint. Like most couples Mr and Mrs Ss finances were intertwined. However, as 
Santander has made clear in its final response letter the loan was made to Mrs S and it 
could not take into account Mr Ss situation. This was specifically in relation to him being 
unable to work due to an accident which happened after the loan was granted. I too have to 
consider Mrs Ss financial state at the time the loan was taken out although I cannot wholly 
ignore the wider context which includes the family financial dynamics.
Our investigator has already set out the key question we need to address. These are:
1. Did Santander complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy themselves that 
Mrs S would be able to repay the agreement in a sustainable way?
a. If so, did they make a fair lending decision?
b. If not, would those checks have shown that shed have been able to do so?
2. Did Santander act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The relevant rules in CONC says that lenders need to carry out checks to ensure any 
lending they give is affordable and sustainable for the borrower. This is often referred to as 
an affordability check. This check should be borrower-focussed. This means Santander 
needed to think about whether Mrs S could afford the borrowing, not just how statistically 
likely she was to repay it back.
CONC outlines that the assessment the lender needs to complete should be dependent on 
and proportionate to a number of factors such as:
the type of credit
the size and duration of the credit;
the overall cost of the borrowing (APR) and the size of the repayments;
the customers credit history, including any indications that the customer is
experiencing or has experienced financial difficulties
Santander made its decision to lend based primarily on data about Mrs S. It made use of her 
application and her credit file report. This showed she had three defaults and three 
delinquent accounts of which one was in the last 12 months or so. However, these aside her 
financial situation was deemed to be satisfactory and on this limited data a loan was held to 
affordable. The reality was somewhat different. 
Mrs Ss two sources of income were a part time job and child benefit. The mortgage on the 
family home was in Mr Ss name alone. Santander has commented on the joint bank 
statements which we supplied and noted that the account was in credit. This may be the 
case, but this account is a joint one and we can only extract the relevant information for Mrs 
S. In essence this confirms that her income was fairly low. Any inference on her lifestyle has 
to take into account the contribution made by Mr S and as Santander has made clear it 
based its decision on Mrs Ss financial status alone.
This leaves us with monthly take home pay of £480.27 and child benefit of £149. The 
monthly repayments due on the loan were £296.79. Based solely on her individual financial 
position it is hard to say that the loan was affordable.
Santander has said that Mrs S was the only one who had full knowledge of her financial 
position and it referenced the fact that several months later Mr S was made bankrupt. I have 
two issues with this. Firstly, the loan was evaluated on Mrs Ss status alone and it is not 
clear why she would be expected to notify Santander of her husbands situation. Secondly 
he was made bankrupt several months later and she would not have been in a position to 
confirm this event.
The guidance on lending makes it clear that the check which take place should be borrower 
focussed and while I recognise the value of statistical data, simply checking Mrs Ss income 
would have allowed Santander to reach a better decision and would probably have meant 
the loan would have been refused. I appreciate later events contributed to the payment 
difficulties which in turn resulted in the agreement being terminated and the car 
repossessed, but the fundamental point is that the borrower focussed information at the time 
showed the loan wasnt affordable.
In resolving the complaint I have to take into account the fact that the car has been 
repossessed and it is impossible to wholly undo the loan and the acquisition of the car. The 
only way to achieve a fair resolution is for the agreement to be unwound and for Mrs S to 
make a fair payment for her use of the car. I agree with our investigator that £200 a month is 
fair.
Putting things right
 The agreement should be unwound. 
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Santander Consumer (UK) Plc 
to:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay.Calculate how much Mrs S has paid in total and deduct £4,800 for fair usage and 
refund the difference adding 8% interest* from date of payment to date of settlement.
To remove any negative information recorded on Mrs Ss credit file regarding the 
agreement
If there any arrears after the settlement has been calculated, Santander should 
arrange an affordable repayment plan. And treat Mrs S with forbearance and due 
consideration.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander 
must give Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if she asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman