DRN-2802713
The complaint
Mrs and Mr W complain about how QIC Europe Limited dealt with and settled a claim they 
made under their household insurance policy for accidental damage to their flooring.
What happened
In August 2019 Mrs and Mr W purchased a household insurance, which is provided by QIC. 
Their policy covered them for damage to their buildings and accidental damage to contents 
within their home. 
On 29 July 2020 Mrs and Mr W contacted QIC in order to advise that their decorative 
hardwood flooring had been damaged when a bucket of water was accidentally knocked 
over onto it while it was being cleaned. They informed QIC that they wanted to claim for the 
damage under their policy.
QIC considered Mrs and Mr Ws claim for the damage theyd reported. But it declined to 
cover their claim because it said they hadnt purchased full accidental damage to their 
buildings cover when they incepted their policy. And it said their flooring would be covered 
by a buildings insurance policy.
Mrs and Mr W complained to QIC about how it had settled their claim. But it didnt uphold 
their complaint as it didnt think it had done anything wrong. Being dissatisfied with QICs 
response to their complaint, Mrs and Mr W referred it to our service. And they asked us to 
assess whether QIC had fairly dealt with their claim.
Our investigator considered the evidence provided by Mrs and Mr W and QIC. But they 
didnt recommend upholding this complaint. They didnt think QIC had made an error in 
declining Mrs and Mr Ws claim. And, as our investigator thought QIC had dealt with this 
claim fairly, they didnt think it needed to do anything further. But Mrs and Mr W disagreed 
and asked for their complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mrs and Mr W have gone to some trouble to provide our service with detailed 
submissions about why they disagree with how QIC settled their claim. I want to assure them 
that Ive read everything theyve sent us. Where I havent commented on a specific 
complaint point raised by Mrs and Mr W or QIC its not because Ive failed to consider it, but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
The crux of this complaint is whether QIC made a mistake, or treated Mrs and Mr W unfairly, 
such that it needs to now put things right. 
Its not in dispute that accidental damage was caused to Mrs and Mr Ws flooring. However, 
theres a disagreement between them and QIC about whether its acted reasonably in 
declining to cover the damage they reported. 
QIC declined to cover the damage to Mrs and Mr Ws flooring as it says this item would be 
covered by a buildings insurance policy. And it said Mrs and Mr W didnt take out full 
buildings accidental damage cover, as is required to enable this type of loss to be settled.
Im satisfied that Mrs and Mr W dont hold full buildings accidental buildings cover. Ive had 
sight of the documentation they were sent shortly after taking out their policy with QIC. This 
documentation urges them to carefully check the information they provided and to satisfy 
themselves that their policy met their requirements. It also shows that, when asked whether 
they wanted to include accidental damage cover for buildings, they answered no. Im 
therefore satisfied that Mrs and Mr W were aware that they hadnt purchased full buildings 
accidental damage cover at the time they incepted their policy. 
The terms and conditions of the policy Mrs and Mr W hold clearly outline how QIC deals with 
claims involving damage to buildings and contents. In relation to buildings claims, the terms 
state:
Buildings also includes the permanent fixtures and fittings in or mounted upon the buildings 
that could not easily be removed and reused, such as fixed solar panels (that have been 
professionally installed), fixed sanitary fittings (for example, toilets, sinks and baths)
and laminated, wood-effect or vinyl floor coverings.
Mrs and Mr W disagree that the damage to their flooring should be considered under the 
buildings section of their policy. They told QIC, and our investigator, detailed information 
about how their damaged flooring had been installed. They said it was a decorative type 
flooring cover, which was professionally laid on top of the original constructed timber type 
flooring. They say it was finished by securing a new skirting board when meeting the walls 
and they stated that the skirting board is easily removable which would allow the uplift of the 
decorative floor covering. 
As Mrs and Mr W believe that their flooring was removeable they say this would have 
allowed them to take it with them if they were to ever to move to a new house. They believe 
that this, and the way in which their flooring was installed, means it should be covered by 
their contents insurance policy for which they have the benefit of full accidental cover.
I understand the point Mrs and Mr W are making here. But our service would still consider 
their flooring to be part of the fixture and fittings of the building  even if it could be removed. 
I say this because our services general approach when considering what items are contents 
is that if you were to upend a house, anything that would fall out is considered to be 
contents. Anything that remains in its place would be covered under a buildings insurance 
policy.
In this case, if Mrs and Mr Ws house was upended, theres no doubt the flooring would have 
remained in place. Its therefore right to say it would be covered under a buildings insurance 
policy. So, I could only fairly direct QIC to settle Mrs and Mr Ws claim if they held full 
accidental buildings cover, which they dont.  
I understand Mrs and Mr W feel very strongly about the issues raised in their complaint and I 
realise theyll be disappointed with this decision. But for the reasons already outlined, Im not 
persuaded QIC made an error in assessing their claim. Its repudiation decision is in line with 
the policy terms and the approach our service takes when it considers complaints of this 
nature. Because Mrs and Mr W dont hold full accidental buildings cover, I cant fairly ask QIC to settle this claim. Im therefore not going to ask it to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 14 June 2021.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman