DRN-2525955
The complaint
Mr A has complained that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold him a packaged 
bank account, called an Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA). Bank of Scotland 
charged him a monthly fee for the account and provided several potential benefits in return. 
Mr A thinks that Bank of Scotland should refund him all the fees he paid, plus interest. 
What happened
Mr A has been a customer of Bank of Scotland for quite a while. Bank of Scotland has sent 
us information from its records, which it says shows that:
in January 2012, Mr A opened a fee-free account, 
in March 2012, it sold him the URCA, which replaced his fee-free account and for 
which it charged the monthly fee.
I think that Bank of Scotlands records about this are probably reliable and I have taken them 
to be accurate. 
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Mr As complaint and didnt think that Bank 
of Scotland had mis-sold the URCA to him. The adjudicator didnt recommend that Bank of 
Scotland should give Mr A any money back.
Mr A didnt agree with the adjudicators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review his 
case. So, it has come to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website, 
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do about this case. Ive looked into 
everything that Mr A and Bank of Scotland have told us or sent us about the complaint, and 
Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
In 2012, Bank of Scotland, along with other banks, was allowed to sell packaged bank 
accounts (including URCAs) in two ways. It could do so without giving personal advice on an 
information-only (or non-advised) basis; or as an advised (or recommended) sale. 
Whichever approach Bank of Scotland used for Mr A, as well as giving him a choice, I would 
have expected it to tell him about the URCAs costs and benefits clearly; and in an advised 
sale I would also have expected it to check that the URCA was appropriate for his 
circumstances. 
Part of the dispute in this complaint has been about how Bank of Scotland came to sell the 
URCA to Mr A. Mr A has told us that he went into one of Bank of Scotlands branches to 
open an account and the manager advised (him) to go online and open (the URCA).
Bank of Scotland has no record of Mr As discussion with the manager and has simply said 
that its records show that it sold the URCA to Mr A online. Im not surprised that Bank of 
Scotland has no record of the discussion, but I fully accept that it may well have taken place. 
However, as Mr A didnt buy the URCA during this discussion, Im satisfied that Bank of 
Scotland sold it to him online. 
In an online sale, its unlikely that Bank of Scotland would have given Mr A any personal 
advice, and while I accept that its manager may have mentioned the URCA to Mr A during 
the discussion I doubt that it made a recommendation. So, I have considered this complaint 
to be about an online information-only sale. 
Its over eight years since years since Bank of Scotland sold the URCA to Mr A, and I cant 
tell for sure what online screens or information Mr A saw when he bought it. But from what I 
have seen, I think that Bank of Scotlands website probably provided Mr A with fair 
information about the URCAs benefits and told him about the monthly fees.
Mr A has told us that Bank of Scotland said that (he) wouldnt be eligible for (a) fee-free 
account and had to get (an URCA). However, by the time Mr A went online and bought the 
URCA, he had already held one of Bank of Scotlands fee-free accounts for around two 
months, so I doubt that Bank of Scotland told him he couldnt have such an account, either 
through its website or in the earlier discussion in the branch. I think its far more likely Bank 
of Scotland gave Mr A the choice to keep his fee-free account or to buy the URCA. 
In 2012, the potential benefits of the URCA included use of a car breakdown service, mobile 
phone insurance and travel insurance. Depending on how customers used their accounts, 
Bank of Scotland also usually applied lower charges to overdrafts for customers with URCAs 
than to customers with fee-free accounts. 
Mr A has told us that he didnt want, need or use any of the potential benefits of the URCA. 
However, I understand that he owned a mobile phone and used a car. Hes also told us that 
at times he had a large overdraft. So, it seems possible to me that back in 2012, he may 
have found some of the benefits attractive, although I will not speculate any further on what 
Mr A may have wanted in 2012. 
Mr A has also mentioned that he had alternatives in place for some of the benefits, such as 
the car breakdown service. I accept this, but in an information-only sale, this would have 
been for Mr A to consider for himself. 
Mr A has also told us that when he had the fee-free account, Bank of Scotland wouldnt let 
him pay money in, or take it out at the counter, and told him he had to use the cash 
machines; and that he tried to close the URCA many times but was forced to keep it. He 
has not sent us many details about these two issues, and I havent considered them within 
this decision. Mr A is therefore free to raise any complaint he wishes to make about them 
with Bank of Scotland. However, I cannot give him any advice about this, or speculate on 
how Bank of Scotland may respond or what the outcome may be. Nor do I know if any 
complaint Mr A may subsequently wish to bring to us will fall inside or outside the rules and 
time limits that determine which complaints we can consider.
So, in summary, Im satisfied that Bank of Scotland sold the URCA to Mr A online, and that it 
told him about the URCAs costs and benefits and gave him a choice. I dont think Bank of 
Scotland mis-sold the URCA to Mr A.
My final decisionFor the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Mr As complaint that Bank of 
Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold the URCA to him. I am not going to tell it to give 
him any money back. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2021.  
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman