The complaint  
Mr T complains about Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (Sun Life Canada). He s 
unhappy a transfer request he made wasnt processed correctly.  
What happened  
Mr T has a pension plan with a pension provider Ill refer to as Provider A . He also has a 
pension plan with Sun Life Canada and another pension plan with a pension provider Ill 
refer to as Provider B.  
Provider A has confirmed that on 8 July 2019 it received a transfer request from Mr T 
through its website, asking for his Sun L ife Canada plan under reference ending 073 to be 
transferred to his Provider A plan.  
Upon receiving Mr Ts request, Provider A submitted a request to Sun Life Canada through 
an online transfer system called Origo. Provider A requested that the full value of Mr Ts 
pension under reference ending 073 be transferred to it.  
Sun Life Canada received Mr Ts request from Provider A via Origo. Following this, Sun Life 
Financial checked the details Provider A had provided against the details on its system.  
Everyth ing matched up correctly apart from the Ceding Contract Reference number 
provided.  
The Ceding Contract Reference was meant to confirm the number for the plan Mr T wanted 
to transfer. The reference Provider A gave didnt match the plan number Sun Life Cana da 
held for Mr Ts plan with it. However, as Provider As Origo transfer request confirmed the 
ceding provider (i.e. the provider Mr Ts policy was being transferred from) was Sun Life 
Canada, Sun Life Canada went ahead and processed the request it receive d based on the 
plan Mr T had with it. Following this it sent Mr T and Provider A confirmation that Mr Ts plan 
had been transferred.  
On 15 July 2019 Sun Life Canada sent Provider A a cheque for the full value of Mr Ts plan - 
£42,146.54.  
On 16 July 2019 P rovider A initially called Sun Life Canada to confirm the amount 
transferred was correct. However, it later called Sun Life Canada to say Mr T had realised 
his Provider B pension (the pension hed wanted to transfer to Provider A) which was worth  
£127, wasnt with Sun Life Canada. Provider A confirmed Mr T hadnt wanted to transfer his 
Sun Life Canada pension.  
Sun Life Canada later wrote to Mr T to confirm it had stopped the cheque sent to Provider A 
in respect of the transfer of his pension funds.  It enclosed a copy of Provider As Origo  
transfer request and said this showed Provider A had requested Mr Ts plan funds with it be 
transferred.  
DRN-1420315On 17 July 2019 Sun Life Canada wrote to Provider A. It said the transfer of Mr Ts plan with 
it was requ ested in error by Provider A via Origo and confirmed it had stopped the cheque it 
had sent and reinstated Mr Ts pension plan.  
 
Mr T later complained to Provider A and Sun Life Canada about what happened.  
 
Provider A sent its final response to Mr Ts compl aint on 24 July 2019. In summary it said:  
 
 it received Mr Ts transfer request via its website and submitted his instruction via 
Origo  
 when it received a cheque from Sun Life Canada for the transfer it noticed the 
difference in value and contacted Mr T and Sun Life  Canada  
 it checked its systems and was satisfied it acted in line with the instruction Mr T 
provided it  with 
 it had returned the cheque it received for the transfer to Sun Life Canada which had 
confirmed Mr Ts policy had been  reinstated  
 
Sun Life Canada sent it s final response to Mr Ts complaint on 6 August 2019. In summary it 
said:  
 
 it received an Origo Options Transfer request from Provider A on 10 July 2019. This 
request provided Mr Ts name, date of birth and national insurance number. Sun Life 
Canada was  recorded as the provider and Provider A confirmed the transaction type 
was a P2P, which was a full fund  transfer  
 as part of the Origo Options Transfer request the Ceding Contract Reference was 
recorded as ending 073. This was where the plan number w as usually  recorded  
 its Pension Payments team checked Mr Ts records with the information provided by 
Provider A and noted Mr T only had one active pension plan with it. So despite the 
fact the Origo request didnt contain a correct plan number it proces sed the full fund 
transfer requested by Provider  A 
 had Provider A not sent it the Origo Options Transfer request in error in the first 
place, Mr Ts plan with it would never have been transferred to Provider  A 
 it accepted its Pension Payments team shou ldve clarified the Ceding Contract 
Reference with Provider A before proceeding with the full fund transfer and was 
sorry for not doing  this 
 Mr Ts plan had been fully reinstated and he hadnt lot out financially in any way. It 
confirmed the value of M r Ts plan as at 30 July was  £43,160.58  
 it noted Mr Ts concerns and would provide relevant  feedback  
 
Unhappy with Sun Life Canada s response, Mr T referred his complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the matter and in summary said:  
 Sun Life made an error by not checking the ceding scheme reference given by 
Provider A matched up with the plan number it held for  Mr T. Had this check been 
carried out Sun Life Canada wouldve identified that no plan was held for Mr T under 
the reference provided. After this, queries couldve been raised with Provider A, at 
which point it wouldve been identified that the original t ransfer request had been sent 
to Sun Life Canada in  error   Sun Lifes actions meant the transfer process went further than it otherwise wouldve 
had it carried out the correct  checks  
 Sun Life Canada t ook prompt action to put the error right and reinstated Mr Ts plan 
so no financial loss was  suffered  
 finding out his Sun Life Canada plan had been transferred when it shouldnt have 
been wouldve come as a great shock to Mr T and caused him stress and a nxiety. 
Because of this Sun Life Canada should pay Mr T £100  compensation  
 
Sun Life Canada agreed with our investigator. But Mr T disagreed. He said he didnt feel  
£100 compensation was adequate given the stress and anxiety caused by what happened. 
As no a greement could be reached the matter was passed to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why  
 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
 
Having done so, Im intending to partially uphold Mr Ts complaint. Ill explain why. But 
before I do, I should emphasise that while Ive taken note of all the arguments made by both 
parties, I ve limited my response to the issues I consider to be central to this complaint. That 
is to say:  
 
 whether Sun Life Canada made an error processing Mr Ts transfer  request  
 whether Sun Life Canada has taken appropriate action following any error and 
sufficiently compensated Mr T for what  happened  
 
To be clear, my decision will only deal with Sun Life Canadas actions. As such I wont be 
reaching any conclusions regarding Provider As actions.  
 
Theres no dispute about the fact Sun Life Canada made an err or when it processed the 
transfer request it received from Provider A. Mr T has said his intention was only for his 
small pension plan, worth £127, with Provider B to be transferred to Provider A. So it was 
deeply concerning when it was brought to Mr Ts a ttention that his significantly larger Sun 
Life Canada plan, worth £42,146.54 had been transferred.  
 
Mr Ts Sun Life Canada plan represented a large proportion of his retirement funds. So I can 
appreciate how alarming it wouldve been for Mr T to discover this plan had been transferred 
when it shouldnt have. Mr T has referred to reports hed seen in the media about pension 
scams at the time of the transfer. Given his awareness of the prevalence of these, Mr T was 
genuinely worried he may have been a victim  of such a scam. I have real sympathy for Mr T.  
 
I haven t seen anything to suggest the initial transfer request made to Provider A specifically 
mentioned that Mr T wanted to transfer his Provider B pension. Indeed, Provider A has told 
this service that Provider B wasnt mentioned, only Sun Life Canada was. It s eems to me 
therefore that although Mr T may have provided Provider A with his Provider B plan number, 
he may have mistakenly said this plan was held with Sun Life Canada. This would explain 
why the transfer request was incorrectly directed to Sun Life Cana da in the first place.  
 
Notwithstanding the issue with Mr Ts transfer request being sent to Sun Life Canada when it 
shouldnt have been, I still consider that Mr T was entitled to rely on Sun Life Canada to act 
with due care and due diligence when it rece ived the transfer request from Provider A.  Unfortunately, on this occasion, I dont think Sun Life Canada fully met its responsibility to Mr 
T in this respect.  
 
As Sun Life Canada has confirmed, upon receiving a transfer request via Or igo, its process 
before proceeding with such a request is to check that the details provided are correct and 
match records on its system.  
 
Ive seen the details Sun Life Canada was provided with by Provider A. Sun Life Canada 
was able to verify some of the  information it was provided with for Mr T. This included Mr Ts 
date of birth and National Insurance Number. The transfer request also confirmed the plan 
Mr T wanted to transfer was a Sun Life Canada plan.  
 
Although Sun Life Canada was able to verify some  of the information Provider A gave it, it 
couldnt match the reference number provided with the number it held for Mr Ts plan with it. 
At this point, I wouldve expected Sun Life Canada to have queried this discrepancy with 
Provider A or even Mr T. Sun L ife Canada failed to take either of these actions. Instead it 
proceeded with the transfer assuming that, as the majority of the information given matched 
its records, the transfer request was probably for the one plan Mr T held with it.  
 
Given the signific ance of the transaction, I dont think the action Sun Life Canada took in the 
circumstances was reasonable.  
 
I think that if Sun Life had correctly completed all the relevant checks before proceeding with 
the transfer, this situation where Mr Ts Sun Life Canada plan was transferred erroneously 
couldve easily been avoided. In turn, the trouble and upset caused to Mr T as a result of 
what happened couldve been prevented.  
 
Im mindful that once Sun Life Canada became aware of the error, it cancelled the transfer 
cheque it sent to Provider A and reinstated Mr Ts plan quickly. This is what I wouldve 
expected Sun Life Canada to do in the circumstances. So, Im satisfied Mr T ha snt suffered 
any financial loss as a result of what happened.  
 
I can see that Sun Life Canada has apologised to Mr T for what happened - in particular for 
not querying with Provider A the Ceding Scheme Reference it was given before proceeding 
with the tran sfer. 
 
In its submissions to this service, Sun Life Canada said it didnt offer Mr T any compensation 
for its mistake because it didnt impact him financially. Although I agree with Sun Life 
Canada that Mr Ts financial position hasnt been altered negativ ely by what happened, I do 
think Sun Life Canada should make a payment of compensation to Mr T in recognition of the 
avoidable distress and inconvenience this matter has  caused.  
 
Mr T was understandably very concerned about the fact Sun Life Canada allowed  the 
transfer of his pension funds to go through when it shouldnt have.  
 
Putting things right  
 
Our investigator recommended that Sun Life Canada pay Mr T £ 100 compensation for what 
happened. In light of what happened I think this is appropriate and in line with what Id 
expect to see in the circumstances - especially considering the avoidable trouble and upset 
Sun Life Canadas actions caused. Im satisfied t his level of award sufficiently recognises the 
nature what  happened.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Im aware that Mr T feels compensation closer to £2,000 should be paid. But Im afraid Im 
unable to agree. I havent seen anythin g which persuades me that what Mr T has 
experienced is to the extent that a significant award of this kind would be fair or 
reasonable in the circumstances.  
I have real sympathy for Mr T and can appreciate how upsetting this will all have been. Its 
clear  to me that being able to rely on his pension provider to act with due care is of great 
importance to Mr T and understandably so given the significance of the provisions hes 
made for his retirement.  
Sun Life Canadas error will have naturally undermined Mr Ts confidence in the service it 
provides. But Sun Life Canada doesnt dispute the fact that it got thing wrong. It has 
apologised and agreed to pay £100 compensation for what happened.  
While Im not directing Sun Life Canada to make the award I unders tand Mr T would like, in 
that I dont think Sun Life Canada should be bound to pay him more than £100 
compensation, I should say that I do think its entirely reasonable for Mr T to expect Sun Life 
Canada to act with due care. And its unfortunate that in this case that didnt happen. I am 
genuinely sorry to hear of the impact that this has had on Mr T.  
I dont underestimate or doubt Mr Ts sincerity or strength of feeling in bringing his complaint 
to this service and I understand that my decision may come  as a disappointment to him, but 
for the reasons Ive explained, my conclusion is that Sun Life Canada should pay him £100 
compensation for trouble and upset caused.  
My final decision  
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In order to  resolve this matter, I direct 
Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada to pay Mr T £100 for trouble and upset caused.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2020.  
Chillel Bailey  
Ombudsman  