DRN-2651234
The complaint
Miss A complains that Advanced Payment Solutions, trading as Cashplus, restricted access 
to her account and funds. And didnt communicate with her during the review period. Shed 
like compensation for the impact. 
What happened
Miss A had an account with Cashplus. 
On the 12 September 2019 Miss A transferred £10,000 into her account and on the same 
day Cashplus restricted Miss As access to her account. Between the 12 September 2019 
and the 13 October 2019 Cashplus reviewed Miss As account. During this time they 
informed Miss A she couldnt access her funds because of technical difficulties. On the 
15 October 2019 Miss A was informed that her account would be closed and her funds 
returned via cheque. Miss A was initially advised that the cheque was posted to her in the 
middle of October, however Cashplus didnt post the cheque until the 4 November 2019.
 
Miss A complained that she hadnt received the funds. Cashplus looked into Miss As 
complaint and partly upheld it  they accepted theyd given Miss A incorrect advice and the 
cheque wasnt posted in the middle of October. Due to the number of phone calls made by 
Miss A to discuss the issue they offered her £20 in compensation. 
Miss A wasnt happy with Cashpluss response so complained to our service. Miss A 
explained that she had no money for food. 
One of our investigators looked into Miss As complaint. She thought that Cashplus acted 
fairly in restricting access to Miss As account, but she thought theyd offered poor service in 
informing Miss A theyd sent the cheque when this wasnt the case. And advised Cashplus to 
pay Miss A £100 in compensation. 
Miss A accepted our investigators conclusion but Cashplus didnt. They responded by 
advising that a period of 2 weeks isnt long enough to produce a cheque, and the terms and 
conditions state they have 30 days to make arrangements. The bank also argued that as the 
funds were from a gambling institution Miss A wasnt suffering from financial difficulties. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account restriction:
Ive firstly considered Cashpluss actions in restricting Miss As access to her account prior to 
closing it. 
Although I appreciate that Miss A is unhappy that restrictions were placed on her account 
businesses have a legal obligation to protect the security of their accounts and to comply 
with various laws and regulations. Miss A agreed to this term as a customer and its a 
reasonable term. Im satisfied that Cashplus were acting in line with their legal and 
regulatory obligations and in accordance with the terms and conditions of the account when 
they reviewed Miss As account. So I dont think Cashplus did anything wrong when they 
initially blocked Miss As account and didnt allow her access to her funds.
Ive also considered Cashpluss communication throughout the account restriction. Cashplus 
asked Miss A for proof of entitlement for the funds, but at the same time, on numerous 
occasions, they advised Miss A that she couldnt access the funds due to technical 
difficulties. When this wasnt in fact the case. 
Returning of funds
On the 14 October 2019 Cashplus completed their review and agreed to return Miss As 
funds via cheque. On the 21 October 2019 Cashplus informed Miss A that the cheque would 
be there in a few days  however the cheque wasnt posted until the 4 November 2019. 
Cashplus have argued that they had 30 days to raise the cheque which they met  and I 
accept this is the case. But this doesnt change that the incorrect advice they provided to 
Miss A clearly caused her distress. Cashplus have argued that Miss A cant have been in 
financial difficulty because these funds were from gambling transactions  however I dont 
think this is a fair argument. Miss A provided evidence that she was entitled to these funds, 
and suffered distress because they werent returned when she expected it. 
Putting things right
In summary, I think Miss A was caused distress and inconvenience because of Cashpluss 
failure to advise her of the true reason for the account restriction and incorrect information 
about when the cheque would arrive. And I think in recognition of this Cashplus should pay 
Miss A a small amount of compensation. 
My final decision
My final decision is I direct Advanced Payment Solutions to:
Pay Miss A £100 compensation 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 August 2021.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman