DRN-2538780
The complaint
Mrs C and Mr C are unhappy Aviva Life & Pensions UK Ltd didnt regularly keep them 
informed about their policy. They believe this meant they carried on paying for the policy for 
a number of years after they paid off their mortgage in 2010. 
What happened
In 2005 Mrs C and Mr C took out a decreasing term assurance (DTA) policy with Aviva. The 
initial sum assured was £260,000 over a term of twenty years with a monthly premium of 
£47.15. 
In November 2008 Mrs C and Mr C used the flexible option of their policy to change the sum 
assured to £150,000 with the premium reducing to £31.69. They then repaid their mortgage 
in full in 2010 but the direct debit for the DTA policy wasnt cancelled. 
In June 2020 Aviva sent out information about the policy to Mrs C and Mr C after they 
queried the monthly payment that was being taken from their bank account. Unhappy that 
they hadnt been kept informed, Mrs C and Mr C made a complaint to Aviva. They said 
because this was an investment policy they shouldve been kept informed on the value of 
their fund and what was covered. 
Aviva reviewed the complaint but didnt uphold it. It told Mrs C and Mr C this wasnt an 
investment policy but a DTA policy. So, it didnt have to keep them regularly informed as the 
terms and conditions remained the same. Mrs C and Mr C remained unhappy, so they 
brought their complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said because this was a 
DTA policy and not an investment policy, it wasnt unfair that Aviva didnt keep in regular 
contact with Mrs C and Mr C. And because it was a DTA policy, it was normal for the 
monthly premium to stay the same, but for the sum assured to decrease. She added that 
although the mortgage was paid off in 2010, it didnt mean there was no longer any need for 
this policy. 
Mrs C and Mr C disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans review. They said it didnt feel 
fair that Aviva only contacted them when a change needed to be made to the policy, but 
Aviva wasnt expected to contact them regularly to forecast and share information of the 
performance of the invested sum. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mrs C and Mr C feel strongly about this complaint and this will come 
as a disappointment to them, so Ill explain why.
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is 
the right outcome.
Mrs C and Mr C feel Aviva shouldve kept them more informed about their policy. 
Specifically, about how their money was invested, and the sum assured. But that isnt how 
their policy worked. A DTA policy isnt an investment product like a whole of life policy, 
where customers have options during annual reviews to select what units can be purchased 
from a managed investment fund with their premiums. 
Mrs C and Mr Cs DTA policy is the most cost-effective way to protect a capital and 
repayment mortgage if the mortgage holder dies. The sum assured slowly reduces over the 
policy term, in line with the expected reducing mortgage balance. This means that while the 
policy provides a high level of cover in the early years, the level of cover reduces to nothing 
as the policy term draws to an end. To make the policies affordable for the whole term, the 
premiums are set at the outset and remain constant throughout the term. While this may 
make the policy seem overly expensive in the later years, when the cover has reduced, the 
premium is calculated to reflect the value of the policy throughout its term. 
Mrs C and Mr Cs premium was reduced in 2008 but this was after an agreement was 
reached with Aviva to reduce the sum assured from £260,000 to £150,000. The premiums 
then remained the same until 2020.  
I note Mrs C and Mr C say Aviva didnt keep them updated about their policy. Ive considered 
this carefully. But I dont think Aviva has treated them unfairly. Aviva has said that it doesnt 
send out annual statements for these policies because the premium will stay the same 
throughout the term, unless its necessary to make a significant change to the policy sum 
assured (as in 2008). The terms and conditions also remain the same so Aviva wont send 
these out regularly. And because this is standard practice for Aviva customers with DTA 
policies, I dont think Mrs C and Mr C have been treated unfairly here. 
So, Im not going to ask Aviva to take any further action here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 March 2021.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman