DRN-2362366
The complaint
Mrs M says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance
(PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out by post in 2005. The policy gave Mrs M
protection against accident, sickness and unemployment and some life cover. It was taken
out at the same time as Mrs M applied for her credit card.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs M disagreed so the complaint was passed
to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here. Ive
decided not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs M says she was pressured to take out PPI, and was told she had to have it to get the 
credit card. But on her credit card agreement Mrs M indicated that she wanted the cover. 
And the wording on the form made clear she had a choice. The box she ticked said I wish to 
purchase Optional Payment Protection Insurance. 
Ive thought about Mrs Ms comment that she was pressured to take it, but she applied by 
post and Ive seen no evidence there was any direct contact with the bank during the sale. 
Overall, I think Capital One made it clear to Mrs M the PPI was optional and she agreed to 
take it out.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs M, so it didnt have to check if it was
suitable for her. It was up to Mrs M to decide whether the policy was right for her,
bearing in mind her ability to make her credit card repayments if she was sick or lost
her job.
Its possible Capital One didnt give Mrs M all the information about the PPI that she needed 
before she made her decision. But Mrs M chose to take out the policy and so appears to 
have wanted this type of cover. She wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations.
And the policy was reasonably priced for the benefit it offered and apparently affordable. 
Mrs M was entitled to just statutory sick pay and had around £2,000 in savings. The PPI 
would have paid out for up to 12 months for all successful accident, sickness and 
unemployment claims. It would have allowed her to use her savings for other living expenses 
whilst not working, or to keep them intact for her future needs. Overall, I think the PPI would 
have been useful for Mrs M if she lost her job or was sick. 
Mrs Ms representative argues that Mrs M didnt need PPI as she had life insurance that paid 
out a lump sum, but such a policy covers different events and wouldnt help out with monthly 
credit card bills in the same way as PPI. Based on her circumstances at the time of the sale 
and the terms of the policy, I think it unlikely Mrs M wouldve made a different decision if 
better information had been provided.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI because:
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs M about that. Because Capital One didnt
tell Mrs M, that was unfair.
To put that right, Capital One has paid back the amount of commission and profit
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) Plc does not have to pay back all
of the cost of the PPI.
But Capital One (Europe) Plc does have to pay back any commission and profit share it got
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont
award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman