DRN-2245529
The complaint
Mr O says Global Markets Group Limited (GMG) is responsible for financial losses incurred 
in his trading account (the account). He claims compensation for financial loss (including 
commission payments) and for the trouble and upset the matter has caused him.
GMG disputes the complaint. It says it holds no responsibility for the trading activities in the 
account and no responsibility for the outcome of those activities.
What happened
Mr Os case has been set out in detailed submissions made by a professional representative 
 coupled with annexes and appendices of documents presented as relevant and/or 
supporting evidence. In the main, the submissions say the following:
Mr O previously held the account with another firm; in March 2017 he was induced by 
his main contact at that firm to transfer his account to GMG; that person was leaving 
the firm to become Chief Executive Officer (CEO) at GMG; and he was told by this 
CEO-to-be that the account would be transferred into GMG through a third party firm 
called Plus Trades Limited (PTL), that PTL was a representative of GMG and that 
his account would have all relevant regulatory protection provided by the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA).
In April 2017 Mr O transferred the account to GMG and deposited 42,000 Euros 
directly into GMGs UK bank account.
The arrangement set up by GMG was that the account would be traded, on Mr Os 
behalf, by PTL; this is what happened after the transfer; Mr O never traded directly in 
the account and never received any trading statements; all trading was conducted by 
PTL and the feedback he received was that trading outcomes were successful.
When Mr O sought to withdraw funds from the account, he was told no funds existed 
in the account and that it had been closed.
Overall, 2,501 trades were made in the account; 1,128 trades made profits, 1,106 
trades made losses and there were 267 zero profit trades; a total of around 20,000 
Euros was incurred in commission for all the trades; and net profit from all the trades 
should have been around 62,000 Euros, which conflicts with GMGs claim that no 
funds were in the account at the point of closure.
Mr O seeks recovery of his deposit and the net profit earned in the account.
GMG is responsible for breaches of the FCAs regulations for the following reasons  
giving PTL access to the account without Mr Os authority to do so; allowing PTL to 
manage the account despite not being regulated to conduct such an activity; and 
allowing PTL to exploit a conflict of interest by being the Introducing Broker (IB) and 
the accounts manager.
GMG is also responsible for false accounting within the account and for falsifying 
documents related to the opening of the account.
GMG mainly says as follows:
The person Mr O refers to as the CEO was employed as Director of GMG, effective 
from 1 October 2017; he was registered with the regulator, in the role of Director of 
GMG, on 28 September 2017; the employment contract evidence it has submitted 
supports the former and the regulators records for the person supports the latter. 
The person had no prior payroll-based connection with GMG.
It does not dispute that PTL was an IB for GMG in 2017 but that was the full extent of 
their relationship, and it has had no business with PTL since January 2018. PTL was 
never permitted to manage any account at GMG. PTL was the IB for the opening of 
Mr Os account, it was no more than that and it was not given access to the account. 
Access to the account (and access related information) was given automatically, 
directly and only to Mr O following approval of his online account application. No 
individual in GMG and no third party was sent this communication and there is 
evidence of correspondence from Mr O in April 2017 showing that he received this 
communication and showing his enquiry about downloading the trading platform. 
Trading in the execution only account was Mr Os responsibility, it was also his 
responsibility to keep the accounts access details safe and to himself. GMG cannot 
fairly be liable if he chose to share access (and access details) with a third party.
Evidence of Mr Os application for the account and the appropriateness assessment 
conducted (and passed) as part of the account opening process has been shared 
with this service.
Mr Os account included a portal facility from which he could view account activities 
and balances. He could create statements and reports from these whenever he 
wished.
By January 2018 the funds in Mr Os account had been depleted. GMG is not 
responsible for anything to the contrary that he was told by PTL. GMG only earned 
commission from trading in the account. Over a year later, in May 2019, he contacted 
GMG to seek information about PTL. Then in September 2019 he submitted his 
complaint about GMG.
One of our investigators looked into the matter and, in the main, concluded as follows:
She had not seen evidence of a relationship between Mr O and the Director of GMG 
prior to the opening of his GMG account and had not seen evidence that GMG made 
any arrangement between him and PTL to open the account.
There is evidence of GMG sending account login details directly to Mr O but no 
evidence that it provided those details to anyone else.
She was not persuaded by Mr Os argument that PTLs access to and trading in the 
account should have been evident to GMG through login information associated with 
the account. She noted that the execution only service basis for the account means 
GMG would not have been expected to monitor the account in such a way, unless it 
had cause to do so.
She had not seen evidence that GMG knew about PTLs involvement in trading 
within the account prior to 23 October 2017. On this date, PTL contacted GMG and 
sought to increase the trading leverage settings for the account; GMG declined the 
request given the absence of authority from Mr O; this incident ought reasonably to 
have made GMG aware of PTLs involvement in trading within the account; in 
response, and given that PTL was not regulated and did not have authority for such 
involvement, GMG ought to have investigated and addressed the matter at the time.
GMG failed to safeguard Mr Os best interests from 23 October 2017 and onwards, 
contrary to its regulatory duty to have done so. The complaint is upheld on this 
specific basis and GMG should put the matter right for Mr O by paying him all losses 
(including any commission) incurred in the account from 23 October 2017 onwards 
and £250 for the trouble and upset he has been caused in the matter.GMG welcomed most of the investigators findings but disagreed with her conclusion about 
its liability from 23 October 2017. It said it understood at the time that Mr O had requested 
the change of leverage settings through PTLs customer service function, as that function 
provided such a service at the time; so it is not fair to conclude that the incident should have 
been cause for it to investigate further.
Mr O considered the investigators findings and conclusion on compensation to be 
insufficient. He retained the original claim for compensation in the full amounts presented in 
his complaint submissions. He mainly said: 
Technical forensic evidence he and his representative submitted shows conclusively 
that he never traded in the account  the findings do not give enough weight to this.
The same body of evidence shows that the Internet Protocol (IP) address used to 
access his account and the trading platform, and used for trading in the account, 
belonged to PTL  the findings also do not give enough weight to this.
The rules within the FCAs Senior Management Arrangements, Systems and 
Controls Sourcebook (SYSC) require brokers like GMG to have systems which are 
fit for purpose and which are monitored and reported on routinely (daily); so the point 
at which GMG ought to have been aware of the activities in his account pre-date 23 
October 2017; such awareness ought to have been at the accounts inception and it 
ought to have continued thereafter. He accepts that firms do not have to monitor 
trading decisions within an account, but he argues that they are obliged to monitor 
 WHO, WHEN, HOW trades are being placed  and this applies to GMG. 
He should be entitled to interest on his compensation at the rate of 8% from the date 
the account was opened, up to the date of settlement. 
The matter was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have given due consideration to the information available in this case. I assure both parties 
of this and of my understanding of their respective positions. However, considering the 
investigators findings  which I consider to be reliable  and both parties comments on 
those findings, the issues that remain in dispute can be distilled to the following:
Whether (or not) no redress should be due to Mr O because the complaint should not 
be upheld and/or because of the argument that GMG did not know and ought not 
reasonably to have known, at any relevant time, that PTL was trading in the account.
Whether (or not) redress for Mr O should be calculated from the outset of the account 
(and should include all losses he incurred in the account) because the complaint 
should be upheld and because of the argument that GMG either knew or ought 
reasonably to have known, at all relevant times, that PTL was trading in the account.
Whether (or not) the investigators proposed outcome  or any other outcome  
should apply.
I do not dismiss  and I remain mindful of  the individual arguments made by the parties 
which they might consider to be missing from the above summary. However, the main points 
arising from the complaint are that Mr O seeks recovery of his losses (and, it appears, lost 
profit) and he seeks a refund of the commission payments he incurred  so, in broad terms, 
all arguments and counter arguments essentially relate to this desired outcome. The same 
applies to the debate between the parties about how Mr Os GMG account was opened, and the roles played by GMG, its Director and PTL in that respect  this debate also relates, 
ultimately, to Mr Os desired outcome and I address it below.
For the above reasons, I too have focused on Mr Os desired outcome and on the facts, 
evidence and issues related to it. Overall and on balance, I am satisfied that the three issues 
summarised above capture what needs to be determined. Before addressing them, the 
following preliminary findings provide helpful context:
I accept Mr Os claim that PTL traded in and managed his account. The balance of 
available evidence supports this finding. In addition, neither party appears to dispute 
the fact that PTL was the IB for the account  so, at the very least, GMG was aware 
of PTLs existence and of the role it played in the opening of the account.
The regulators records do not show that PTL was a regulated firm, so it had no 
regulatory authority to manage Mr Os trading account. This is emphasised by the 
regulators records for GMG which do not show that PTL was its Appointed 
Representative (AR). As such, PTL could not have been operating under GMGs 
regulatory authority. Even if it was an AR, and if its activities in the account amounted 
to investment management, the Appointed Representatives Regulations 2001 do not 
include investment management in the list of functions an AR can perform.
As the investigator found, if and/or whenever GMG became aware of PTLs presence 
in Mr Os account it would have been obliged to investigate into and address the 
matter in order to safeguard his interests. Based on the preliminary findings above, it 
would have been obliged to stop PTL from having any further presence in the 
account. It is a fact that GMG took no such step, so the case turns on if and/or when 
it was obliged to do so.
Whether (or not) no redress should be due to Mr O because the complaint should not 
be upheld and/or because of the argument that GMG did not know and ought not 
reasonably to have known, at any relevant time, that PTL was trading in the account.
The fact that PTL was the IB for the account does not mean GMG would have been aware 
that it proceeded to manage the account. An IBs role is usually limited to the introduction of 
a client to a firm  for the purpose of opening an account for the client. I have not seen 
evidence of anything, at the time Mr O opened his account, that ought to have indicated to 
GMG that PTL would have a continuing presence in the account.
In this respect, I note Mr Os claim that it was GMGs (or its Directors) arrangement for PTL 
to manage the account. I do not have enough evidence to determine this claim. Mr Os 
assertion of it appears to be sincere but the same can be said of GMGs denial of it. There 
does not appear to be reliable independent evidence to tip the balance one way or the other. 
GMG is correct in saying its Director had not been appointed in April 2017  the employment 
contract evidence it presented and the regulators records show that the individuals 
appointment (and regulatory registration) happened no earlier than September 2017. 
However, I accept that this does not automatically mean that the individual did not play the 
role described by Mr O. Overall, I repeat that there is a lack of evidence to determine his 
claim that GMG arranged PTLs management of his account. 
Having said the above, I am satisfied that GMG cannot reasonably claim to have been 
unaware of PTLs presence in the account prior to the complaint (or prior to Mr Os enquiry 
about the account). There is evidence of correspondence between GMG and PTL with 
regards to the latters pursuit to increase the leverage settings in the account. This is the 
communication of 23 October 2017 highlighted by the investigator. I do not accept GMGs argument that it considered PTL was acting on Mr Os request. PTL 
expressly said to GMG  within the correspondence  that Mr O was unaware of the pursuit; 
and  within the correspondence  GMG declined PTLs request precisely because Mr O 
was unaware of it and had not authorised it.
The nature of the request was such that GMG either knew or ought reasonably to have 
known PTL was involved in trading within the account. It would have had no other incentive 
to ask for an increase in leverage settings and, on balance, I consider that the expressions 
within the correspondence were enough to indicate that PTL was trading in the account. 
With such awareness, with knowledge that PTL did not have its authority to trade in the 
account and with knowledge that Mr O had not declared giving such authority to PTL, GMGs 
obligation to protect Mr Os interests was triggered at this point, on 23 October 2017  and it 
failed to discharge this obligation. On this basis, at least, the complaint (and redress for it) 
should be upheld.
Whether (or not) redress for Mr O should be calculated from the outset of the account 
(and should include all losses he incurred in the account) because the complaint 
should be upheld and because of the argument that GMG either knew or ought 
reasonably to have known, at all relevant times, that PTL was trading in the account.
I have addressed part of this issue within my findings above, in relation to the opening of the 
account. The same applies to my finding that GMGs liability begins from 23 October 2017. 
What remains to be addressed is whether (or not) GMG should have been aware of PTLs 
presence in the account during the period after its opening and before 23 October 2017.
Production and presentation of Mr Os forensic evidence post-date the complaint events. His 
argument is that comparable evidence and analysis should have been conducted by GMG 
within complaint events  under its SYSC duties and under a duty to monitor  WHO, 
WHEN, HOW trades are being placed  He says, had this been done GMG would have 
known PTL was trading in the account, so it is responsible for the consequences if it did not 
do so. I have not seen evidence that GMG conducted such monitoring in the account. 
The account was based on an execution only service, so  and as Mr O concedes  GMG 
was not responsible for monitoring trading decisions within it. Based on the terms for the 
account, GMG also had no advisory or management responsibilities in the account; and 
there are no provisions within the terms which say it was responsible for daily monitoring of 
the account on the who, when and how basis that Mr O has argued.  
It is also noteworthy that even if GMG had information about the IP address(es) used to 
access the account, I am not satisfied that Mr Os argument establishes how this would have 
led directly to specific awareness that PTL was trading in the account  as opposed to any 
other conclusion. If he argues that GMG could have performed the forensic analysis that he 
and/or his representative performed, the questions that arise are why GMG would have done 
so without cause and whether (or not) such analysis was required within its execution only 
service. Prior to 23 October 2017 I do not consider that GMG had cause to perform a 
forensic investigation into the log-ins for and activities in the account. I address the SYSC 
based argument separately below, but with regards to the terms of the accounts execution 
only service there was no call for such analysis.
As its full title suggests, the SYSC sourcebook relates to a firms and its managements 
regulatory compliance arrangements. In broad and summary terms, its purpose is to ensure 
that firms apply appropriate (and prescribed) systems, governance and compliance 
arrangements under which its activities are conducted; and to allocate responsibility for 
these amongst its senior management. I do not suggest that monitoring elements do not exist within this sourcebook  they do, and 
there are such elements related to, for example, risk management and money laundering. 
However, I do not consider that they exist in the manner argued by Mr O  that is, an 
obligation upon a firm like GMG to monitor, daily,  WHO, WHEN, HOW trades are being 
placed  in an execution only trading account. Neither he nor his representative appears to 
have cited a specific regulatory rule to support this argument. Overall and on balance, I do 
not consider that GMG was obliged, under SYSC, to conduct the sort of monitoring and/or 
forensic analysis that Mr O has argued; and I do not consider that it should have been aware 
of PTLs presence in his account before 23 October 2017.
Whether (or not) the investigators proposed outcome  or any other outcome  
should apply.
My treatment of the above two issues essentially confirms my agreement with the 
investigators proposed outcome and I do not consider that any other outcome should apply.
Putting things right
In straightforward terms, GMG should have blocked Mr Os account on 23 October 2017 in 
response to the request made by PTL and in response to the indication from that request 
that PTL had an unauthorised presence in the account. At the very least, this should have 
been done to safeguard the account (and Mr Os interests) and to initiate an investigation. 
It is more likely (than not) that such investigation would have uncovered the details of PTLs 
management of the account and would have led to an end to it. It follows that all the 
subsequent loss of funds (including commission payments) incurred by Mr O could and 
would have been avoided if GMG had properly reacted (as above). There enough evidence 
to suggest that Mr O did not intend to trade in the account personally, so it appears more 
likely (than not) that he would not have continued with the account thereafter  and would 
have withdrawn the balance of his funds.
The above essentially means the total of Mr Os account balance as of 23 October 2017  
which appears to have been lost in the course of PTLs trading (and commission associated 
with that trading) thereafter  should be returned to him. I am mindful that trading outcomes 
(both profits and losses) prior to this date were affected by the fact that PTL was unlawfully 
conducting the trading. An argument could be that redress should treat this too  in terms of 
ensuring Mr O is not unjustly enriched by the profits and/or is not unfairly burdened by the 
losses. However, on balance, in the context of resolving his complaint against GMG and 
given my finding that GMG has no responsibility in the matter prior to 23 October 2017 I do 
not consider it appropriate to do so. 
I order GMG to pay Mr O compensation in the form of his total account balance as of 23 
October 2017; to pay him interest on the compensation amount at the rate of 8% simple per 
year from 24 October 2017 to the date of settlement [this is to reflect Mr O being deprived of 
the account balance since 24 October 2017]; and to pay him £250 for the trouble and upset 
the matter has caused him.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Os complaint. I order Global Markets Group 
Limited to pay him compensation as set out above and to provide him with a calculation of 
the compensation in a clear and simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or reject my decision before 13 November 2020.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman