DRN-1632531
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy with Vanquis Bank Limiteds handling of his credit card balance. He thinks 
they have sold his debt to another company unfairly. 
What happened
Mr L has a credit card with Vanquis. Due to some financial difficulties over the last couple of 
years, Mr L entered into a repayment arrangement with Vanquis. He was paying £2 a month 
towards his outstanding balance.
Mr L received a letter in November 2019. It told him that Vanquis had sold his debt to 
another company, and Mr L had to make arrangements with the new company to continue 
making his agreed repayments. 
Mr L complained about this to Vanquis. He said it had caused him inconvenience and wasnt 
necessary as hed made all his required payments on time. Vanquis responded to explain 
the new company were more experienced in dealing with long-term repayment 
arrangements. They also explained that the terms and conditions provided to Mr L when he 
applied for the credit card said a transfer could take place, and that Mr L would be notified as 
soon as possible after it had been completed.
Mr L wasnt happy with this so brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt 
agree with Mr L. She explained that Vanquis hadnt acted unfairly and had given Mr L notice 
that the transfer had taken place. They also provided all the relevant information to enable 
Mr L to re-set his repayment arrangement up with the new company.
Mr L didnt agree with this, so its been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I wont be asking 
Vanquis to do anything. Ill explain why.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ls credit card confirm that Vanquis can transfer the 
agreement. It also says:
We will arrange for notice of the transfer to be given to you as soon as reasonably possible 
after the transfer.
So, Vanquis was able to transfer Mr Ls debt to another company. What I must decide is if it 
was done in a fair way, with no detriment to Mr L. And in this case, I think it was.
Vanquis sold Mr Ls debt to the new company on 30 September 2019. Mr L made his regular 
payment to Vanquis on 12 October 2019, which they allocated to his debt to reduce it 
accordingly. Vanquis and the new company wrote to Mr L on 4 November explaining the 
debt had been transferred. The letter also explained what Mr L needed to do next to make sure his repayment plan carried on as he expected it to. Mr L has confirmed he received this 
letter.
As Mr Ls next regular payment wasnt due until 12 November 2019, he had enough time to 
make the changes he needed to and ensure the payment was made to the new company. 
As Mr L paid his repayment over the telephone, I dont think the change of company caused 
him any inconvenience. The new telephone number he needed to call was included on the 
letters he received, and all he needed to do was call and make the payment as normal.
Mr L has confirmed to our service that he has reading difficulties. But he hasnt brought that 
to Vanquis attention so I cant say theyve acted unfairly by sending Mr L correspondence 
regarding the change through the post.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2020.
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman