DRN-3012626
The complaint
Mr A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC recorded adverse information on his credit file.  
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. In my provisional decision I explained why I intended to uphold this complaint and 
how I thought Barclays should resolve it. I said: 
In June 2020 the Home Office debited two payments for £3,600 from Mr As account with
Barclays instead of one. As a result, Mr As account became overdrawn by around £3,500
despite having no arranged overdraft facility.
Barclays recorded arrears information on Mr As credit file.
Mr A has explained there was a delay in the Home Office issuing a refund. Instead of taking
around six weeks, the Home Office took six months to refund the duplicate payment it took.
The payment was refunded to Mr As account in December 2020.
Mr A complained to Barclays as it recorded missed payments on his credit file. Barclays
didnt agree it had made a mistake and said it was required to report accurate information to
the credit reference agencies. Mr A referred his complaint to this service and it was passed
to an investigator. They thought Barclays had dealt with Mr As complaint fairly and didnt
ask it to do anything else. Mr A asked to appeal, so his complaint has been passed to me to
make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached a different view to the investigator concerning how to fairly resolve this
complaint. Whilst I agree Barclays has acted in line with the account terms, I dont think its
decision to continue reporting arrears and adverse information about Mr As account is fair.
Ill explain why.
Looking at the timeline of events and statements, its clear the duplicate payment that
caused Mr As account to enter into the unarranged overdraft wasnt his fault. There was a
mix up at the Home Office which meant two payments were debited instead of one. To put it
another way, if the payments were processed correctly Mr As account wouldnt have gone
overdrawn.
Mr A has also pointed out that he was reliant on the Home Office refunding the payment in
order to repay the unarranged overdraft balance. And Mr As explained that due to the
pandemic, the Home Office experienced significant delays in processing the refund  it took
six months for the funds to be returned.
Im satisfied both the error in taking two payments and the length of time it took for a refund
to be issued were outside Mr As control.
When Mr A complained, Barclays said it had a contractual duty to report factual information.
Ive looked at guidance from the Information Commissioners Office setting out the principles
for reporting arrears to the credit reference agencies. It says:
In general, the reporting of arrears indicates that the account has not been maintained
according to the terms and conditions. The purpose of reporting arrears is to indicate at the
earliest reasonable opportunity that a customer is showing signs of financial difficulty of
inability to manage his/her finances.
I agree the account was in an unarranged overdrawn position because the Home Office took
two payments. But I dont think its fair to say the arrears were caused because Mr A was
beginning to experience financial difficulties or was unable to manage his finances. Mr As
account was overdrawn because an organisation he paid made an error and then took six
months to issue a refund.
Barclays response to Mr A said it has a duty to report accurate information. In my view, the
information its currently reporting doesnt accurately reflect Mr As circumstances or the
background to why his account was overdrawn.
I can see Mr A kept Barclays updated and explained why his account was overdrawn. In the
circumstances I think Barclays couldve done more to help Mr A and considered some
forbearance when reporting information about his account to the credit reference agencies.
Mr A has explained his credit file will be impacted for six years as a result of a situation that
was outside his control. And Mr A has pointed out that because of delays caused by the
pandemic it took the Home Office six months to issue a refund which was also outside of his
control.
Taking all the available information into account, Im not persuaded that Mr A was
experiencing financial difficulties which caused his account to enter an unarranged overdraft.
Im satisfied a mistake that was outside his control led to two payments being taken instead
of one which meant Mr As account become overdrawn. Im not persuaded the adverse
information Barclays has reported accurately reflects the situation or how Mr A managed his
account.
I intend to provisionally uphold Mr As complaint. I think the fairest approach is for Barclays
to remove all adverse information reported in relation to Mr As current account from June
2020 until January 2021.
I also intend to tell Barclays to pay Mr A £150 to reflect the trouble and upset caused.  
I asked both parties to respond with any additional comments or points they wanted me to 
consider before I made my final decision. Mr A responded and said he had nothing further to 
add. Barclays responded and said, on Mr As acceptance of the final decision, it will amend 
his credit file as directed and pay him £150. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither parties have provided new information for me to consider or take into account, I 
see no reason to change the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. I still think   Mr As complaint should be upheld and settled in line with my provisional decision, for the 
same reasons.   
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to remove all 
adverse information recorded on Mr As credit file in relation to his current account from June 
2020 to January 2021. I also direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mr A £150 for the distress 
and inconvenience caused.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman