DRN-2237979
The complaint
Ms E complains Santander UK Plc (Santander) has unfairly rejected her chargeback request 
for a payment she made using her Visa debit card.
 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here 
again. Instead, Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Chargeback is a voluntary system run by the card scheme (here its Visa) to process 
settlement disputes between the card issuer (such as Santander) and the merchant 
(here its the car dealership Ms E made the payment to). It is not a legal right that the 
cardholder has. 
Visa sets the chargeback rules and time limits for transactions made using the Visa 
card scheme. And it is Visa that decides whether a chargeback is successful  the 
card issuer simply makes a request on the cardholders behalf. If the card issuer 
knows it is out of time, or is unlikely to succeed, I wouldnt necessarily expect it to 
make a chargeback request.
Under Visas rules, a chargeback must be requested within 120 days of the 
transaction processing date or within 120 days of the date the cardholder received 
the goods or services (not exceeding 540 days from the transaction processing date). 
Ms Es chargeback request is for a payment she made to a car dealership in October 
2018. I understand the car was delivered shortly after and Ms E noticed there were 
issues with it almost immediately. But she didnt contact Santander to request a 
chargeback until August 2019. This is outside the time limit of 120 days. 
I appreciate Ms E might not have been aware of the time limits, but that doesnt 
mean they dont apply. 
Ms E says she was negotiating directly with the dealership between October 2018 
and August 2019. It was only in August 2019 it became clear the dealership wouldnt 
help her. She feels time limits should be extended under the circumstances. While I 
acknowledge Ms E feels strongly about this, Visas rules dont extend the time limits 
for ongoing negotiations. 
For these reasons, although I acknowledge Ms Es frustrations, I dont find Santander acted 
unfairly in its interpretation of Visas rules or in its decision not to proceed with the 
chargeback request. Accordingly, Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint about Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2020.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman