DRN-3620709
The complaint
Mrs M and Mr R complain that Target Servicing Limited delayed the redemption of their help 
to buy shared equity loan, meaning they had to pay a higher amount to repay the loan.
What happened
Mrs M and Mr R bought a property with the assistance of the help to buy scheme. Under this 
scheme, a borrower takes out a standard mortgage to fund the purchase of the property. 
And instead of paying a substantial cash deposit alongside the mortgage, the deposit is 
funded in part by the help to buy scheme. This acts as a shared equity loan  meaning that 
the borrower borrows a sum based on a proportion of the propertys value and must repay 
the same share  secured over the property by way of a second charge.
The help to buy scheme is a government scheme, and the lender is a government agency 
called Homes England. Neither the loans nor the lender are regulated. But the lender has 
appointed Target to administer the loans and deal with borrowers. Borrowers deal with 
Target, not the lender, and Target manages all aspects of the loan administration. Target is 
a regulated firm which falls within the jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman Service and is 
the respondent to this complaint. 
Mrs M and Mr R bought their property in August 2014, borrowing 20% of the purchase price 
using a help to buy loan. 
Mrs M and Mr R first tried to redeem their loan in 2019, when they had an agreement to sell 
their property. They obtained a valuation and, based on that valuation, Target gave them a 
redemption figure. Unfortunately, however, the sale of the property was delayed because the 
purchaser wanted further information about the possibility of cladding on the property.
In October 2019, Mrs M and Mr Rs solicitor wrote to Target explaining that the sale was still 
being delayed, and that Mrs M and Mr R had decided to borrow further funds on their 
mortgage to repay the help to buy loan in the meantime. Target replied to their solicitor 
saying that as there was possible cladding on the property, the valuation request needed to 
be forwarded to the relevant department for them to confirm whether redemption could go 
ahead. Target also told Mr R that the redemption request was with its legal team. It did not 
give Mrs M and Mr R any further updates after October 2019. In the end the redemption did 
not go ahead when the sale didnt proceed. 
In May 2020, Mr R contacted Target again to ask about redemption. By now he and Mrs M 
were planning to repay the loan from their own resources without selling the property. He 
said that the property was affected by cladding, and asked Target how to go about 
redeeming his loan in those circumstances. He said he didnt want to instruct a further 
valuation until he had checked with Target what the process was for cladding affected 
properties. Target responded advising Mr R that he would need to obtain a valuation from a 
qualified surveyor.
In July 2020, Target advised Mr R that he would need a valuation and a fire safety test 
(which I assume means an EWS1 form), which would then be sent to a specialist 
department for review on a case by case basis. Mr R asked for further clarification, 
explaining that he didnt want to spend money on a valuation unless it would be accepted. 
Target said it would refer his query to one of our experts and get back to him. In August it 
told him it was still waiting for a response from its legal team, and in October 2020 it told 
him it had no further updates. 
In November 2020, Target asked Mr R if he still intended to redeem his loan. Mr R replied, 
but Target was unable to marry up the response with his initial request. 
In February 2021, Target told Mr R that it would need to see an EWS1 form for the property. 
Mr R explained that there was no EWS1 form as yet, as the freeholder had not obtained one. 
And he said that he did not think an EWS1 was necessary for redeeming his loan  and that 
it was not part of the contractual requirements to provide one.  
In March 2021, Target contacted Mr R to say that the 2019 valuation was not accepted 
because of the cladding on the property. It said Homes England would, with Mrs M and 
Mr Rs agreement, instruct its own valuer to value the property. Mr R confirmed they agreed 
to that. In May 2021, the valuation had not happened, and Target told Mr R it could not 
confirm when it would take place. 
In July 2021, Target agreed to contact the valuer who carried out the 2019 valuation and ask 
for an updated valuation. In August 2021, the valuer responded with a signed declaration 
Target asked it to provide. Target did not instruct the valuer to proceed, and no valuation 
happened. 
An EWS1 form was prepared in March 2022, rating the property as B2 (meaning it 
presented fire safety risks needing remedial work). 
A valuation finally took place in April 2022. The property was valued at £490,000. Following 
receipt of the valuation, Target told Mr R his redemption request was still under review. 
Target asked the valuer to confirm the valuation took into account the declaration signed in 
August  2021, which it did.
Mrs M and Mr R continued to try to redeem their loan, but Target did not provide them with a 
redemption figure. It said that the matter remained under review.
Mrs M and Mr R received an offer to purchase their property, which they accepted. Target 
finally agreed to allow the loan to be redeemed, and the property was sold for £475,000 in 
December 2022, with the loan being repaid from the proceeds of sale.
Our investigator didnt think Target had acted fairly and reasonably. He said it had delayed 
the redemption of their help to buy loan, which should have gone ahead by August 2020 at 
the latest. To put things right, he said Target should pay Mrs M and Mr R the difference 
between the redemption price as it would have been at that time and as it eventually was, 
and pay them £1,000 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by the 
delays. He also said that Target should refund interest charged under the loan.
Target didnt accept that. It accepted that it had caused some delays. But it said the delays 
were mainly caused by the lender, Homes England, for which it was not responsible and 
over which it had no control. It therefore didnt think it should pay the redress our investigator 
set out. So the case comes to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As a regulated entity, in administering the loan on behalf of the lender Target is carrying out 
the regulated activities of debt administration and debt collection. 
Under the regulated activities, Target is performing the lenders duties, and exercising the 
lenders rights, under the terms of the credit agreement, as well as collecting payments the 
lender is entitled to. In my view this means that Target must do what the lender is required to 
do, and only take steps the lender is entitled to take, while acting on the lenders behalf. And 
as a regulated firm it has wider obligations to act fairly.
Although the lender is Homes England, it has appointed Target to act on its behalf as  
using the description in the loan agreement  its nominated agent. Mrs M and Mr R were 
told to deal with Target at all times and Target was presented as being responsible for the 
management and administration of their loan agreement.
Im satisfied that these are matters I can take into account in deciding whats fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. In my view, as the appointed administrator and as the 
regulated entity carrying out regulated activities, Target is the appropriate firm to respond to 
this complaint.
Under the loan terms and conditions, Mrs M and Mr R are entitled to redeem their loan at 
any time, either by selling their property or by repaying in some other way (such as from 
savings, or by taking further borrowing on their main mortgage). The amount required to 
redeem the loan is the same proportion of the propertys value as originally borrowed  20% 
in this case  as determined by an independent valuation. Where the property is being sold, 
the redemption figure will be based on the higher of the valuation or the sale price; 
otherwise, on the valuation. 
According to the terms and conditions, a redemption request should be made to Target as 
the nominated agent. A valuation is then arranged by the appointment of a qualified surveyor 
by agreement between the parties. That valuation is binding in setting the redemption figure, 
and the loan should be repaid within three months (extendable to four on application) of the 
valuation.
Mrs M and Mr R followed the proper process as set out in the contract in 2019. They notified 
Target of their intention to redeem before instructing a valuer. Target agreed to them 
appointing their own valuer, which they did, and a redemption figure was set.
Unfortunately, Mrs M and Mr Rs property sale fell through following the discovery of 
potentially combustible cladding on their building. 
Following the Grenfell Tower tragedy in 2017, there has been increased awareness of the 
dangers to fire safety caused by cladding on buildings, particularly blocks of flats. In the 
years since the Grenfell fire, safety issues have been found on many buildings. To help with 
the valuation of, and lending secured on, properties that may be at risk, the EWS1 form 
process was introduced. Its the responsibility of building owners and managers  not 
individual leaseholders such as Mrs M and Mr R  to obtain an EWS1 for their building.
In this case, no EWS1 was obtained until 2022. So while Mrs M and Mr Rs sale fell through 
in 2019 following the discovery of potentially combustible cladding, it was some time before 
the building owner commissioned a detailed assessment  though Mrs M and Mr R have told 
us that remediation work was planned before that, and therefore the building owner didnt 
think an EWS1 was necessary.In 2020, Mr R contacted Target again to ask about the process for redemption. Although 
hed followed the standard process in 2019, he was concerned that extra information might 
be needed, or a different process might need to be followed, following the discovery of the 
cladding.
In fact, contractually, the same process is to be followed whether or not there is cladding on 
the building. Ive said that the terms and conditions require notice of redemption, the 
appointment of a valuer by agreement, a binding valuation and then redemption within three 
months. Theres nothing in the contractual terms that allow a different process, or extra 
steps, where theres a potential cladding issue.
The customer information pack Target issues in response to redemption requests does say 
that Target reserves the right to agree a valuer in advance where the property is affected by 
cladding. However, this isnt an additional or different step  its merely a restatement of the 
contractual position. The contract says that a valuer has to be agreed by both parties before 
appointment  while, in practice, Target generally says its content for the borrower to 
appoint a valuer of their choice, this means that it does always have the right to agree a 
specific valuer in advance.
However, Target didnt tell Mr R this. At first, in May 2020, it told him to go ahead and 
appoint a valuer. But then in July it said it would also need a fire safety test (which I 
assume means an EWS1) which would need to be reviewed by a specialist department. 
In fact, under the terms of the contract, theres no power for Target to require Mrs M and 
Mr R to provide an EWS1 or any other document. All thats required is a valid valuation. Nor 
is there a power for a valuation and redemption request to be reviewed by a specialist 
department, or Targets legal team. Once a valuer has been appointed by agreement, their 
valuation is binding and should be used to provide a redemption figure. 
Mrs M and Mr R have explained that even though their sale had fallen through in 2019, they 
wanted to redeem the help to buy loan to make a future sale more straightforward. Theyve 
provided evidence to us that they had the funds available to redeem in 2020, and Im 
satisfied that they would have redeemed their help to buy loan had they been able to at this 
time.
Im also satisfied that Target failed to progress their requests for information about how to 
redeem and their requests to be able to redeem. Ive set out a detailed timeline above, and 
its clear from that that it failed to respond to contacts from Mrs M and Mr R, failed to give 
them useful information or meaningful updates, and failed to progress the redemption Mrs M 
and Mr R were entitled to. For reasons of space Ive only set out the substantive replies, the 
timeline doesnt show the full extent of Mrs M and Mr Rs attempts to get answers from 
Target. But having reviewed the correspondence in full I can see that this was made even 
more frustrating by the nature of the responses Target did give  including contradictory 
information and requests, repeated failures to match emails to their account (even where the 
necessary information was clearly included) and other examples of poor customer service, 
as well as periods of simply failing to respond.
Target says that its not responsible for the delays  it blames the lender, which it said was 
reviewing Mrs M and Mr Rs account. It was waiting for information from the lender before in 
turn updating Mrs M and Mr R.
However, Im satisfied that Target is responsible for the failings here. In accepting 
appointment as the administrator, it held itself out as the firm Mrs M and Mr R would need to 
deal with. It continued during this time to suggest that it itself was responsible  referring to 
its specialist department and legal team, giving Mrs M and Mr R the impression these were departments of Target rather than the lender. It wasnt pro-active in chasing the lender or 
reminding the lender of its contractual obligations. 
And Target didnt appear to appreciate that as a regulated entity it had obligations in its own 
right to ensure the loan was administered fairly and in line with its terms. As a regulated 
entity carrying out regulated activities, in my view it was required to exercise the lenders 
duties  including the duty to allow a redemption, and follow the contractual redemption 
process, once Mrs M and Mr R made clear they wanted to exercise their right to redeem. But 
Target did not perform that duty on the lenders behalf despite being the nominated agent 
and despite having the regulatory obligation to do so.
In this particular case, Im satisfied that it was not fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances that it took over two years from Mrs M and Mr Rs renewed redemption 
request in May 2020 before they were finally able to redeem in December 2022. It was not 
fair and reasonable that Targets communication with them was so poor, and did not 
accurately tell them what was going on. And Im satisfied that, as the regulated entity 
appointed to administer the loan and which ought to have exercised the lenders duty to 
allow a redemption on request (subject to an agreed valuation), Target did not treat Mrs M 
and Mr R fairly and reasonably  and that its failings caused them loss for which it ought 
fairly to compensate them.
Putting things right
Because their redemption was delayed by two and a half years, Mrs M and Mr R have 
suffered substantial financial loss. The value of their property  and therefore the amount 
they have had to pay to redeem the loan  has increased in the meantime. Theyve had to 
pay monthly interest throughout that period on a loan they should no longer have had. And 
theyve suffered substantial upset and  as is clear from the correspondence  a great deal 
of inconvenience and frustration over that period.
Because Target failed to respond appropriately to their queries in 2020, no valuation was 
carried out at that time. So its not possible to know exactly what the property was worth at 
that point  and what it would have cost Mrs M and Mr R to redeem their loan. 
However, a reasonable estimate of that can be made. Mrs M and Mr R did have a valuation 
in 2019, as part of their abortive sale at that time, and that valuation was used to set a 
redemption figure at that time. 
In May 2019, the property was valued at £450,000  that would have led to a redemption 
figure of £90,000. 
Had Target responded fairly to their queries in 2020, Mrs M and Mr R could have redeemed 
their loan from their own resources in around August 2020. But instead they were only able 
to redeem it in December 2022.
I think its fair and reasonable to estimate what the property would have been worth in 
August 2020 by taking a pro rata approach to the difference between the May 2019 valuation 
and the value used to set the eventual redemption price for December 2022. Taking that 
approach, Target should calculate the value as at August 2020, 15 months later, in this way:
£450,000 + ((A  450,000) x (15 / B)) 
Where A is the valuation used to set the December 2022 redemption figure, and B is the 
number of months after May 2019 it was carried out. This will give a fair estimate of the value of the property in August 2020. Target should then 
calculate what the redemption figure based on that valuation would have been and, to the 
extent that the amount Mrs M and Mr R actually paid to redeem in December 2022 exceeds 
that figure, it should pay them the difference.
Had Mrs M and Mr R been allowed to redeem their loan in or about August 2020, they would 
not have had to pay monthly interest on the loan, or monthly administration fees, since that 
date. And so that interest and those fees should be refunded to them, plus 8% interest as 
compensation for being out of pocket for those amounts.
Finally, Ive said that the delays, and the poor communication and customer service Target 
provided in the meantime, was a deeply frustrating and distressing experience for Mrs M and 
Mr R, and one which went on for over two years. In all the circumstances, I agree that 
£1,000 compensation is fair to reflect the distress and inconvenience they suffered.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Target 
Servicing Limited to:
Calculate the value of the property as at August 2020, and thus the redemption figure 
at that date, in the way Ive set out above;
Pay Mrs M and Mr R the difference between the calculated August 2020 redemption 
figure and the actual December 2022 redemption figure, adding simple annual 
interest of 8%* running from the date of redemption to date of refund;
Refund all monthly interest and monthly administration fees Mrs M and Mr R have 
paid from August 2020 until redemption of their loan, adding simple annual interest of 
8%* on each payment running from the date they made that payment until the date of 
refund;
Pay Mrs M and Mr R £1,000 compensation.
* Target may deduct income tax from the 8% interest element of my award, as required by HMRC. But 
it should tell Mrs M and Mr R what it has deducted so they can reclaim the tax from HMRC if they are 
entitled to do so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 January 2023.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman