DRN-2445211
The complaint
Ms B is unhappy with how Chubb European Group SE (Chubb) processed her claim for a 
replacement mobile phone.
What happened
Ms B had a mobile phone insurance policy underwritten by Chubb. Shed registered an 
iPhone 7 on the policy and around 10 July 2020, she dropped it and it got damaged.
She contacted Chubb on 13 July to make a claim. She said in the call that she was due to 
renew the contract and upgrade the phone. Ms B said she wanted to go ahead with the 
claim so she could get the replacement for the damaged phone as well as the do the 
upgrade. She said she wanted the replaced phone passed to her daughter and that was 
agreed by Chubb as the iPhone 7 was damaged, and she was covered for a replacement of 
this under the policy. 
There were no iPhone 7 handsets in stock so Chubb told Ms B there would be a few days 
delay. In the meantime, she upgraded her phone to an iPhone 11 but didnt renew her 
insurance policy which caused the claim she had for the iPhone 7 to be rejected. Chubbs 
systems showed she no longer had an active policy.
On 28 July 2020, Ms B called to ask where the replacement was as she hadnt received it. It 
was accepted an error had been made so a new claim was set up and a replacement 
handset was due to arrive the following day. Ms B wasnt happy about what happened and 
made a complaint. She was told the policy excess was £50 but the claims handler said it 
was £100. 
A further error had happened where the new claim had been set up for an iPhone 11 instead 
of the damaged iPhone 7. This was corrected by Chubb but when the replacement iPhone 7 
was delivered the following day, Ms B was unhappy as she was expecting an iPhone 11. 
She took delivery of the replacement iPhone 7 but made a complaint as she was expecting 
an iPhone 11 not an iPhone 7. She had also spent £20 on the iPhone 11 accessories.
Chubb looked into Ms Bs complaint and it had made an error and Ms B was told the excess 
would be £50 and not £100. So £50 was reimbursed to her. Chubb claims handler told Ms B 
that she would receive an iPhone 11 instead of an iPhone 7 and the claims process had 
been incorrectly done. Chubb apologised for this error and paid Ms B £100 compensation. 
And, as Ms B had also bought accessories in anticipation of the iPhone 11 being delivered, 
Chubb also reimbursed her £20 for this. 
In total, Chubb paid Ms B £170 in recognition of the failings in processing the claim. Ms B 
was unhappy with Chubb and said she wanted the iPhone 11 she was told she would 
receive. Chubb didnt agree. 
Ms B brought the complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into it and didnt uphold it. 
She said Chubb had applied the terms and conditions of the policy appropriately and 
accepted it had made errors. But she thought Chubb had taken appropriate action to put 
things right and it wasnt fair that it should now replace the phone with an iPhone 11. 
Ms B asked for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman. So, the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key issue I need to decide is whether Chubb has processed the claim for Ms Bs iPhone 
7 in line with the terms and conditions of the policy and dealt with it fairly and reasonably. 
And specifically, whether the iPhone 7 ought to be replaced with an iPhone 11.
Having looked at the terms and conditions of the policy, Chubb is required to replace the 
damaged phone which is of the same or similar specification. In this case, Ms B was covered 
for an iPhone 7 so its right that if the phone is damaged, she should receive a replacement 
of the same or similar specification, that is an iPhone 7. Chubb therefore sent Ms B an 
iPhone 7. I appreciate Ms B thinks she should receive the iPhone 11 which she was told she 
would be sent. But that was an error by the claims handler and while I understand she wants 
to receive this, I dont think thats appropriate in the circumstances. The two phones are not 
the same or similar and to ask for an upgraded phone for which Ms B hadnt paid for or 
registered under the policy, or had cover for, I think is unfair and unreasonable. The error 
has been acknowledged by Chubb and Im satisfied the terms and conditions of the policy 
have been applied in line with what would be expected.
Its not in dispute that Chubb made errors in processing this claim. Chubb has accepted this 
and paid compensation of £170 in total. Having listened to the calls and reviewed all the 
available evidence, Im not persuaded Chubb needs to do anything more to put things right. 
The compensation it has paid to Ms B is fair and reasonable. I appreciate the errors caused 
frustration and confusion but in the circumstances of this complaint, Chubb has apologised, 
recognised its failings appropriately and has paid Ms B £170 compensation. 
Overall, Im satisfied Chubb has appropriately applied the terms and conditions of the policy 
and paid compensation for the errors caused in recognition of its failings. Im not persuaded 
it should replace the iPhone 7 with an iPhone 11 in the circumstances of this complaint. As 
such, I dont think Chubb needs to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Ms Bs complaint against Chubb European 
Group SE.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2021.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman