DRN-2275096
The complaint
Mr H complains about the way in which Moorcroft Debt Recovery Limited is chasing him for 
a debt. He says he feels threatened by the letters it sent him and wants it to stop its 
aggressive policies.
What happened
Mr H tells us that in January 2020 he received a letter from Moorcroft about a debt he owed. 
And that he found the letter to be threatening and mentioned that agents may call at his 
house. He says he suffers from ill health and that this has deteriorated as a result of the way 
in which Moorcroft has contacted him. He says that hed previously told Moorcroft of his 
health issues.
Moorcroft told us that it had followed the industrys standard procedures and debt recovery 
guidance. And that it wanted to assist all its customers to help them with repayment 
discussions. It said it hadnt been aware of Mr Hs health issues until the present complaint 
was made. But that once a customer had been identified as vulnerable its Customer Care 
Team would manually review the account to ensure that appropriate contact was 
maintained. It explained that it had agreed an affordable repayment plan with Mr H in 
November 2019. But that he had not kept to it or contacted Moorcroft. It said that the letter 
sent to Mr H in January 2020 had been to inform Mr H of alternative means of contact. And 
that before the arrangement, the last payment received on the debt had been in May 2017.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She said that as she 
couldnt see that Mr H had responded to Moorcrofts previous communications, she didnt 
think it was unreasonable for Moorcroft to seek recovery of the debt. And that she didnt find 
that the content of the letters was unreasonable.
Mr H didnt agree with this outcome and said hed previously told Moorcroft of his health 
problems. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an ombudsmans been asked to 
make the final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I empathise with the difficulties that Mr H has experienced with his health. 
I accept that whilst debt can be a stressful experience for anyone, its likely to have a greater 
impact on those who have additional adverse health problems to deal with. Theres very little 
factual dispute here about the debt itself which Mr H accepts is owed by him and has been 
ongoing for several years. So Ill concentrate on the issues raised about how Moorcroft has 
tried to collect the debt.
I need to make a few general points before dealing specifically with whats happened here.
Where a customer owes a debt, we wouldnt find it unreasonable for a business to contact 
that customer in order to seek repayment. We would always expect a debt collection 
business to treat a customer fairly and take into account anything it knew about the 
customers health and financial situation. And to act positively and sympathetically based 
upon the customers individual needs.
Mr Hs complaint was made after hed received letters in January 2020 which warned about 
the account being defaulted. Ive been provided with a history of contact between Mr H and 
Moorcroft since 2016, when it took over the collection of the debt. It would be fair to 
summarise these notes by saying they showed there had been a history of failed direct 
debits, and letters from Moorcroft including those warning of default. But between May 2017 
and January 2020 no payments were made by Mr H.
I dont think it unreasonable that Moorcroft should seek to write to Mr H about the debt. The 
content of the letters was factual and reasonable in tone and frequency. I also dont think 
that referring to the possibility of home visits being made is unreasonable if other means of 
contact have proved unsuccessful. And particularly so when it was made clear that any visit 
could be avoided by the re-establishing of contact.
Ive also seen that at various stages Moorcroft put collection activity on hold whilst trying to 
arrange for payments to be made by direct debits.
Ive not been provided with any documentary information from Mr H to show that Moorcroft 
was made aware of his health issues prior to this complaint. He indicated he would be able 
to send a copy of a letter advising when he did so. Whilst Ive extended the period for this to 
be supplied, Ive not yet received this. 
Ive also checked the records with which Ive been provided from Moorcroft and none of its 
contact notes indicate that prior to this complaint it was aware of Mr Hs ill health.
My overall impression is that Moorcroft has shown forbearance as well as trying to treat Mr H 
positively even when it seemed it was not aware of his health issues. And that now that it 
has been made aware, Ive seen that a regular standing order appears to have been agreed. 
And that this has been successful, in that monthly payments have been made each month 
from June 2020 until October 2020  which is the last statement of account Ive seen.
As payments have now been resumed, this should mean that correspondence will be kept to 
a minimum. And whilst payments are maintained Id expect it to comprise of only those 
contacts which are required by law (such as periodic account statements) and checks to 
ensure that the amount of the repayments remains affordable for Mr H. Hopefully this will 
alleviate any stress Mr H may feel about being contacted about this debt.
In summary, I find that Moorcroft hasnt done anything wrong here, and that its worked to 
assist Mr H in agreeing a suitable way in which this debt can be sustainably repaid. 
Accordingly, Im not upholding this complaint.
 My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2021.
 Stephen Ross
Ombudsman