DRN-4059974
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as S, complains that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold a fixed rate 
loan and unfairly required the company to deposit a large sum of money to release security.
What happened
S brings this complaint alongside complaints by two other companies, which Ill refer to as L 
and T. The three companies are connected by common ownership and management. 
Through their representative, they submitted a single initial complaint narrative to the bank, 
with good reason, as the events involved in each are closely related. That approach has 
been followed throughout the course of the complaint, including its consideration by this 
service. Formally Im also issuing separate decisions for Ls and Ts complaints, with the 
same findings as this decision and differing only in detailed wording where appropriate.
S, L and T (which Ill also refer to as the companies) took out five fixed rate business loans 
between 2013 and 2016 for their property businesses. The loans were as follows: for S, a 
loan of £700,000 in 2013; for L, loans of £375,000 and £165,000 in 2014; and for T, loans of 
£512,000 and £700,000 in 2016. The fixed rate period was 15 years for three of the loans 
and 25 years for the other two.
The companies complained to the bank that the fixed rate loans had been mis-sold. In 
summary, the companies complained as follows:
The companies director was advised to take out fixed rate loans, but was not told 
that significant break costs could be incurred at early repayment (even partial 
repayment) of the loans during the fixed-rate period.
The director was also advised by Lloyds to create nominee companies S, L and T 
before taking out the loans. This meant he lost various regulatory protections.
The fixed rate loans are essentially analogous to interest rate hedging products such 
as swaps  indeed the method of calculating break costs is the same. Interest rate 
swaps are subject to strict regulation and require the bank to advise the director 
properly on the risks involved. The director had no previous experience with swaps.
After the sale of a property held by S in 2019, Lloyds required S to keep £190,000 on 
deposit with the bank. So S lost out on use of these funds.
Lloyds reviewed the companies complaints but concluded it hadnt done anything
wrong. The bank said that fixed rate loans were not regulated interest rate hedging products, 
and it had not provided advice  nor was it required to do so. It also said sufficient 
information had been given to the companies about the potential break costs.
Unhappy with the banks response, the companies referred their complaints to this service. 
Having considered the arguments and evidence, our investigator didnt recommend that the 
complaints should be upheld. In summary, he gave these reasons:
The fixed rate loans are not interest rate swaps, nor are they regulated products of 
any kind. They are unregulated business loans. It therefore wouldnt be reasonable 
hold Lloyds to the standards expected for regulated products.
The investigator was satisfied that no advice was given by the bank. Each loan 
agreement was signed by the director confirming he had received no advice from 
Lloyds.
The investigator thought the information provided by the bank was clear and not 
misleading. He thought the information was sufficient to make the companies aware 
that break costs would apply if the loans were repaid early during the fixed period, 
and that, depending on market conditions, these costs could be substantial. He also 
thought Lloyds made it clear that break costs would be triggered even by partial 
repayments.
The bank gave examples of potential break costs for a variety of scenarios. Taking 
the relative size of the lending into account, the investigator though the banks 
indication of break costs in the examples seemed fairly comparable to the break 
costs quoted by Lloyds in 2019.
There was no evidence to suggest the companies told Lloyds they had any intention 
of breaking the loan agreements early. The documentation suggests the companies 
viewed the loans as funding for long term investments.
The investigator wasnt persuaded that the companies were set up as a result of 
advice from Lloyds. In his view, Companies House records indicated that the director 
sees the benefits of such arrangements.
Lloyds said that its requirement to keep £190,000 on deposit to allow the sale of a 
property was a matter of security. The bank explained that when it first learnt of Ss 
intention to sell, contracts had already been exchanged, with completion approaching 
in a matter of days. The investigator thought it reasonable that Lloyds would be 
interested in any change in the properties over which it held security. He didnt think 
Lloyds was obliged to release its security, but nevertheless the bank agreed to do so, 
on the provision that cash was deposited instead  a sum that was less than the sale 
price of the property. The investigator didnt think Lloyds did anything wrong here. 
Rather, he thought that, given the short notice provided of the impending sale, the 
banks approach enabled S to continue with the sale promptly.
The investigator pointed out that the interest rate environment has changed since the 
companies made their complaints in 2021, and if the fixed rates were broken now, 
the companies would receive a break gain, rather than having to pay a break cost.
The companies didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. Their director made the 
following points, in summary:
An important part of the companies complaint is that Lloyds wasnt willing to accept a 
partial loan repayment with a partial break cost payment  it wouldnt accept a 
reduction unless the whole loan was terminated. In doing so, the bank unfairly used 
the provision in the loan agreement that stated you may not make an early 
repayment on part of the loan unless the bank agrees. This was all in the small print. 
The break cost quoted in relation to Ss property sale in 2019 was for the whole loan. The bank should have expected that the companies would make some property 
sales over the long period of the loans. Every long-term property investor sells and 
reinvests on occasion. By definition, the sale of one property out of many will always 
require a partial payment. The loans were mis-sold as unsuitable for the companies 
needs.
As a result, the companies trade was stifled. It wasnt worthwhile making any sales, 
so the companies couldnt reinvest or gear up. 
The fixed rate loans share many characteristics with interest rate swaps, which is 
evidence that they are in reality swaps masquerading as loans.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint the companies director, but Ive reached the same conclusions as the 
investigator. 
I fully understand the companies arguments that fixed rate loans and swaps have some 
characteristics in common. Notably they both have the underlying purpose of controlling 
customers future interest costs, and both carry the risk of substantial costs for early exit, 
depending partly on market conditions. But the fact remains that fixed rate business loans 
are not regulated products. They are not subject to the advice and suitability rules which 
apply to interest rate hedging products such as interest rate swaps. I therefore agree with 
the investigator that I cant reasonably expect the bank to have complied with those rules 
when selling the fixed rate loans to the companies.
Ive seen no evidence that Lloyds provided advice or recommendations at the time of the 
loan sales. The loan agreements contained a statement by which the customers 
acknowledged that they hadnt received or relied on any advice from the bank. This 
statement was just above the customer signature. Im therefore satisfied that the sales of the 
loans werent subject to the rules for regulated advice. That means the bank wasnt required 
to provide advice, and nor was it required to ensure that the products sold were suitable for 
the customers needs  or even to make an assessment of those needs. It was up to the 
companies to decide whether the fixed rate loans offered by the bank met their requirements 
and fitted with their business model.
Having said that, I would expect the bank to have provided the companies with appropriate 
information to make an informed decision. In particular, I would expect the bank to alert the 
companies to the risk of incurring break costs, and of the potential scale of those costs. 
Having looked at the sales information and the loan agreements, I agree with the 
investigator that Lloyds provided sufficient information about the fixed rate loans, including 
the break cost risks, in order for the companies to make an informed choice about entering 
the agreements. 
The companies director says that even though the warnings about break costs may have 
been adequate for repayment of the whole loan, there was no warning that a desire to make 
a partial repayment could trigger a break of the whole loan. He argues that this comes about 
as a result of the combination of the contract provisions that break costs could be triggered 
by any early repayment, however small, and that partial early repayment can only be made 
with the banks consent. Im satisfied that the sales information made clear that partial repayment would be a break 
event which could lead to substantial break costs. In the 2013 sales information stated A 
Break Cost is the name given to the cost that would be incurred by you if at some time 
during the period of the Fixed Rate Loan there were to be a Break Event, e.g. if you want to 
make a payment otherwise than in accordance with the Fixed Rate Loan agreement. This is 
typically a - partial or full - early repayment of the loan, but could also be any change to the 
agreed payment schedule. Depending on market conditions at the time of the Break 
Event, the Break Costs calculated could result in a substantial amount being due from 
you The bank used similar wording in the sales information for all the companies loans. I 
think this was enough to alert the companies that partial repayment carried a risk, which was 
set out in further detail in the agreement terms and conditions. The terms and conditions 
stated clearly that partial early repayment can be made only with the banks agreement. The 
companies director says he did not notice that clause in the agreements. But given that the 
major risks of the product (notably the risk of partial repayment resulting in substantial break 
costs) were set out in the sales documents, I cant reasonably say that any other related 
provisions in the terms and conditions should be set aside if they were not read.
I dont think the bank was unfair to have contract terms that gave it discretion over whether it 
would accept partial repayments with proportionate break costs. The terms were clear and I 
would regard offering such terms as a matter of the banks legitimate commercial discretion, 
and I wouldnt interfere with that. As the bank had given the warnings that I described above, 
and then it provided the full terms and conditions, I think the companies had been 
adequately informed about the risks.
In short, I dont find that Lloyds failed to provide adequate information about the loans, nor 
do I find that the bank unfairly enticed the companies into loan agreements that they would 
otherwise have rejected.
In the event, no break costs have been charged on any of the loans. The companies did 
manage to sell some properties without breaking the loans, because of the strength of their 
assets and success in negotiating with the bank over the security held. The £190,000 to be 
kept on deposit was part of those revised security arrangements. I agree with the 
investigator that the bank showed some flexibility that helped the property sales to go 
through. I dont think the bank acted unfairly regarding the security it held for the loans.
Its my understanding that in the current interest rate environment, breaking the fixed rate 
loans would be likely to result in the companies receiving a break gain rather than paying a 
break cost. If the companies regard the fixed rate agreements as a constraint on their 
business, they can contact Lloyds to request up-to-date figures for ending the agreements.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2023.
 
Colin Brown
Ombudsman