DRN-3426306
The complaint
Mr D has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) unfairly applied charges 
to his account, contributing to his financial difficulties.
What happened
Mr D complained to Halifax about the charges that had been applied to his account for using 
his overdraft, he said that these had contributed to his financial difficulties.
Halifax didnt uphold the complaint, and as Mr D was dissatisfied, he referred the complaint 
to our service.
Mr Ds complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. He explained that he felt 
Halifax should have realised Mr D might be struggling financially by April 2020 and so 
recommended that it refund all charges and interest applied form that point onwards. Halifax 
disagreed so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
I issued my provisional decision on this case on 9 March 2022 explaining why I wasnt 
intending to uphold Mr Ds complaint. Mr D has responded explaining why he disagrees. 
Specifically, he feels that if he had not been mis-advised to enter a debt management plan 
by a third party debt management company in around December 2020 then he would likely 
not have reached the point where his account with Halifax defaulted, given that Mr Ds 
complaint against the debt management company has been upheld he considers that Halifax 
should amend his credit file.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained the following:
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the
various amounts Halifax has charged Mr D over the years were fair and reasonable. 
Ultimately how much a bank charges for services  and how and when it chooses to apply 
those charges  is a commercial decision. So this isnt something for me to get involved with.
That said, while Im not looking at Halifaxs charging structure per se, it wont have acted
fairly and reasonably towards Mr D if it continued to apply any interest, fees and charges to 
his account  and didnt offer any other assistance  in circumstances where it was aware, 
or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware, that he was experiencing financial 
difficulty. So Ive considered whether there were instances where Halifax didnt treat Mr D 
fairly and reasonably.
But based on what Ive seen so far, I dont think that Halifax did treat Mr D unfairly or 
unreasonably, Ill explain why.
Mr D opened his account in May 2018, he started using an overdraft on this account in 
around November 2018, and it seems this overdraft facility was then reviewed yearly in 
November. So if Halifax was to identify any financial difficulties, and then step in to offer help 
to Mr D, I would expect this to happen around the time of each overdraft review, unless there 
was a specific incident at another time in the year which I think should have alerted Halifax 
to any difficulties.
I can see that for the early part of 2019 Mr D did regularly make use of payday lenders to 
supplement his income. But I wouldnt expect that alone to trigger Halifax to review Mr Ds 
account outside of its normal overdraft review process. And by November 2019  when 
Halifax reviewed Mr Ds overdraft facility  Mr D seemed to have broken any cycle of payday 
lending he was in as he didnt appear to have taken any new lending from payday lenders 
for around three months. Mr D had also made some large payments into his account from 
another business account he held and had repaid his overdraft in full on a couple of 
occasions in the preceding months. All this means that I dont think there was anything to 
flag to Halifax at that time that Mr D might be struggling financially or need help managing 
his account.
Halifaxs next overdraft review was scheduled for November 2020, and I dont think there 
was anything prior to that date which should have triggered Halifax to look at Mr Ds account 
in more detail. He maintained his account within the arranged overdraft limit and made 
regular large payments in to reduce the balance.
Mr D has said that he had a problem with gambling which he feels was evident from how he 
used his account. But I dont agree that it would have been clear to anyone reviewing his 
account that he was struggling with gambling, There werent excessive payments direct to 
gambling websites or betting companies, and I cant see anything in Halifaxs notes to 
suggest that Mr D told it about his gambling problems until at least 2021. So I dont think 
there were any obvious signs of a problem that should have flagged to Halifax that Mr D 
might need some help. 
However, when Halifax reviewed Mr Ds overdraft limit in November 2020, I think it should 
have identified that there was a problem. Mr Ds use of payday loans had increased again 
following the November 2019 review and his account was showing other signs of difficulties, 
such as payments being returned because he didnt have the funds to cover them and his 
account only generally being in credit for one day or so each month. With this in mind I think 
that Halifax should have taken steps at this stage to see if Mr D needed any help.
However, Halifax has already refunded to Mr D the majority of the charges that were 
applied to his account after this point, so I dont think it needs to do anything more. I 
appreciate that Mr D is unhappy that his account was ultimately defaulted  and that this 
is recorded on his credit file. But I think that even if Halifax had stepped in to help him in 
November 2020, rather than in early 2021, its more likely than not that his account would 
still have defaulted. And ultimately, as it seems that Mr D was not able to repay the 
balance of his account, the information recorded on Mr Ds credit file about this account is 
accurate, so I dont think it would be reasonable to ask Halifax to change that information 
or to remove the default.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr D has said in response to my provisional decision, 
and I appreciate why he feels that the default should be removed from his credit file. But I 
still dont think that Halifax has done anything wrong here.
What Halifax has recorded about Mr Ds account is an accurate reflection of how he 
managed his account. Regardless of the reasons why, Mr Ds account was in an 
overdrawn position for an extended period of time with only small payments made to reduce the balance. I would expect a bank to take steps to default an account in those 
circumstances, so I dont think I can fairly say that Halifax has done anything wrong here.
Mr D can, if he chooses, ask for a notice to be added to his credit file explaining what 
happened with his debt management plan, but I dont think I can fairly say that Halifax 
should remove the default that it recorded. 
I know this will be disappointing for Mr D but I remain satisfied that Halifax has treated him 
fairly and I wont be asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont intend to uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman