DRN-4105000
The complaint
Mr G complains about the administration of bonds holding money from a trust. Mr G appears 
to have been one of two trustees in place when the bonds were first taken out. Responsibility 
for administering the bonds now sits with ReAssure Limited. To keep things simple, Ill use 
ReAssure to refer to them and their predecessors. 
What happened
The trust in this case existed for some years before these bonds were taken out. In a 
June 2021 letter to Mr G, ReAssure explained that Mr Gs co-trustee had completed the 
applications for the bonds, and at that point appeared to say they were the only trustee. 
In response to Mr Gs complaint, ReAssure have acknowledged they shouldnt have 
accepted that position without more proof. While I appreciate we may not have the full 
picture of whats happened with the trust over the years, its enough for this decision that 
ReAssure say they havent any evidence confirming Mr G formally stopped being a trustee. 
Mr Gs co-trustee seems to have continued as if they were the sole trustee until their death 
in 2016. Their executor seems to have tried appointing new trustees in 2020, which looks to 
be what drove Mr G to contact ReAssure in the summer of that year. 
It wasnt until February 2021 that ReAssure confirmed they regarded Mr G as the sole 
trustee owning the bonds. Further correspondence clarifying the position then seems to go 
until February 2022. Mr G then brought the matter to us in August. 
In their responses to Mr Gs complaint, ReAssure have sought to explain the position with 
the bonds. And theyve offered him £300 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
Our investigator noted in their review that there didnt appear to be a financial loss for the 
trust in all this. But she agreed some compensation was suitable given the time and difficulty 
ReAssure had added to Mr Gs efforts to get things sorted out. Our investigator ultimately felt 
the compensation should be £500. Mr G has disagreed though, so the case has come to me 
for a formal decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It seems to be accepted that ReAssure should have done more to confirm the position 
presented to them by Mr Gs co-trustee, before accepting the trusts money to set up the 
bonds. I agree with that position. There would have been legal documents confirming who 
was responsible for the trust, and ReAssure should have made sure these were consistent 
with what they were being told. 
I can see that in the course of sorting the position out, Mr Gs found ReAssures responses 
to be slow, or lacking in detail. I view these parts of the complaint as showing the extent of 
the trouble and upset thats followed from the original omission when setting up the bonds. 
Ive considered these points when deciding how to put things right. But  in keeping with the 
quick and informal nature of our service  Im going to focus on whats needed to draw this 
complaint to a resolution, rather than going into detail about everything Mr G feels ReAssure 
have done wrong.
Putting things right
From the evidence in front of me, it doesnt look like the trusts money has been lost as a 
result of ReAssure not confirming the trustee position earlier. At least one trustee was 
always aware of and involved with what was happening with the trusts money. So to resolve 
this complaint I find I can just consider what should be done to acknowledge the upset and 
inconvenience caused for Mr G. There are a few factors to consider in that. 
For a start, ReAssure cant undo whats happened, or the time its taken to sort out the 
confusion caused. And my direction isnt intended to punish them for mistakes. My focus is 
to have them show they recognise theyve added to the problem Mr Gs had to deal with. 
But another factor here is that the root of the issue was in Mr Gs co-trustee saying Mr G had 
retired as a trustee, and then acting as if they were the sole trustee. Ive looked to find a 
remedy that acknowledges ReAssure arent responsible for the actions of Mr Gs co-trustee. 
Taking into account what Mr Gs told us about the time and effort hes spent contacting 
ReAssure over the last few years, and the unreasonably long time it took ReAssure to fully 
confirm the position, I find a payment of compensation is needed. 
Picking an amount is a matter of opinion. For me the time taken, the root cause of the 
problem, the absence of a financial loss, and ReAssures more recent confirmations that 
things are now as it appears they should be, balanced with the impact Mr Gs described hes 
felt, lead me to agree with our investigator that a £500 payment will be suitable in this case. 
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold Mr Gs complaint about ReAssure Limited. To acknowledge the 
trouble and upset theyve added to this situation, I direct them to pay Mr G a total of £500 
compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2023.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman