DRN-2899069
The complaint
Mr S complains that a will writing service that was being paid for using a fixed sum loan 
agreement with Specialist Lending Limited, trading as Duologi, was mis-sold to him and that 
he didnt agree to the loan agreement.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr S and to Specialist Lending on 27 May 
2021. I described what had happened as follows:
Mr S agreed with an estate planning company in July 2019 that it would prepare a 
will and powers of attorney for him. When he received the draft will and trust deed he 
says that the trust deed was unsuitable for him so he cancelled his agreement with 
the company. Duologi says that Mr S had electronically signed a fixed sum loan 
agreement with it to pay £2,646.10 for the services and that hed also made an 
advance payment of £434.90.
Mr S says that he has no recollection of signing a credit agreement and doesnt 
consider that hes bound by it  and he didnt make any loan repayments to Duologi. 
Duologi issued a default notice to Mr S in October 2019 and he complained to it later 
that month that the services had been mis-sold to him.
It didnt uphold his complaint and Mr S wasnt satisfied with its response so 
complained to this service. Our investigator initially didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint but 
Mr S provided him with further information. He then said that Mr S entered into the 
agreement believing that his family were going to be named as the trustees and he 
didnt believe that he wouldve entered into the agreement whilst knowing there 
would be a third party involved. Our investigator didnt believe that it was fair that 
Mr S must pay for a service that wasnt what he agreed to and that he did not use. 
He recommended that Duologi should: remove the loan agreement and any adverse 
information from Mr Ss credit file; unwind the loan agreement; and pay Mr S £100 
compensation.
Duologi has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. It has 
provided a response to our investigators recommendations from the estate planning 
company and has explained why it considers that its decision not to uphold Mr Ss 
complaint was correct.
My provisional findings were as follows:
Mr S contacted the estate planning company because he wanted help with drafting a 
will and powers of attorney and he met with the estate planning company in late July 
2019. He signed the estate planning companys terms and conditions at that time and 
I understand that he also made an advance payment of £434.90.
Duologi has provided a copy of the fixed sum loan agreement that it says Mr S 
signed electronically at that time. It contains an authorisation code and a time stamp 
to show when it was electronically signed by Mr S. Ive seen no other document to 
show any arrangement between Mr S and the estate planning company for how the 
charges for the services were to be paid. Duologi sent Mr S a welcome pack and a 
copy of the agreement the following day. I consider it to be more likely than not that 
Mr S did agree to the loan being made to him by Duologi and that he did 
electronically sign the agreement  even though he has no recollection of doing so.
The estate planning company then drafted a will and a trust deed for Mr S which it 
says was based on what had been agreed in the discussions with Mr S when it met 
with him in July 2019. Mr S says the trust deed and the professional trustee were 
unsuitable for him so he told the estate planning company that he was cancelling 
those documents.
The terms of business that he had signed say:
You will be able to cancel the products or services and receive a full refund 
providing you do so within 14 days of the date you provide us with instructions 
..
The documents werent provided to Mr S until after that cancellation period had 
ended and Im not persuaded that he had the right to cancel his agreement with the 
estate planning company when he received the documents or when he tried to 
cancel them. The consequence of that may be that he had no right to cancel the 
agreement when he received the documents but I dont consider that that causes the 
terms and conditions that he accepted to be unfair, unreasonable or inapplicable.
If Mr S wasnt satisfied with the documents when he received them, I consider that it 
would be reasonable to expect him to have contacted the estate planning company 
about any issues with them and it could then have explained them to Mr S and made 
any agreed changes. It says that if Mr S didnt want a professional trustee then he 
could have chosen two family members  but it recommends its clients to have a 
professional trustees as they are experts in estate planning and provide legal support 
and settle the tax on the estate if needed.
The estate planning company also says if Mr S doesnt want to go ahead with the 
trust deed it will still provide its services for the will and powers of attorney  but Mr S 
hasnt yet returned any documents to it.
The terms of business do refer to professional trustees and the estate planning 
company says that the purpose of its home visit to Mr S in July 2019 was to ensure 
that every instruction that hed given was checked and confirmed with him as being 
correct. It also says that the products that it recommended to Mr S were as a result of 
the information that hed provided during the fact-find at the time of the home visit.
I sympathise with Mr S that the documents that he received werent what he had 
expected and he didnt consider them to be suitable for him, but Im not persuaded 
that he had the right to cancel his agreement with the estate planning company at 
that time or that theres enough evidence to show that the services were mis-sold to 
him.
I consider that Mr S had agreed to the loan from Duologi and had agreed to make 
one monthly loan repayment of £146.93 and then 16 monthly loan repayments of 
£147.01 as set out in the loan agreement. The loan was interest free but Mr S didnt 
make any of the required payments to Duologi. His account went into arrears and it 
sent him a default notice in October 2019. He didnt make the payment required by the default notice and Duologi has recorded the default on his credit file. I consider 
that to be a true and accurate record of his payment history under the agreement.
Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that the estate planning 
company or Duologi have acted incorrectly in their dealings with Mr S. I find that it 
wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require Duologi to 
waive or reduce the amount that he owes to it under the fixed sum loan agreement, 
to end that agreement, to remove any of the adverse information that its recorded on 
his credit file, to pay him any compensation or to take any other action in response to 
his complaint.
Subject to any further representations by Mr S or Duologi, my provisional decision was that I 
wasnt minded to uphold this complaint. Mr S says that he initially contacted the estate 
planning company in response to an advert offering a will writing service for £19.99 which he 
paid for. He says that he was visited by its representative in July 2019 to verify his will and 
he offered him other services, which he agreed to, paid the deposit and agreed to the 
interest free loan terms  but he says that he was expecting to receive a copy to sign and 
return to Duologi. 
He says that he would have signed the powers of attorney had his daughters surname been 
spelt correctly but the estate planning companys representative visited him again five days 
later and talked to him about avoiding duties and fees by putting his house into a trust. He 
says that he paid another deposit and was told that it could be added to the previous loan.
He says that the representative didnt explain to him that the trust could remove and replace 
his beneficiaries should he lose his mental faculties or on his death and that it would have 
overall control of his finances. He says that had he known that at the time he wouldnt have 
agreed to the trust and that he found out about it when he received the trust documents at 
the end of August, long after the 14 day cooling off period. He says that he immediately 
emailed the representative to cancel the trust and contacted the estate planning service. He 
says that this has caused him a lot of mental stress and strain over the last 21 months.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In particular Ive carefully considered the description of the events that Mr S has provided in 
response to my provisional decision  and I sympathise with him for the mental stress and 
strain to which hes referred  but, having done so, Im not persuaded that I should change 
my provisional decision.
I consider it to be clear that Mr S signed the estate planning companys terms and conditions 
and that its more likely than not that he did agree to the loan being made to him by Duologi - 
and that he did electronically sign the fixed sum loan agreement. I sympathise with Mr S that 
the documents that he received werent what he had expected and he didnt consider them 
to be suitable for him, but Im not persuaded that he had the right to cancel his agreement 
with the estate planning company after hed received the documents or that theres enough 
evidence to show that the services were mis-sold to him.
Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that the estate planning company or 
Duologi have acted incorrectly in their dealings with Mr S. I find that it wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable in these circumstances for me to require Duologi to waive or reduce the amount 
that he owes to it under the fixed sum loan agreement, to end that agreement, to remove 
any of the adverse information that its recorded on his credit file, to pay him any compensation or to take any other action in response to his complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2021.  
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman