DRN-2499705
The complaint
Mrs J says Morses Club PLC (Morses) lent to her irresponsibly. She says that she ended up 
in a debt spiral as the loans werent affordable. She says that Morses should have seen this 
and not lent to her. 
What happened
This complaint is about two home collected loans Morses provided to Mrs J in 2013.
Loan 1 was started in August 2013 and Mrs J borrowed £200. I understand Mrs J 
was due to repay £10 for 33 weeks. 
Loan 2 was started in December 2013 and Mrs J borrowed £400. I understand Mrs J 
was due to repay £20 for 33 weeks.
I also understand Mrs J didnt fully repay loan 2. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt have enough to say the loans were 
lent irresponsibly. Mrs J disagreed with the adjudicators opinion and asked for an 
ombudsmans decision. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Broadly speaking, this all means that Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it 
didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, this means it should have carried out proportionate 
checks to make sure Mrs J could repay her loans in a sustainable manner. Additionally, 
there may come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Applying this to the circumstances of this particular complaint, I have reached the same 
outcome as our adjudicator, for essentially the same reasons.
Mrs J has essentially said that she couldnt afford to repay this lending due to some financial 
difficulties she was facing. But she hasnt been able to provide any further evidence or detail 
about this. So, I cant say, from what Mrs J has provided or said, that Morses lent 
irresponsibly. This is because I cant say why it shouldnt have lent. 
And Morses only has basic information about the lending and no more. This isnt 
unreasonable given the amount of time that has passed since the loans were taken out. 
So, I dont have enough to say that its likely Morses was made aware of any financial 
problems Mrs J mightve been having. Or anything that wouldve prompted it to investigate 
her circumstances further before it lent. 
So overall, I havent seen enough to be able to say that Morses decisions to lend were 
unreasonable. So Im not upholding Mrs Js complaint about them. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Js complaint.
Morses Club PLC should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman