DRN-2628491
The complaint
Mr G has complained about Gefion Insurance A/S. He isnt happy that it turned down his 
insurance claim following the theft of his car.
What happened
I looked at the details of this complaint previously and provided my provisional decision in 
January 2021 as follows;
Mr G made a claim under his car insurance policy after his car was stolen. Mr G attended a 
wedding and left his car at the venue and got a taxi back home. When he went to collect his 
car he realised it had been stolen and reported the theft to the police and Gefion. His car 
was never recovered.
Gefion investigated the circumstances surrounding the theft of Mr Gs car and turned down 
the claim. When it analysed Mr Gs car key it showed that the car had been driven with the 
key after Mr G said he last drove the car. It was also concerned with a few of the other key 
readings and ultimately it wasnt satisfied that the theft had occurred as Mr G had explained. 
So Mr G complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for him and upheld his complaint. He didnt think that 
Gefion had fully considered all the evidence when it looked at the claim. A number of people 
had shown that the car was at the venue after the time Mr G had left the car and after the 
last identified use of the car with the key. So he wasnt persuaded that Gefion had acted 
fairly in declining the claim. He asked it to reconsider the claim and to pay £350 
compensation for the clear stress and inconvenience caused. 
As Gefion didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so Im presently minded not 
to uphold this complaint. I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr G, but Ill explain 
why.
Mr G left his car at a wedding venue and got a taxi home. He has provided some evidence in 
support of this in the form of call logs and timings with the taxi driver that he used to get 
home. He has also provided some evidence from people who stayed at the wedding venue 
and the owners of the venue who say that his car was still at the venue the following day.
Gefion appointed an investigator to interview him and had the only key that Mr G had in his 
possession checked. Mr G said that he did have a second key, but hed lost it. The 
investigator didnt raise any real concerns about his account, but it did say that the car keys 
should be checked. The only key that Mr G had in his possession showed it had been used 
with the car after Mr G said he last drove the car. Indeed, it was used around the time Mr G 
called for a taxi during the early hours of the morning.
Although Mr G didnt initially remember, as he was too intoxicated, he was reminded by a 
fellow guest at the wedding that he had charged his phone in his car with the engine running 
during the early hours of the morning while he waited for a taxi. And he feels that this 
explains why the key data shows his car was in use when it wasnt. But the key specialists 
have said that the car had to be driven a certain number of miles before the key data 
updates which rules this explanation out.
I know Mr G disputes the key data and did suggest that he would get his own key analysis, 
but he wasnt able to. Im open to this possibility and Ive asked our investigator to look into 
this issue as well. But I havent seen anything to undermine the data provided by Gefion 
which included data from the manufacturer. So, on the evidence before me I can understand 
why Gefion has suspicions around the circumstances surrounding the claim.
I say this as it seems clear that Mr Gs key was used in his car long after he said it was 
driven and at a time when he was clearly intoxicated. I know that Mr Gs car was seen after 
this at the venue. But that doesnt explain the journey shown by the key and without an 
explanation about this I cant say that Gefion has acted unreasonably.
So, as it stands Im minded not to uphold Mr Gs complaint. But I must highlight that my 
provisional decision is open to change depending on any further evidence or representations 
I receive.
Replies
Both sides responded to my provisional decision. Gefion accepted the position outlined while 
Mr G asked for an extension of time and provided further detailed representations.
Mr G initially indicated that the vehicle manufacturer said that the car didnt need to be driven 
for a number of miles for the key to update and that he was waiting on email confirmation of 
this. However, he went on to say that the manufacturer ultimately confirmed that the car 
mustve been driven for the key to update. 
But the main thrust of Mr Gs representations was to go over the details of the claim again. 
And he said that even if the car had been driven during the early hours of the morning it was 
still at the wedding venue after this point in time, so he didnt feel it was relevant whether the 
car was driven or not.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered all of the further comments and original evidence again I still dont think 
that Gefion has acted unreasonably in turning down the claim. 
I dont propose to go over the finer detail of this complaint again as Ive already considered 
all of the issues above. However, I will comment on Mr Gs main points in his further 
representations.
I know Mr G says that his car wasnt driven during the early hours of the morning but, on 
balance, I think it was. The key report and data clearly show that the car was driven. And 
despite Mr G liaising with his own key specialist and a main dealership he hasnt been able 
to undermine this evidence in any way. I dont know what happened at that time or who drove the car, but Im satisfied, on the 
evidence before me, that it was driven. And I can understand why Gefion would want to 
know about this journey. I say this as it seems likely the car was driven and could have been 
damaged or involved in an accident which would impact on this claim. And the cars use 
during the early hours of the morning requires explanation and certainly goes to the heart of 
the credibility of the claim. Indeed, Mr G has acknowledged that his own memory from that 
time is poor as he was heavily intoxicated. 
So, despite my natural sympathy for the difficult position Mr G has found himself I dont think 
Gefion has done anything wrong. And, on the evidence before me, I can understand why 
Gefion has suspicions around the circumstances surrounding the claim and so I dont 
propose to interfere with its decision.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2021.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman