DRN-3596802
The complaint
Miss L complains Barclays Bank UK PLC incorrectly provided her with her sisters 
account details.
What happened
Miss L complained to Barclays that when she called its telephone banking she was 
repeatedly provided with her sisters account details rather than her own. This meant she 
was unable to use that service to find out her own account balance or know which 
transactions had taken place. Instead she had to wait for her monthly postal statements. 
Barclays apologised for the time it took to respond to her complaint. It said the telephone 
banking problem had been caused by human error. It said a note had been placed on her 
account to prevent the problem being repeated. Barclays added there hadnt been a data 
breach as Miss L held power of attorney for her sister. It offered her £300 compensation to 
recognise the impact of its mistakes. Miss L wasnt satisfied, so came to this service.  
Our investigator considered Miss Ls complaint. She felt Barclays had already provided a fair 
amount of compensation to recognise the impact of repeated small errors. So she didnt 
recommend it pay any extra compensation or do anything differently. Miss L didnt accept 
that outcome. She said she had been caused a great deal of inconvenience and frustration 
over many months. She didnt accept £300 to be enough compensation. As a result the 
complaint was passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to require Barclays to pay any additional compensation or do 
anything differently.
Barclays has explained the cause of the problem. The primary account linked to Miss Ls 
passcode was her sisters  as she holds power of attorney for her. Barclays says its now 
amended its system, so the primary account is now Miss Ls. 
Barclays has pointed to a secondary cause. Miss L and her sister share the same initials and 
surname. Barclays says, in the random calls it listened to, Miss L gave those shared initials 
and surname instead of her full names. As a result the telephone banking adviser thought 
they were viewing the correct linked account. To minimise the risk of this sort of problem 
happening again Miss L may wish to consider providing her full names.
Im satisfied Barclays has taken reasonable steps to address the problem. Ive considered 
the impact of it on Miss L. I cant see there has been any financial loss involved. It seems 
there was some inconvenience for her. I accept it was a repeated problem over several 
months. But Im satisfied £300, already offered by Barclays, is a fair amount to recognise the 
impact on her. So Im not going to require it to pay or do anything extra. It says the offer is 
still available. If Miss L would like to accept it, she should get in touch with Barclays.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Miss Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2022.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman