DRN-3824934
The complaint
Mr D complains that Santander UK Plc rejected his claim under section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act (the Act) in relation to misrepresentation and breach of contract by the supplier, 
which Ill call P, which sold him a solar panel system (the system).  Mr D is represented 
by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In November 2015, Mr D purchased the system for his home. He paid the deposit for the 
system using his Santander credit card. 
In September 2021, the CMC made a claim to Santander on Mr Ds behalf under section 75 
of the Act. It said that Mr D was told at the time of sale that:
The system would pay for itself or break even within seven or eight years. 
His electricity bills would reduce significantly.
The CMC says that this formed a contractual term which has been breached or it was a 
misrepresentation because the CMC calculates that the system will take over ten years to 
break even.
Santander rejected the claim. It did not think there had been a misrepresentation or breach 
of contract. 
The CMC then referred the matter to the Financial Ombudsman Service since Mr D was 
unhappy with Santanders response. We notified Santander of the complaint. Santander felt 
it had dealt with the claim in a fair way. 
Our investigator looked into the matter. They concluded that the complaint should not be 
upheld. Mr D remained unhappy. Because our investigator could not resolve the complaint 
Ive been asked to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 75 of the Act allows a consumer to make a claim against a lender for 
misrepresentation or breach of contract by a supplier. Mr D partially paid for the system 
using his Santander credit card. It is not in dispute that section 75 covers the purchase. The 
dispute is over whether there was a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the part of 
the supplier, P.
What Mr D was told
Mr D says he was told the system would pay for itself within seven or eight years. That is, 
how long it would take for the Feed-In Tariff (FIT) payments and electricity savings (from 
using electricity generated by the system rather than buying it from his electricity supplier) to 
exceed what he paid for the system. 
The quote does not indicate a payback period of seven or eight years. It shows an annual 
rate of return of 9.8%. This would suggest a payback period of 11 years. That appears to be 
the only document from before Mr D agreed to the purchase. Although, taking into account 
inflation in FIT payments and electricity prices, it may be that he was told the payback period 
would be less than 11 years. 
There is a report from a couple of weeks after this, which includes a financial analysis and 
cashflow table showing a payback period of 8.7 years. This has Mr Ds details on and was 
clearly prepared for him to illustrate the estimated performance of the system which was to 
be installed at his property. 
There is also a separate spreadsheet with solar PV investment calculations. When this was 
provided to Mr D and why is unclear. But it shows a payback period of 7.8 years.  
So, I think thin it is likely that, between the sale and installation of the system, Mr D was told 
the system would pay for itself after between eight and 11 years. 
Was this a term of the contract?
Im not persuaded that this formed a term of the contract. 
The quote included an estimate of the first-year benefits of the system which totalled 
£695.80, above which it said:
Please note that: The performance of solar [photovoltaic] systems is impossible to 
predict with certainty due to the variability in the amount of solar radiation (sunlight) 
from location to location and year to year. This estimate is based upon the standard 
MCS procedure and is given as guidance only. It should not be considered as a 
guarantee of performance.
The quote went on to guarantee that Mr D would receive at least 95% of the quoted FIT 
payments in the first year, otherwise P would make up the difference. I think this statement 
reflects the extent to which it may be reasonable to expect the estimates to be accurate. 
The report including financial analysis and cashflow table calculated the expected 
performance of the system over 25 years. It stated that:
The results have been calculated with a mathematical model calculation from 
[company name redacted]. The actual yields from the solar power system may differ 
as a result of weather variations, the efficiency of the modules and inverter, and other 
factors.
So, I think this indicates that it would not be reasonable to expect the actual performance to 
exactly match the calculations. 
The calculations included a number of assumptions looking up to 25 years into the future. 
Clearly, when making such assumptions, it is impossible to accurately predict the future. So, 
I do not think such calculations could reasonably be taken to be a term of the contract. 
The investment calculations are a separate document. It uses slightly different assumptions 
resulting in a higher benefit and a lower payback period. There is not any context to this document  I dont know when or how it was presented to Mr D. But there is nothing in it that 
makes me think its contents should be taken to be a term of the contract.  
Ive found that the estimated benefit of the system was not a term of the contract. So, it 
would not be a breach of contract if the actual benefits did not match the estimates. 
Was the predicted payback time a misrepresentation? 
In this context a misrepresentation is an untrue statement of fact or law made by one party 
(or its agent) to a second party which induces that second party to enter the contract, 
thereby causing them loss.
The predicted payback time was an estimate based on certain assumptions  about the 
Retail Price Index (RPI) and electricity unit rate inflation over many years into the future as 
well as Mr Ds usage of the electricity generated by the system. I would expect any 
assumptions made to be reasonable, but not that they would be accurate over time. 
The financial analysis and cashflow table states that FIT payment inflation was assumed to 
be 3.5% per year  FIT unit rates increase each year in line with the RPI. The assumption for 
electricity price inflation is not clearly stated in the document but appears to be in the region 
of 3.9%. The financial analysis document uses assumptions of 3.5% for RPI and 5.0% for 
electricity inflation. 
Bearing in mind past inflation rates, I do not think the assumptions used are unreasonable in 
either case. And, given that they were reasonable assumptions, I would not consider it a 
misrepresentation if those assumptions turned out not to match actual inflation over the 
years  resulting in the benefits of the system being less than predicted at the time of sale. 
I note that the FIT payments received by Mr D over five years were about £2,500, whereas 
the cashflow table predicted hed receive £2,414 in that time. So, it seems the estimated FIT 
payments were pretty accurate, and Mr D has received slightly more than expected. 
Did Mr Ds electricity bills reduce significantly?
The CMCs own calculations suggest that Mr Ds monthly electricity bills reduced on average 
by 21% over a period of five years. I think that is a significant amount. So, I dont think it was 
a misrepresentation when Mr D was told his bills would reduce significantly. 
The CMC says the bills have not reduced as much as predicted at the time of sale  which it 
says was by up to half. The documents from the time of sale do not show a saving of up to 
half  they show a saving of £256.56, £263.50, and £357.00 in year one depending on what 
document you look at. This is a saving against pre-installation bills (the CMC calculates 
these were £850.56 per year) of between 30% and 42%. So, I think it is unlikely that Mr D 
was told he would save 50% on his electricity bills. 
While Mr D has not achieved the savings set out in the documents from the time of sale, I 
dont think that amounts to a misrepresentation on the part of P. As I said above, I think the 
estimated savings were based on reasonable assumptions  about how much of the 
generated electricity Mr D would use and potential electricity prices over 25 years. 
The estimate of Mr Ds usage of the generated electricity was 50%. This appears to have 
been a general assumption in use in the solar industry at the time of sale, rather than being 
based on an assessment of Mr Ds specific circumstances. So, I dont think that was 
unreasonable. Mr Ds usage of the generated electricity may be less than assumed. How much he pays per unit of electricity may also be higher or lower than expected at the time of 
sale. But I dont think that means there was a misrepresentation by P. 
Given current electricity price inflation it seems likely that Mr Ds savings will have increased 
significantly since the CMC made the claim on his behalf. So, it is possible that he will 
achieve the predicted savings in the long term. Those savings being relative to what he 
wouldve paid for electricity from his supplier if he didnt have the system installed.
Summary
I have not found that there was a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the part of P, so 
I do not think Santander had any liability under section 75 of the Act. As such, its response 
to Mr Ds complaint appears to have been fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2023.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman