DRN-1261294
The complaint
Ms F complains that Right Choice Insurance Brokers Limited mis-sold car insurance policies 
to her. She says it didn't make her aware of the high policy excess payable should any claim 
be made on her policy. Ms F is represented by Ms S.
What happened
Ms F bought insurance policies through Right Choice from 2014 onwards. Apart from the 
first one, all the policies were with the same insurer and carried a £3,000 'all sections' policy 
excess. That meant Ms F was responsible for the first £3,000 paid on any claim - including 
those made against the policy by third parties.
Ms F contacted Right Choice in 2019 after another driver made a court claim against her for 
an accident in 2015. The insurer paid the claim, but given the high policy excess, it then 
chased Ms F for the money. Ms F didn't think she should have to pay it, as she thought Right 
Choice had never made her aware of the excess.
One of our investigators reviewed Ms F's complaint. She didn't think it should be upheld. She 
said in 2015 Right Choice had sent Ms F a statement of fact for the policy that said an 
excess of £3,000 was payable in the event of any claim, and that Ms F had agreed to it. The 
investigator said during the renewal call with Right Choice in 2017, Ms F asked if the excess 
was still £3,000, as in the previous year. The advisor said it was, and Ms F seemed content. 
The investigator said the statements of fact Ms F got in 2017 and 2018 showed the policy 
excess. And she noted that Right Choice had provided copies of declarations signed by her 
for those years that said the excess was explained prior to the start of each policy.
The investigator noted that Ms F had said she didn't know much about insurance and that 
English wasn't her first language. But she said Right Choice didn't know about any difficulties 
on Ms F's part. So she thought it had done all that was needed to ensure the excess was 
explained. The investigator thought Right Choice had recommended the same insurer from 
2015 onwards as it was the one offering the lowest premium for Ms F.
Ms F didn't accept the investigator's view, but she didn't explain why she thought it was 
wrong. As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Right Choice has given us renewal call recordings from 2017, 2018 and 2019. In all of these 
calls, the policy excess was mentioned. Ms F didn't query it or express any concerns about 
it. Right Choice has also supplied the statements of fact for the 2017 and 2018 policies - plus 
declarations signed by Ms F for those years. The declarations confirm that the policy excess 
was explained to her at the point of sale. The excess is also shown on the policies' cover 
notes for 2015, 2017 and 2019, under the heading "Special Terms / Conditions/ Excesses..." 
so I think Right Choice tried to make details of the excess apparent.The call recordings for 2015 and 2016 aren't available - although the 2015 statement of fact 
says Ms F agreed to the policy excess. Without the calls, I can't be certain that the policy 
excess was explained to Ms F at the point of sale in those years. But I think it's more likely 
than not that it was, given the content of all the renewal calls after that, plus all the 
documents Right Choice has provided. And what we know for sure is that when Ms F was 
told about the excess - either verbally or in writing - she didn't ever query it.
If the excess wasn't explained initially, I think it's unlikely it would have made a difference to 
Ms F anyway. Partly that's because she showed no concern whenever it was mentioned or 
displayed prominently in documents. But I think it's also fair to say that some consumers are 
happy to accept a policy with a high excess in return for a cheaper premium. The premium 
for the 2015 policy was several hundred pounds cheaper than the one Ms F had paid to a 
different insurer the previous year. And it reduced further in 2016. So I think it's very likely 
that Right Choice found the most competitive quote for Ms F in those years, and that she 
was content with the outcome.
Ms F may not know much about insurance, but I'd have expected her to query the excess if 
she wasn't sure what it was, or why it was so high. In one of the calls, Ms F queried the 
premium, so I think she had some financial awareness. Ms F's first language isn't English, 
and that can certainly make buying insurance hard for a consumer. But in my view, the call 
recordings don't show that Ms F had problems when speaking to Right Choice's advisors. 
And it couldn't have made adjustments for her anyway unless she made it aware of any 
difficulties on her part.
Based on all the information we have, I don't think Ms F has shown that she wasn't made 
aware of the high policy excess, so I can't uphold her complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F (or Ms S on 
her behalf) to accept or reject my decision before 29 July 2020.
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman