DRN-3951317
The complaint
Mr J complains about the way Domestic & General Insurance Limited (D&G) handled a claim 
he made under his appliance insurance policy.
Reference to D&G includes agents acting on its behalf.
What happened
Mr J had an insurance policy with D&G that covered him for repairs to his washing machine 
in the event of damage or breakdown. In August 2022 he contacted D&G because his 
washing machine wasnt working properly. D&G appointed an engineer and they attended 
two days later. The engineer decided new parts were needed so they ordered them. When 
the parts arrived, they were faulty, so they had to get replacement parts. The engineer 
completed the repairs 20 days after Mr J made a claim under his policy. 
Mr J complained to D&G about the delay in repairing his washing machine and the time hed 
wasted having to wait for an engineer to arrive. He said on one occasion the engineer hadnt 
cancelled the appointment until the afternoon, while on two other occasions, theyd arrived 
later than the two-hour window theyd committed to. D&G said it aimed to carry out repairs 
within 14 days and recognised it had failed to do that. It apologised for the delay and paid 
Mr J £60. Mr J didnt think this amount reflected the full impact on him and so brought his 
complaint to this service.
Our investigator thought the compensation D&G had given Mr J was a reasonable amount 
for the delay and the fact hed had to wait in on three occasions for the engineer. Mr J 
disagreed. He was happy with the amount D&G had paid him for the delay in repairing his 
washing machine. But he didnt think D&G or our investigator had fully considered the poor 
service and communication it had provided around the late and cancelled appointments. 
As Mr J didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In its final response to Mr J, D&G said he was without a washing machine for four weeks and 
six days. But I think thats a typing mistake, as all the other evidence indicates it took two 
weeks and six days to complete the repair. The terms and conditions of Mr Js policy dont 
specify how long he should expect to wait to have his appliance repaired. But D&G said it 
aims to carry out repairs within 14 days. It recognised it failed to do that on this occasion as 
it took 20 days. Was that a reasonable length of time for Mr J to wait? On balance, I think it 
was. Let me explain why.
The engineer attended within two days of Mr J contacting D&G. They couldnt repair the 
washing machine at that point because they needed new parts. But when those parts 
arrived, they were faulty, so the engineer had to order them again. That was unfortunate but 
I dont think D&G should take responsibility for the delay that caused as it would appear to 
have been out of its control. It wasnt D&Gs fault there was a problem with the first lot of 
new parts that arrived. The engineer then booked another appointment when the second 
order of parts arrived. So, while I recognise it took D&G longer than it would usually expect 
to repair Mr Js washing machine, there were good reasons for that, and I dont think the 
overall time to complete the repair was unreasonable.
Mr Js main concern is the poor customer service he experienced. He said the engineer 
arrived later than the two-hour window theyd committed to. And on one occasion the 
engineer cancelled the appointment, but only after Mr J had been waiting at home for them 
to attend. Mr J was concerned that D&G hadnt taken this poor service into account when it 
responded to his complaint. But Ive listened to the telephone call D&G made to Mr J to 
discuss his complaint and Im satisfied from the evidence Ive seen and heard that it did 
consider the impact of its poor communication when it offered £60 compensation. 
Im also satisfied the £60 compensation D&G gave Mr J is fair and reasonable in the 
particular circumstances of this complaint. As Ive said, I dont think the time it took D&G to 
repair Mr Js boiler was unreasonable in light of the need to order and then re-order new 
parts. Theres no doubt Mr J was inconvenienced by having to wait at home unnecessarily. I 
can understand the frustration he would have felt having to wait several hours for the 
engineer to arrive, or to find out theyd cancelled the appointment. But D&G has apologised 
for the poor communication it provided and its paid Mr J £60 as a gesture of goodwill. And I 
think thats fair in the circumstances. 
I recognise Mr Js strength of feeling but, in light of the above, I dont think I can fairly or 
reasonably ask D&G to do anything differently. 
My final decision
Domestic & General Insurance Limited has paid Mr J £60 to settle the complaint and I think 
that amount is fair in all the circumstances. I dont think it needs to do anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2023.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman