DRN-3630192
The complaint
Mr K complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC has registered a marker at CIFAS, the national 
fraud database and closed his account.
What happened
Mr K explains that he had advertised a computer for sale and was in contact with a potential 
buyer. Originally the money was going to be paid through an online payment service 
provider, but he says that method was refunded. So instead he received a payment of 
£1,120 direct to his Barclays account. He noticed that the buyer had given a busines 
address for delivery and suspected that if he sent the laptop thered be a claim back for the 
money too. So, he says he removed the funds to protect them as Barclays told him to and 
reported what happened to police. He says that he is unhappy that Barclays didnt respond 
to him and that it registered the marker. He wants his account reinstated and an apology.
Barclays said it wouldnt be removing the marker as it hadnt made a mistake. It accepted it 
had taken longer than normal to respond to the complaint and offered Mr K £100 in 
compensation.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that the standard 
for a CIFAS marker was that:
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial crime has
been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could confidently
report the conduct of the subject to the police.
Barclays had received a report that money sent to Mr Ks account had been fraudulently 
obtained. Given Mr Ks concerns she was unclear why hed given the person who sent the 
money his bank details. Mr K had withdrawn and retained the money. And that made him 
complicit in receiving fraudulently obtained money. Barclays was entitled to decide not to 
continue to offer him an account. And it had grounds to apply the marker.
Mr K didnt agree. He said we hadnt requested the messages in which the buyer asked him 
to send the computer to what hed established were business premises. He wanted to know 
how it could be shown he was deliberately complicit in what happened.  He said wed failed 
to ask for all the evidence including him reporting this to police. And wed misunderstood the 
timeline. He wanted his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that in response to his comments and question about who to send further 
information to, our investigator told Mr K to send it to her to add to our file. Nothing has been 
received. Ive also listened to an earlier call our investigator had with Mr K about the case 
when she asked that he send any kind of evidence he had. So, I think hes had a reasonable 
opportunity to do so and to clarify any points including about what he sees as the timeline of 
events.
I need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Barclays 
needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted and that the 
evidence would support this being reported to the authorities. 
What this means in practice is that a bank must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
have entered the consumers account, whether they are retained or pass through the 
account. Secondly, the bank will need to have strong evidence to show that the consumer 
was deliberately dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might 
be, an illegitimate payment. This can include allowing someone else to use their account in 
order to receive an illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against 
someone who was unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show deliberate 
complicity.
To meet the standard of proof required to register a CIFAS marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention.
Ive looked at the material Mr K has provided. There was an exchange of messages with the 
buyer on 30 August 2020, but this only shows what the buyer said. There is a copy of Mr Ks 
request for payment using the online payment provider. As Mr K indicates that would have 
given the buyer some protection. He says he was suspicious when instead the buyer wanted 
to send the money to his account which would give no guarantees. And Mr K says that the 
address for delivery was a business address which Ive no particular reason to doubt. 
Mr K says he was suspicious of anyone who would send money in this way. In his 
correspondence with Barclays he says he didnt provide the buyer with his account details. 
Notably in an email to Barclays of 8 October 2021 when he was answering a question about 
how the buyer got his details he said that if I knew that then I myself could perhaps have 
gone to police about this sorry affair. He went on to say So heres my take. I have probably 
given my bank account details to more than 100 buyersSo I think that the person who 
claimed to be [the name of the buyer] was most likely to be a previous buyer who wanted to 
chance his luck. He went on to say that this and the request to refund a more secure 
payment method and send the computer to a business address meant he knew the intention 
was clear to defraud him. Hed send the laptop and then the money would be claimed back.
While this explanation of how the account details were obtained isnt impossible it does 
seem unlikely. And Mr Ks concerns were only based on what he thought might happen, its 
not what actually did. He says thats because he prevented it and I want to look at that in 
detail.
The payment of £1,120 shows as credited to his account statement on 1 September 2020 
and he transferred £1,100 to his Barclays savings account that day. He was in 2021 given a 
branch stamped copy of an extract of the Barclays customer notepad relating to him. This 
states that on 3 September 2020 hed phoned because his online banking had already been 
blocked. And a note was made that hed go to branch and as he did to try and withdraw 
money. Its clear the manager he says hed spoken with had been involved with him that 
day. And he withdrew the remaining money in his savings and current account. There are no 
notes of what he discussed with that manager and about whether he was told as he says to 
take the money out to protect it and as it would otherwise be frozen for some time.I dont rule out there being some potential for confusion. But I think it unlikely that Mr K would 
have been told to take the money out had he made clear that he thought that these funds 
related to a potential fraud and he hadnt sent the buyer the computer. And frankly Im 
struggling to see what reasonable basis Mr K thought he had to keep this money when he 
hadnt sent the item to any buyer and then had no intention of doing so.
He came to know that his account had been closed and then that there was a CIFAS 
marker. He knew that this related to concerns that hed been involved with a fraud. He says 
he contacted Barclays on many occasions, had a solicitor, and even tried to contact the 
buyer at the address he had. Ive no reason to doubt he contacted police, but Ive not seen 
any details to confirm what he was told.
The position now is that he has received and kept money he hasnt shown he had a right to. 
He had no right to it when he withdrew it and he hasnt supplied a computer to anyone in 
relation to it. His intention never seemed to supply a computer if payment was made by bank 
transfer, but I havent seen evidence he told the person sending the money this. The last 
message from the buyer Ive seen was at 5:51pm on 30 August 2020 as follows I think it is 
best that I do a Bank Transfer and you can get the money straight away.
He says hes avoided being a fraud victim himself. But I note he now has money from a third 
party which has benefitted him and has led to an allegation he received fraudulent funds. He 
reasonably knows this isnt his money and hes not returned it to anyone. I appreciate that 
Barclays didnt discuss this further with him at the time, but Ive been able to consider his 
explanation and evidence. Having done so Im afraid this position is sufficient now for a 
conclusion that hes been deliberately complicit in holding money that has been obtained for 
something he factually didnt supply. I dont think his mitigation that Barclays hasnt done 
anything about this is reasonable to explain the position hes still in and hes fairly 
accountable for his own actions.
Barclays says that it applied the CIFAS marker because Mr K received fraudulent funds into 
his account. So, Ive looked at whether it was fair to apply the marker, based on the 
evidence it had, and the investigation it carried out. CIFAS guidance says the business must 
have carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet the standard of proof set by CIFAS. This 
essentially means that Barclays needs to have enough information to make a formal report 
to the police. And that any filing should be for cases where there are reasonable grounds to 
believe fraud or financial crime has been committed, rather than mere suspicion. 
Having reviewed Mr Ks account of events and the evidence Barclays has provided, Im 
satisfied that Barclays had sufficient evidence for the CIFAS marker to be recorded. In 
coming to this view, Ive taken into account the following reasons:
- Mr K received money into his account that hes not shown he was entitled to retain, 
and which was reported as fraudulent to Barclays.
- He authorised the withdrawal of the funds and so was in control of who had the 
benefit of this money.
- Barclays had grounds to believe that Mr K had used fraudulently obtained funds 
based on the evidence it had.I find that it was entitled to decide to close his account and apply the marker. I can 
appreciate how disappointed Mr K will be by my assessment and that I wont be asking it to 
do anything further. If he wants to receive the £100 Barclays has offered relating to the 
handling of his complaint hed need to contact it directly. I wont be making an award for that 
amount as complaint handling isnt a separate regulated activity and taking into account my 
findings about his complaint. 
If Mr K doesnt accept my decision he remains free to pursue this in court subject to any 
relevant time limits.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman