DRN-3808878
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as D has complained that XL Catlin Insurance Company UK Limited 
unfairly turned down its business interruption insurance claim after it was forced to close due 
to the Covid-19 pandemic.
Mr D, a director of D, has brought the complaint on Ds behalf.
What happened
D held a business interruption insurance policy with XL Catlin. It is a travel agent.
As a result of the restrictions imposed by the Government in response to Covid-19 D closed 
its premises in March 2020. 
D claimed on the policy. XL Catlin declined the claim. It said the policy covered business 
interruption as a result of a notifiable disease manifesting itself at the premises and it didnt 
think D had demonstrated that was the case.
D disagreed. It said a member of staff had been off sick with a virus at the relevant time and 
due to a lack of testing nobody could be sure there hadnt been a case of Covid-19 on Ds 
premises before it was required to close. 
D brought its complaint to our service. Our Investigator looked into it but didnt recommend it 
be upheld. She didnt think D had shown that thered been a manifestation of Covid-19 at the 
premises. 
D asked for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact on 
Ds business. But I dont intend to uphold its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see 
whether XL Catlin has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of 
the policy when declining Ds claim.
The most relevant part of Ds policy is an extension to the policy that covers losses arising 
from:
closure or restrictions placed on the Premises on the advice or with the approval of the 
Medical Officer of Health of the Public Authority as a result of a notifiable human disease 
manifesting itself at the Premises.
For this extension to provide cover, the policy requires the closure or restrictions placed on 
the business premises to have been the result of a case of a notifiable human disease 
manifesting itself at the premises. As Covid-19 is a notifiable disease, Ive considered the 
information I have to decide whether its most likely D closed its business because there was 
a case of Covid-19 manifesting itself at its premises. 
Some policies refer to the occurrence of a disease, whereas others  like Ds policy  
require there to have been a manifestation. An occurrence of a disease can take place 
without the individual who has the disease displaying symptoms. But for a disease to have 
manifested, it has been held that the individual concerned will need to have displayed 
symptoms of the disease or have been diagnosed as having the disease  potentially by a 
positive test result  at the time they were at the premises. It is not enough, in the 
circumstances of this complaint, for a pre-symptomatic individual to have sustained the 
disease and been on the premises. 
Widespread testing wasnt available towards the start of the pandemic and the Government 
advised people to avoid using health services if they were displaying symptoms of Covid-19, 
save for emergencies. Its therefore rare that a business will be able to produce a positive 
test result, or conclusive diagnosis, from that period. And to treat that as a requirement to 
demonstrate a case on the premises would, in my view, be unfair.
Its therefore necessary to take a more pragmatic approach, and to consider whether other 
evidence can be provided that supports, on the balance of probabilities, that there was a 
case of Covid-19 at the insured premises prior to closure. As with any insurance claim, the 
burden of proof initially rests with the policyholder to demonstrate that its suffered a loss its 
policy covers.
D has provided evidence to support the fact that a staff member was suffering from a viral 
infection in February/March 2020. However, there isnt any evidence to confirm that they 
were suffering from Covid-19. I have to bear in mind that many of the people who were 
unwell at that time didnt have Covid-19. I dont think the evidence is sufficiently convincing 
to conclude that there was most likely a case of Covid-19 at Ds premises before it was 
required to close. 
I appreciate Mr D believes the burden of proof in this case is unfairly high. I agree it is high 
but it is possible for it to be met without a positive diagnosis of Covid-19. I dont think its 
unfair and similar terms arent uncommon in business interruption insurance.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome D was hoping for but, having considered the matter very 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require XL Catlin to pay Ds claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2022.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman