DRN-1699582
Complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Mr D says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him the PPI. 
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Mr Ds credit card application had a section for optional features, one of which was PPI. It 
gave an overview of what the policy was for, and had two options to choose from: one to 
take the policy, and one to turn it down. The option to buy PPI was ticked, the option to turn 
it down was left blank, and Mr D signed the application to confirm his choices. So I think its 
most likely that Lloyds made it clear Mr D didnt have to take out PPI and that he chose to 
take it  though I can understand if he no longer remembers doing so after so long.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr D, so it had to check that the policy was right for him  
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example, it looks like Mr D was eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of its main 
exclusions or limitations. And he doesnt seem to have had any alternative protection if he 
was off sick or lost his job, beyond the very limited statutory benefits. So the PPI couldve 
been useful for him in case he fell on difficult times.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have changed his 
mind. Here, it looks like Mr D chose to take out the policy, which indicates he wanted this 
type of cover. As I said above, it doesnt look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to 
or limits on the PPI, and it could have been useful for Mr D in case something went wrong. 
And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr D could cancel it at any time without 
a penalty. Overall, I dont think better information about the PPI was likely to have put him off 
taking it out. 
This means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr D.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr D because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr D about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell him, that 
was unfair. 
 To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank PLC does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr D.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay back to Mr D any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman