DRN-3239398
The complaint
Mr M complains that he lost out due to lack of advice from Caledonian Financial
Management Limited (CFM) about his occupational pension scheme.
What happened
Mr M said that in around July 2019 he instructed CFM to transfer money out of his
occupational pension scheme into a self-invested personal pension (SIPP). It had already
done something similar for another occupational pension scheme that he had been a
member of. A cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) was obtained in July 2019 of around
£187,000 and was guaranteed for three months from 21 July 2019. Mr M sent the CETV to
CFM by email on 29 July 2019. CFM replied on the same day to say it would prepare a
report. Mr M understood that CFM were getting on with his instructions. At a review meeting
in September 2019 Mr M said he understood the proposed transfer was being actioned and
CFM knew he didnt want to remain in the occupational pension scheme. On 20 October
2019 the CETV guarantee expired but the transfer had not been done. He felt CFM failed to
properly advise him about the transfer and failed to provide any report or professional advice
about the merits of the transfer and failed to implement his instructions. Mr M had now
reached the normal retirement age for the scheme so wasnt able to get another CETV. He
had therefore lost the opportunity to pursue alternative investments.
CFM didnt agree. It said that it met Mr M in February 2019 to undertake a financial review
and a letter was issued following the meeting. This showed that Mr M had fully retired in
June 2018 and said he needed a maximum income of £20,000 per annum. He was due to
start receiving his state pension from May 2020. Mr M confirmed he would get up to date
figures from his occupational pension scheme. On 29 July it received an email from Mr M
with information about the occupational scheme, but no further instructions were received. It
said it confirmed receipt and phoned Mr M to say that it couldnt advise on defined benefit
transfers, so no further action was taken. Another review meeting took place in September
2019. The report confirmed that his resources would provide him with a guaranteed income
of around £20,000 per annum and Mr M was still aware that CFM could not provide advice
on defined benefit schemes. It had not had any instruction from Mr M to advise on the
transfer and even if he had it would have had to tell him that it couldnt advise.
Mr M questioned the date of the suggested July conversation and the suggestions he was
told CFM couldnt advise any longer. He said he was never told that he should get advice
elsewhere, had he been he would have done so. Mr M also said he chased in October 2019
before the CETV expired and CFM said it was on the radar. In November CFM emailed Mr
M to say it needed him to request a new CETV and ask for timescales.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision in this case. I said that the dispute revolved around what CFM 
promised to do and what it told Mr M. In particular, if it told him it couldnt advise on the 
possible transfer from his occupational pension scheme to a SIPP and needed to get advice 
elsewhere.
I considered the papers presented and set out relevant parts and my comments below.
2 March 2018  a Defined Benefit Pension Transfer Recommendation Report was issued to
Mr M in respect of an occupational pension scheme that he was a deferred member of.
The report states that there is a need to generate around £20,000 per annum of income and
suggests how this could be sourced. This includes taking income of around £6,700 per
annum direct from a second defined benefit occupational pension scheme that he remained
an active member of at that time. It assumed that the occupational pension it was advising
on would be transferred to a SIPP to generate a flexible income. The report did not include
any state pension in the projections but noted that when a statement was available any
future income forecasting would include this. The report also considered Mr Ms position on
death in terms of what might be available to pass on to his sons. It was clear that this was
important to him. The transfer went ahead, and Mr M moved his occupational pension into a
SIPP.
A Meeting note of 28 February 2019 which says that income from various sources including
Mr Ms (second) occupational scheme is enough to meet his target income.
we both agreed that the income available from his (insurance company name) SIPP and .(
occupational pension name) would adequately cover the additional income he may need
Goals
once paperwork received from occupational pension  we will review this pension in line with
above needs and make a suitable recommendation.
So, it seemed clear from this meeting and the 2018 report that the second occupational
pension didnt need to be transferred to a SIPP to meet Mr Ms income goals. It isnt
therefore clear to me what the review note reference to once the paperwork is received is
intended to achieve. But it does seem that the parties were anticipating some form of review
of the second occupational pension scheme. At this point however there was no clear record
as to what that review will aim at and no suggestion of a transfer to a SIPP for drawdown.
A note of 5 March 2019 confirms actions you are going to request updated figures from
(name of second occupational scheme), and we will review this plan in-line with your
retirement needs
This reconfirmed that the parties were expecting CFM to review the second occupational
pension but again there was no detail as to what that review would aim to achieve and why,
given the income goal was already met. There was no mention of a review focused on 
transferring value on death, only on retirement needs.
The occupational scheme said that on I July 2019 CFM contacted them and they received a
letter on 4 July 2019. It replied on 5 September 2019 to say that a CETV was issued direct to
Mr M in July 2019 and remained guaranteed until 20 October 2019. It said it had a further
telephone call on 1 November 2019.
It therefore seemed that in early July CFM were still actively chasing getting a CETV.
There is an email to Mr M on 8 July 2019 advising that they will be authorised direct by
the FCA going forward. our service to you is unaffected by this change.
It wasnt clear to me what this email meant, other than to reassure him there wouldnt be achange in service. I thought it would be reasonable for Mr M to think nothing had changed 
and CFM would be doing a review of his second occupational pension scheme.
The Pensions Options letter issued by the second occupational pension scheme as at 21
July 2019 (the date of his 65 birthday) said
No further transfer values will be provided as you have now reached your normal retirement
date.
I had seen an email of 28 July 2019 from Mr M to CFM sending this on.
On 29 July 2019 at 15.50 CFM sent a reply saying I will start my research & reports as
soon as possible. Once I have completed these I will have our Jonathan contact you to
arrange a meeting.
At this stage I could see that Mr M would still be expecting CFM to review the transfer value
and advise about his second occupational pension scheme.
I had been presented with a telephone note (initially said to be of 29 July 2019 but now of
an unknown date) regarding the papers from the second occupational pension. It said CFM
are no longer authorised to advise. It notes that the current pension will enable him to meet
his income objective.
This note is key as CFM say it made clear they could not advise on the occupational pension
scheme. But I dont agree. Notwithstanding that the date of the note is unknown it doesnt
say that it cannot advise on the occupational scheme and doesnt go on to say that he needs
to contact another IFA.
A further update on 20 September 2019 (telephone call note)  refers to no large
expenditure anticipated, suitability report to be produced. It wasnt clear what this meant but
does show there was no discussion about a house purchase (which Mr M says he wanted to
make) which would I think be large expenditure.
20 September 2019 note of meeting with Mr M says
we are intending on reviewing this DB pension in November. The most recent CETV was
£187,123.35 and expires on 21 October 2019.
This reconfirmed that CFM was expecting to make some comment about the occupational
scheme and also that it is aware the current CETV will expire. However, it didnt not seem
that CFM have grasped that it wasnt possible to get another CETV as Mr M has now 
reached his retirement age.
Under the section headed annuity it says considering using his SIPP to buy one. 
He is also very adamant that he wants his family to benefit from his provision in the event of
his death
Cashflow modeller
He has an existing (occupational pension) which we will be reviewing to determine whether
it would make sense to take this pension under the current arrangement or if it would be
more beneficial to move this into his SIPP.
Letter to Mr M 25 September 2019 you have an existing (occupational pension) which we
will be reviewing to determine whether this Defined Benefit arrangement still meets yourretirement needs. The most recent Cash Equivalent Transfer Value for this pension was
£187,123.25. You also have the option to take a pension of £6,845.19 per annum. Either
way, this pension will provide the additional income to you throughout retirement. 
I thought this meeting note showed Mr M was expecting CFM to advise on his second
occupational pension scheme. There was no reference to the change in their authorisation
status and inability to do this. The reference to his family benefiting on his death and the
express reference to a possible transfer to a SIPP supports Mr Ms contention that this is
what was in contemplation between the parties. However, the reference to a review in
November (and reference to the expiry date of the current CETV) suggests that CFM had
not understood that no further CETVs could be provided and the time window for review and
decision making was closing.
On 27 November 2019 there is an email from CFM to Mr M saying they have been chasing
the occupational scheme for a new transfer figure. (CFM say this was from the administrator
not the IFA). CFM wrote on 29 November (13.22 pm) attaching an article about change in PI
insurance. It also said there would be no merit in a transfer from the DB scheme. The annual
review in 2020 referred to the target income and the total guaranteed income including that
from the second occupational pension.
There is further correspondence in late November 2019 and early 2020. But I had not
considered this further as whatever CFM meant to communicate didnt matter as by now
the CETV had expired. That meant the window of opportunity to transfer to a SIPP had now
closed.
On balance I thought this chain of communication showed that Mr M was expecting CFM to
review his second OPS. I also thought the evidence showed he was expecting them to 
consider a transfer to a SIPP as this is what was said in the September 2019 meeting notes. 
I had not been provided with clear evidence to show that CFM told him before October 2019 
that it could no longer advise on the OPS and Mr M needed to consult another adviser. Even 
if the email that was said to have been sent in July had been sent around then, I didnt think 
it was clear what steps Mr M needed to take in the light of the change in their authorisation. 
In fact, in many ways I thought it reassured him there was no change.
The Conduct of Business Rules (COBS) in the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook
sets a rule regarding client communication as follows: -
COBS 4.2.1 The fair, clear and not misleading rule
(1) A firm must ensure that a communication or a financial promotion is fair, clear and
not misleading.
The FCA also sets out principles that apply to CFM work with Mr M. These include principle
7
a firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
Even if CFM had made the telephone call it suggests it did, in July 2019, I didnt think the
note of that call showed it clearly communicated to Mr M that it could not advise on his OPS. 
I thought the subsequent communication sent in September 2019 would not have given Mr 
M any sense that CFMs position had changed such that it couldnt advise on his OPS. For 
the reasons already given, I thought CFMs communication was not clear and not misleading 
as required by principle 7 and COBS rule 4.2. I thought that meant that Mr M didnt 
understand that CFMs ability to review his second occupational pension had changed and it 
couldnt advise on a SIPP transfer.I needed to consider the consequence of that failure to communicate clearly.
Where there was a mistake the law required that Mr M should be put back in the position, he
would have been in but for that mistake. I needed to consider what position he would have
been in and whether an award for financial loss and distress and inconvenience was
appropriate.
Mr M said that he wanted to transfer his second OPS pension to a SIPP, but I couldnt 
simply assume that he would have been advised to do so.
Even if I concluded that he might have been, it is no longer possible to put Mr M back in the
position he says he would have been in, which is that he would have transferred to a SIPP,
as no further CETV is available.
Further he has not lost his pension, which remains with his second occupational pension
scheme. What he has lost is the opportunity to take it in a different form and he argues, to
transfer value to his sons on his death.
Had his second occupational pension scheme been reviewed, Mr M would have needed
independent financial advice. Such advice had become harder to find and the regulator had
made clear that in general such a transfer from a scheme offering guaranteed income would
not be regarded as in the interests of the consumer. Just because Mr M said he wanted to
be able to transfer to a SIPP does not mean that this would have been the conclusion that a
report would have reached.
I noted however that Mr M says that life expectancy in his area is just 73 years and his
background career had taken its toll on his health. He feels that such a life expectancy would
mean he would not get full value from his second occupational pension and on death nothing
would be passed on to his sons, which he found upsetting.
I didnt know whether the suggested life expectancy figures are correct, nor do I have any
evidence regarding Mr Ms personal health. However, it was clear from this that Mr M had a
strong wish to pass value to his sons on his death. This could be possible if there was
money in his SIPP when he died but not to the same extent if it remained in the second
OPS.
I thought it was reasonable to assume that the starting position would have been that the 
transfer wouldnt be recommended. But there are some situations where such a transfer can 
be justified and advised or where a consumer could insist they wished to transfer. I 
commented that Mr M assumes there would have been money left in his SIPP on death. But 
I noted Mr M said he wanted to withdraw money to buy a property and that he missed other
investment opportunities, he also said that he wanted to help his sons with their mortgages.
Had he done any of these he would have withdrawn money from the SIPP which would have
brought the money within his estate for inheritance tax purposes. Further withdrawing large
amounts of capital may have incurred tax charges and would have reduced the amount
remaining in the SIPP, which he needed to meet his annual income needs which he said
were around £20,000 per annum. His stated desire to withdraw capital could have defeated
the aim of passing value to his sons on his death in a tax efficient manner and also meant
there was less or no money left to meet his ongoing income needs.
I had seen a copy of the report prepared about Mr Ms other occupational pension in 2018
and which resulted in the transfer of that pension to a SIPP. This clearly records his income
needs as around £20,000 per annum. It showed that Mr M intended to meet those needs
from a mix of income from his SIPP, state pension and crucially also from his second
occupational pension scheme (over £6,000 per annum) and this was something that CFMwould have needed to consider in balancing his retirement income needs with other
objectives such as benefits payable on death.
For all these reasons it remained far from clear that a transfer to a SIPP would have been
advised.
Even if I assumed a transfer would have been advised or that Mr M insisted on it, I didnt 
think Mr M had entirely lost the opportunity to achieve the aims he said he had. I said that 
because he said he received a lump sum on his retirement from the second occupational 
pension scheme of around £31,000 which would have provided some capital. Secondly 
using the income from the second occupational scheme would relieve the need to draw 
money from his existing SIPP (which received a transfer from his first OPS of around 
£220,000) thus allowing him to take money from it to meet the capital needs he has 
indicated or to opt to preserve its value which, if the necessary requirements were met, could 
pass to his sons on his death. 
So, I thought it should have remained possible for Mr M to vary the way in which he
used his existing SIPP and other income to work towards his objective of passing value to
his sons while also meeting his income needs.
I didnt think Mr M had suffered a financial loss because he still has his second occupational
pension, had taken a lump sum of around £31,000 and was receiving an annual pension of
around £4,600 per annum.
I couldnt be certain whether or not a SIPP transfer would have been advised but I could see
that Mr M lost the opportunity to explore his choices in the context of his needs at the time
and potentially to take his pension in a different form now or transfer value on his death. I
therefore considered an award for distress and inconvenience arising from not receiving 
advice at the time and therefore to explore his choices but also because he lost the
opportunity to transfer to a SIPP. In making such an award I needed to consider the impact 
on Mr M not to compensate for the lost opportunity.
I could understand Mr Ms frustration and disappointment that he was deprived of the
opportunity to go through the process to understand the issues and make choices in the light
of CFMs advice. Given his view about life expectancy and value from his pension I think that
frustration is greater as he perceived the transfer to a SIPP as an important step to pass
value to his sons.
However, I also commented that while Mr M feels he missed out, some of his stated
objectives for his SIPP were in direct conflict with others (e.g. preserving value on death vs
withdrawing funds now to invest vs providing income for his current needs). I also noted that
some of those objectives are still achievable by balancing the various sources of money
available to him from his SIPP, second occupational pension, state pension and other
financial resources available to him.
I thought the level of distress was substantial and sustained. I said that because the 
opportunity to make such a transfer had been missed and cannot now be recovered. I noted 
also that Mr M said this missed opportunity has upset him and hasnt helped his health.
For those reasons, on balance I thought an award of £1,500.00 would be fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances.
I proposed to uphold this complaint and direct Caledonian Financial Management Limited to
pay Mr M £1,500.00 for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr M propose to uphold 
this complaint and direct CFM to pay Mr M £1,500.00Reply from CFM
CFM said it was disappointed with my proposed decision. It felt it had taken all available 
measure to make Mr M aware of its position of not being able to provide advice on defined 
benefit transfers.
Mr Ms goal of £20,000 per annum income was met without the need to mis out on valuable 
guaranteed benefits by transferring his second occupational scheme into a SIPP.
At no point did Mr M mentioned he wanted to help his sons with mortgages nor purchase a 
second property, Mr M also had other investments he could use and the need to transfer his 
second scheme would have been in direct conflict with his goal of income of £20,000. Mr M 
had never made it aware of any underlying health conditions.
Reply from Mr M
Mr M didnt agree with my proposed decision. He noted that I concluded that CFM were in 
breach of the conduct of business rules in the regulator handbook. He also argued CFM 
were in breach of their duties to him. CFM failed to advise Mr M that it couldnt advise him. 
This resulted in loss to him.
Mr M repeated that the alleged telephone call did not take place. He felt it was concerning 
the attendance note of the call had a wrong date and no correct date was suggested. He 
agreed with my conclusions on this.
He referred to the meeting note on 20 September 2019 and wished to emphasise that it 
recorded that he didnt view an annuity as a suitable option for him in retirement. This 
reinforced his expectation that the pension would be transferred.
With respect to his loss, he agreed that he wanted to be put back in the position he would 
have been in but for the mistake. But he said being forced to take the pension in a different 
form would cause him financial loss.
Mr M said my decision assumed that the transfer was desired but may not be advised. He 
felt that was a false premise because:-
Mr M could have insisted on the transfer
Mr M had been clear the existing pension was unsuitable
It should therefore be assumed he would have transferred but for the breach by CFM.
The competing uses of the SIPP had little impact on the loss. If he had bought a property 
that would be available to his sons on his death. Similarly, if he had assisted them with their 
mortgages they would receive funds during their lifetimes. Even if he had not disclosed those 
potential uses to CFM, they could not be the basis upon which advice was sought.
Mr Ms ability to meet his ongoing needs via his SIPP or otherwise were irrelevant. The true 
issue was whether it was likely that the funds would remain in the pension on Mr Ms death. 
The loss should be assessed even though it may not be crystallised by Mr Ms death for 
many years.
It seemed very unlikely that Mr M would realise the value of the second occupational 
pension. It said that because while he took a lump sum of around £30,000 this was less than 
the around £46,000 he said he could have taken from a SIPP. He said the SIPP had a value of around £140,000 and it would take him over 30 years to realise the value based on his 
annual income of around £4,600 per annum. He had also been deprived of the opportunity to 
invest the transferred money and make gains on those funds. He would need to reach 95 
years of age to realise the value in the pension and even without medical evidence this 
seemed unlikely. He therefore felt an award for loss was appropriate.
With respect to the award for distress and inconvenience. He didnt think my conclusions on 
the amount of distress and inconvenience should be qualified on the basis Mr Ms stated 
objectives were in conflict. The conflict was immaterial given the effect of them was to pass 
value to his sons and similarly the need to meet his financial needs was irrelevant. It felt the 
sum proposed was low. The impact had been substantial and his physical and mental health 
had been affected and he was very concerned about the inability to realise the value of his 
pension particularly as it seemed a significant element of the pension accumulated would be 
lost. He had also needed to instruct solicitors. The stress had been made worse by the 
factual disputes as to whether CFM had advised about its inability to advise. He felt an 
award of £7,500 was more appropriate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered the points raised by CFM but I dont agree. I set out in detail extracts of 
the correspondence between the parties and reached conclusions about these and 
considered them in the light of the COBS rules and FCA principles. CFM has not submitted 
any further evidence to support its argument that it had taken all available measure to make 
Mr M aware of its position of not being able to provide advice on defined benefit transfers. 
So their argument has not changed my mind.
Mr M raises a number of arguments in particular that the true issue wasnt meeting his 
ongoing needs but making sure funds would remain on his death. Further it should be 
assumed that he would have been able to transfer either because he was insistent or 
because the current pension was not suitable. But I dont agree, and I would comment as 
follows:- 
I remain of the view that the need to meet Mr Ms income requirement would have 
been a key issue whichever professional adviser had advised on Mr Ms second 
occupational pension scheme transfer. Securing some guaranteed income beyond 
the state pension would have been a reasonable recommendation. 
Improving on benefits payable to other family members during Mr Ms life or on death 
isnt the key objective for a transfer to a SIPP. There was no evidence that Mr M had 
any particular health issues which would mean that death benefits, or any likelihood 
to not benefit from a pension income derived of the scheme for a reasonable amount 
of time, would have been of concern at the time the advice would have been given. 
The accrued pension provision is intended to provide for an individuals retirement 
rather than meet a desire to leave a legacy for family during lifetime or on death. Any 
recommendation regarding his pension would need to have been given in the context 
of Mr Ms best interests, not those of his sons. 
Unless the financial needs of Mr M were given prominence over his family, the advice 
couldnt have been said to be acting in Mr Ms best interests. The desire to leave a legacy to his sons couldnt reasonably have subjugated Mr Ms own personal 
requirement to benefit from his accrued pension benefits. The wish to leave a legacy 
would have to be properly weighed against the guaranteed benefits Mr M would 
relinquish, and CFM would have had to advise Mr M that his own financial benefit 
took priority.
While I can understand Mr Ms desire to leave some kind of financial legacy, I dont 
think it would have been of sufficient importance to justify Mr M compromising the 
security of his own financial future.
It remains very likely that the advice would have been not to transfer whether or not 
Mr M was insistent. I say that because of the advice published by the FCA regarding 
advising insistent clients at the time. The FCA says that if it includes a defined benefit 
pension transfer the starting point is to assume the transfer is not suitable. It also 
emphasises that a request or preference for a particular solution (e.g. accessing 
cash) is not an objective. This reinforces my comments above about the context an 
adviser would be working in.
Ultimately even if Mr M had insisted he wished to transfer against advice, the FCA is 
clear that it is up to a firm to decide if they wish to offer assistance in transacting any 
transfer and any adviser could have refused to facilitate a transfer on an insistent 
basis.
Mr M did not disclose the many desired uses at the time. But even if he had, I dont 
think it can he assumed it would have made a difference to the conclusions for the 
reasons given in particular, the need to meet his ongoing income needs. This would 
have been the primary focus of any advice not the potential to benefit his sons, even 
if it was possible, and not reduced by tax on withdrawals and on death.
For all those reasons Mr M could never have been certain he could implement his wishes 
even against advice. It therefore remains reasonable to assume that on balance the transfer 
would not have been advised and would not have taken place. It would not be fair and 
reasonable to reach a conclusion that the transfer would have taken place, but for CFMs 
error.
I note Mr Ms comments that CFM was also in breach of its duty to Mr M in addition to being 
in breach of the regulators conduct of business rules. While I agree CFM may well be in 
breach of its duties to Mr M, that does not change my conclusions on loss for the reasons 
set out above.
In the light of that conclusion Mr M didnt suffer a financial loss. But even if I was wrong in 
that conclusion, he didnt suffer a loss, as he still had his pension but in a different form. With 
respect to the suggestion that it would take over 30 years to recover the lost CETV value 
through pension payments, this comparison ignores the guaranteed nature of the pension 
and the fact escalation is built into the guarantee of payment from his occupational scheme. 
Further any income from the SIPP is not guaranteed and nor are positive investment returns. 
The SIPP relies on fund investment returns which might fall in value due to market 
performance and charges or fail to keep up with inflation with a consequent reduced income 
and little or nothing left to his sons. 
So, for those reasons I have not changed my mind about Mr Ms loss. 
With respect to my proposed award for distress and inconvenience I note the comments 
made by Mr M and the suggestion that an award of £7,500 would be more appropriate. The 
guidelines within which this service makes such awards are made available publicly. An award at the level he proposes would be exceptional and the situation would be extreme. I 
do not think that is the case here for all the reasons I have given.
I note Mr M says the impact has been substantial and his physical and mental health have 
been affected. He was very concerned about the inability to realise the value of his pension 
particularly as it seemed a significant element of the pension accumulated would be lost. 
Those are issues that I have taken into consideration in concluding the impact was 
substantial and sustained and even though I have concluded that he most likely would not 
have been able to transfer. I have considered the impact of the situation on him as he has 
described it.
While I note Mr M instructed solicitors to assist in this case that was not necessary as he has 
used this service. That was a decision for him. 
The issue of factual discrepancies in the information supplied by CFM has been considered 
in my decision and ultimately was not pivotal to my decision as there was plenty of other 
evidence to support Mr Ms arguments about the parties intentions at the time. However I 
have taken into account that he would have been concerned that his arguments about what 
the parties were expecting could have been set aside by evidence he regarded as unsound 
and which CFM later accepted was not from the date suggested.
I note he feels that his conflicting objectives should not be taken into account in setting the 
amount of this award. For clarity I confirm that I have not reduced or qualified the award in 
the light of those nor the fact that in reality he most likely would not have been able to 
transfer. That is because my award is based on the impact on him.
I have reconsidered my award in the light of all his comments and the impact he describes 
on him, but for the reasons given, I remain of the view that my proposed aware is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Putting things right
I uphold this complaint and direct Caledonian Financial Management Limited to
pay Mr M £1,500.00 for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr M.
My final decision
 I uphold this complaint and direct Caledonian Financial Management Limited to
pay Mr M, within 30 days of this service notifying it Mr M has accepted my decision, the 
amount of £1,500.00 for the distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2022.
 
Colette Bewley
Ombudsman