DRN-2438843
The complaint
Mr M complains that FairFX PLC issued his new card to an address he hasnt lived at for 
several years. 
What happened
Mr M said he asked FairFX to issue a new card, but it sent that card to an old address. He 
said fortunately he knew the people who lived at this address, and the card was passed on 
to him. But he said otherwise the card couldve been used by the recipients. 
Mr M told us he was very concerned about the mistake that FairFX had made. He said he 
hadnt lived at this former address for several years, and said that he had updated his 
address with FairFX18 months earlier. 
Mr M showed us emails from FairFX, admitting that it had made a mistake, and offering £20 
in compensation. He said he wanted compensation for the breach of confidentiality and 
potential exposure to fraud.
But when we asked FairFX about this, it said something different. 
FairFX said it had initially accepted that it had made a mistake. But now it had looked at this 
in detail, and it didnt think it had made a mistake after all. FairFX said that Mr M had 
updated his address with it on 24 February 2020, which was rather more recently than hed 
suggested. And hed then ordered his new card on 1 April 2020. 
FairFX said that it uses a third party to issue cards, and that third party had Mr Ms new 
address when the card was issued. So it thought the card had gone to the correct address.
FairFX has also told our service that all new cards require two factor authentication before 
any balance can be transferred and used. So even if a card did go astray, it couldnt be used 
by just anyone who received it, because the balance couldnt be transferred from the old 
card without passing security.
FairFX said that this wasnt a credit card, it was a prepayment card. Mr Ms balance on the 
old card, which had last been used in 2018, was £1.07. 
Our investigator asked Mr M if hed kept a copy of the wrongly addressed letter from FairFX 
that he could show us. He said he hadnt kept it, or taken a picture of it. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said although FairFX had 
admitted an error, that itself was a mistake. It had now sent us details showing that the card 
was sent to Mr Ms current address. 
Our investigator said he wasnt able to conclude that the card had been wrongly addressed 
by FairFX. So he wouldnt ask it to do anything more.
Mr M didnt agree. He said that the outcome was disingenuous, FairFX had already admitted 
it had made a mistake. He thought wed allowed FairFX to lie to avoid punishment. He said 
hed closed his account with FairFX because he didnt trust it. 
Because Mr M didnt agree with our investigator, this case was passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why I think that. 
FairFX initially accepted it had made a mistake, and it made a modest offer of compensation 
to Mr M. I know Mr M thinks this means a mistake was definitely made. But I dont agree.
In my experience, its not unusual for a business to accept what a customer says, apologise 
for a mistake and offer modest compensation, without actually checking whether it had 
gotten anything wrong. I appreciate that this has been particularly frustrating for Mr M in this 
case. But FairFX has now looked more closely into this, and said it doesnt think it made a 
mistake after all. And its sent us evidence to back up what it says. 
It wouldnt be fair for me to just say that FairFX cant change its mind. So I do need to look at 
what Mr M says happened, and what FairFX now says happened. And I need to decide what 
I think is most likely to have happened.
FairFX has shown us that it does hold Mr Ms current address. It had this address before his 
new card was sent out. And its shown us that this was amended about a week before Mr M 
requested his new card, not 18 months earlier as hed said. 
Mr M says he has witnesses who would swear that the letter with his card was sent to an old 
address. And of course, we have his evidence telling us that the card was sent there. But I 
think the most compelling evidence in this case would have been a photo of the letter sent to 
Mr M by FairFX, showing his old address. And Mr M doesnt have that. 
I can only consider evidence that we do actually have. And I think, weighing up the evidence 
we have, that its more likely that the card was not sent to Mr Ms old address. 
I should stress that I dont know for certain what has happened here. And whilst there is 
what I consider to be strong evidence in this case, theres nothing that shows me, beyond 
any doubt at all, what has happened. But this is what I think is most likely.
Because of that, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to ask FairFX to pay Mr M 
compensation. 
I know that Mr M will be disappointed, but I dont think his complaint should be upheld.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman