DRN-4119228
The complaint
Mr A complains about the settlement that esure Insurance Limited offered him for the total 
loss of his car following a claim made on his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr As car was damaged in an accident, and he made a claim on his policy. esure offered 
him £44,099, less the policy excess, in settlement of his claim. But Mr A was unhappy with 
this. He thought he couldnt replace his car for this amount. He thought esure had 
undervalued the car by about £9,000. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He looked for the cars 
market value in the motor trade guides we use. And he thought esures valuation wasnt fair 
as it was too low. He thought a fairer valuation would be £46,228. And he thought esure 
should increase the settlement to this amount and pay interest on the difference. 
esure replied that it thought its settlement was fair and reasonable as it had been made 
based on three motor trade guides in keeping with our approach. esure asked for an 
Ombudsmans review, so the complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr A wants a fair settlement for the loss of his car. He said hed seen 
similar cars advertised for about £53,000 and so he was disappointed with esures offer. I 
can see that his policy provides for the cars market value in the case of its total loss. I can 
see that this is defined in the policy booklet:
The market value is the amount you could reasonably have expected to sell your car for on 
the open market immediately before your accident or loss. Our assessment of the value is 
based on cars of the same make and model and of a similar age, condition and mileage at 
the time of accident or loss. This value is based on research from motor trade guides 
The Investigator has explained this services approach to car valuations. We dont provide 
valuations for cars but look to whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
Our Investigator thought esures settlement offer wasnt reasonable. So Ive checked how he 
came to this conclusion. I can see that he looked in the four motor trade guides we use for 
cars of the same make, model, age, mileage, condition and optional extras as Mr As car at 
the date of its loss. 
In keeping with our approach he discounted two outlying valuations as they werent in 
keeping with the average of the range. He then took an average of the two remaining 
valuations. The average of the valuations he found was £46,228. 
esure had paid Mr A less than this and its settlement was at the lower end of the range of 
the valuations the Investigator found. And I agree that esures offer wasnt fair and 
reasonable as the advertised prices for similar cars would indicate that a fairer settlement 
would be at the higher end of the range. And so I require esure to increase its settlement, 
adding interest on the difference as Mr A has been without his money for some time. 
Mr A had provided adverts for similar cars advertised at higher prices. But we dont find 
advertisements particularly persuasive as these are essentially asking prices and arent 
selling prices. Its for this reason that the trade guides are used as they provide evidence of 
likely retail selling prices.
Putting things right
I require esure Insurance Limited to increase its settlement for the loss of Mr As car by 
£2,129, adding interest to this amount at the rate of 8% simple per annum from the date of 
its initial payment to the date of settlement. 
If esure considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr A how much its taken off. It should also give Mr A a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require esure 
Insurance Limited to carry out the redress set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 September 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman