DRN-3341761
The complaint
This complaint is about an application Mrs and Mr M made to re-mortgage their home 
onto a consumer buy-to-let (CBTL) basis and take a new residential mortgage for a new 
home. The transaction was arranged by a broker representing Blueberry Wealth Limited 
(BWL) and was intended to provide funds to go towards the purchase of a new-build 
home in a new location. After Mrs and Mr M had completed the purchase, they were told 
they needed to repay their existing mortgage. Mrs and Mr M havent done so; the lender 
has allowed them to continue with it, but they are seeking compensation for the costs 
incurred, and for the stress events placed on them.
What happened
By way of a provisional decision dated 2 February 2022, I set out my provisional conclusions 
on how this complaint should be determined. The following is an extract from the provisional 
decision.
The broad circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties. Im also 
aware that the investigator issued a detailed response to the complaint, a copy of 
which has been sent to all parties, and so I dont need to repeat all the details here. 
Our decisions are published and its important that I dont include any information that 
might result in Mrs and Mr M being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary in my 
own words (and rounding the figures) and then focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be 
because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
Mrs and Mr M had a mortgage of around £98,000 with a lender Ill call B. They were 
looking to relocate, and sought advice on their mortgage needs from BWL. It was 
decided to rent out their current home by raising a consumer buy to let (CBTL) on it. 
This would release equity to put towards the purchase of the new property; 
meanwhile, Mrs and Mr M would fund the rest of the purchase price by applying for a 
residential mortgage on the new house, also from B, at the same time porting the 
interest rate product of the existing mortgage over to the new mortgage.
Porting of the product with B involved the existing mortgage being repaid, and a new 
one taken out, secured on the new property. The mortgage would be made up of two 
components; one for an amount equal to the existing mortgage with the same 
interest rate terms carried over, and the other for the extra borrowing on a new 
interest rate deal. All of this was recorded in the initial point-of-sale documentation 
from BWL, and in the mortgage offer issued by B. 
However, by the time the new house was ready to move into several months later, 
confusion had apparently set in. Correspondence that flowed back and forth between 
Mrs and Mr M, their solicitors, BWL and the lender B shows that no one was very 
clear about what should happen in respect to the existing mortgage debt, which by 
now had reduced to around £93,000. It wasnt immediately repaid, so Mrs and Mr M 
found themselves with three mortgages instead of two. Eventually, after B pressed 
them to do so, Mrs and Mr M repaid the outstanding mortgage, but complained that 
they now had a bigger overall debt than theyd anticipated before embarking on the 
move.
Our investigator concluded that BWL had contributed to the confusion, particularly in 
a series of electronic messages its broker had exchanged with Mrs and Mr B. She 
recommended BWL pay Mrs and Mr M £300 compensation for the trouble and upset 
it caused. She didnt agree with Mrs and Mr Ms request that BWL reimburse them 
the £93,000 of extra (as they see it) debt they now have. Instead, the investigator 
said that if Mrs and Mr M decided to end the residential mortgage with B early, BWL 
should pay half of any early repayment charge (ERC) they incurred.
Both parties have asked for the case to be referred to an ombudsman; Mrs and Mr M 
because they consider more redress is due, and BWL because it doesnt believe it 
was responsible for the confusion, hence it shouldnt have to pay Mrs and Mr M 
anything.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what 
I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed 
to consider it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what 
I think is the right outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and 
decide whats fair in the round.
We have no regulatory function; thats the role of the Financial Conduct Authority; nor 
are we a consumer protection body. Were an alternative dispute resolution body; an 
informal alternative to the courts for financial businesses and their customer to 
resolve their differences. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without 
interference from anyone else. That means I dont have to address every individual 
question or issue thats been raised if I dont think it affects the outcome.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If the available evidence is incomplete and/or contradictory, we reach our findings on 
what we consider is most likely to have happened, on the balance of probabilities. 
Thats broadly the same test that the courts use in civil cases.
Its for us to assess the reliability of evidence and deciding how much weight should 
be attached to it. When doing that, we dont just consider individual documents in 
isolation. We consider everything together to form a broader opinion on the whole 
picture. 
As a starting point, when a business gives consumers information thats inaccurate, 
contradictory (or incomplete) we dont seek to place them in the position theyd be in 
if the information they were given was right. We seek, insofar as it is possible or 
practical to do so, to place them in the position theyd be in if the correct (or 
complete) information had been given in the first place.
It seems to me that this is a case where every party has, at some stage sought to 
blame someone else for what I consider to be a very basic misunderstanding. 
Mrs and Mr M may have been porting the product of their existing mortgage to the new mortgage, but the existing mortgage debt was always going to need to be 
repaid. Aside from anything else, the lender B required a first legal charge over 
Mrs and Mr Ms existing property in order to secure the new CBTL mortgage. That 
could only happen if the legal charge for their existing mortgage was released.
My decision here only deals with the acts and omissions of BWL, and I agree with 
our investigator that BWLs broker created a substantial amount of needless 
confusion. But in reaching that decision, Ive taken the view that all of the involved 
parties should have understood what needed to happen. To be clear, and without 
being unkind, I have to include Mrs and Mr B here to some degree. 
BWL has commented that Mrs and Mr M hold positions of employment that infer a 
level of financial sophistication. Ive disregarded that argument; what Mrs and Mr M 
do for a living is entirely irrelevant. Thats because I dont consider specialist 
knowledge was needed to understand that a mortgage debt cant be in two places at 
the same time.
Mrs and Mr M say they only ever anticipated having a total debt of around £740,000 
across the CBTL and new residential mortgage; they never budgeted for owing over 
£830,000, and they are now suffering from the strain of owing so much. Im not 
persuaded thats a sustainable argument. Mrs and Mr M were buying a new house 
for around £700,000; they already owed just under £100,000 (at the start of the 
transaction) on their existing home, and they werent selling it. 
So it should have been evident to them that theyd need a combined mortgage debt 
of around £800,000 to buy the new house; before any of the transactions costs 
(moving, conveyancing, second property stamp duty land tax etc.) were factored in. 
With those costs included, a total debt over £830,000 should have been foreseeable.
Im wholly unpersuaded by BWLs arguments as to why it should not be liable for the 
brokers confusing messages. Regardless of her official status at that time, the broker 
still represented BWL, and theres nothing to suggest Mrs and Mr M had reason to 
think otherwise. So BWL has to accept responsibility for her acts and omissions. 
Aside from that, the broker did more than simply confuse the situation in her 
messages with Mrs and Mr M. 
I said above Mrs and Mr M should reasonably have foreseen having to borrow in the 
region of £830,000; and the professional on which they were relying, BWLs broker 
should definitely have foreseen that too. Yet the two mortgages she arranged for 
them only added up to around £740,000; in other words, BWLs broker failed to do 
her sums correctly right at the outset. She forgot to factor in that the existing 
mortgage needed to be repaid.
Mrs and Mr M say they wouldnt have gone ahead with the move if theyd known how 
much theyd have to pay on the two mortgages. The reality is that they did move, and 
thats not a change of position that can readily be unwound, plus they had a need to 
relocate; it wasnt just a whim. Mrs and Mr M have told us theyve made a first-year 
loss on the CBTL; I appreciate thats disappointing for them, but it has no bearing on 
the outcome of the complaint against BWL.
Taking everything into account, I find that the brokers fundamental failure of 
arithmetic at the outset means the cost of servicing their mortgage debt is bigger than 
the point-of-sale documentation led Mrs and Mrs M to think it would be. But Im not 
persuaded Mrs and Mr M wouldnt still have carried on with the two linked 
transactions if theyd been given the right information at the outset. I know they say otherwise now, and I dont doubt thats what they feel presently; but 
that viewpoint is also infused with an element of hindsight that I have to discount. As 
Ive said, Mrs and Mr M needed to move, and I think theyd still have done so in the 
way they did, and made the necessary adjustments to their household budget and 
work arrangements, but in a planned and organised manner instead of having the 
changes forced on them.
So, overall, I dont think Mrs and Mr M are in a significantly different position now 
than they would have been but for what really is the most basic of errors on the part 
of BWLs broker. But theyd have reached that position in a more orderly fashion, 
without the considerable shock and stress theyve encountered along the way.
For that reason, I have provisionally decided that BWL should not be required to 
reimburse Mrs and Mr M any ERC they might incur if they decide to repay (or even 
reduce) the mortgage, as the investigator suggested. But I have decided that they 
are due substantially more compensation for distress and inconvenience that has 
been offered thus far. Subject to the further comments from both parties in response 
to this provisional decision, I am of the view that £750 would be broadly fair. 
I gave the parties two weeks to reply to the provisional decision; weve heard from both 
already. Mrs and Mr M made a number of points which I summarise below.
The original mortgage with B is still outstanding, along with the CBTL, and the extra cost 
of paying both, as well as the new mortgage, means theyre now having to sell the 
original property in order to repay the original mortgage. This will also mean repaying the 
CBTL. When they do that, theyll incur combined ERCs on the two mortgages of over 
£18,000; theyve asked that BWL be required to reimburse those.

They agree they would still have moved to the new development if theyd known the true 
cost in advance; but theyd have bought one of the lower priced homes that were on sale 
at the time.

They dont accept they should be held partly responsible for not noticing the amounts 
were short. They put their trust in a professional who was convinced the figures were 
right. They had no reason to question the accuracy of the advice theyd received, and for 
which theyd paid a broker fee of £595.
We passed Mrs and Mr Ms comments to BWL. It replied to say it has nothing to add in 
response to either my provisional decision or Mrs and Mr Ms comments on it.
Having looked at what Mrs and Mr said, by way of a second provisional decision, I revised 
my view of the redress I consider BWL must provide to resolve this complaint. Such was the 
failure in the level of care taken by the broker, I considered it neither fair nor reasonable that 
Mrs and Mr M should have paid for the service they received. However, I referenced the fee 
to be refunded at as £575 by mistake. 
I was less persuaded by the argument for BWL to cover the ERCs Mrs and Mr M will incur if 
they sell their original property. Theyd said they need to do this because they cant afford 
the cost of servicing all three of the mortgages they have presently. Selling the house would 
relieve Mrs and Mr M of approximately £1,840 in monthly mortgage costs, but it would also 
take away the income they accrue from renting it out. Thats currently £1,700 gross per 
month; just under £1,500 after deducting agency commission. So the immediate improvement in their monthly cashflow would be less than £350, and 
Mrs and Mr M could accrue around £200 of that simply by managing the rental directly 
instead of paying an agent to do it for them. Based on what Id seen to that point, I wasnt 
convinced the case for Mrs and Mr M selling the original property (or the absence of an 
alternative strategy for managing the current situation) was so compelling that BWL should 
be made to reimburse them, either fully or partly, the ERCs that would result. 
That left Mrs and Mr Ms comment that if theyd known the correct figures from the outset 
theyd still have moved, but would have bought a lower-priced property on the development. 
The research Id done into the development indicated that would have been possible. The 
difficulty there, as Id alluded to in the first provisional decision, is that unwinding the 
purchase they made and substituting in its place the purchase they would have made is not 
something that is readily achievable. Meanwhile, its reasonable to infer that the home they 
did buy provides them with greater space and utility than a lower-priced one would have.
Lastly, I fully appreciated that Mrs and Mr M feel uncomfortable with the notion that there 
was a contributary element on their part. Theyd sought the advice of the expert, and relied 
on what the expert told them; that was understandable, and also reasonable, up to a point. 
But I made the point that this wasnt just a failure of technical knowledge; it was also a failure 
of arithmetic, and therefore not the sole preserve of the expert. 
As before, the parties were again given two weeks in which to respond to the second 
provisional decision. BWL didnt have anything to say; Mrs and Mr M corrected me on the 
amount of the fee, said they had to sell their original home in order to redeem the original 
residential mortgage, and pointed out that the rental income was subject to higher rate 
income tax, leaving them with an annual loss of around £4,000.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be departing from my second provisional decision. 
I apologise to Mrs and Mr M for quoting the fee amount incorrectly in the second provisional 
decision. As for the other points they make, Ive noted what theyve said about the rental 
income attracting higher rate income tax; its reasonable to assume theyd have known in 
advance that would happen. 
Of course, Mrs and Mr M didnt anticipate the overall mortgage costs being as high as they 
are. But in reality the extra expense represented by the continuation of the original mortgage 
is actually a cost of living in the new house, rather than of renting the old one. Ive already 
explained why unwinding the purchase of the new house is neither an appropriate nor a 
feasible way to approach redress.
Overall, I remain unconvinced that the need to sell the original property - or the absence of 
an alternative strategy for repaying the original residential mortgage with B - is so 
overwhelming that BWL must reimburse them, either fully or partly, the ERCs that would 
result. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and order Blueberry Wealth Limited to:
refund the broker fee of £595;pay interest on the refunded fee at 8%* simple per annum from the date it was paid to 
the settlement date; and
pay Mrs and Mr M £750 compensation for their time, trouble and upset.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 March 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman