DRN-3983207
The complaint
Mr M complains that Santander Consumer (UK) Plc unfairly applied end of contract charges, 
when he handed the car back at the end of his lease.
Mr M is represented by his wife, but for ease of reference, Ill refer to her submissions as 
being Mr Ms.
What happened
In August 2018 Mr M entered a 48-month hire agreement for a new car. 
When the hire agreement came to an end in August 2022, Santander arranged for the car to 
be inspected and appraised in line with its vehicle standards. The inspection found the 
following damage;
incomplete service history £100
rippled paint finish on front bumper £130
gouge to front bumper spoiler £65
poor repair to front bumper tow eye cover £12.98
rippled paint finish rear bumper £130
unpainted rear corner bumper £65
scratched rear windscreen £288.19
scratched tailgate/boot £160
scuffed tailgate moulding £45
poor repair to front right door £160
poor repair to front right wing £160
poor repair right rear door £160
scuffed rear right alloy wheel £60
Mr M was invoiced for a total of £1186.17 damage charges. Mr M disputed the charges, he 
was also unhappy that Santander had attempted to take the payment from his bank without 
any notice. Santander agreed to remove £350 from the outstanding balance, as a gesture of 
goodwill. Mr M remained unhappy, He complained to Santander.
In its response Santander accepted the car had been serviced in line with the agreement, it 
said the rear windscreen damage wasnt considered outside of fair wear and tear and 
agreed there was evidence that the right-hand front door had been repaired by a reputable 
garage. So, it agreed to remove the related charges totalling £548.19, leaving a balance of 
£637.98, which it required Mr M to pay.
Unhappy with this outcome, Mr M brought his complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into the complaint. Having considered the images from the inspection 
report, he thought the remaining items of damage were outside the industry guidelines on 
fair wear and tear, provided by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA). 
And so thought it was fair for Santander to apply the remaining £637.98 damage charges. 
Mr M disagreed, he said the car was returned in good condition. He asked for an 
ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld and Ill explain why below. 
Mr M complains about charges in relation to a hire agreement. Entering regulated a 
consumer credit contract like this is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied I can consider Mr 
Ms complaint about Santander. 
Mr M is disputing the remaining charges, so Ill consider each of these in turn. 
damage & charges
By signing the hire agreement Mr M agreed to return the car in the condition in line with 
Santanders return standards (RS) and agreed to be charged if this wasnt the case. So, Im 
satisfied Santander can apply charges for damages.
Mr M says a very high-resolution camera was used to take the inspection images, which 
shows damage that wasnt visible to the naked eye. Unfortunately, Mr M hasnt provided any 
images of the remaining areas of damage for me to compare against the inspection images. 
And even if I was to accept a high-resolution camera was used, it wouldnt be able to capture 
damage that wasnt present. So, based on the inspection report and accompanying images, 
Ive considered whether Santander has applied the remaining charges fairly, taking its RS 
and the BVRLA guidance into account to determine what is fair wear and tear. 
front bumper, tow eye cover, rear bumper, right front wing and rear right door
Santander says the front bumper, tow eye cover, rear bumper, right front wing and rear right 
door, all show issues with the paintwork, which indicates poor previous repairs. But Mr M 
says that with exception to the front right door, he hasnt had any other bodywork or 
paintwork carried out on the car. 
Santanders RS says:
Any substandard repair constitutes abnormal wear and tear. All repairs should be performed 
by the dealer.
In relation to paintwork, body, bumpers and trim the BVRLA guidelines state:
Obvious evidence of poor repair, such as flaking paint, preparation marks, paint 
contamination, rippled finish and poorly matched paint, is not acceptable.
Ive taken into account that the car was brand new when it was supplied, and from looking at 
the relevant inspection images I can see that the zebra board shows distortion, and I can 
see rippling effects on the paintwork in all of those areas. So, I dont think it is unfair for Santander to raise charges in relation to the front bumper, tow eye cover, rear bumper, right 
front wing and rear right door.
front bumper spoiler
Santander has charged for a gouge to the front bumper spoiler. The RS says: 
Any scratch which penetrates the primer coat, dependant on its position on the body, is 
considered abnormal wear and tear. 
The BVRLA guidelines says;
Scratches and abrasions up to 25mm are acceptable..provided the primer or bare metal is 
not showing.
From the front bumper spoiler image, I can see 2 smaller abrasions and then a larger 
abrasion, none of which exceed the 25mm allowance, but penetrates the primer, leaving the 
bare metal visible, so I think this is outside the BVRLA guidance of wear and tear, it follows 
that I think its fair for Santander to apply the charge for this damage.
rear corner bumper
Santander has charged for damage to the rear corner bumper. The inspection image of the 
corner bumper shows the paint is flaking in this area. The RS says:
Untreated/rusting chipped arears through the primer coat are considered abnormal.
In relation to the vehicle body paintwork, bumper and trims the BVRLA guidance says;
Flaking paint, preparation marks, paint contamination, rippled finish, and poorly matched 
paint, is not acceptable.
So, Im satisfied that Santander can fairly raise a charge in relation to the corner bumper.
tailgate/ boot
The inspection image shows multiple scratches on the boot. In relation to scratches the RS 
says;
Multiple scratches to the finish that cannot be removed by buffing constitutes abnormal wear 
and tear.
The BVRLA guidance allows for surface scratches up to 25mm, where primer or bare metal 
isnt visible. From the image Im satisfied there are multiple scratches penetrating the top 
paint coat exceeding 25mm on the boot, so I dont think its unfair for Santander to apply this 
charge.
tailgate moulding
Santander has applied charges for scratches on the tailgate moulding. Again, I can see 
multiple scratches in the image of the tailgate, and Im satisfied that they exceed the 25mm 
allowance given in the BVRLA guidance, so I think its fair for Santander to raise this charge.
rear right alloy wheelSantander has applied a charge for scuffs on the rear right alloy wheel. The RS says that 
multiple scratches to finish which cant be removed by buffing, isnt fair wear and tear. The 
BVRLA more specifically about wheels says;
Scuffs up to 50mm on the total circumference of the wheel rim and on the alloy wheels are 
acceptable.
I can see a scuff on the alloy wheel exceeding 50mm in the inspection image. So, Im 
satisfied that its fair for Santander to apply a charge for this damage. 
Santanders attempt to retrieve funds
Mr M also complains that Santander attempted to retrieve £1186.17 charges from his 
account, without notifying him in advance. And he has provided a letter dated 21 September 
2022 from his bank to confirm this. And whilst I appreciate this wouldve been frustrating, Ive 
also considered that Santander agreed to wavier £350 of the charges as a gesture of 
goodwill. And as I think the remaining damage charges have been fairly applied, I dont think 
Santander has to do anything else in relation to this complaint.
I appreciate Mr M will be disappointed with my decision. However, this decision is the final 
stage of our process, so we wont be able to comment further, and if Mr M doesnt accept my 
decision, he is free to pursue this matter through the courts, if he wishes to.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2023.
 
Karen Dennis
Ombudsman