DRN-2292836
The complaint
Mr A complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) didnt do enough to help him 
recover money hed sent to someone by mistake.
What happened
In May 2020, Mr A set up a new payee, S, on his RBS current account. S is an investment 
provider. Mr A says that in August 2020 he used his online banking to send a payment, 
intending to send it to S. Unfortunately, when looking through the drop-down list of existing 
payees to whom hed previously sent money, Mr A selected the wrong payee, SB. SB was 
someone Mr A had sent a payment to in November 2019.
As a result, Mr As payment went to SBs account. When Mr A realised his error, he 
contacted RBS to see what it could do to help him get his money back. RBS contacted SBs 
bank, who responded to say it had been unable to debit SBs account as the money had 
been withdrawn. It said it had written to SB, who had disputed that a mistake had happened 
and told it the money was due as payment for a car.
RBS told Mr A it was unable to assist further. Mr A was unhappy with this position and asked 
us to look into matters.
Our investigator looked at the banks obligations under the Payment Services Regulations 
2017 (PSR2017) and the steps RBS took to try to assist Mr A, including the overall 
timescale. He didnt think the bank had done anything wrong, and that it had done all it could 
to help.
Mr A remains out of pocket and hasnt felt able to accept the investigators conclusions, so 
matters have been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Let me say, first of all, that I sympathise with the situation in which Mr A has found himself. 
The payees are very similarly named on his drop-down list, and I can readily see how he 
mistook one for the other. That, of course, isnt to say that RBS was at fault. Mr A selected 
the names he would use himself.
I appreciate it might be of scant consolation to Mr A in the current case, as it didnt apply at 
the time he set up the respective payees. But the introduction of confirmation of payee 
information requiring entry of details matching the payee name might prevent a similar 
mistake in future. I say this because its likely to mean more payee detail is shown than mere 
initials.
As our investigator explained, where a customer makes a mistake with a payment, the 
PSR2017 make some relevant provisions, though these dont extend to making the sending 
bank liable for the error. In respect of the sending bank, the PSR2017 say the bank must 
make reasonable efforts to recover the funds involved in the payment transaction. Further, if 
its unable to recover the funds, it must, on receipt of a written request, provide to the payer 
all available relevant information (including that obtained from the payees bank) to enable 
them to claim repayment.
In addition to the PSR2017, there is commonly agreed industry practice that sets out the 
approach banks should follow  including suitable timescales  when dealing with a 
customers request for assistance following a mistaken payment. Among other things, this 
helps to ensure queries are progressed promptly.
Mr A made his payment late in the evening of 15 August. From what I can see, there werent 
any significant delays in RBS raising matters with SBs bank, and it followed up its enquiries 
in line with the relevant timescales in the industry practice guide. Im satisfied RBS made 
reasonable efforts in this respect, as its required to do under the PSR2017. Its unfortunate 
that those efforts didnt result in Mr A recovering his payment, but where the recipient objects 
to recovery with reasons  as here  I cant rightly expect the bank to determine the issue of 
true ownership. That, in my view, is a dispute more properly resolved by Mr A and SB, 
through appropriate legal action if necessary.
It stands to reason that to pursue matters effectively, Mr A needs to know more information 
about the party that received the payment. I note Mr A already appears to have had some 
dealings with SB, given that hed previously made a payment to them. But even if Mr A does 
have some idea in this respect, as Ive noted, the PSR2017 requirements mean that RBS 
needs to make any relevant information it has available to Mr A, to assist him in claiming 
repayment from SB.
In this respect, I can see the bank has provided a telephone number for Mr A to call to obtain 
this information. He has also indicated he is taking legal advice. I hope that the combination 
of the two enables him to recover any money wrongly received by SB. But for the avoidance 
of doubt, Im satisfied RBS has acted appropriately in response to Mr As situation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained here, I dont require The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to take 
any further action to resolve Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 March 2021. 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman