DRN-2283133
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) acted unfairly and unreasonably 
by declining their claim under a travel insurance policy for a refund of hotel costs for a trip 
cancelled due to Coronavirus. They want the claim paid.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D had a travel insurance policy with UKI taken out with a packaged bank 
account. They were due to go on a trip to Madeira, but the flights were cancelled by the 
airline in March 2020 after the declaration of a Coronavirus global pandemic by the World 
Health Organisation and advice not to travel by the Foreign & Commonwealth Office was 
issued. Mr and Mrs D cancelled the hotel and made a claim under the policy. UKI refused to 
pay the hotel costs. This was because the hotel had given Mr and Mrs D a credit enabling 
them to use the accommodation in the next 12 months.
Mr and Mrs D complained to UKI. It said they hadnt suffered a financial loss for the hotel 
costs as the credit let them use it in the future  the policy only covered irrecoverable costs. 
UKI said that Mr and Mrs D could ask the hotel to refund in cash or take other steps, such a 
seeking a chargeback from their bank. It said if all avenues failed, Mr and Mrs D could get 
back in touch to discuss further assistance which would be available under the policy.
Mr and Mrs D complained to us, saying that their bank had refused their chargeback 
application due to the hotel credit. The investigators view was that the complaint shouldnt 
be upheld. She said that it was possible to travel to Madeira and stay in the hotel as it wasnt 
a country on the excluded list of countries, and the credit offered was for a reasonable length 
of time allowing its use. The investigator didnt think thered been a financial loss.
Mr and Mrs D disagreed. They said 12 months wasnt reasonable, given the difficulties with 
international travel and the UK governments restrictions. Mr and Mrs D pointed out that they 
lived in an area subject to tier 3 restrictions at the moment and had been told not to travel 
unnecessarily; they also observed that they were pensioners and if they travelled, they 
would have to do so uninsured. Mr and Mrs D felt that the policy should cover their claim. 
The investigator said that Mr and Mrs D should raise their concerns with the hotel, not UKI.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that UKI has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
The starting point is what the policys terms and conditions says is covered. The policy says 
that it wont cover costs that could be recovered elsewhere; I dont think that it is 
unreasonable for UKI to conclude, in the circumstances of this case, that this exclusion 
applies for the reasons Ill go on to explain. 
Mr and Mrs D have been offered a credit to the value of the amount theyd paid for the hotel. 
Theres no evidence before me of the efforts made by Mr and Mrs D to get the hotel to 
refund them in cash, though I can see it extended the credit to 12 months, based on Mr and 
Mrs Ds efforts. However, I dont think its unreasonable for UKI to decline the claim on the 
basis that Mr and Mrs D havent experienced a financial loss as the hotel has offered a credit 
to the same value that Mr and Mrs D paid originally. And, at this point in time, its still 
possible that the hotel might offer a cash refund once that credit expires if unused.
Mr and Mrs D have highlighted other policy terms that they think are relevant to their claim. 
But I think UKI has identified, and relied on, the relevant exclusions in the policy which are 
central to the outcome of this complaint. Whilst the policy does refer to changes in FCO 
guidance, the key issues here are whether Mr and Mrs D could get their money back from 
another source and whether theyve experienced a financial loss.
But this service also looks at what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. If a 
voucher or credit is too restrictive, we may think it isnt fair or reasonable to refuse to refund 
the policyholders loss. Its tempting to use hindsight and consider matters not known to UKI 
at the time it made its decision, such as the tier 3 restrictions, but this isnt fair or reasonable. 
When UKI made its decision and responded to the complaint, Madeira was accessible (the 
FCO advice allowed travel from July 2020 onwards) and it was likely that a 12 month period 
to use the credit would suffice. At this point in time, Mr and Mrs D have around four months 
left to use the credit, which is still a relatively long period of time. I also think UKI has, fairly, 
pointed out that the hotel hadnt refused to allow the cancellation, and it might refund in cash 
if contacted again by Mr and Mrs D if theyve not been able to use the credit when it expires; 
it even noted that if payment wasnt received, Mr and Mrs D could use its helpline for further 
assistance. 
Mr and Mrs D arent saying that their age means they wont be travelling; theyve just 
highlighted that they feel at more risk and are unable to travel due to current restrictions. But 
the restrictions change from time to time and it isnt possible to assess when or whether 
travel would be possible in the future. The hotel hasnt said what would happen if the credit 
isnt used due to pandemic travel restrictions  it may pay a cash refund. And if it doesnt 
and Mr and Mrs D arent in the end able to use the credit or get a refund, they are able to 
ask UKI to reconsider in light of this further evidence of the irrecoverable nature of their loss.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to accept or reject my decision 
before 17 December 2020.
 
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman