DRN-4163277
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy that his travel insurance policy, provided by Great Lakes Insurance SE 
automatically renewed in January 2022. 
What happened
Mr N had an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy. This policy provided cover from 
October 2019, for various pre-departure and post-departure risks.
Mr Ns policy automatically renewed in October 2020. On 2 November 2021, just over a year 
later, Great Lakes wrote to Mr N and said it had extended his travel insurance cover, so that 
it would now cover him until 20 January 2022. Mr N raised a complaint about this policy year 
and requested a refund for the policy  noting that he was unable to use the policy due to the 
coronavirus pandemic, government restrictions around travel, and his medical condition 
meaning he needed to self-isolate. Mr Ns complaint about this was responded to by Great 
Lakes. And Mr N didnt refer his complaint to this service in time. So, wasnt able to consider 
Mr Ns concerns about this policy. 
But the policy then renewed again in January 2022. Mr N wasnt happy with this and 
considered he should receive a refund for that policy year. Great Lakes looked into this and 
provided a final response to Mr N about this.
 
Great Lakes said that Mr Ns policy had correctly auto renewed on 21 January 2022, at a 
cost of £237.17. Great Lakes said Mr N had been sent a renewal notice for this policy, 
21 days before it was due to renew, so Mr N would have been aware the policy would 
automatically be renewing. Great Lakes also said it had acted in line with the terms and 
conditions. But, as a gesture of goodwill it offered Mr N a full refund of £237.17 for this 
policy.
Great Lakes told Mr N that if he accepted this offer, he should confirm whether he had made 
any claim, or intended to on this policy. And it said it had opted him out of auto-renewal in 
the future, to stop the issue from happening again.
Mr N remained dissatisfied with Great Lakes response. Mr N didnt feel the refund offered to 
him was enough. And he considered that Great Lakes should be refunding £745 to him, this 
being made up of the 2020 premium paid, the 2022 premium paid, and what Mr N said 
should have been a claims settlement of £258.79 owed to him.
Because Mr N remained dissatisfied, he referred his complaint to this service for an 
independent review.
Our investigator explained they couldnt consider Mr Ns concerns about the October 2020 
renewal, as that was brought to this service out of time. And that has been dealt with in a 
separate decision.
In relation to the premium paid in January 2022, our investigator said it had been clear Mr N 
didnt want the policy anymore, from letters he had written, and his complaint in the past.
The investigator said they would have recommended that Great Lakes refund Mr N his 
premium of £237.17 for that year. But Great Lakes had already offered that  which he 
thought was a fair resolution to the complaint.
Mr N disagreed. As Mr N disagreed, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im satisfied Great Lakes offer to refund Mr Ns premium for the policy 
renewed in January 2022 is fair and reasonable. So, I require Great Lakes to pay this to 
Mr N, if it hasnt done so already. 
As above, Mr N has complained that his travel insurance policy automatically renewed in 
January 2022. So, Ive thought about whether that was fair.
Generally, before an insurance policy such as this is due to renew, a renewal notice will be 
sent to the policyholder, highlighting the policy would automatically renew, unless action was 
taken to cancel the policy. Great Lakes has said that it sent a renewal notice detailing this to 
Mr N, before the policy renewed in January 2022.
This service asked for a copy of that renewal notification. But Great Lakes said it didnt have 
a copy of this any longer, because it only keeps them for a couple of months after them 
being sent. Given that Great Lakes doesnt have a copy of this, I havent seen the actual 
document sent to Mr N.
But, on the balance of probabilities, I do think its likely renewal documentation was sent to 
Mr N. Mr Ns policy was on an auto-renewal basis, and Ive seen a screenshot that shows 
the system had Mr Ns policy set up on this basis. And often, with auto-renewals, the 
documentation will be sent to a policyholder by the system automatically. Mr N has also 
received policy documents for his previous years policies before. So, I think it was likely 
Mr N received the renewal notification and had the opportunity to decide whether to continue 
with the policy at that point.
However, Im also aware that Mr N had been raising that he wanted a refund of his 
premiums since November 2020 through handwritten letters. And Great Lakes had 
responded to Mr Ns previous complaint where he requested a refund for an earlier policy 
too. Whilst Mr N hadnt expressly said he wanted all future renewals to stop, I think his 
intention was reasonably clear in his letters  that he didnt want a policy any longer. So, I 
think Great Lakes should have acted on that basis, and cancelled the automatic renewal of 
his policy, before it renewed in January 2022. 
This means that Mr N wouldnt have had the premium for that year - £237.17  charged to 
him. Great Lakes has offered to refund this to Mr N already. And, as I think Mr Ns policy 
shouldnt have renewed, I think this is a fair and reasonable resolution to Mr Ns concerns. It 
means Mr N isnt at a financial detriment. Rather, its as if the 2022 renewal never happened.
I also think its fair that Great Lakes has opted him out of auto-renewal in the future, so this 
doesnt happen again.
I can see Mr N has mentioned a claim for £258.79 in one of his letters to this service  the 
suggestion being this was within his policy year October 2019  October 2020. But I cant 
see Mr N has raised this issue with Great Lakes. If Mr N therefore still has concerns in relation to this, he should contact Great Lakes in relation to it. Great Lakes will then need to 
consider that issue in the first instance.
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that the £237.17 offered to Mr N by Great Lakes is a 
fair and reasonable resolution to this complaint. So, if Great Lakes hasnt paid this to Mr N 
already, it should do so now.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2023.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman