DRN-3143488
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy with how Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited handled a storm 
claim on their home insurance policy. 
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties and has been detailed by 
our investigator previously. So, Ill summarise the key points Ive focused on within my 
decision.
Mr and Mrs P noticed bubbles of water had burst on the roof of their converted 
garage. This allowed water to enter the roofs insulation and plaster. The water 
caused damage to the room and contents underneath this section of the roof.
Mr and Mrs P made a claim under their home insurance policy and Admiral sent a 
surveyor to inspect the property.
The surveyor said the damage to the roof was due to wear and tear and excluded 
under the policy. The surveyor offered settlement for the inside damage of £1,700 
less the policy excess of £300. Mr P accepted the offer and sent photos for the 
contents.
Later, Admiral rejected the buildings claim and retracted its offer for the damage to 
the section of the room underneath the roof as there hadnt been an insured event. 
Admiral offered £600 for the contents claim. Mr and Mrs P complained.
Admiral acknowledged its contractors had provided incorrect information and offered 
£350 compensation.
Mr and Mrs P rejected Admirals offer of compensation and brought their complaint to 
this Service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said the reported weather 
conditions dont meet the policys definition of storm. Without there being storm 
conditions, a storm claim cant succeed. She recognised the error made by initially 
accepting the claim, but felt the compensation offered to recognise the impact this 
erroneous information had on Mr and Mrs P was fair.
Mrs P didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint again.
The complaint has therefore been passed to me, an ombudsman, to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The buildings claim
When we consider complaints about storm claims, the first issue I have to consider is 
whether its likely that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened.
A home insurance policy will cover damage caused by one-off identifiable instance of storm. 
It wont cover damage caused by general stormy weather. This approach applies to most 
home insurance policies. The immediate difficulty here is in identifying a storm that meets Mr 
and Mrs Ps policy criteria. The policy defines a storm as:
Wind speeds with gusts of least 48 knots (55mph), or heavy rainfall at a rate of at least 
25mm per hour, or snow to a depth of at least 30cm in 24 hours, or hail of such severity that 
it causes damage to hard surfaces or breaks glass.
I acknowledge what Mrs P said about the amount of rain that had fallen prior to the ceiling 
collapsing and the amount of rain that had fallen in the two weeks prior to the event broke 
records for over 100 years. This is not disputed. But for this policy to respond to the storm 
claim, the weather must meet either the wind speed, hourly rainfall, snow depth or hail 
severity noted in the policy terms and conditions.
Looking at the days prior to 13 May 2021 and on 13 May 2021, the maximum hourly rainfall 
was far less than 25mm per hour. And the highest wind speed was recorded at 30mph which 
was also far less than the wind speeds required by the policy.
So, whilst I empathise for the situation Mr and Mrs P find themselves in, in the absence of 
evidence of a storm that meets the policy definition, Im not persuaded Admiral has a storm 
claim to answer.
The contents claim
The lost contents that Mr and Mrs P had previously advised Admiral can still be considered 
under a contents claim, because this falls under a different part of the policy, accidental 
damage. 
I understand a settlement has been offered by Admiral, but it hasnt had an acceptance from 
Mr and Mrs P. Admiral have said it will be contacting Mrs P to progress the contents part of 
the claim.  I note Mrs P has since told us that she hadnt included her sons drum kit in the 
claim and that was also water damaged. As our investigator has explained Mrs P will need to 
speak in the first instance with Admiral about this, as its not had a chance to consider it.
Customer service
Mrs P has told us how she feels theyve received appalling customer service. They were first 
told by the surveyor that the damage inside should be covered and an agreed amount of 
£1,700. They were then told that there were no worries, money for the building side was 
waiting to be posted and just waiting on the contents claim. And then they received a call 
from the surveyor, advising there would be no pay out for the inside building damage.
Admirals contractors and staff have mismanaged Mr and Mrs P expectations on the claim 
and told them the full claim would be covered when it hadnt been agreed. I agree that there 
has been a loss of expectation. But Im not persuaded these mistakes mean the claim 
should be honoured as there isnt a valid storm claim here.
Ive considered Mr and Mr Ps comments about the impact the misinformation has had on 
them. And whilst I fully acknowledge the distress and upset Admiral has caused, I think the 
compensation it has offered to recognise this is fair and reasonable.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 December 2021.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman