DRN-3703753
The complaint
Mr V complains that Santander UK Plc has failed to locate and trace funds from an account 
he says he holds with them. 
What happened
As the background to this dispute is well known to both parties, I have summarised the key 
events and details. Mr V has also raised concerns about a Santander mortgage, but that 
complaint is being considered separately. 
Mr V explains that he held two Santander bank accounts, but one was blocked after funds 
were transferred out of it without his agreement. Mr V says that the blocked account 
contained a large amount of money that hed won in a lottery and that members of his ex-
wifes family were using his ID documents to access the account with Santanders 
knowledge.  
Mr V explains that his ex-wife and wider family stole the money from him to buy a property. 
He says that he has lost around £500,000 to this fraud and that he has reported it to the 
bank every year since 2009 but it has not been investigated.
Mr V provided a copy of a letter that was hand delivered to a Santander branch by his 
solicitor in April 2014. In that letter, the solicitor is enquiring about an account Mr V said had 
been opened in his name by someone who had cleared cheques issued to him through that 
account. 
Santander has provided a copy of a final response letter it sent to Mr V in May 2020. It says 
that it cant find any record of the blocked account and that there is only one account on file 
for Mr V.
It has provided a copy of another final response letter issued in July 2021 following a further 
investigation. Santander says it has been unable to identify the blocked account or the 
fraudulent activity which Mr V believes has taken place. Unhappy with the banks position, 
Mr V referred his complaint to this service. Santander agreed we could investigate.  
Whilst the complaint was awaiting to be assigned to our Investigator, Mr V said that 
Santander had been involved in fraud where hed lost £250,000 and that the bank had 
accepted a fraudulent transfer of his money to a different bank account. He wanted to know 
the details of the beneficiary account. 
Mr V says the banks head office has the records but is refusing to release them as someone 
from the bank was involved in the fraud. He thinks the blocked account still exists now, that 
someone else is using it, and that a balance of around £80,000 remains.
Our Investigator looked into the situation but concluded there was nothing more we could 
fairly ask Santander to do. She explained there wasnt enough evidence of the funds or 
where they were sent.  
She explained that Santander had only been able to find one account for Mr V and that the 
available account statements didnt show any lottery winnings had been paid into it. She said 
that Mr V had not been able to send in anything from the lottery company to show where the 
money was paid, so there was no further information for the bank to try and search for. 
Mr V was disappointed. He said that it was unacceptable that Santander had not responded 
to his solicitor and this needed to be investigated further. He suggested his solicitors letters 
had not been passed on to the branch manager because the fraud was taking place in the 
same branch. He asked to see proof that our Investigator had contacted Santander. Our 
Investigator shared the material evidence shed relied on with Mr V, which included details of 
her investigation with the bank. 
Mr V asked for the complaint to be reviewed afresh by an Ombudsman. Whilst the complaint 
was being prepared for an Ombudsmans decision, Mr V said hed been told in branch 
recently that hed got two accounts and one was blocked. He also explained that Santander 
had contacted him to say the bank had important information for us that could not be 
disclosed to him. 
Santander confirmed again that it could only find one account on file for Mr V. The bank said 
it had provided everything and had nothing further to submit.
Mr V also added that a family member handed the bank a death certificate with his name on, 
which is why Santander cannot locate a second account in his name. The bank said it had 
no record of Mr V ever being registered as deceased. 
As no agreement could be reached, the matter has now been referred to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked carefully at what both Mr V and Santander have said to us. Mr V says he holds 
two accounts and one is being used by someone else without his agreement. He wants to 
know what happened to his money and to find out the details of the account where the funds 
were transferred to. But crucially, Mr V hasnt been able to provide any further information 
about the accounts existence. At times hes said it was a separate account, but on other 
occasions hes provided the sort code and account number for the account that Santander 
has been able to locate. He doesnt have any additional paperwork relating to a second 
account and he hasnt been able to provide anything from the lottery company to show when 
he won or what account the winnings were paid into.  
Santander has provided screenshots of the searches it has undertaken on its internal 
systems to try and locate Mr Vs accounts. The bank has searched using Mr Vs name, his 
previous addresses, his current address, and his date of birth. But Santanders searches 
only show one account in his name. At the time of the search, the account had a modest 
balance which had remained the same since April 2010. If another account in Mr Vs name 
was open with a large balance in it, it is more likely than not that Santander would have 
found it when it searched its records.
Mr V has suggested that Santander has not been able to locate the disputed account 
because a family member previously gave the bank a death certificate with his name on it. 
But Santander says there is no record of a deceased marker ever being applied to Mr Vs 
profile. There are formal processes and legal procedures that must be followed when 
someone dies. Presenting a death certificate to a branch would not be enough to enable a third party to access the large amounts of money Mr V has described, nor would it enable a 
third party to take over an account. As such, I dont consider it likely that someone was able 
to take over an account that belonged to Mr V by presenting a falsified death certificate.
Im sorry to have to disappoint Mr V. Its clear that hes been concerned about this matter for 
a number of years. Hes described being taken advantage of financially by people he used to 
think of as family. It is understandable why he is seeking answers about what went on. But, 
having looked at everything, Im satisfied Santander has acted fairly and reasonably when 
trying to help Mr V. 
Santander has searched extensively with the information that it has to try and identify the 
funds Mr V is complaining about. Unfortunately, none of the searches Santander has 
undertaken have returned any evidence to confirm what Mr V is saying. Whilst I understand 
that this is frustrating for Mr V, I cant fairly compel Santander to do any more than it has 
already done. Im satisfied this now brings to an end what we, in trying to resolve this 
complaint informally, can do. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Vs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2022.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman