DRN-3495918
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain about UK Insurance Limiteds (UKI) settlement of their claim under 
their home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs D made a claim following a storm, for damage that had occurred both internally 
and externally at their home. UKI sent a surveyor to assess the damage. Water had been 
leaking inside their home via the roof. And on inspection, the surveyor concluded that the 
damage to the roof had been due to wear and tear. So, the external damage was declined 
as wear and tear wasnt covered under the policy. 
UKI said that Mr and Mrs D told them that the storm had occurred in November 2020 and the 
problem remained unchecked until it was reported in March 2021. It concluded that the 
damage that had been caused internally would be accepted under the accidental damage 
part of their policy. And paid a cash settlement of £602.41 (after the excess had been 
deducted). 
Mr and Mrs D were unhappy about this decision and how UKI had dealt with their claim and 
complained. UK accepted that there were poor service issues and paid £75 compensation 
for the trouble and upset caused.  
A few months later Mr and Mrs D contacted UKI to report further damage to their property. It 
sent a surveyor to assess the damage. The surveyor found that there was no cover available 
for the additional damage caused, as Mr and Mrs D hadnt repaired the damage to the roof 
and further ingress had occurred. So, UKI declined this claim. 
Mr and Mrs D complained to UKI about the settlement figure, they said that UKIs surveyor 
had not correctly taken measurements of the area and this meant that the settlement figure 
was too low to complete the repairs.
In its final response, UKI said that it had sent in another surveyor to re-scope the works and 
that surveyor verified the measurements of the first surveyor. So, it was satisfied that the 
works had been scoped correctly and the settlement figure was correct. 
Mr and Mrs D were given their referral rights and referred a complaint to our service. One of 
our investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He said that 
he couldnt see any evidence of Mr and Mrs D having carried out any lasting repairs to the 
roof. And having looked at the policy terms and conditions, which stipulated that the property 
should be kept in good condition. And that the surveyors reports had correctly scoped the 
work; he couldnt agree that UKI had been unreasonable in relying on the policy terms and 
the surveyors reports to decline the claim. He concluded that it wouldnt be fair for him to ask 
UKI to do anything further to resolve the complaint.
UKI agreed with the view, Mr and Mrs D did not. They said that they believed that the scope 
of works was inaccurate as the rooms were incorrectly measured. Further they said that they 
had never seen the re-scoped works report. So, they asked for a decision from an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be asking UKI to do anything more to resolve the complaint. 
I realise this is likely to come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs D, but I hope my findings 
go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision.
I have considered all the points raised by both parties, as well as the surveyors reports and 
the policy terms and conditions. I understand that Mr and Mrs D have made a few detailed 
points, and I think the crux of their complaint is that the original scope of works (SOW) was 
incorrect as it didnt take into consideration any measurements and as a result, the second 
SOW wasnt revised to accommodate the incorrect measurements and inadequate scope. In 
addition, they were never provided with copies of either report. So, I have concentrated 
these findings on the two points as I consider them the main issues raised by Mr and Mrs D.
Dealing with the second point, relating to the provision of the reports. I asked UKI if it had 
any objection to the reports being sent to Mr and Mrs D. As no objection was raised, the 
reports have been provided to Mr and Mrs D. So, Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs D now have 
them. 
Mr and Mrs D made the following comments regarding the reports, which I have 
summarised. That this was the first time that they had seen the reports, in the first report the 
policyholder was deemed vulnerable but not in the second. No SOW had been provided to 
them following the second visit of the surveyor. No settlement figure has been provided 
given the inaccurately sized rooms. UKI hasnt treated Mr and Mrs D fairly due to the failure 
to communicate with them.  
Mr and Mrs D have now had the reports, so Im satisfied that they have been given the 
opportunity to address any concerns regarding the contents.  And it seems that one of the 
issues they have raised is whether the first SOW was incorrect as it failed to take into 
account correct measurements. Ive had a look at this and having considered what both 
surveyors have said regarding the damage, I dont think there is enough evidence to support 
Mr and Mrs Ds contentions that the original SOW was incorrect. I will explain further what I 
mean. 
From the evidence, UKI relied on the policy terms and conditions, which essentially state 
that it is the policyholders obligation to ensure that their properties are kept in a good state 
of repair. Its not in dispute, that Mr and Mrs D roof became damaged and water leaked into 
their property. UKI declined the external damage due to it being caused by wear and tear, 
which isnt covered under the policy. But it accepted the internal damage under the 
accidental damage cover of the policy. 
The first surveyors report noted the following damage as water staining to plaster, which 
would need to be removed and replaced, and re-decoration of the area. It also mentioned 
that in the bathroom some tiles had lifted which would need re-fixing. And the ceiling would require a stain block before re-decoration of the affected area. Most notably, the surveyor did 
not recommend that mechanical drying of the area was required. 
I can see that Mr and Mrs D were advised to carry out repairs to the roof, so as to prevent 
further damage. I havent been provided with any evidence that a permanent repair was 
carried out to the roof from Mr and Mrs D. Although, I accept that they said that a temporary 
repair was carried out. Yet, the temporary repair does not appear to have prevented further 
water ingress in the area. And when Mr and Mrs D contacted UKI again to report the further 
damage that was being caused to the same areas within their home, UKI concluded that the 
further damage was not covered as Mr and Mrs D had failed to mitigate their loss. 
I have reviewed this further, in light of the second surveyor who attended to re-scope the 
works, following Mr and Mrs D complaint to UKI. Although the second surveyor mentioned 
that mechanical drying would be needed. He also found that as the repairs to the roof hadnt 
been completed sufficiently, this meant further water entered and caused the walls to be 
saturated. He said that given that there had been several months between the first time the 
property was scoped and then him attending, he wouldve expected that the area would be 
dry. 
Consequently, he could only conclude that Mr and Mrs D hadnt mitigated their losses. In 
other words, repaired the roof sufficiently, to prevent further internal damage. Other than the 
additional saturated walls found at the property, the areas of damage that had been noted in 
the first surveyors report, were the same in the second surveyors report.
In addition, the second report gave measurements of the rooms that had been affected. 
Those measurements it is fair to say, werent shown in the first report, but I note that Mr and 
Mrs D have not objected to the measurements that were given in the second report. So, Im 
satisfied that the measurements were accurate. 
Moreover, both reports (despite there not been any measurements in the first report) 
provided the same settlement figure. So, I cant agree that the first surveyor took inaccurate 
measurements into account.  As, both reports reached the same settlement figure. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs D engaged the services of a private builder to scope for the 
works, but this occurred a few months after the first surveyor attended. And as Mr and Mrs D 
have provided no evidence that a lasting repair had been carried out to their roof, Im 
satisfied that further water entered and resulted in the walls being saturated.
Taking all of this into consideration, I dont think Mr and Mrs D carried out a lasting repair to 
their roof, as a result further water entered and saturated the walls. I also dont think that 
there is enough evidence to suggest that the first surveyor incorrectly measured and scoped 
the works that needed to be carried out. 
Consequently, as Mr and Mrs D didnt mitigate their losses, I cant agree that UKI were 
unreasonable or unfair to have relied on their expert reports or the policy terms and 
conditions, when it provided a settlement figure for their claim. 
Although I understand that this isnt the outcome that Mr and Mrs D wouldve liked, there is 
nothing further I can reasonably ask UKI to do to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I wont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 October 2022.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman