DRN-4514438
The complaint
Mr G complains that Tesco Personal Finance Ltd (Tesco) lent to him irresponsibly when it 
gave him two credit cards.
What happened
Mr G took out a credit card with Tesco in February 2018. It had a credit limit of £250. The 
limit was increased by £350 on one occasion in December 2018. His final credit limit was 
£600.
Between opening the first card and the credit limit increase on the first card, Mr G took out 
another credit card with Tesco in September 2018. This had a credit limit of £2,400.
Mr G says that Tesco loaned to him irresponsibly without checking his financial 
circumstances in enough detail. He says that it ignored important aspects. He says in 
relation to the second card that Tesco didnt take into account that he had managed the first 
card poorly and had high existing credit commitments. Mr G says Tesco overlooked 
important information from both its internal and external sources.
 
Mr G says that the lending caused him financial difficulty. He asks that Tesco refund all the 
interest and charges he incurred and pay him statutory interest on any positive balance as a 
result of the refund. 
Our investigator thought Mr Gs complaint should be upheld in part. Our investigator thought 
Tesco shouldnt have provided the second card at all and that it shouldnt have increased Mr 
Gs credit limit on the first card. 
Tesco disagreed, so the complaint was passed to me for a decision. When I reviewed the 
complaint I didnt think it should be upheld, even in part.
I wrote to both parties to explain my provisional decision. Mr G disagreed with my decision 
and provided further submissions to support his complaint. Having reviewed those 
submissions I am still not satisfied that Tesco acted unfairly. I have explained this further 
below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to
complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending - including the key relevant rules,
guidance and good industry practice - on our website and Ive taken that into account when I 
have considered Mr Gs complaint.
Having done so, Im considering reaching a different decision to that of our investigator. I will 
explain why I have reached this provisional decision.
Tesco had to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr G could afford 
to repay what he was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into 
account a number of different things, such has how much was being lent, the repayment 
amounts and Mr Gs income and expenditure. 
Certain factors might point to the fact that Tesco should fairly and reasonable have done 
more to establish that  for example, if the results of the initial checks showed areas of 
concern. There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself 
clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Tesco has said that it completed credit checks before it lent to Mr G which provided little 
reason for concern. It noted that Mr G had no bankruptcies or debt management plans, but it 
did identify a County Court Judgement (CCJ) from 34 months earlier. It noted that Mr G had 
defaulted on an account 39 months earlier  this may have been the same account which 
resulted in the CCJ. It saw that Mr G currently had total existing debt of around £1,530. Mr G 
had declared a monthly income of £1,623 and that he was single and living with his parents. 
Tesco completed an assessment of Mr Gs living expenses using Office of National Statistics 
data and estimated monthly living expenses, including payments on the proposed credit 
card, at £586 a month. Based on this Tesco considered that Mr G could affordably repay the 
lending. 
Ive thought carefully about whether Tesco ought to have completed further checks in light of 
the information it had about Mr Gs prior financial difficulties. On balance, I dont think it did. 
The product Mr G was applying for was aimed specifically at those with a poor credit record. 
Mr Gs most recent default was over three years earlier and he had low existing borrowing. 
Taking into account his income and assessed essential expenditure I dont think Tesco 
ought reasonably to have thought Mr G couldnt afford the repayments on £250 of credit or 
that it needed to do further checks. 
The next lending decision was made when Mr G applied for a further credit card account in 
September 2018. The limit it provided was £2,400  making his total borrowing available 
from Tesco £2,650. 
At this point, our investigator thought that Tesco ought to have done more to find out about 
Mr Gs financial circumstances. And our investigator thought if Tesco had done further 
checks it would have realised that Mr G couldnt afford the new lending, because Mr G 
wasnt left with much money each month after hed paid all his commitments. Tesco, which 
didnt have sight of the bank statements, disagreed. It said that its own checks showed that 
even while making sustainable repayments on all of his credit, Mr G had sufficient 
disposable income available to him. 
I agree with our investigator that Tesco ought to have done further checks. While Mr Gs 
outstanding credit commitments elsewhere had reduced and was now only £300, I think the 
significant increase in lending, only about seven months after he took out a credit card 
specifically for those with a poor financial history, combined with the credit already available 
to him compared to his monthly income, that Tesco ought to have completed further checks 
on Mr Gs income and expenditure.
I dont know exactly what checks Tesco would have done; there is no prescriptive list of 
checks. So, I think it is reasonable to look at the information Mr G provided to this service, 
including his bank statements and credit file, as well as the information Tesco already had. Having reviewed this information, I think Mr G had sufficient disposable income each month 
after he met his essential expenditure (for example, his rent, utilities and food bills) to meet 
his credit commitments, including the new lending.
With the new credit, Mr G had access to around £8,100 of credit. If Mr G had used all of this 
credit (which he hadnt) then sustainable repayments on this would have been around £400 
a month. His average essential expenditure each month was around £685 a month. I can 
see that in the months leading up to the second card opening Mr G was paying significantly 
more than his minimum repayments on his other credit  at its highest he paid around a 
months salary to credit card debt. But this meant that his outstanding balances were 
commensurately low. 
While Mr Gs bank statements show that he didnt have much money left at the end of the 
month, this didnt result in him struggling to meet his repayments, or to sustainably make his 
repayments. I am satisfied that once Mr G met all his essential expenditure, including 
sustainable repayments on the entirety of his credit if he had chosen to utilise it, Mr G would 
have had disposable income in the region of around £230 to £300 a month. Although Mr Gs 
bank statements show that at times he had less than this in his bank account at the end of 
each month, that is because he had discretionary expenditure, too. On that basis, I dont 
think Tesco made an unfair decision to lend to Mr G. 
Mr G says that Tesco ought to have noted that he wasnt managing his credit well on the first 
credit card when Tesco agreed to the second credit card. I note that Mr G had one overlimit 
fee during that time, but he had paid more than the minimum payment each month, including 
a large amount in July 2018. By the time of his application in September 2018 he had only 
£23 owing on the card. So I dont think that ought to have prevented Tesco from lending to 
Mr G. 
As I havent upheld Mr Gs complaint at the point our investigator did, Ive gone on to look at 
the credit limit increase on the first card which took place in December 2018. This was for a 
further £350. 
Looking at the same types of data sets I can see that nothing had changed significantly for 
the worse. Mr G had taken out other credit, but he had a relatively low outstanding balance  
around £1,900. He hadnt missed any payments and he was managing all of his credit well. 
Extra checks would have shown that his income and essential expenditure was similar to 
that seen in the September 2018 checks. Looking at Mr Gs credit file, I can see he was 
making payments towards his borrowing at a level which was higher than he needed to, to 
sustainably repay the lending.
On this basis, I dont think Tesco acted unfairly when it increased Mr Gs credit limit in 
December 2018 and I dont think Mr G lost out as a result.
Mr G has explained that he has had previous complaints about unaffordable lending upheld 
by this service. This service treats every complaint on its individual merits and examines the 
individual circumstances of each complaint. I can see that the complaints Mr G refers to 
were about products provided when his financial circumstances were significantly different. 
In his later submissions, Mr G explains that he had not been honest in relation to his income 
declarations when he applied for the credit which is the subject of those other complaints. He 
questions how those businesses checked his details fully and yet still lent to him. 
Mr G also makes a number of other points, including (but not only) explaining that his 
employment wasnt permanent at the time of his application and that Tesco shouldnt have 
allowed him to have a credit builder credit card as he was not new to credit use. He maintains that any additional credit was too much for him at the time. He points to the fact he 
used close to the full limit on the first card almost immediately as evidence that Tesco acted 
irresponsibly and also that Tesco should have seen that he was already stretching himself 
financially.
I appreciate Mr G taking the time to set out his points again so clearly. However, I do not 
consider that he has made any new points which I have not already considered in my 
provisional decision. I have already explained why, even if Tesco had completed further 
checks, I dont think it would have acted differently. I am considering only the merits of this 
complaint and I am satisfied that in the circumstances of this complaint, Tesco did not act 
unfairly in lending to Mr G for the reasons I have set out.   
My final decision
I do not think Tesco Personal Finance plc acted unfairly when it lent to Mr G, so I do not 
uphold his complaint. This means that Tesco Personal Finance plc does not have to do 
anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2024.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman