DRN-3631006
The complaint
Miss L complains about difficulties accessing her online banking facility with TSB Bank plc.
 
What happened
Miss L has told us shes experienced difficulties accessing her online banking facility with 
TSB over the course of several years. Last year, Miss L complained about problems 
accessing online banking. TSB says it provided information about accessing her online 
banking facility to Miss L. TSB says Miss L was able to successfully log in. TSB said there 
were delays in sending One Time Passcodes to customers on 9 August 2021 but said this 
was an isolated incident. TSB paid Miss L £30 for the inconvenience caused. 
Miss L referred her complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. Miss L 
explained shed experienced problems logging in due to using a landline to receive the OTP. 
Miss L says that by the time she received and input the OTP its expired. 
TSB issued a further final response on 20 April 2022 and said it was possible for customers 
to use a landline to receive a OTP. TSB said the error message Miss L received was due to 
errors with the details entered or the log in session timing out. TSB apologised that a 
member of staff had given Miss L confusing information. TSB has paid Miss L a total of £175 
for the distress and inconvenience caused.  
The investigator thought TSB had dealt with Miss Ls complaint fairly and didnt ask it to take 
further action. Miss L asked to appeal, so her complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont doubt that Miss L has experienced difficulties logging into her online banking facility. 
But I need to take the evidence provided by both parties into account when deciding how to 
fairly resolve a complaint. Here, TSB has confirmed there were no general problems with its 
online banking facility when Miss L complained last year. And TSB confirms customers can 
access online banking via a OTP code sent to either a mobile or landline number. But there 
was an isolated day on 9 August 2021 where TSB accepts there were delays in sending out 
OTPs. 
Miss L has explained she doesnt have a mobile which means her options for accessing 
online banking with TSB are limited. But Im satisfied the evidence provided by TSB shows it 
can and does send OTPs to landlines. TSB has sent systems evidence that shows Miss L 
received and successfully accessed her online banking facility during the period raised. I 
understand there were problems that required resetting of account details during this time, 
but there are a range of issues that can cause that. TSB has pointed out Miss L reregistered 
on various occasions to reset her password and username, for instance. Im sorry to 
disappoint Miss L but the information Ive seen doesnt appear to show problems with TSBs 
systems or that it hasnt provided options for logging in. 
TSB accepts a call handler gave Miss L some misleading and poor advice when trying to 
resolve the logging in issues. TSB has paid Miss L a total of £175 to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience shes experienced. Based on the information provided, Im satisfied the level 
of compensation paid fairly reflects the impact of the issues raised on Miss L. As Im satisfied 
TSB dealt with Miss Ls complaint fairly, Im not telling it to increase the award.  
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Miss Ls complaint because TSB Bank plc has already paid 
a settlement that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman