DRN-3080769
The complaint
L, a limited company, complains that PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA wouldnt provide a 
refund of a payment under the terms of its Buyer Protection.
What happened
L ordered items for commercial use and paid the merchant £1,772.59 using its PayPal 
account. It says that items were faulty, and it asked that these be replaced. Having not had a 
response from the merchant it raised a claim under Buyer Protection with PayPal. L is 
unhappy that PayPal declined the claim saying that it hadnt provided sufficient evidence that 
the items were significantly not as described (SNAD).
PayPal said it wouldnt be refunding the money. It offers Buyer Protection on a goodwill 
basis and it decides whether to make a refund. Here it had asked L on multiple occasions to 
provide an independent report to say that the items were SNAD and L hadnt done so. This 
took into account the high value of the items.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld, and the payment refunded to L. 
He said that the terms of Buyer Protection that PayPal wanted to rely on stated that:
PayPal may require you to provide receipts, third party evaluations, police reports or
other documents that PayPal specifies. You must respond to these requests in a
timely manner as requested in our correspondence with you.
It had asked L to get a document from an unbiased third party, such as a dealer, repair 
shop, appraiser or individual or organisation that is qualified in the area of the item in 
question (other than you). 
L sent in details of the original purchase, a copy of an email to the merchant setting out the 
defect, an email back telling L what it needed to do to get a replacement and a video that L 
had sent showing what was wrong.
He said that he understood the requirement of PayPal for a third-party report in many cases 
to prove a claim. But that the user agreement only said it may ask for this. And it didnt set 
out what cases would be applicable. He thought that L had taken reasonable steps to show 
the goods werent fit for purpose. And that L had expertise in this field as the goods were 
directly connected to the nature of its business. He wouldnt expect an expert report in each 
case. And here he noted that PayPal had initially only allowed L two days to provide it. He 
thought that had L done so the result would be a refund as he was convinced from the 
evidence that the items were faulty.
PayPal didnt agree. It provided copies of call recordings during which L was told repeatedly 
of the requirement. L had provided invalid documentation and it disagreed with the opinion 
that L had met its requirements.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand a brief summary of what happened to be as follows. The items were ordered on 
31 March 2021. I can see that on 20 April 2021, following correspondence with the 
merchant, L sent it a copy of a video about the defect as it had been requested to do. No 
resolution was offered, and it raised a dispute with PayPal on 10 May 2021. On 16 June 
2021 PayPal wrote to L asking for the unbiased report within two days. In response L sent it 
a copy of the video and correspondence with the merchant. On 21 June 2021 PayPal 
declined the claim. In further calls with L it resisted reopening the dispute as it said that it 
would need additional information. And so, L referred its complaint to this service.
PayPal has referred to its user agreement and which sets out the terms of Buyer Protection. 
These state that it makes a decision about whether to make a refund. I need to decide 
whether in this specific case it has acted fairly. It hasnt provided any other internal guidance 
about the circumstances in which it may ask for an independent report. So, Im going to 
think about whether that decision was reasonable here, bearing in mind the circumstances.
I note from its user agreement that it says that an item may be considered SNAD if the item 
is unusable in its received state and was not disclosed as such. Having seen the video of 
the items I think that the issue with the goods was a fundamental and not a subtle technical 
one  parts of some of the goods clearly didnt fit together as they should. That video wasnt 
apparently challenged by the merchant and on balance I am struggling to see what more an 
expert could have added here apart from cost for L. 
I fully understand why in many circumstances such a report may be required and take into 
account the value of the goods involved. But I agree with our investigator that it is difficult to 
see what the need was here. The calls which as PayPal states evidence that it repeated its 
requirements multiple times to me only underlines that it hadnt acted reasonably in this 
case. And so, Im not persuaded on what Ive seen here that PayPal has applied its own 
terms in a fair way. I find that it should refund the payment to L.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA to 
refund £1,772.59 to L.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman