DRN-3614911
The complaint
Miss B complained about the customer service she received, and the repairs carried out 
under her home insurance policy with AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA).
What happened
Miss B made a claim on her policy on 22 June 2021 when a small stone was flicked up from 
her lawnmower causing damage to her lead patterned window. AXA appointed a glazing 
contractor who assessed the damage on 25 June 2021. The contractor installed a temporary 
repair on 7 July 2021. However, the contractor was unable to fit the permanent window 
replacement as planned on 3 August 2021 as there was some internal approval issues.
When Miss B complained, AXA accepted it had let Miss B down and offered her £75 for the 
distress and inconvenience it had caused. It also apologised. AXA provided Miss B with the 
following options to move the claim forward to resolve her complaint: 
estimate to be submitted from a local contractor of your choice for our consideration
a cash settlement to be offered, so you can appoint a company of your choice to 
complete the repairs
allow our current supplier to complete the repairs
Miss B opted for AXAs contractor to complete the repairs, but when the new window was 
fitted on the 18 September 2021 she was unhappy with the workmanship. She said, there 
are no excuses for sticking lead to a window rather than soldering it on, colour matching red 
with orange or missing off details on the pattern when being done manually.
AXA felt it had met the terms and conditions of the policy, so wouldnt do anymore. So, Miss 
B at her own expense decided to replace the window AXAs contractor had fitted so it 
matched the other windows in the house.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. The investigator thought AXA had met 
its obligations under the policy. He said I think AXA has tried to replicate the original glass, 
but unfortunately meeting the original specification isnt always possible. So, while I can 
understand why Miss B is unhappy with the final product installed by AXA, I think that AXA 
has made a suitable attempt to match the glass previously fitted. Miss B disagreed, so the 
complaint has been referred to an ombudsman.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this on 16 June 2022. I said:
The main part of Miss Bs complaint is that she doesnt think the replacement glass AXA 
has fitted is reasonable as its design is different to what she had in place before the 
accident. Miss B commented on the replacement window, she said:
Rose colour is not the same pigment and looks orange
The bottom rose is not the same design it has extra leading at the bottom
The bottom rose has a piece of lead missing (3 oclock positioning)
The leaves on the top rose bud hanging down are a different design.
She also said the quality of the lead was poor as it was stuck on to the window as opposed 
to been soldered on and she said this wouldnt last as long.
I have checked what the terms and conditions state to understand what AXA is liable for 
under this claim in respect to repairing or replacing the damaged lead patterned window.
The policy sets out AXAs responsibilities. It states we will choose the most suitable option 
for you when repairing or replacing damaged items and it goes on to state where we 
replace an item, we will do our best to meet the original specification on a new for old
basis. If we cant find an exact replacement, well offer you a suitable alternative, or a full 
cash settlement.
I have examined the photographs provided by Miss B to see how her replacement window 
looks compared to her old window. Whilst the design appears similar  I think there is an 
obvious and distinctive difference between the colours used in the replacement window and 
the colouring of the lead, suggesting a different type of material or application of the material 
to the glass.
However, as the terms and conditions set out, AXA can offer a suitable alternative if it cant 
find an exact match or offer a full cash settlement. However, I cant see in any of the claim 
notes that it was ever pointed out to Miss B before the work happened that there would be 
these distinctive differences and she was never asked if she accepted these. Therefore, I 
dont think AXA has followed a reasonable process. I think it shouldve highlighted these 
differences to Miss B before having the glass made. I think AXA needed to gain a positive 
acknowledgement (approval) from Miss B to go ahead with the works on this basis. As I 
havent seen evidence AXA has done this, I intend to uphold this complaint.
I think its likely had AXA presented details of the differences in the replacement glass to 
Miss B, she wouldve not chosen for the work to go ahead. At this point, AXA shouldve 
offered Miss B a full cash alternative. I have noted this was offered to Miss B earlier in the 
process, but she opted to go with AXAs contractor as she was concerned she wouldnt be 
able to fully recover the costs of her chosen contractor. However, I dont think she was 
aware at this point AXA wasnt able to fulfil her requirements.
Miss B has since had the glass replaced again so it matches closely with the rest of her 
windows. Therefore, as AXA shouldve offered a full cash alternative, I intend for AXA to 
reimburse Miss B these costs on production of valid receipts. As Miss B has been without 
this money, I intend for AXA to pay 8% simple interest from the date Miss B paid these costs 
to the date AXA reimburse Miss B.
Miss B complained about the general customer service she received and the delays in AXA 
completing the works. AXA initially fitted the replacement glass three months after the claim 
was made  there were several reasons for the delay, and I think these were all the 
responsibility of AXA and its contractors. AXA has offered Miss B £75 compensation for the 
poor service she has received.
However, I dont think the compensation is fair. I wouldve expected for a simple claim like 
this to be resolved in a maximum of six to eight weeks, allowing generously for time to 
design the windows. I can see on the case notes that the claim handler has chased numerous times for updates on how the claim is progressing. Given it was known there were 
delays, I think AXA shouldve done more to mitigate this.
In addition to this, the end-product was not fit for purpose. It was not in keeping with the type 
of house. This resulted in Miss B replacing the window again at her own expense. I think the 
fact she has done this at her own expense shows the level of disappointment she had with 
the end-product and the frustration she experienced seeing the window everyday looking 
odd at the front of the house. Miss B will have had inconvenience arranging the replacement. 
Therefore, I intend in total to award £250 compensation (£175 more than already offered) for 
the distress and inconvenience caused.
Responses to my provisional decision
Neither Miss B nor AXA replied to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given neither party has provided any new information, I see no reason to change my 
provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint, I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to:
Reimburse Miss B for the costs shes incurred replacing the window (on production of 
valid receipts), plus 8% simple interest* (from the date Miss B paid these costs to the 
date AXA reimburse Miss B)
Pay £175** compensation (plus £75 already offered if it hasnt yet been paid) for the 
distress and inconvenience caused.
*HM Revenue and Customs requires AXA Insurance UK Plc to take off tax from this interest. 
AXA must give a certificate showing how much tax its taken off it if Miss B asks for one.
**AXA Insurance UK Plc must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it that Miss B accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest 
on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 August 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman