DRN-4179186
The complaint
Mr H complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money incorrectly allocated his 
payments.
What happened
Mr H says he set up a payment plan on his credit card account which he paid by direct debit 
each month for about £140. He says on 13 September 2022 he bought an item for just over 
£1,000 and on 23 September paid £570 towards that purchase followed by £529 on 6 
October 2022. Mr H says Virgin Money incorrectly allocated those payments towards his 
payment plan rather than the new purchase on 13 September 2022. He says as a result he 
has been charged interest and caused stress. Mr H says he called Virgin Money about the 
problem and says he was told the problem could be fixed if he accepted his mistake. He 
says that is unfair and was not at fault. Mr H would like the problem sorted out and 
compensation.
Virgin Money says it apologises for the length of time Mr H spent on the telephone to it and 
has paid £50 for that part of the complaint. It says it didnt make a mistake about the 
allocation of payments and says it acted in line with account terms and conditions. Virgin 
Money says Mr H made the payments before the statement was issued.
Mr H brought his complaint to us, and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator thought Virgin Money had acted in line with agreed account terms and 
conditions. The investigator thought the compensation offer appropriate for that part of the 
complaint.
Mr H doesnt accept that view and says Virgin Moneys offer to sort out the problem was 
bribery. He says the terms and conditions are flawed.
Virgin Money has provided the call recordings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint.
I have looked carefully at the account terms and conditions which Im satisfied Mr H would 
have agreed to when the account was opened. I have also looked at the account statements 
which Mr H would have seen each month. Both contain detailed information about payment 
allocation. The terms and conditions make clear the order in which Virgin Money will allocate 
payments. In this case Im satisfied that Mr H made a payment towards what he believed 
was his purchase on 13 September 2022 but at that stage his statement hadnt been 
produced nor was he required to pay for that item at that stage.
In summary Im satisfied Mr H made his payment too soon and Virgin Money couldnt have 
known what his intention was in paying it the money. Im also satisfied that Virgin Money 
acted in those circumstances in line with agreed account terms and conditions by correctly 
allocating the payment. It follows that I dont think Virgin Money has made a mistake or acted 
unfairly here and the mistake was made by Mr H in making a payment in advance of the 
statement being produced. I make clear to Mr H that most if not all credit card providers 
operate on the same basis.
I have listed carefully to the telephone calls between the parties and appreciate Mr Hs 
frustration with the call wait times. I can see that Virgin Money has paid what I think is a fair 
and reasonable compensation amount of £50 for that part of the complaint. I appreciate that 
is not the main part of the complaint.
Im satisfied that Mr H was told during one of the calls what the issue was. And Im satisfied 
Virgin Money offered fairly to reallocate the payments, but Mr H clearly said he was not 
accepting that as he believed he hadnt made a mistake. So, I think Virgin Money as a 
gesture of goodwill fairly offered to correct the issue but ultimately it was up to Mr H to 
accept that offer which he clearly rejected. I dont think that offer amounted to bribery as Mr 
H suggests and think he made clear he thought the fault was Virgin Moneys and not his.
Overall, Im satisfied Virgin Money acted in line with agreed account terms and conditions 
and so I cant fairly order it to reallocate payments or pay further compensation to Mr H.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman