DRN-4220409
The complaint
Mr R complains Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money acted unfairly when it said it 
wouldnt write off the balance on a credit card he complained about.
What happened
In August 2022 Mr R phoned Virgin Money to question transactions on a credit card and why 
it was at its limit. Mr R said that the transactions were carried out by someone who was living 
with him at the time. He complained when Virgin Money said that it wouldnt write these 
transactions off as he knew the person who had carried them out, so it was a civil matter.
Virgin Money investigated Mr Rs complaint and said that it hadnt done anything wrong, and 
that the issue was a civil matter between him and the person he says carried out the 
transactions. Mr R was unhappy and complained to us.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Rs complaint and, in the course of doing so, 
considered that this was a complaint involving ID theft. Our investigator didnt ultimately think 
that Virgin Money had acted fairly and said that it shouldnt hold Mr R liable for the 
outstanding debt and should write off the remaining balance and remove any negative 
markers from his credit file.
Virgin Money was unhappy with our investigators recommendations and asked for this 
complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. So, I was asked to consider this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Last month I issued a provisional decision in which I said the following:
There are some facts in this complaint that neither side appears to be disputing. For 
example, it appears to be common ground that the transactions Mr R has disputed 
were all carried out by a woman  who Ill refer to as Z in the rest of this decision  
who was living with Mr R between May and August 2022. There are, however, a lot of 
facts that are disputed and, hardest of all, a lot of inconsistencies in what Mr R has 
said throughout this complaint. Ill explain in more detail what I mean.
Having listened to the original calls Mr R made to Virgin Money and our service, Im 
satisfied that Mr R said that the card on which the transactions had taken place was 
his card and that he hadnt given anyone else permission to use it. Im also satisfied 
that Mr R said he knew the card had a balance of £400 on it, but he couldnt 
understand how that balance had grown to £2,000. He also told Virgin Money that he 
recognised transactions to two well- known supermarkets. Hes now saying, for 
example, that he never ordered the card, that he knew nothing about those 
transactions to two well-known supermarkets and that the first thing he knew about it 
was when he received a called from Virgin Money on 23 May 2022 to say that his 
credit card  with a £2,000 limit  was on its way.
In light of multiple inconsistencies, I called Mr R and asked him to explain from scratch 
what had happened. Before asking him to do so, I explained that sometimes 
consumers tell businesses or our service what they think we need to hear worried that 
if they explain whats actually happened, theyll be found liable. That often isnt the 
case. Mr R did provide me with some additional detail  which was helpful  but his 
story essentially remains the same.
In this case, I could have accepted that it was Zs idea that Mr R took out a credit card 
for her to use  possibly to help with running the house, possibly not  as she had bad 
credit and very little money coming in. I could also have accepted that Z had an 
emotional hold over Mr R who was potentially quite vulnerable at the time. And I could 
have accepted that Z then used the card for purposes Mr R hadnt intended  she 
appears, for example, to have transferred £1,000 to herself and to have taken cash out 
of ATMs. But thats not what Mr R told me, Virgin Money or our investigator. He 
instead, for example, said he never applied for this card. But he also said that after the 
card arrived  and he was given it  he placed it in a safe. He told our investigator that 
Z didnt know the combination to that safe, but then told me that they both used it and 
she stored, for example, jewellery in there. The inconsistencies in Mr Rs evidence  
and what he told Virgin Money when he disputed the transactions  mean I cant say 
that Virgin Money has acted unfairly in this case.
I gave both parties an opportunity to reply to my provisional decision. Mr R did so  he sent 
several emails. In his first email he said they  in other words, Virgin Money  said it would 
take 10 days for the card to come and that it came on 25 May 2022 and Z had used every 
penny on the card within five days. In his second email he said that he had two safes  not 
one  and that Z initially used the other safe. In his third email he said he only knew about 
the transactions to the two well-known supermarkets as he says Z confessed to those 
transactions the day he confronted her. And in his final email he said that hed used a 
different credit card to pay some expenses on 12 May 2022 and he wouldnt have done that 
if he knew he had an interest free credit card with Virgin Money.
As I said in my provisional decision, Mr R appears to be a hard-working and kind individual 
whos had a lot to deal with and who has almost certainly been taken advantage of by a 
female 20 years his junior. But I have to be fair to both sides, and even though I dont agree 
with Virgin Moneys rationale  the fact that Mr R knows who carried out the disputed 
transactions isnt a basis in itself on which to refuse his claim  I dont disagree with the 
overall outcome. Mr Rs comments on my provisional decision raise other potential 
inconsistencies and questions. For example, its clear when he contacted Virgin Money that 
he was aware that £400 had been spent on the card, but the reason why he contacted Virgin 
Money was because the card was over its limit. I dont, therefore, think Z confessed to the 
supermarket transactions because Mr R did not appear to be concerned about those. His 
concern, instead, was all the other transactions that had taken the card beyond its limit. Its 
clear he didnt know what they were until he spoke to Virgin. And that any confrontation 
happened after that call rather than before. He used his other credit card before he says 
Virgin Money contacted him to say his credit card was on the way, so I dont see how that 
helps him. And finally, he hadnt mentioned having two safes before  only one  and I think 
its likely that he wouldnt have needed two separate safes given the person who originally 
would have needed to store items too.
For the reasons Ive just given, I remain of the view that Virgin Money hasnt acted unfairly in 
what is ultimately a case where a kind person appears to have been taken advantage of.
In my provisional decision, I also said:Virgin Money will have to decide what to do next, and if it decides to recover the 
outstanding balance will still have to treat Mr R fairly. But I dont think it would be fair to 
say that it should write off the balance on the basis that the transactions werent 
authorised or consented to.
Virgin Money might, in light of everything Ive said, decide to write off the outstanding 
balance. But that would ultimately be a decision for it.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman