DRN-2715051
The complaint
 Mr M complains about how Domestic & General Insurance Plc (DGI) handled and settled a 
claim he made for a kitchen appliance. 
What happened
 On 24 May 2020, Mr M took out a breakdown protection policy with DGI on his gas hob and 
electric cooker. He told DGI his oven was approximately six years old at the time the policy 
was incepted. His policy with DGI covered appliances for breakdown and accidental 
damage.
On 27 August 2020 Mr M contacted DGI in order to report a fault with his oven. He said the 
appliance kept tripping the electrics and he wanted DGI to repair it.
DGI arranged for its engineer (S) to attend Mr Ms property to inspect the appliance. After 
inspecting the over, S advised DGI that it hadnt been correctly installed as it had been 
connected to the mains by a plug. It said it should have been hardwired to Mr Ms electric 
supply, which was required in order to comply with electrical safety standards. S also stated 
it had found evidence of rodent activity inside the oven. It further said there was no data 
sticker on the appliance to confirm the model and serial number. And it found damage to the 
large oven door, which had been caused by Mr M moving the appliance.
S declined to repair Mr Ms appliance due to unsafe installation. And DGI rejected Mr Ms 
claim based on the absence of a data sticker, unsafe installation issues and rodent damage. 
This was communicated in writing with Mr M. 
On 3 September 2020 Mr M contacted DGI to complain about its decision to repudiate his 
claim. He disputed that the appliance was unsafe as he said it had been connected to the 
mains by a plug for around nine years. But DGI informed him that, in the absence of a data 
sticker, it wasnt able to repair his appliance. And it said it was a legal requirement for ovens 
to be hardwired to the electric supply. It therefore closed his complaint.
Later in September 2020, Mr M contacted DGI again. He was advised that if he had the 
cooker correctly installed DGI would consider repairing it. And he was then told that, if he got 
an independent repair agent to repair his appliance, it would reimburse him the cost of 
repairs up to the value of £250.
Later that month Mr M contacted DGI again to raise another complaint. He said he hadnt 
been able to find anyone to repair his oven. But DGI informed him that it wouldnt cover a 
repair in any event due to the rodent evidence S had found and the appliance not having a 
data sticker. 
In its final response to Mr Ms complaint DGI acknowledged hed been incorrectly advised 
that if he was to resolve and pay for repairs it would reimburse him the cost up to the value 
of £250. It said, as it had rejected Mr Ms claim, it shouldnt have instructed him to arrange 
any repair as this wasnt something it would have reimbursed under the policy. DGI therefore 
upheld Mr Ms complaint. It cancelled his insurance policy and refunded him £23.76  this 
being the payments hed made since the policy had commenced and 8% interest. It also 
paid Mr M £10 compensation to acknowledge the incorrect advice hed received.
Being dissatisfied with how D&G proposed to resolve his complaint, Mr M referred it to our 
service. Our investigator empathised with him and recommended upholding his complaint. 
He thought DGI had acted correctly in cancelling Mr Ms insurance policy and refunding the 
premiums hed paid with interest added. But he wasnt persuaded that £10 was sufficient to 
compensate Mr M for the incorrect advice hed been given on two occasions. He thought 
DGI should increase that amount by £100 to reflect the trouble and upset Mr M had been 
caused. 
DGI accepted the recommendation our service had proposed as a resolution of this 
complaint. But it wasnt clear whether Mr M had understood and accepted our investigators 
view of his complaint. So, Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, 
I must base my decision on the balance of probabilities. Ive read and considered all the 
information provided by Mr M and DGI, but Ill concentrate my decision on what I think is 
relevant to decide the complaint. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive 
failed to take it on board and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it 
in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
My role is to assess whether I think DGI made a mistake, or treated Mr M unfairly, in how it 
decided to resolve his claim. And, having thought carefully about everything he and DGI 
have said, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Ill start by explaining why Im satisfied DGI acted fairly in refusing to settle Mr Ms claim 
under his policy.
DGI cited three main reasons for its decision to repudiate this claim. It said the appliance 
was unsafe due to the manner in which it had been installed, there was evidence of rodent 
damage and the absence of a data sticker meant it wasnt able to confirm the age and model 
of the oven. 
Mr M said, when he purchased his oven, he bought it from a large high street retailer. And 
he said it had been delivered without a data sticker. But I think its unlikely that the sticker 
was absent. I say this because appliances are usually sold with the relevant sticker attached 
and thered be no reason for that not to have been the case here. 
Like our investigator, I think DGI would have refused to insure the appliance if it had been 
aware that the data sticker was missing. Without the sticker, DGI wouldnt have known what 
model Mr M was looking to insure, it wouldnt have been able to assess its age. And it 
wouldnt be able to order spare parts that might have been needed to repair it. This all would 
have led to it not offering insurance to Mr M.
Im satisfied that the absence of the data sticker was a valid reason for DGI to cancel Mr Ms 
policy. But I think this should have been explained in clearer terms to Mr M to help him 
understand the significance of this sticker insofar as it was relevant to his policy.Mr M disputes the presence of rodent damage. But I dont think this affects the outcome of 
this complaint given that DGI are unlikely to have insured this appliance from the outset. Im 
persuaded it wouldnt have settled his claim even if it thered been no mention of rodent 
damage. And the same argument applies in respect of the unsafe installation concerns DGI 
made Mr M aware of.
As Im not satisfied DGI would have offered insurance to Mr M if it had known all the material 
facts I think it was reasonable for it to cancel his policy. I can see DGI repaid Mr M the 
premiums he paid from the inception of his policy in addition to 8% interest. Im satisfied this 
was fair and reasonable.
Having considered whether DGI cancelled this policy at the earliest opportunity, I think it 
gave Mr M false expectation that it would continue to cover his appliance for a repair after it 
was known that his oven had a missing data sticker. Based on the evidence Ive seen, he 
was informed on at least two occasions that it would reimburse him the cost of a repair if he 
arranged this himself. This was plainly wrong and DGI accepts it made an error here. 
I think DGIs mistake unfairly impacted on Mr M. Ive seen evidence of the efforts he went to 
in order to try and arrange a repair  thinking this would be covered. His health was 
impacted. And I can see the length of time he spent communication with DGI in discussing 
his claim. This was unnecessary as, by this point, he should have been informed that there 
was no valid claim that DGI would consider.
DGI compensated Mr M £10 for the trouble and upset its incorrect advice had caused. I can 
see our investigator has recommended that DGI pay a further £100 compensation, which its 
agreed to pay. But it appears Mr M doesnt think this adequately reflects his inconvenience 
and experience. Ive therefore assessed what compensation DGI should pay and Ill explain 
what I think is the fairest way of resolving this complaint below.
Putting things right
Ive carefully considered the overall circumstances of this complaint and the additional 
information Mr M provided to our service about how his health was impacted. Having done 
so, Im satisfied a further £100 fairly reflects the trouble and upset Mr M would have been 
caused by what happened here. Its what Id have asked DGI to pay had no award been 
recommended by our investigator. And its in line with awards made by this service in 
comparable circumstances. So, I wont be asking DGI to pay any more.
I realise Mr I will be disappointed with my decision and I appreciate the reasons why he 
brought this complaint to our service. But for the reasons set out above, I dont think it would 
be fair to expect DGI to replace Mr Ms oven. 
In order to resolve this complaint, DGI should pay Mr M £100 compensation to reflect the 
fact that it could have managed his expectations better during his claim. I understand DGI 
has already made that payment to Mr M. So, Im not going to ask it to do anything further.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. As Domestic & General Insurance Plc has 
already paid Mr M £100 compensation, which our investigator recommended to resolve 
this complaint, I dont require it to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
 Julie Robertson
Ombudsman