DRN-3872439
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain that AmTrust Europe Limited (AmTrust) have poorly handled a 
claim made under their buildings warranty.
Any reference to Mr and Mrs A, AmTrust, or any of the companies mentioned within this 
decision includes respective agents and representatives.
What happened
Across the life of this complaint all parties have provided extensive reports, commentaries, 
and evidence. The background and history of these events is well known to all parties. So, 
Ive summarised events.
Mr and Mrs A purchased their property in October 2016. It included an AmTrust New 
Homes Warranty.
In June 2019 Mr and Mrs A noticed cracking to render at the rear of their property, 
and reported this to the developer (Company A).Theyve said it took no steps to 
investigate the problem so they brought this to AmTrust in November 2019.
AmTrust initially indicated the render would form part of the waterproof envelope of 
the building and accepted the claim and requested Mr and Mrs A obtain a surveyors 
report and two quotes for repairs.
Company B  the maker of the render  inspected the property and stated the render 
was not faulty.
Mr and Mrs A say it was difficult to obtain quotes, and despite contacting six firms 
were only able to obtain one by July 2020. They provided this to AmTrust, and it 
appointed its own surveyor - providing its response in November 2020 concluding the 
fault lay with a design issue in the rear elevation (an absence of a movement joint) 
and said the render didnt form part of the waterproof envelope.
Mr and Mrs A appointed Company C (structural engineers) who inspected the 
property and produced a report in December 2020. Mr and Mrs A say the report 
shows the cracking was progressive and extensive, and there was evidence 
suggesting the blocks themselves may be faulty and required testing.
AmTrust reviewed Company Cs report but disagreed with its findings. AmTrust 
offered to install a movement joint and carry out localised repairs to render.
Mr and Mrs A were unhappy with this, and appointed Company C to test outer leaf 
blocks. In April 2021 it provided its report, which was shared with AmTrust. Mr and 
Mrs A say this showed the blocks were faulty and didnt meet building standards 
which had led to swell. And they told AmTrust the cracking had significantly 
worsened since its last visit which showed it was progressive.
AmTrust appointed additional engineers (Company D) to test the blocks. They 
attended at the end of July 2021. Mr and Mrs A say they chased AmTrust for a copy 
of the report or its findings across the following months. And in the absence of this, 
they appointed Company C in January 2022 to advise on the appropriate remedy.
Mr and Mrs A complained to AmTrust around this time, stating Company C had 
recommended demolition and re-build of the property as the faulty blocks could not 
be repaired.
So Mr and Mrs A brought the complaint to this Service, asking for AmTrust to either 
carry out an adequate repair with a clear timetable, or to compensate them the 
difference between the market price of the property without damage against the price 
it achieved at sale. And they requested AmTrust to cover the costs of Company C for 
their necessary intervention alongside compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Our Investigator looked into what happened and upheld the complaint. He said 
AmTrust had carried out insufficient investigations and he wasnt persuaded its 
proposed plans were sufficient to achieve an effective and lasting repair. He said 
further testing of the render didnt appear necessary given the expert opinion of both 
Companies C and D agreed the blockwork was defective and the cause of the 
damage. So, he said AmTrust should proceed with repairs that fully address the 
blockwork defect. 
The Investigator said Company Cs involvement had been key in pursuing the claim 
so AmTrust should cover its costs between January 2021 and April 2022  when the 
complaint came to this Service. And he said AmTrust should award £300 in 
compensation to Mr and Mrs A.
AmTrust disagreed and provided a further report from Company D. It clarified it had 
not reached the same conclusions as Company C, nor did it agree the blocks were 
defective. And it concluded, that re-rendering the property with a render system that 
included an embedded mesh would constitute an improvement over the original 
construction and would be expected to reduce any future cracking to a negligible 
level by restraining any future shrinkage movements in the blocks.
The Investigator looked again and was satisfied Company Ds proposed method of 
repair was fair. But he said this should be arranged and carried out by AmTrusts 
agents. He stood by his findings on covering the costs of Company Cs costs 
between January 2021 and April 2022 and also increased the compensation award 
to £800.
AmTrust disagreed as it thought it should be entitled to cash settle the claim. And 
both parties provided further reports from their respective experts. These were 
detailed and explained Company C and Ds reasons for their difference in opinion on 
the proposed repairs.
Following a back and forth, Mr and Mrs A reviewed all of the comments provided by 
AmTrust and Company D and said they would accept the Investigators revised view.
The Investigator shared this acceptance with AmTrust and reiterated why he felt it 
should carry out the works and not cash settle  making reference to AmTrust 
previously recognising Mr and Mrs As difficulties in obtaining estimates from 
November 2020 in which its agent agreed to draft the scope of works and complete 
the works. AmTrust still disagreed, making reference to several final decisions which 
it said supported the choice of how to settle a claim was at AmTrusts discretion. 
So, the matter has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties submissions to this Service are vast. Within this decision I wont be responding in similar detail. This is not intended as a discourtesy, but a reflection of the informal nature 
of this Service. 
My role is to focus on what I consider the crux of the complaint to be which means I will only 
comment on those things I consider relevant to the decision I need to make  which also 
means Ive not focused on the matters that are now not in dispute between parties. 
However, I can confirm I have carefully read and considered everything said and provided by 
both parties in reaching this decision.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
AmTrusts proposed repair
Mr and Mrs A have now accepted for AmTrusts proposed repair to go ahead. Im 
satisfied the available evidence supports this will lead to an effective and lasting 
repair. So, I wont comment on this part further.
Cash settlement 
AmTrusts policy states it has the option of:
either of paying the cost of repairing, replacing or rectifying any damage 
resulting from items 1 to 2 above or itself arranging to have such damage 
corrected.
On its face, Im in agreement this means the choice of how to settle the claim sits 
with AmTrust. It has quoted several decisions from this Service that support this 
approach  including a decision of my own.
AmTrust argues it is prepared to give Mr and Mrs A the funds to have these repairs 
completed, or alternatively it will indemnify the cost incurred when evidence of the 
cost is provided. It said either way Mr and Mrs A would not be disadvantaged as it 
will have indemnified costs as required by the policy.
Im satisfied its position here is in line with its own policy terms. However, my role 
requires me to consider if an Insurers actions are fair and reasonable within all of the 
circumstances, alongside policy terms and other relevant considerations.
In this case its evident to me that Mr and Mrs A have lost a lot of faith with AmTrusts 
handling of the matter. And theyve raised concerns about the following:
oThe potential costs they may have to incur would be large and may require 
them to borrow substantial sums (which may incur interest)  likely to be 
above £20,000. And they believe there is no guarantee AmTrust would 
reimburse them promptly.
oThe proposal from Company D (from December 2022) requires a detailed 
specification to be developed in consultation with the render manufacturer. Mr 
and Mrs A have said they do not know what this entails, and they believe 
there is clear scope for disagreement after the event about the scope of the 
works undertaken. 
oMr and Mrs A say they believe AmTrust would seek to challenge whatever 
sum they incur on the basis that it would not be reasonable and recovering 
their expenditure may be fraught with practical problems.
oAnd they highlighted AmTrusts agent of November 2020 in which they 
offered the services of its in-house contractor to Mr and Mrs A.
I will detail my thoughts on AmTrusts handling of this matter below, but put simply, Im satisfied it has not handled this claim well  neither promptly nor fairly in line with 
its obligations. This I think has led to a reasonable degree of concern on the part of 
Mr and Mrs A about being left with works unfinished or without support should things 
not progress smoothly. Particularly against a backdrop of previously finding it difficult 
to obtain contractors which AmTrusts agent has acknowledged in the past.
It is also clear that there have been conflicting views on the method of putting things 
right. While Im satisfied Company Ds proposal of repair is fair in the circumstances, 
I also acknowledge that this is not in keeping with Company Cs view and Mr and Mrs 
A have felt strongly that further works would likely be needed. I can understand the 
degree of skepticism on their part, and why this leaves them concerned that such a 
proposal  should it fail  would leave them in a challenging position with more 
limited recourse if something goes wrong. 
I also understand Mr and Mrs As concerns about a potential further dispute related 
to the proposal and discussions with the render manufacturer. For all of these 
reasons Im satisfied in these particular circumstances it would be fair and 
reasonable for AmTrust arrange these repairs to ensure their success. So, I am 
directing it to do so, and to carry these out promptly and fairly and set out clear 
timeframes for Mr and Mrs A on next steps.
Company Cs costs
AmTrust has provided a limited response to our Investigators position on this matter 
so I will be brief.
Im satisfied AmTrusts initial investigations were insufficient in line with what wed 
expect of an insurer. And it was only following Company Cs instruction, handling, 
and production of reports that AmTrust was prompted to carry out its own necessary 
investigations and proposals to fairly resolve this matter.
As a result, again in this particular case, I am directing AmTrust to settle reasonable 
costs incurred by Company C (upon receipt of appropriate invoices/receipts) across 
the period of between January 2021 and April 2022 when this matter came to this 
Service. This is inclusive of any works or reports Company C had commissioned 
across this time on the part of Mr and Mrs A.
Distress and inconvenience 
Im satisfied AmTrusts initial investigations were insufficient as it had reached 
inaccurate conclusions on the cause of damage, and in turn had made offers of 
£4,500 in December 2019, then £6,000 in November 2020, that would not have 
resolved the issue at hand or provided an effective or lasting repair. There have also 
been various delays caused by AmTrust as a result of its handling.
Im satisfied Company Cs involvement here prompted AmTrust to carry out further 
investigations to establish an effective and lasting repair  which shouldnt have been 
necessary. 
Its clear to me that all of these events have had a significant disruptive impact on Mr 
and Mrs A and caused them unnecessary distress and inconvenience beyond that 
which would be expected in a claim of this nature. As a result, Im satisfied the sum 
of £800 compensation that our Investigator has put forward is fair and reasonable.
Putting things right
For the above reasons, Im directing AmTrust Europe Limited to do the following:AmTrust must take the claim forward and arrange for necessary repairs itself, 
providing clear timeframes for the work going forward.
AmTrust should settle Company Cs costs (as described above) between January 
2021 and April 2022.
AmTrust should pay £800 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
AmTrust must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr and 
Mrs A accept my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
My final decision
For the above reasons Im upholding this complaint. AmTrust Europe Limited must follow my 
direction set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 April 2023.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman