DRN-2917014
The complaint
Mr and Mrs I are unhappy that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) declined 
their claim under their buildings insurance for water ingress, noticed following a storm. The 
policy is jointly held, and their daughter handled the claim on their behalf. For ease, Ill only 
refer to Mrs I throughout my decision.
What happened
Briefly, Mrs I reported storm damage to LV after noticing water leaking through her ceiling 
during a storm. LV appointed a surveyor who prepared a report saying the leak was probably 
caused during building work neighbours had done. It declined the claim.
Mrs I accepted the damage wasnt caused by the storm and took action against her 
neighbour. The Court ruled in Mrs Is favour.
There was a significant amount of damage to Mrs Is home, including a collapsed ceiling. 
She arranged for a second surveyor to determine the cause of the water ingress. The report 
stated that the downpipe and flashing had been disturbed, allowing water to enter the cavity 
wall. 
Mrs I asked LV to consider her claim as accidental rather than storm damage. LV declined 
her claim because her policy didnt cover her home for the accidental cause indicated. Mrs I 
complained to LV because she thought the policy wording was inconsistent and she didnt 
think it had handled her claim properly. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. They thought that LV had inspected the 
damage and fairly declined the claim under the terms of the policy, explaining that Mrs I 
didnt have full accidental damage cover. Our investigator also thought LV had responded to 
the claim within reasonable timescales.
Mrs I didnt agree for the following reasons:
LV focused on the impact rather than cause of the damage;
because of the inconsistent policy documents, she thought LV should accept her 
claim under the accidental damage cover, and
LV didnt handle her complaint properly. 
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I understand Mrs I will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold her complaint for 
broadly the same reasons as our investigator. Ill explain.
Firstly, I want to say how sorry I am that Mr and Mrs I experienced this loss. The expert 
reports indicate that they kept their house well-maintained and the damage caused was 
through no fault of theirs. The repairs needed are, to some degree, out of their control and 
that must be frustrating.
I know Mrs I is aware that I cant look at any issues which have already been decided by the 
Court. And as complaint handling is not a regulated activity, consideration of that part of the 
complaint is outside my remit. That said, the outcome of the Court case and any customer 
service issues relevant to LVs handling of the claim are both pieces of evidence which Ive 
taken into consideration.
Our rules dont require me to comment on every piece of evidence, so Ill focus on the key 
issues Mrs I raised when she asked me to consider her complaint. 
Did LV investigate the cause of the water ingress?
I can understand why Mrs I says LVs surveyor didnt fully investigate or confirm the cause of 
the water ingress. Thats because the surveyor looked, but couldnt find any damage to Mrs 
Is property which mightve caused the water ingress. But I dont think its fair to say LV didnt 
investigate. It became apparent that work at the neighbours property was the likely cause, 
but I wouldnt reasonably have expected the surveyor to do more than complete a visual 
inspection from within the boundary of Mrs Is home. 
Having done so, the surveyor reported seeing the following damage to the neighbours 
property:
several areas which could potentially allow water to penetrate. The brickwork pointing is 
missing in areas, the lead flashing to the extension has missing pointing/sealant, the ridge 
tiles close to your property on next doors extension has missing pointing and the fascia 
board has a large gap underneath.
The surveyor went on to conclude:
Visual inspections to your house did not give me any indication that your property and its 
external features is the cause of the ingress because I could not see any damage at all. 
Also, the affected area to the internal wall could not have happened from a oneoff [sic] 
event, this ingress has been occurring over a period of time, which suggests and coincides 
with your daughters explanation to me on the phone that nothing happened until next 
doors building works started.
Ive gone on to look at the report from the second survey, which Mrs I arranged herself and 
was carried out a month after the first one. The report describes the damage, includes 
photos, and concludes:
Cause of defect 
3.1 Building work has been carried out by the neighbour in the past few days 
3.2 The downpipe and flashing has been disturbed causing water ingress into the cavity 
wall, causing water damage to the property.
While this report doesnt state a clear cause and effect scenario, Im satisfied its implied  
that the neighbours work caused the disturbance, in turn causing the water ingress. That is, 
but for the neighbours work, the water damage wouldnt have happened. This is in line with 
the conclusions drawn by LVs surveyor.So, based on this evidence, Im satisfied that LV did investigate and concluded, as far as 
possible given the circumstances, that work to the neighbouring property was the cause of 
the damage. Therefore, I dont uphold this part of Mrs Is complaint.
Is the damage covered by the policy under the accidental damage terms?
It seems to me that the dispute, here, is whether the policy definition of drains extends to 
the downpipe and flashing. Mrs Is buildings insurance included limited cover for accidental 
damage. She hadnt taken out the optional full accidental damage cover. But Mrs I says the 
information provided across the policy documents was inconsistent and she thinks the 
downpipe and flashing wouldve been included in the term drains.
Ive looked at the documents, including the policy booklet and the policy schedule. The 
policy booklet provides details of what is and what isnt insured under the different types of 
cover available. The schedule confirms the cover Mrs I bought and any variations to the 
terms of cover detailed in the policy booklet. I think this is made clear because the policy 
booklet says, Please read this document of home insurance and the schedule as one 
document.
On page 3 of the booklet is a summary of cover which says:
The following is only a summary of the main policy limits.
You should read the rest of this policy booklet for the full terms and conditions.
And the policy schedule confirms, it should be read together with the document of 
insuranceso you understand the full terms and conditions, including limits that apply.
So, I think its clear that all policy documents should be read together to understand the full 
extent of cover available and any limitations.
Moving on to whats covered, the summary of cover in the policy booklet includes:
Buildings
Accidental damage to underground drains/pipes 
And goes on to give details of cover on page 15 of the booklet:
10. Accidental damage to cables, underground pipes and drains (and their inspection 
covers) serving your home.
The Buildings heading on the policy schedule summarises the cover Mrs I bought and any 
optional cover which she chose not to have. This section confirms the following:
Your policy includes
Limited accidental damage
Covers accidental damage to your bath, toilet, basin, windows, drains, underground 
pipes
Youve chosen not to add
Full accidental damage
Extends cover for accidents, e.g. putting your foot through the loft floor
The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) is a summary of key information about 
the insurance and says, it should be read together with the document of insurance and 
schedule so you understand the full terms and conditions, including limits that apply. It goes 
on to confirm the cover as follows:
What is insured?Accidental damage to:
-Underground drains/pipes
-Bath, toilet, basin, solar panels & ceramic hobs
I realise theres a lot of information here, but I think its important to show why I think it was 
reasonable that LV didnt accept the claim under the Limited accidental damage cover. 
Looking at the three policy documents as a whole, its clear to me that drains refers to the 
underground drains which service Mrs Is home. While there is one mention of drains without 
reference to underground, I havent seen anything that indicates drains might include 
flashing and downpipes, or a gap between the roof and guttering which left the cavity wall 
vulnerable to water ingress. 
So, overall, Im satisfied that the reference to drains indicates that the accidental damage 
cover is available only for underground drains and that it was reasonable for LV to decline 
Mrs Is claim under the Limited accidental damage cover.
Were there any shortfalls in the way LV handled Mrs Is claim? 
Ive thought about the way LV handled Mrs Is claim. I know shes unhappy with some 
elements of the way it handled her complaint which, as I explained earlier, I cant consider. 
But, looking at LVs response to Mrs Is claim, I havent seen anything to suggest there were 
shortfalls. LV appointed a surveyor within a reasonable time, sent its decision about the 
claim and responded to Mrs Is further questions. While she was unhappy with its decision to 
decline her claim, and some of its correspondence went into her spam mail, I cant say thats 
indicative of a shortfall in service. Overall, I dont think LV has done anything wrong here.
I can understand that Mrs I must feel at a loss because she had no control over the work 
which caused the damage and, reasonably, she wants to hold someone accountable for the 
repairs. And I agree it doesnt seem fair that Mrs I is now in a position where she will have to 
pay for the repairs herself, despite the Court ruling. But her policy simply doesnt provide 
cover for the event described, and I cant fairly say LV is responsible for the repairs. 
 
In summary, Im satisfied that LV has handled Mrs Is claim reasonably and I cant see 
anything in the evidence to suggest that it did anything wrong by declining her claim. I wont 
be asking LV to settle the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I and Mrs I to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 September 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman