DRN-3940667
The complaint
Mrs C complains AXA Insurance UK Plc unfairly declined her Buildings Insurance claim.
Mrs C is being represented in her complaint by Mr L.
All references to AXA also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
Further developments
I wrote to both parties on 30 January 2023 to provide my intended findings. I said:
Ive considered the relevant information about Mrs Cs complaint. Based on what Ive seen 
so far, I broadly agree with the opinion reached by our investigator. But Im thinking of 
coming to a slightly different outcome on one aspect. So, before I issue my final decision, I 
wanted to give everyone a chance to reply. 
Ill look at any more comments or evidence that I get by 10 January 2023. But unless the 
information changes my mind, my final decision is likely to be along the following lines. 
From looking at all the evidence available I can see there are several issues internally and 
externally that persuade me the property is suffering from damp as AXA has described.  The 
photos available show the property to be in poor general condition, including in areas not 
near the damage being claimed for.
However, its not in dispute an escape of water has occurred under the Kitchen Sink. And 
while I am persuaded there is damp present as AXA have said, Im not persuaded it would 
have caused the pooling and the subsequent damage to the Kitchen floor and cabinets. 
So, I think its fair AXA settle the claim limited to the damage from the escape of water under 
the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. 
Due to the other factors identified, AXA might consider it may be unable to provide a lasting 
and effective repair and may wish to offer a settlement. I dont think this would be 
unreasonable. 
If does this, it must do so at the rate it costs Mrs C on production of sufficient proof  such as 
quotes.
Responses to my intended findings
Mr L responded to say he accepted my intended findings.
AXA said it didnt disagree there had been a leak behind the kitchen cupboard. But it said 
the damage to the property was extensive, had occurred over a period of time and was not 
connected to the leak. AXA said these issues werent mitigated and this prejudiced its 
position in settling the claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what AXA has said, but it doesnt change my decision  or my reasoning. 
I note there is extensive damage throughout the property. However, Im not persuaded the 
damp, is the primary cause of the damage to the items in question  the kitchen floor and 
some of the cabinets that were damaged. This damage is located directly in the area the 
leak occurred and Im not persuaded damp would cause the pooling or the subsequent 
damage shown in the photos provided.
However, given the extent of unrelated damage within the localised area to the escape of 
water, I think in this instance AXA does not need to provide a proportional settlement 
towards the costs of replacing unrelated items. So here my direction is only that AXA need to 
settle the claim limited to the items directly damaged by the escape of water. 
So, for these reasons, I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
AXA should proceed to settle the claim, limited to the damage from the escape of water, 
under the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
If AXA chooses to offer a settlement it must do so at the rate it costs Mrs C on production of 
sufficient proof  such as quotes.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
To put things right, I direct AXA Insurance UK Plc to do as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2023.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman