DRN-4146691
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy because Lloyds Bank PLC declined his chargeback claim.
What happened
Mr B purchased several items from a merchant on 28 November 2022 and paid using his 
Lloyds card.
Mr B says he didnt receive the items. He says that on the day of delivery he received 
missed calls from the courier and then a text saying the items had been left in a safe place. 
Mr B says hes previously asked the merchant not to leave items outside his property.
Mr B contacted Lloyds to raise a chargeback. Lloyds raised a chargeback under the reason 
goods not received and a temporary credit of £193.54 was applied to Mr Bs account.
The merchant challenged the chargeback and provided evidence to Lloyds which showed 
that the items had been delivered to Mr B. Lloyds sent an email to Mr B advising him of the 
challenge and asking him to provide further information.
Lloyds says it didnt receive any further information from Mr B. It declined the claim and re-
debited Mr Bs account.
Mr B was unhappy with the decision to decline the chargeback and complained to Lloyds. 
Lloyds didnt uphold the complaint. It said that Mr B hadnt provided the further information it 
had requested and that because of his lack of response and the evidence provided by the 
merchant the chargeback was declined.
Mr B remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that Lloyds had shown that it had sent 
the information request to Mr B and that Mr B hadnt responded. The investigator said he 
didnt think Lloyds had made an error when it declined the chargeback.
Mr B didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When dealing with chargebacks, banks and providers of credit need to do so within the remit 
of the rules set by the relevant card scheme.
Chargebacks are a voluntary scheme. How it works is that the card issuer checks the 
complaint against the possible chargeback reasons to see what sort of evidence is required. 
This is so it can decide whether or not it can make a successful claim for the consumer. 
Card issuers dont have to submit claims and they will only do so if they believe they have 
evidece which will back up a chargeback claim so it will be successful. This service expects 
card issuers to help if they can, but we dont expect them to raise a chargeback if there is 
little prospect of success.
Ive looked at the available information to decide whether Lloyds acted reasonably when it 
declined the chargeback. 
When the merchant challenged the chargeback, it provided tracking information to Lloyds 
which showed that the goods had been delivered to Mr Bs address.
Lloyds sent an information request to Mr B asking him for a copy of the invoice for the goods 
and evidence of whether the items were left on the day of delivery. Mr B didnt respond to 
the information request.
Mr B has told this service that he didnt receive the information request. He says he wouldve 
responded to it if he had received it. But Mr B has also told this service that he doesnt have 
any evidence of where the items were left on the day of delivery. Hes told this service that 
he received a text from the courier to say that the items had been left in a safe place but he 
no longer has this text message and so cant provide it to support his claim.
I can see from Lloyds system notes that the information request was sent to Mr B on 30 
December 2022. I cant say why Mr B never received it as it appears to be correctly 
addressed to Mr B.
Even if Mr B had received the email, hes said that he didnt have any further evidence to 
provide.  
Chargeback is an evidence based process. Having considered the evidence provided by 
both parties here (Mr B and the merchant), I dont think that Lloyds acted unreasonably 
when it declined the chargeback.
For the reasons Ive explained, Im unable to say that Lloyds has made an error, or that it 
has acted unreasonably in declining the chargeback.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman