DRN-4468429
The complaint
Mr W complains about the quality of the car he acquired on a hire agreement with Lex 
Autolease Ltd (Lex).  
What happened
Firstly, Id just like to recognise that some of the dates and actions in this case are in dispute 
between the parties, with different dates being given for conversations, visits to dealerships 
and other things. The below is an outline summary of my understanding based on balance of 
probability. But these specific dates used do not impact my overall decision, so I am satisfied 
that they form an outline of the problems suffered, not a comprehensive accurate detail 
which is being relied upon to make an overall decision on this case.
Mr W acquired a car on a three year hire agreement from Lex in 2021. In September 2022 
he complained to Lex, saying that the computer system on the vehicle had failed and he was 
receiving poor service from the dealership where he had signed the agreement for the car.
Lex investigated this and confirmed in their final response letter (FRL) that Mr W had 
problems with the computer system. They said the dealership had carried out some repairs 
and a software update and said the timeline was that they could see Mr W had taken the car 
into the dealership in January 2022, but the problems werent fixed until May 2022. Mr W 
told us that the problem had been ongoing since November 2021.
Lex went on to say that based on the delays he suffered in getting the vehicle fixed, they 
were upholding his complaint. Mr W had also complained that he hadnt been provided a 
courtesy car and had to return multiple times to get things fixed.
As there were discrepancies between the dealership and Mr W regarding how many times 
the vehicle had been back to the garage and whether there was an ongoing fault, Lex 
attempted to get the car re-examined. Mr W wanted to reject the car, but Lex felt the problem 
had been fixed, so they had successfully repaired it. But they attempted to arrange for the 
car to be looked at again to confirm whether the fault had indeed been fixed.
Mr W told Lex he was working in a different area of the country now and took the train there 
each week, so the car remained at home, and he couldnt arrange for it to be seen by 
another dealership. Lex also tried to arrange an independent inspection, but Mr W initially 
wasnt available to give them access for this either.
At this point Lex issued their FRL explaining that they were upholding the complaint and 
offering compensation for the delays in fixing the issue and the distress and inconvenience 
caused. But they didnt agree that the car could be rejected by Mr W, as they had no 
evidence the car was still faulty. They explained that as Mr W hadnt been able to take the 
car into a dealership to be examined or arrange an appointment with the independent 
inspector they had agreed to pay for, they were satisfied that the car was fixed.
Mr W asked again for the independent inspection to happen, but again wasnt able to attend 
and allow the inspector access to the car. At around the same time, Mr W brought the 
complaint to our service.
An investigator here investigated it and said that the compensation should be increased 
slightly, to recognise a period of time when Mr W was without his car when it was being 
repaired, and also a small increase in the distress and inconvenience payment to him. Mr W 
still wanted to reject the car however and continued to provide evidence of known issues 
with the model of car, and recalls, that he felt were relevant to his complaint.
The investigator explained that there was still no evidence of the fault reoccurring in his car, 
and without this, they wouldnt change their opinion. So, Mr W asked for an Ombudsman to 
make a final decision on his case.
I issued a provisional decision on the case on 10 November 2023. I made the following 
provisional findings:
There have been large amounts of evidence sent in on this case including some details sent 
several times. So, I want both parties to know that while I am focusing on the key issues in 
this decision, and wont be commenting on every piece of evidence, I have read and 
considered them all.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time.
Both parties are in agreement that there was a fault with the vehicle, so I will spend more of 
my time here considering whether the evidence persuades me that the issue re-occurred 
and should allow Mr W to reject the car, which is his preferred outcome. Ill then also 
consider the compensation and whether what was offered was fair or it needs to change.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law and 
regulations. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. The CRA 
explains under a contract to supply goods, the supplier  Lex here  has a responsibility to 
make sure goods are of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory quality is what a reasonable person 
would expect  taking into account any relevant factors.
The CRA also sets out options to put things right if they have gone wrong. In the 
circumstances we have here, Lex is entitled to one opportunity to repair things, before a 
consumer has the right to reject the vehicle. Both parties agree that the opportunity to repair 
the car has been taken here by Lex when theyve carried out repairs on the computer 
system in 2022.
The disagreement now is over whether something else has gone wrong, or the fault has re-
occurred, which would give Mr W the right to reject the car.
Im satisfied that the computer fault suffered by the car in 2022 did make it of unsatisfactory 
quality, and that Lex had the right to repair this fault. Mr W has described how the car was 
cutting out while he was driving on the motorway, which I completely appreciate would be 
very concerning. As a new car, its reasonable to expect a considerable period where the car 
wouldnt suffer a fault of this nature, and ideally it wouldnt happen at all.
Theres been no evidence supplied of any previous faults with the car. Mr W has suggested 
that this problem was ongoing for a lot longer, but I am satisfied that once he informed Lex, 
they have checked on the repairs carried out and confirmed for him that there was no 
evidence of any re-occurrence of the fault, or any previous fault.Mr W has said the fault is ongoing/has been ongoing since the repairs. Id expect Lex to 
have re-examined the car to investigate this and can see they have attempted to get Mr W to 
take the car to another dealership to allow it to be independently examined.
When Mr W explained that he wasnt able to do this due to work commitments, Lex have 
offered to pay for an independent inspection, where an engineer would visit Mr W and be 
given access to examine the car and test for the fault. Unfortunately, this also didnt happen 
as Mr W wasnt able to be present to give an inspector access to the car during the week at 
any point, as he said he was working away. He could only provide access at weekends, and 
this service is only available during the week.
On this basis, Lex said they couldnt do anymore, had no evidence of the fault re-occurring, 
so couldnt agree that the car could be rejected. Ive thought about this, and I agree with Lex 
that this was fair. Mr W hasnt been able to provide any evidence to corroborate that the fault 
was re-occurring. Lex have made all reasonable efforts to get the car examined to look for 
this evidence, but Mr W hasnt been able to support Lex to do this. I appreciate that hes told 
us about having ongoing concerns, but without proof to verify this, it would not be fair to say 
Lex need to allow him to reject the car.
Mr W has told us that the fault did re-occur, but not as bad as previously so the car wasnt 
necessarily cutting out while he drove like it had done previously. In these circumstances, I 
think the only fair way to prove the fault made the car of unsatisfactory quality would have 
been for the car to be examined by an independent engineer, or another garage/mechanic, 
to get more information and evidence about what was happening with the car.
There may have been a different issue, which could be a minor problem that can be easily 
rectified, or it may have been a re-occurrence of the same computer fault as Mr W believes. 
But my role is to provide an impartial decision, treating both sides fairly. With no evidence of 
the fault re-occurring, I cant say that Lex should have to allow the rejection of the car.
Mr W has provided us with recall information for issues with the model of car, and 
conversations hes had with the car manufacturer directly, as well as internet forums about 
problems with this type of car. But none of this provides evidence of a fault with his own car. 
It just shows the kinds of issues being seen by some other owners. Im afraid I cant consider 
this as evidence of a fault with his car because theres been no further inspection of his car 
to provide us with further evidence of whats happening with it.
Lex explained this to Mr W when they issued their FRL, and our investigator also highlighted 
this to him during their investigation. I agree with this viewpoint, and for that reason, I cant 
agree that the car should be allowed to be rejected based on the evidence provided.
Ive gone on therefore to consider the repairs carried out and the compensation offered by 
Lex, and whether this was fair.
In their FRL Lex offered Mr W £463.94 compensation. In their communications with 
ourselves, they said this was a 20% reduction in the monthly rentals for the period in 2022 
when Mr W was suffering these issues, which they said totalled £313.94, plus £150 in 
recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mr W explained to us that during May 2022, the car was in the garage being repaired and he 
wasnt provided a courtesy car. On this basis, our investigator said he should also be 
provided with a refund of one monthly payment, as he hadnt had use of the car or a 
replacement car during this month. I agree that this is fair and should also be provided by 
Lex.To clarify the figures here, this means Mr W should be given a 20% refund for four monthly 
rentals for January to April 2022 inclusive, and then a 100% refund for one monthly rental for 
May 2022.
Im unclear of the maths used by Lex to originally reach a figure of £313.94, but Id expect 
them now to revisit this to ensure the above figures are honoured. I can see from the finance 
agreement that Mr Ws rental was broken down as part vehicle rental and part service plan; 
to be clear, Id expect his total monthly payment to be used here, so the full amount he paid 
Lex each month.
So, he should be refunded four refunds of 20% of his actual full monthly payment, plus one 
full refunded monthly payment.
Finally with regards to distress and inconvenience, Lex offered £150, and our investigator 
felt this should be increased to £200. Ive thought about this and based upon the distress 
caused to Mr W while this fault was occurring, I agree £200 is a fairer figure. Hes explained 
how the car would cut out while driving on the motorway, and I can empathise with the 
distress this would have caused him.
Mr W also complained about the service provided by the dealership where he had signed up 
for the car and took it for repairs. He felt they had been using the car while they had it, 
adding mileage to it, and someone had smoked inside the car. Lex upheld this element of 
the complaint but didnt specify any redress for this. I think the overall £200 distress and 
inconvenience payment incorporates this and dont intend to make a finding that anything 
further should be due.
No evidence was provided with regards to mileage allegedly added at the dealership, and its 
possible that the car needed to be driven to ascertain or fix the problems being suffered. I 
am satisfied that the redress I am proposing now covers all elements of this complaint.
When the investigator issued their view on the case, Lex queried the fact that the proposed 
redress included removing any adverse information from Mr Ws credit file in relation to the 
agreement. They were unclear how this related to the rest of the findings and queried why 
they should not report any missed payments or similar, when the complaint did not relate to 
any financial difficulty or similar.
I agree with this. Mr W hasnt raised any concerns about any of the issues he alleges having 
caused him any financial pressure or issues, and Im not persuaded that the issues I am 
recommending be put right by Lex would have impacted his credit file in any way. So, I dont 
think it would be fair to amend his credit file here. I am therefore provisionally finding that this 
requirement should be removed from the proposed redress.
Finally, having offered Mr W redress totalling £313.94 for the problems during the period Jan 
 May 2022, Lex have then said that because the payment was offered in their FRL and 
rejected, they dont feel they should have to pay Mr W interest on top of these payments for 
deprivation of funds. They said he could have accepted that when it was offered and still 
brought his complaint to our service.
Im not persuaded by this argument. Ive not seen any clear evidence of Lex telling him that 
accepting it wouldnt impact his right to escalate the complaint to our service. But more 
importantly, I have changed the payment he is due, as I dont feel it was a fair amount. On 
that basis, I am satisfied that Mr W was deprived of these funds back in 2022 when he 
suffered these problems, so interest should be payable on these elements of the redress 
from the relevant points.My proposed redress therefore is that Lex should:
- refund Mr W 20% of his full monthly payment for four months, January-April 2022 inclusive.
- refund Mr W his full monthly payment for May 2022.
- pay 8% simple yearly interest on the above refunded amounts from the date of payment
until the date of settlement.
- pay Mr W £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
If Lex considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
the interest part of my award, it should tell Mr W how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr W a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have responded to my provisional decision with further comments and 
evidence. 
Mr W re-sent communications hes had with the car manufacturer directly, which talk about 
this type of issue and how it isnt able to be repaired. He feels that this proves his car still 
has an issue and the issue cant be repaired. But as Ive explained to him, without testimony 
from a professional mechanic or engineer who has examined his specific car, this doesnt 
persuade me that there is any evidence of his specific car suffering an ongoing problem. 
I understand that this kind of testimony might persuade Mr W, who has access to the car, 
that this problem is ongoing. But without the opportunity for Lex or anyone independent to 
check his car, I cant fairly say that this problem still exists with his car. The manufacturer 
hasnt examined his car to check for this, they are just sharing recall and fault information 
theyve seen in other cars. There is no detail about how many of the cars supplied have 
suffered from this problem, and Mr W has not provided any further opportunity for his car to 
be examined or evidence if it has been. So, Im not persuaded by this argument. 
Lex responded to my provisional decision. Their first communication provided evidence that 
Mr W had in fact been provided with a courtesy car when his car was in the garage being 
repaired in May 2022 for a month. They didnt feel therefore that it was fair to refund Mr W a 
full months payment for this period, as they had provided a courtesy car and kept him 
mobile. 
I shared this with Mr W for comment, and he said that they did provide a courtesy car in May 
2022 but hadnt provided him any replacement car during January to April 2022 when the car 
had problems and before they carried out the repairs. 
As such, I explained to both parties that I intended to remove the requirement for Lex to 
refund a months rental for May 2022 and have had no further comments about that. 
Lex then came back to me again with further points. They explained that their original FRL 
offer had been calculated as 20% loss of enjoyment payments from 25 January 2022 to 1 
June 2022, at a daily rate broken down from his rental costs of £375.94 per month (£12.36 per day) and so had totalled to 127 days at £12.36, meaning a total of £313.94. 
My remaining calculations for a 20% reduction due in payments to recognise his impaired 
use of the car in the four months until it was repaired, January to April 2022 inclusive (having 
removed the May refund) would total slightly less than this at just over £300, but that brings 
me onto the final query from Lex. 
Lex again queried the need to pay interest on this part of the settlement. They said that as 
they had offered this payment previously (including in their FRL) to Mr W and hed declined 
it, they didnt think they should pay interest. They said that as my original response had 
focused on the reason for requiring interest being the fact that I was changing this payment, 
and now I had agreed not to include the one month payment for May, there was no change 
in payment now, and interest shouldnt be required. I dont agree with this. 
Im sorry if my original response wasnt clear in the provisional decision. But the reason for 
awarding interest is that Mr W should have received these reductions in his payments in 
early 2022 when suffering the problems that needed repairing. Lex and their broker dont 
appear to have discussed these issues and offered to help with reduced payments when the 
problems were happening, and their offer was made at FRL stage in October 2022. That 
offer also didnt explain the calculations and how they were worked out. The offer in the FRL 
didnt include interest at that point, despite it being many months down the line. 
Mr W has suffered impaired use of the car while the problems were ongoing. My view is that 
he should have been given a reduction in his payments to recognise this, and as this 
reduction didnt happen at the time, he made higher payments for his use of the vehicle 
during this period, and that wasnt fair. This means he was deprived of some of his capital, 
because the payment was too high, making it unfair. He is entitled to interest on that part of 
the payment now being refunded therefore, irrespective of the time taken to reach a final 
decision at our service or his decision not to accept their offer and bring the complaint to our 
service. 
As such, I am satisfied that Lex need to include simple interest from the time of payment 
until the time of settlement on this element of the redress.   
Overall, I am upholding this complaint, but I dont agree with Mr W that he should be entitled 
to reject the car, so wont be recommending that. 
Putting things right
I instruct Lex Autolease Ltd to put things right as follows: 
- refund Mr W 20% of his full monthly payment for four months, January-April 2022 
inclusive. 
- pay 8% simple yearly interest on the above refunded amount from the date of 
payment until the date of settlement.
-  pay Mr W £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
If Lex considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from the interest part of my award, it should tell Mr W how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr W a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriateMy final decision
I am upholding this complaint and instruct Lex Autolease Ltd to put things right as detailed 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2024.
 
Paul Cronin
Ombudsman