DRN-2194506
The complaint
Mr D complains that All Medical Professionals Ltd (AMP) mis-sold him a professional 
indemnity insurance policy.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and Ive decided 
not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Mr D took out a medical malpractice policy through his broker  AMP  on 14 October 2014. 
The policy was renewed in 2015 and subsequently lapsed in October 2016. Mr D says that 
AMP mis-sold the policy as they failed to make it clear that the policy operated on a claims 
made basis (meaning that claims can only be made while the policy remains in force). He 
says they ought to have sold him a claims occurring policy, which allows for historic claims 
to be made for incidents occurring during the policy period, even after cover has expired. 
However, AMP say that due to Mr Ds history of misconduct proceedings with his regulatory 
body, as well as the large number of historic claims made against him, most of their usual 
underwriters were not willing to provide cover on a claims occurring basis. But they 
managed to source one underwriter that was willing to cover Mr D and his practice on a 
claims made basis. So in the circumstances, it does not appear that a claims occurring 
policy was an option available to Mr D, so I dont think AMP can be criticised for failing to 
offer one. 
Mr D says that AMP did not make the basis of his policy clear. But I can see that on 
11 September 2014  approximately one month before the policys inception date  AMP 
sent him a quotation letter. At the beginning of this letter, there were clear instructions that 
required Mr D to read through the documentation, including the statement of demands and 
needs and summary of cover, which included the following wording:
Cover  Claims Made
Indemnity for any sums which the insured may become legally liable to pay arising 
from any claim first made against them and notified to Underwriters during the period 
of insurance as a direct result of negligence on the part of the Insured in the conduct 
and execution of the processional activities & duties.
So Im satisfied that AMP made it clear that this was a claims made policy before Mr D 
initially decided to proceed with the cover in October 2014. I can also see that AMP further 
reiterated the basis of the policy before it was renewed, when they emailed Mr D on 
13 October 2015 and said:
As you have previously been advised, this is a claims made policy which means that 
it will respond to claims that first arise during the period of insurance. Upon expiry of 
the insurance, any claims that arise from treatment provided before this date will not 
be covered. Any insurer you look to use going forward would need to provide you 
with a retroactive date of 13/10/2014 to ensure that treatment provided after this date 
is covered.
Mr D says he glossed over the information provided and did not fully read it. But while it is 
necessary for the broker to provide enough information about the policy, it is incumbent on 
the policyholder to read through it and question anything they are not happy with or do not 
understand. The broker cannot fairly be held responsible if the information they have 
provided has not been properly considered by the policyholder. And based on the 
information Mr D did receive, I think he knew, or ought reasonably to have known, that the 
cover proposed was on a claims made basis. Indeed, he subsequently confirmed his 
understanding as such when he wrote to AMP on 20 October 2017 stating:
I was reliably [informed] that cover is only maintained whilst the policy is active and 
therefore in such an instance as described above, then if this claim occurred when 
the policy was no longer active then there would be no cover afforded.  
Mr D submits that AMP failed to provide enough information such that he could make an 
informed choice about the policy. But given the prominence of the information on the 
quotation about policy being claims made  as well as the fact that it would only respond to 
claims made during the period of insurance  Im satisfied that he was in a position to make 
an informed choice, and that he had a reasonable opportunity to read the information and 
question anything he was not sure of. 
AMP recommended the policy to Mr D as suitable in response to his demands and needs. 
And given that he was seeking professional indemnity cover to insure against potential 
claims made against him in his profession, I dont think the policy recommended by AMP 
was unsuitable for his needs. If a claim had been made against him while the policy was in 
force, he would have been covered. It is only because it was not renewed that the policy will 
not now respond to any claims made while it was on risk, which does not render the entire 
policy unsuitable, as it was suitable for him while it was active.
Mr D further submits that he notified AMP of a potential claim in a letter of 15 August 2016, 
which they are now claiming not to have received. AMP dispute ever having received this 
correspondence, and say they only had sight of the letter in June 2019. They say they have 
records of all correspondence sent by Mr D over the relevant period, but that it does not 
include any such letter or email from Mr D notifying them of a claim. 
I acknowledge that post can sometimes be lost, and that technical issues can occur with 
emails. But in the circumstances (despite Mr Ds letter claiming he had a conversation with 
AMP about his potential claim over the phone) there is no record of any contact from him, 
and neither has he produced any persuasive evidence to demonstrate that he did contact 
them. I also note that he did not follow up his letter when he did not hear anything back from 
the broker, and that he also did not mention the potential claim on the proposal form that he 
completed in October 2016 (not long after the letter was reportedly sent). AMP have also 
looked into the electronic properties of the letter provided by Mr D, which suggests that it 
was produced at 17:32 on 11 February 2019 rather than August 2016 as it is dated.
So, having taken all the circumstances into account, Im not persuaded that AMP was 
properly notified of the potential of a claim in August 2016. I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr D, who I understand is now facing 
liability claims. But in the circumstances, I do not think that AMP have breached of any of 
their relevant obligations or have done anything wrong that they can fairly be held liable for.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2020.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman