DRN-2482547
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Yorkshire Building Society applied an early repayment charge 
(ERC) unfairly. They ask that its refunded.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B had a mortgage with YBS. They moved house in 2016 as Mr B had found a 
new job in a different area after being made redundant. Mrs B was on maternity leave. Mr 
and Mrs Bs income had fallen since they took out the mortgage. They contacted YBS about 
porting their mortgage.
Mr B says YBS wouldnt lend the same amount, due to their lower income. Mr B agrees this 
was sensible, in the circumstances. However, this meant they ported only part of their 
mortgage and YBS applied an ERC to the difference. Mr B says this was unfair. 
Our investigator said YBS had acted fairly. Mr and Mrs B found a property to buy and 
applied to port part of the mortgage, knowing theyd have to pay an ERC on the difference. 
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree. Mr B said theyd wanted to port the full amount. They looked for 
less expensive properties after YBS told them their application would be subject to an 
affordability assessment. He said it unfair for YBS to apply an ERC in these circumstances. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs B took out a mortgage with YBS in 2015. They took out a five-year fixed rate 
product. An ERC applied if the mortgage was repaid during the product term. The mortgage 
offer said the product was portable, and the ERC would be refunded if they move house and 
borrowed the same amount. Porting was subject to Mr and Mrs B meeting certain conditions, 
including YBSs lending rules at the time.
Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances meant they needed to move house in 2016. Having found a 
property, Mr and Mrs B made an application to port their mortgage, borrowing less than their 
previous mortgage. The application was approved. 
However, the application itself isnt the main issue here. Mr B says they wanted to port all of 
their mortgage to a property of similar value to their previous home. They looked for a less 
expensive property only after they were told YBS would do an affordability assessment. Mr B 
says it was unfair for YBS to include an affordability assessment in its process. This resulted 
in them applying to borrow less, and paying an ERC on the difference.
I dont agree with Mr B that it was unfair for YBS to carry out an affordability assessment as 
part of its process. 
The regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority or FCA) sets out in its rules that it expects 
stringent assessments of affordability before lenders agree to enter into or vary mortgages.
Theres an exception to this which might have allowed YBS to offer Mr and Mrs B a 
mortgage for their new property as a replacement for their existing mortgage without an 
affordability assessment. But while YBS didnt have to carry out an affordability assessment, 
the rules dont say that it must not do so. And the rules dont say YBS has to offer a 
mortgage  it could fairly decline the application for another fair reason.
Taking rules on mortgage regulation into account, I dont think it was wrong or unfair for YBS 
to carry out an affordability assessment. And their mortgage offer said that porting was 
subject to YBSs lending rules at the time. Mr and Mrs B made their application and, after 
carrying out an affordability assessment, YBS found Mr and Mrs B didnt meet its 
affordability criteria. Despite this, it agreed to lend the amount they needed for their 
purchase. YBSs notes say it was happy to do this as it put YBS and Mr and Mrs B in a 
better position. I think this was fair. Offering a mortgage meant Mr and Mrs B were able to 
move home and Mr B could take up his job offer. 
Mr B says YBS should waive or refund the ERC, given their circumstances. I do understand 
that Mr and Mrs B would prefer not to have paid the ERC. But they agreed to the ERC when 
they took out the fixed rate product, and YBS was entitled to apply it when they repaid their 
mortgage. There might be circumstances in which Id find it fair to require a lender to refund 
an ERC  if a porting request had been unfairly declined for instance. But I dont think thats 
the case here.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 February 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman