DRN-3418676
The complaint
Mr J has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) continued charging him 
excessive amounts for his overdraft when he was in financial difficulty.
What happened
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be not upheld. Mr J disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision saying that Mr Js complaint should be upheld in part. A 
copy of the background to the complaint and my provisional findings are below in italics and 
form part of this final decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
I can only consider the charges that HSBC has added to Mr Js complaint after 28 April 2020 in 
this provisional decision. Ive considered Mr Js complaint about the charges before this time 
separately in a decision about our jurisdiction.
Mr J complained to HSBC that it was continuing to add charges and fees when it was clear that 
he was having financial problems. He said the extra cost would make his overdraft more difficult 
to repay. HSBC didnt uphold the complaint. And as Mr J was dissatisfied he referred the 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman.
Mr Js complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She didnt think that Mr Js 
account showed signs of financial difficulty. She said he had a healthy income and his 
overdraft was paid off at times.
Mr J didnt agree and so the case was passed to me, an ombudsman, to consider.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to provisionally decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im intending to find that HSBC acted 
unfairly when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees after 28 April 
2020. At this point, it ought to have been clear that Mr J was in no position to sustainably 
repay what he owed within a reasonable period of time.
This is because, by this time, Mr J was hardcore borrowing. In other, words he hadnt seen or 
maintained a credit balance for an extended period of time. Ive seen Mr Js bank statements 
since 2015 and he was very rarely in credit since this time. He usually had a significant 
overdraft balance.
HSBCs own literature suggests that overdrafts are for short term or emergency use. For 
example, the product literature it has provided from 2018 says that Overdrafts are only for 
short-term borrowing. So, an overdraft shouldnt have been used for prolonged day-to-day 
expenditure.
So, I think that Mr Js overdraft usage should have prompted HSBC to have realised that he 
wasnt using his overdraft as intended and shouldnt have continued offering it on the same 
terms. As HSBC didnt react to Mr Js overdraft usage and instead continued charging in the 
same way, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably.
Mr J ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on their overdraft and this ended up 
exacerbating difficulties he already had in trying to clear it. So, I think that HSBC didnt treat Mr J 
fairly and he lost out because of what HSBC did wrong. And this means that it should put things 
right.
HSBC, and Mr J, received my provisional decision. And no one had anything to add after 
theyd seen it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC, and Mr J, didnt raise any new points after receiving my provisional decision. So, Ive 
reached the same conclusions I reached before, for the same reasons. I still think that it was 
clear that Mr J couldnt sustainably repay his overdraft from 28 April 2020. This was because 
hed been unable to adequately do this in the years running up to this time. So, I think HSBC 
should put things right. 
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I currently think that it would be fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of Mr Js complaint for HSBC to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Js current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and 
charges applied to it after 28 April 2020 are removed.
and
orIf an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made HSBC should contact Mr J to arrange a suitable repayment plan, Mr J is 
encouraged to get in contact with and cooperate with HSBC to reach a suitable 
agreement. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr Js 
credit file, HSBC should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the 
process of taking corrective action on the overdraft in 28 April 2020. HSBC can also 
reduce Mr Js overdraft limit by the amount of refund if it considers it appropriate to 
do so, as long as doing so wouldnt leave Mr J over their limit.
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr J along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from the 
date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no outstanding 
balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then HSBC should remove 
any adverse information from Mr Js credit file from 28 April 2020. HSBC can also 
reduce Mr Js overdraft limit by the amount of refund if it considers it appropriate to 
do so.
HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest. HSBC must 
give Mr J a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Js complaint.
HSBC UK Bank Plc should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2022.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman