DRN-3261193
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as D has complained that Zurich Insurance Plc unfairly cancelled 
its fleet insurance policy and turned down its claim. 
Mr D, a director or D, has brought the complaint on Ds behalf.
What happened
D held a fleet insurance policy with Zurich and claimed of its policy after the theft of its van. 
One of Ds employees parked its van outside its warehouse and went inside to have the van 
loaded with more stock. When the employee was inside, Ds van was stolen. 
One of Ds employees called Zurich to notify it of the claim. During this call Ds employee 
told Zurich that the van had been left unlocked with the keys in the ignition. Ds employee 
later changed their statement to say that the driver of the van still had the keys and that it 
had been mistaken in saying the keys were in the ignition. 
Zurich looked into the claim and thought it was most likely the keys were in the ignition and 
that D had changed its story in an attempt to have the claim paid. Because of this Zurich 
declined the claim and cancelled the policy under its fraud term. D didnt think that was fair 
and complained. It said Zurich had misinterpreted facts and lied about what had been said in 
order to turn down its claim. 
Zurich reviewed the complaint and didnt uphold it. It said Ds original explanation of the keys 
being in the van was supported by CCTV of the theft. It also said that D had provided false 
information during the course of the claim by changing its story and saying the keys werent 
in the van. D didnt agree and brought its complaint here. It said Zurich had falsely accused it 
of fraud and didnt agree it had provided false information. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and didnt recommend it was upheld. He found that 
there were inaccuracies in the statements provided by Ds employee, and he didnt think 
Zurich had acted unfairly by declining the claim and cancelling Ds policy. 
D didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision, so the complaint has come to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this decision Ill only be considering the declined claim and policy cancellation. Im aware 
D has also raised concerns about the condition of its van when it was returned and how long 
Zurich had its van for. However, as these are separate issues and dealt with in a separate 
final response letter, I wont be considering them here. 
The term Zurich has relied upon says: 
If you or anyone acting on your behalf:.. 
c) makes a false statement in support of a claim whether or not the claim is itself 
genuine; or
we will be entitled to refuse to pay the whole of the claim and recover any sums 
that we have already paid in respect of the claim.
We may also notify you that we will be treating this policy as having terminated 
with effect from the date of any of the acts or omissions set out in clauses a) to f) 
of this condition.
If we terminate this policy under this condition you will have no cover under this 
policy from the date of termination and not be entitled to any refund of premium.
Zurich said Ds employees written statement which amended the information D provided in 
the first notification of loss call isnt true. Ive listened to the first notification of loss call and 
in the call Ds employee tells Zurich the van was unlocked, and the keys were in the van. 
Zurich clarifies this by saying and were they in the ignition?, Ds employee replies and 
says, The ignition was off. Zurich then says, But were the keys in the ignition sorry and 
Ds employee replies Yea. 
D said that at the time its employee logged the claim with Zurich, they hadnt spoken with 
the driver and had misunderstood information given by the security guard theyd spoken to.
In the first notification of loss call when the above information was given, Ds employee said 
they had a claim form which has been filled in by the driver. The details given about the 
keys in the call are also specific as to exactly where the keys had been left. Ive also noted 
that when the van was recovered the engineer who inspected it said it was most likely 
stolen using a key. Zurich said this is also supported by the CCTV footage of the theft, as 
the thieves gain access and drive away with the van within a matter of seconds. Ive 
watched the CCTV footage and can see the van is driven away in under ten seconds of the 
thieves gaining access. Im therefore persuaded that its reasonable for Zurich to conclude 
that its most likely the information given in the first notification of loss call was accurate. 
Zurich has also provided a signed statement from the driver of the van who later said at the 
time of the theft he was in the warehouse and the key was in his trouser pocket. As this 
differs from the information originally given in the first notification of loss call, and Im 
persuaded that information is most likely accurate, Im satisfied Zurich have acted fairly by 
saying a false statement has been given. However, in order for me to decide that its fair 
and reasonable for Zurich to decline a claim Id need to be satisfied that the false statement 
had made a difference to the claim which would benefit D. 
In this case Im satisfied it would. I say this because Ds policy wouldnt provide cover for 
the claim if the keys had been left in the ignition. Im therefore satisfied that the false 
statement would have benefitted D and its fair and reasonable for Zurich to rely on the 
fraud term to turn down its claim and cancel the policy from when the statement was made. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2022.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman