DRN-3097807
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S operate a business partnership and complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc 
restricted their account, made service errors and caused a direct debit to be cancelled.
What happened
HSBC said that it wrote to Mr and Mrs S about a safeguard exercise and required them to 
update and confirm their business details. They didnt do so within the time allowed and their 
account was restricted pending it being closed. When Mr S got in touch further time was 
allowed, but in error a new cheque book wasnt ordered. It said it hadnt cancelled any direct 
debits. It paid £25 for the error with the cheque book.
Our investigator recommended that HSBC pay a further £100 in compensation and it agreed 
to do so. She set out that HSBC had told Mr and Mrs S that if they didnt complete the 
safeguard exercise their account would be closed. It wrote to them on 2 October 2020 
saying the account services would be withdrawn from 9 December 2020. Mr S contacted 
HSBC on 21 December 2020 and was told that the deadline for providing the information 
would be extended until 31 January 2021. And that the account would be reinstated. 
Mr S has shown that on 24 December 2020 he received an email from HSBC at 8:01am 
saying the review was complete and then a further one at 8:41am that said it wasnt causing 
him to worry. He also phoned HSBC on 29 December 2020 and it accepted that it hadnt 
ordered him a new cheque book as it had agreed to. The review was completed on 4 
January 2021, but Mr and Mrs S say that their direct debit to a credit card account at another 
business didnt resume. And that as a result of missed payments a limit they relied upon was 
reduced. Our investigator said that there was no evidence of payments being returned and 
direct debit payments were made to this credit card account from April 2021 onwards. But it 
was also clear that HSBC hadnt returned calls about a limit on a commercial card and 
hadnt taken into account Mr S availability to speak about this.
Mr and Mrs S didnt agree and said that all the direct debits had been frozen. These were 
paid again from early January apart from the one to the credit card account. When a demand 
came from that business a phone call clarified that the HSBC account had been closed and 
the direct debit had to be reactivated by that business. Following this, payments were made. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the letters about the safeguard exercise that HSBC has provided. This 
exercise was to help HSBC meet regulatory standards and ensure the information it held 
about Mr and Mrs S was correct. Im satisfied that it made the requirement clear and its said 
that this would also have been indicated on pop ups when accessing internet banking. 
Mr S said he set telephone security for his account in September 2020 and he thought that 
the requirements had then been met. I dont have evidence to support that was the case and 
can see that on 2 October 2020 HSBC wrote to Mr and Mrs S saying that the account would 
be closed. Mr S has explained the difficultly at times he had getting reception for mobile calls 
to HSBC and accessing his account online. And that he was generally busy with his 
business. But I dont think that HSBC can be responsible for the consequences of those 
factors and I think Mr and Mrs S had a reasonable period to meet the requirements.
So, I dont find HSBC made a mistake when the account was restricted pending closure. And 
it allowed Mr and Mrs S time after that to complete the safeguard requirements. Ive listened 
to the call about this of 21 December 2020 and the member of HSBC staff said to Mr S that 
the direct debit mandates hadnt been cancelled. Reference was made to one to a company 
Ill anonymise here with the letter A and the need to speak to another team about that. The 
person he spoke to did say a new cheque book would be ordered and as set out this didnt 
happen. Ive seen the conflicting emails from 24 December 2020 about whether the 
requirements were met or not. And I note the poor service in 2021 over returning a call about 
the commercial card and in one call the line was dropped. I dont doubt these issues all 
caused distress.
Ive looked closely at the direct debits from the account. Payments to A and also to B (the 
anonymised name of the credit card company involved Ill use) didnt happen in December 
2020. Both had been paid between 9 and 20 November 2020. Mr S indicates that B had 
understood his account to be closed and that is likely to be the message received about that 
months payment. I note that other direct debit payments to different businesses were made 
as normal on 23 and 29 December 2020. And that the direct debit payment for A resumed 
on 13 January 2021. It also seems that on 7 January 2021 Mr and Mrs S had made a 
manual payment to A which I think may have been the missing amount for December 2020. 
I cant see any similar arrangements for B. Mr S says the direct debit only resumed again in 
April 2021 after he contacted it. I dont know what other reminders or notice of issues with 
payment he received before then from B, but I think he was reasonably aware that the 
December payment hadnt gone through. Direct debits are originated by the payee and Im 
not persuaded on the evidence here that HSBC made a mistake with the payment to B. As 
has been set out there is no evidence of any attempted payment being returned after 
December 2020.
Putting things right
I consider that Mr and Mrs S should be compensated for the error with the cheque book and 
for the conflicting information they received on 24 December 2020. And for HSBC not 
returning a call as it said it would. But Im afraid as Ive said that I dont think that the 
inconvenience of the account being restricted for a period arose from an error from HSBC. 
And here it allowed further time and reinstated the account. While the issue with the direct 
debit payment to B in December came from the account being restricted I dont find again 
that to have been an error. All other direct debits continued, and none further to B were 
returned. So, I have insufficient evidence to find HSBC responsible for the missing payments 
to B and the impact on the credit limit with that business.
Having taken all this into account I agree with the further compensation of £100 
recommended making a total of £125 with the amount already paid. I know Mr and Mrs S will 
be disappointed with this.My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and require HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay Mr 
and Mrs S a further £100 making a total of £125 as it has now agreed to do.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 December 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman