DRN-4256043
The complaint
Mr U complains about how Ocaso SA, Compania de Seguros y Reaseguros handled and 
settled his claim on his home insurance policy
.What happened
Mr U is the leaseholder of a flat that benefits from a home insurance policy underwritten by 
Ocaso. In January 2021 there was a flood at the property which caused extensive damage. 
Ocaso accepted the claim and carried out a programme of drying and repairs. While this was 
taking place, Mr U and his family had to move into alternative accommodation.
However during this time, Mr U was unhappy with the work completed. Towards the end of 
the claim Ocaso has said that its contrcators refused to return to the property to complete 
snagging works. Instead Ocaso offered Mr U a cash settlement of around £700 to complete 
the work it said was outstanding.
Mr U was unhappy with this and made a complaint. He was unhappy with a number of
issues, but in summary he said:
The work completed by the contractors was of a poor standard and they had caused
additional damage that wasnt reflected in the cash settlement.
The oven that had been installed wasnt of the same standard as the one hed had
before and should be replaced.
Ocaso had failed to cover the cost of a replacement boiler even though this was
damaged by the flood.
Hed been out of his home for more than a year due to the slow claim progress and
had had to move between four different alternative accommodations which had been
distressing, especially as he has a young family and a disabled son.
He had to pay for increased electricity bills while the work was being carried out.
Ocaso responded to his complaint and while it accepted the service provided had sometimes 
been poor, it didnt change its position on the claim and maintained its offer of a cash 
settlement. Unhappy with this, Mr U brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She thought Ocaso should:
Appoint an independent surveyor to assess the work completed against the scope of
works, and comment on what remains incomplete and what should be re-done due to
poor workmanship. Mr U should provide three options for a surveyor for Ocaso to
select.
Once completed, Mr U should provide Ocaso with three quotes for the work to be
completed based on the surveyors report, for Ocaso to select which to go ahead
with.
Ocaso should then pay for the work to be completed by the chosen contractor.
She also thought it should pay for:
A replacement oven that includes a timer and a light.
Reimburse the cost to Mr U of replacing the boiler plus 8% simple interest for the
time he had been without the funds. If he is unable to provide proof of the cost then it
should pay how much it would have cost it to replace the boiler.
Reimburse Mr U the £80 it cost him to fix his kitchen sink plus 8% simple interest.
Reimburse Mr U the cost of the alternative accommodation he paid for himself, plus
8% simple interest.
Cover the cost of repairing the toilet and damage to the bathroom door frame.
However while she agreed Ocaso had caused Mr U some significant distress and 
inconvenience. She noted the costs it had paid for damage Mr U had caused to alternative 
accommodation. And thought because of this, it wasnt fair to ask it to pay any compensation 
as this was above what it owed as part of the claim costs.
Mr U accepted our investigators outcome, however Ocaso didnt. It said it agreed to cover
the cost of fixing the sink and the additional hotels Mr U paid for. However it said it believed
Mr U damaged the boiler himself so this wouldnt be covered in the claim. And it said our 
investigators proposed redress was confusing and difficult to follow. It asked for the
complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
In June 2023 I issued a provisional decision which stated as follows:
Outstanding work
From looking at the emails from both sides and photos provided, it is clear that Mr Us flat
still has claim related work outstanding. And that works havent been completed to a
standard to put him back into the position he was in before the claim.
Ocaso has said that it thinks Mr U has intentionally caused damage to his property, and that
the work shouldnt be included in the cash settlement or re-done. However its provided no
evidence of this. And it accepts that the relationship between Mr U and its contractors broke
down and that they walked out without completing the snagging works. So on balance I am
more persuaded that some work hasnt been done to standard and that there is still
outstanding work.
While Ocaso has provided a breakdown of what it believes are the only works its
responsible for, it has provided little evidence to show that all other work has been
completed to standard and in line with the original scope of works. And Mr U has detailed
other areas of the property that require additional work that far exceed what it has accepted,
such as the adapted toilet that he says hasnt been installed correctly.
Due to this, it is very difficult to determine exactly what work remains outstanding, so in order
to ensure all work is completed to standard and in line with the scope of works agreed at the
beginning of the claim, I agree with our investigator that someone independent should
review the damage in order for a quote to be prepared.
Our investigator recommended that Ocaso pay for a building surveyor to assess the work
done so far and come up with a list of the items that now need to be addressed, before this
is quoted for. However this is a very costly and time consuming process. And the work that is
in dispute here isnt structural, but instead is smaller repairs that wouldnt require that level of
expertise. I therefore dont consider it fair to ask Ocaso to pay for a buildings surveyor to
assess the damage.Instead, Mr U should obtain quotes for the outstanding work, that was laid out in the original
scope of works, and any additional repairs to work carried out at a poor standard. He should
obtain three quotes from three different builders and these should contain a detailed
breakdown of what the costs relate to, in order to ensure it is claim related. Ocaso should
then choose one of the quotes and pay the total cost as a cash settlement.
Damage to the door frame and toilet
It isnt disputed that Ocasos contractors had to force the bathroom door open because their
tools got locked inside. Or that this caused damage to the door frame. While Ocaso has said
Mr U locked the tools in the bathroom purposefully, Ive not seen any evidence that this was
the case, nor do I see good reason why he would do that. As the damage was caused by its
contractors, I think Ocaso should pay to repair the damage to the bathroom door frame and
this should be included in the above stated quote.
Mr U has said that his adapted toilet has been reinstalled incorrectly and this causes it to
shake and feel unstable. While Ocaso has disputed that this was installed incorrectly, if the
builders quoting for the work consider there to be any necessary repairs to ensure this is
installed correctly, then the cost of these should be included in the quotes.
Boiler
Ocaso has accepted that the boiler wasnt working. However it says it thinks Mr U
purposefully damage the boiler so it could be replaced as part of the claim.
However it has again provided no evidence to show this was the case. And considering the
flood was substantial and its agreed that it caused significant damage throughout the whole
flat, it seems likely that it would also have caused damage to the boiler.
Mr U has already had a new boiler installed, due to this he should be able to provide proof of
the cost of this. Therefore he should provide this to Ocaso to reimburse the amount. Itshould 
also pay 8% simple interest on this amount from the date Mr U paid for it until the
date settlement is paid.
Oven
Mr U has said hes unhappy with the oven that Ocaso has installed as a replacement for his
damaged one. Hes said that it is a lower specification and doesnt have a light or a timer as
his old one did.
Where items are replaced, rather than repaired, Mr Us policy requires Ocaso to provide a
replacement of similar quality. While I note Mr Us comments about the differences in the
ovens, Im not persuaded from the available evidence that the new oven is significantly lower
quality than the original to warrant Ocaso taking action to replace it. While having a light and
a timer may be Mr Us preference, I think the fact the new oven doesnt have these features
isnt enough to say it isnt of a similar quality as is required under the policy.
Further, Mr U was provided with detailed information about the kitchen before it was
installed, so if these were features that he felt strongly about he had the opportunity to raise
them at that stage.
For these reasons I am satisfied Ocaso has appropriately indemnified Mr U for his damaged
oven and I wont ask it to provide a replacement.
Electricity
Mr U has explained that due to the work that took place while he was staying in alternative
accommodation, his electricity bills have been higher than hed usually pay. While Ocaso
has previously agreed to cover any additional costs above what he usually pays, it seemsthis hasnt happened. So if Mr U can provide proof of the difference in cost then Ocaso
should pay him the difference.
Compensation
From reviewing the timeline of the claim, as well as comments from both sides, I agree its
been a very distressing time for Mr U and his family. Theyve had to stay out of their home
for over a year and in this time have stayed in four different places. And Ocaso has added to
this distress by failing to progress the claim promptly and waiting until the last minute to
attempt to renew alternative accommodation resulting in the need to move. This has been
particularly distressing for Mr U when taking into account the additional needs of his son who
has a disability.
Due to this I would usually ask Ocaso to pay Mr U compensation to make up for the
additional distress and inconvenience it caused him by the poor handling of the claim.
However its shown that at two of the properties used for alternative accommodation the
provider has charged a large amount of money for necessary repairs and cleaning following
Mr Us stay. And this has cost Ocaso thousands of pounds. These arent costs wed expect
Ocaso to cover, as the upkeep of the properties is Mr Us responsibility. However as it has
covered these costs and hasnt sought to recover them from Mr U, I think this is enough to
make up for the distress and inconvenience caused. So I wont ask it to pay anything in
compensation.
Response to my provisional decision
Ocaso accepted the findings in my provisional decision. 
Mr U responded with a number of comments. He said he accepted the decision, but had 
some conditions he wished to be met as part of the acceptance. 
In summary his comments were:
He didnt agree some of the details included in the claim background were correct. 
He said there hadnt been a breakdown of relationships with the contractors but 
instead theyd just completed repairs to a poor standard. And some further details of 
the claim had been left out.
He disagreed that he had damaged the alternative accommodation and said that 
issues only occurred because the accommodation was unsuitable for his son who 
had additional needs. 
While he was sent details about the kitchen replacement before it was installed, these 
just said the oven would be replaced with one of the same standard. So it wasnt until 
it was installed that he knew it wasnt the same as the old one.
He said while he accepted the decision he would only do so if this service agrees to 
oversee all remaining work and that our decision has legal backing.
He also said that it will be complicated obtaining quotes as the work required covers 
a lot of different expertise and he think Ocasos contractors should complete it as 
they signed a mandate saying they would do so.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered the points Mr U has made in response to my provisional findings. 
I have noted his comments about the accuracy of the information contained in the summary 
of the background of the claim. I appreciate Mr U doesnt agree that there was a breakdown 
of relationships with the contractors and I have amended the wording in this document to 
better reflect this. Mr U has also pointed out areas of the claim that have been missed from 
the summary. I want to reassure him that the background in the decision represents a short 
summary of the claim and doesnt intend to cover every action or issue. However I read all 
submissions sent by both Mr U and Ocaso when reaching my decision in order to have a full 
understanding of the claim. And the additional comments added by Mr U were all things that 
had been considered before I issued my provisional decision, and therefore have no bearing 
on the outcome.  
Regarding the alternative accommodation, I have noted Mr Us comments about the 
suitability of the accommodation for his sons needs and Im sorry to hear about the distress 
this has caused him and his family. However if the accommodation wasnt suitable this 
should have been made clear to Ocaso as early as possible so it could take action at the 
time to arrange a more suitable option. But regardless, Ocaso covered the cost of the 
damage caused at both locations, rather than pursuing the costs from Mr U. This added up 
to a considerable amount, far above what Id expect it to pay. So I still consider this 
reasonable and enough to mean further compensation isnt warranted. 
Mr U has also said that while he was shown plans for the replacement kitchen before it was 
installed this only indicated the oven would be replaced with one of the same standard. So 
he couldnt have known that it wouldnt meet his needs until it was installed. In my 
provisional decision I explained that I didnt think the differences between the replacement 
oven and the original were significant enough to say it was of a lower standard. And what Mr 
U has said hasnt changed my position on this. So Im still satisfied Ocaso has provided a 
suitable replacement oven and wont ask it to provide an additional replacement. 
I note Mr Us comments about the difficulty he may face in obtaining quotes for the work as it 
covers a number of different types of expertise. I came to this decision as Mr U doesnt 
agree the cash settlement already offered by Ocaso is enough to carry out the repairs. But in 
order for Ocaso to pay anything additional, itll need evidence of what additional work is 
needed and how much this will cost. And obtaining independent quotes, from contractors not 
instructed by Ocaso, is the most practical way to do this. However should Mr U find it difficult 
to source suitable contractors to provide a quote, Id expect Ocaso to assist him in this.
Finally Mr U has said he will accept the decision but only if this service agrees to oversee the 
remaining work. It isnt the role of this service to get involved with the management of claims 
or the repair work relating to them. We are a dispute resolution service, so we only look at 
complaints and decide if a business has acted fairly when resolving them. Therefore our 
involvement with a complaint ends once weve issued our final decision on it. So we wont be 
able to provide further oversight. 
Mr U has also asked that the decision provides legal backing in its direction. If Mr U accepts 
my final decision before the deadline laid out below, then this will be legally binding on 
Ocaso and will therefore be enforceable through the courts. 
Putting things right
Having reviewed the comments provided by Mr U in response to my provisional findings, I 
see no reason to depart from my provisional decision. I will therefore require Ocaso to resolve Mr Us complaint as described in my provisional decision and laid out below.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr Us complaint and require Ocaso SA, Compania de 
Seguros y Reaseguros to:
Pay the cost to Mr U of all outstanding claim related work to fulfil the original scope of 
work and make good any poor workmanship. To do this Mr U should get three quotes 
from independent contractors, which Ocaso will pick from. The quotes should provide 
a full breakdown of what the costs are for. This should include:
oAll work included in the scope of work.
oAny claim related work that needs to be redone due to poor workmanship.
oFixing the adapted toilet to a good standard.
oRepairing the bathroom door frame.
Reimburse Mr U for the replacement boiler, the cost of fixing the sink and the stay in 
a hotel that it hasnt already covered, on receipt of proof of these costs.
Pay Mr U 8% simple interest on these amounts from the date he made payment until 
settlement is paid.
Pay for the increased electricity costs incurred during the time the work was being 
carried out on receipt of evidence of these increased costs.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman