DRN-3606665
The complaint
Mr H complains that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) unfairly declined his travel 
insurance claim.
Any reference to IPA also includes its agents.
What happened
Mr H took out a travel insurance policy, underwritten by IPA, for himself and his children in 
July 2019. The period of insurance started on 15 August 2019, with an expiry date of 14 
August 2020.
In December 2019, Mr H booked a trip abroad with a number of family members and was 
due to travel on 15 August 2020. The booking included flights and accommodation, booked 
with separate providers. 
On 11 March, The World Health Organisation (WHO) declared Covid-19 as a pandemic. And 
then shortly afterwards, on 17 March 2020, the UKs Foreign, Commonwealth & 
Development Office (FCDO  formerly the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO)) 
advised against all but essential travel abroad due to the Covid-19 pandemic. By 10 July 
2020 some travel restrictions were lifted, allowing travel to take place to certain countries  
including the one Mr H was due to visit. Unfortunately, this changed again on 25 July 2020, 
with the FCDO advising against travel to Mr Hs trip destination. 
As a result, Mr Hs flights were cancelled by the airline and a refund provided. But with no 
alternative travel arrangements, Mr Hs accommodation also had to be cancelled. 
Mr H submitted a claim to IPA for the portion of the accommodation costs for the insured 
members of his family. IPA considered the claim but rejected it, saying that the cause of his 
cancellation did not fall within the reasons covered under the cancellation section. He 
complained to IPA who continued to decline the claim, but also advised that the policy 
excluded claims for losses which were related to an infectious disease or virus which was 
declared an outbreak or epidemic by the WHO.
Unhappy with this response, Mr H brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked into the matter but didnt uphold the complaint. Mr Hs policy ended before the 
intended dates of travel and Mr H hadnt renewed the policy. As the policy only provided 
cover for trips within the period of insurance as shown on the certificate, she said he wasnt 
insured for this trip. But she found that, even if his travel policy had covered the dates of his 
travel, the cancellation section of the policy only provided cover if cancellation was for 
certain reasons  and the cause of his cancellation was not one of the listed reasons. She 
also said that the general exclusion relating to losses arising from the declaration of an 
outbreak or epidemic by the WHO would also apply.
Mr H disagreed with our investigator. He didnt think it was right that IPA could now bring up 
the expiry date of his insurance when it had failed to do so before. And as he did have cover 
at the time of the cancellation, he thinks his claim should be considered. He commented that 
this the requirement for travel to take place during the period of insurance wasnt detailed in 
the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) and was only placed in the full policy 
terms and conditions  which he didnt think was fair. 
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is important to point out that were an informal dispute resolution service, set up as a free 
alternative to the courts for consumers. In deciding this complaint Ive focused on what I 
consider to be the heart of the matter rather than commenting on every issue or point made 
in turn. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to Mr H. Rather it reflects the informal nature of 
our service, its remit and my role in it.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that insurers must handle claims fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into account when deciding 
what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Hs complaint.
The policy terms and conditions
The terms and conditions include a section called Definitions and meaning of words where 
specific words and terms are explained in my detail. This section includes the following:
Period of Insurance: The period shown on the Certificate subject to:
 Single Trip policies: Cancellation cover starts when You purchase this 
insurance or when You book Your Trip, whichever is the later. Cover for all 
other sections applies for the duration of Your Trip, as stated on the 
Certificate, and for which You have paid the appropriate premium up to a 
maximum of 365 days and ends when You return to the UK Area.
 Annual Multi-trip policies: Cover applies as for Single Trip policies 
however Cancellation cover commences on the start date of the policy and 
the Period of Insurance is for 12 months during which You are covered for 
each Trip You book and also undertake within that period, on condition that 
each Trip does not exceed a maximum of 31 consecutive days or greater if 
specifically stated in the Certificate.
Note: If You travel for more than the number of days for which You have paid for 
cover, You will not be covered after the last day for which You have paid and Your 
policy will be void. It does not matter how long You purchase cover for, it ends when 
You return to the UK Area.
There is no cover under the Cancellation Section of this policy outside the Period of 
Insurance. However, if during the Period of Insurance You book a Trip with a start 
date after the expiry of Your Annual Multi-trip policy then Cancellation cover will 
continue for that Trip provided You renew this policy on or before its expiry date and 
there is no gap in cover.
It also includes the following definition:Trip: A journey within the countries of the Geographical Limits, during the Period of 
Insurance.
Mr H paid for additional cover when taking out the policy - Optional Cancellation and 
Curtailment cover. This section states the following:
What is covered:
We will reimburse You up to the amounts shown on the schedule of cover relating to 
the policy type You have purchased as shown on Your Certificate per Insured Person 
in total under this policy for financial loss You suffer, being non-refundable deposits 
and amounts You have paid (or have contracted to pay), for Your proportion only of 
irrecoverable travel and accommodation costs You do not use because of Your 
inability to commence travel or complete the Trip as follows:
Cancellation cover applies if You have booked a Trip to take place within the Period 
of Insurance, but You are unavoidably and necessarily forced to cancel Your travel 
plans because of one of the following changes in circumstances, which is beyond 
Your control, and of which You were unaware at the time You booked the Trip. 
Please see also the Travel Delay section.
The section then lists a number of reasons, including such events as illness or redundancy, 
for which a claim under cancellation will be considered. 
There is a list of specific exclusions that apply to this section of cover, which includes the 
following:
o) prohibitive regulations by the Government of any country, or delay or amendment 
of the booked Trip due to Government action;
The policy also includes a list of general exclusions which apply to all sections of cover. The 
relevant one in this case states:
42. This policy does not cover any liability, loss, cost or expense arising out of, 
resulting from, caused or contributed to any other virus or infectious disease that is 
declared to be an outbreak or epidemic by the World Health Organisation or any 
Government or ruling body of a country that the outbreak or epidemic has occurred 
in.
Was the claim declined fairly?
Mr Hs annual insurance policy period of insurance ran from 15 August 2019 to 14 August 
2020. However, his trip was due to start on 15 August 2020. The policy states that 
cancellation cover commences on the start date (or when a trip is booked if later) for trips 
booked and due to be taken within that period of cover. So, even if the cancellation takes 
place within the insurance period, the dates of travel also need to be within the same 
insurance period. The policy also says it will provide cover for trips outside of the period of 
insurance as long as the policy is renewed so there is no gap in cover. Mr H didnt renew his 
policy. Im therefore persuaded that IPA acted in accordance with the policy terms and 
conditions when not agreeing to pay the claim on this basis.
IPA raised the issue of the expiry date of the policy when the complaint was already with our 
service and Mr H feels it is unfair that this has been taken into consideration. I appreciate 
that he feels it is unfair for IPA to now rely on this as a reason to decline his claim, however, 
the timing of this doesnt mean I should ignore it. IPA has raised this as an additional reason for why the claim shouldnt be paid and, when reviewing the policy, Im satisfied it is 
reasonable for it to do so. 
Ive noted Mr Hs comments regarding the information provided on the IPID. Ive reviewed 
the IPID and I can see that it refers to providing a basic package of travel insurance benefits 
for applicants aged up to 65in respect of an annual multi-trip policy, for multiple trips within 
the geographical territory and cover dates selected. So, Im persuaded that the need for 
trips to take place within the period of cover was also detailed within the IPID.
But even if I ignore this requirement and consider his complaint as if he did have insurance 
to cover the dates of his trip, Im still not of the opinion that his claim is covered under the 
policy terms and conditions. Ill explain why.
The cancellation section includes a list of reasons for which a claim will be covered. The 
cause of the cancellation of Mr Hs trip - the cancellation of his flights due to the FCDO 
change in advice as a result of Covid-19 - isnt one of the listed covered reasons. Im 
satisfied that there isnt cover for the situation he found himself in. And I must also take into 
consideration the specific exclusion under the cancellation section relating to prohibitive 
regulations by a government and also the general exclusion regarding the declaration of an 
outbreak of a virus or disease as declared by the WHO. Im persuaded that both of these 
exclusions would apply to his circumstances too. So even if Mr Hs travel dates had been 
within the period of insurance, there would be no coverage for the claim for his cancelled 
accommodation.
Taking everything into account, I dont think Mr Hs claim is covered under the policy terms 
and conditions, nor are there reasonable grounds upon which it would be fair for me to ask 
IPA to accept the claim. Im therefore not persuaded that IPA needs to do anything more.
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr H but for the reasons mentioned above, Im not upholding this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2022.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman