DRN-2692436
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that National House-Building Council (NHBC) turned down a claim 
made under their building warranty.
What happened
In February 2020, Mr and Mrs D went to their holiday home. They saw a small watermark 
above the fireplace in the living room, and decided to monitor it. However, because of travel 
restrictions imposed as a result of Covid-19 from March 2020, they couldnt travel back to 
their property until July 2020. By that time, the water mark had increased. Mr and Mrs D 
made a claim to NHBC. 
NHBC said the warranty had expired on 29 June 2020, and so Mr and Mrs D were too late to 
make a claim. Unhappy with this, Mr and Mrs D brought a complaint to this service and 
arranged for their own contractor to carry out the repairs. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. He thought it had been unfair for 
NHBC to refuse to deal with the claim, given that Mr and Mrs D had been prevented from 
visiting their property and therefore making a claim when the damage got worse. As Mr and 
Mrs D had paid for the repairs, he recommended NHBC reimburse them the £4,980 theyd 
paid.
NHBC didnt agree with our investigators recommendations, and so the matter has been 
passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy says:
If you notice any matter that you think may require attention, you must do the following:
1) Contact NHBCand notify us as soon as possible within the relevant notification 
period of the matter concerned.
The notification period started on 30 June 2012 and ended on 29 June 2020. Though its not 
in dispute that Mr and Mrs D notified NHBC of their claim in the month after the notification 
period had ended.
Mr and Mrs D explain that, whilst theyd noticed the water stain in February 2020, it was only 
around 5cm in diameter at the time. They put this down to a misplaced roof tile. Given that 
they intended to return to the property a few weeks later, they decided to monitor it because 
if it were a minor problem, theyd put it right themselves. 
However, Mr and Mrs D couldnt return to the property as planned, because of travel 
restrictions imposed by the government. Those restrictions were only lifted on 10 July 2020. 
Mr and Mrs D returned to the property soon after and noticed the stain had increased to 
around 20cm in diameter. It was at this point that they notified NHBC and made a claim. 
I find Mr and Mrs Ds explanation to be plausible. They were regular visitors to the property, 
and werent alarmed by such a small water stain when they noticed it in February 2020. 
Given that there wasnt an obvious sign of water ingress that would cause more damage in 
their absence, it doesnt seem unreasonable for them to have decided to monitor the 
situation on their planned return a few weeks later. Mr and Mrs D couldnt have foreseen that 
travel restrictions would be put in place by the government, which would prevent them from 
returning to the property for five months. 
I recognise this is a balanced case, because Mr and Mrs D could have told NHBC before the 
warranty expired that theyd noticed some water ingress and were prevented from returning 
to the property to check on the damage. However, I accept their explanation that they 
thought it was only a minor issue at the time and had no reason to think theyd need to make 
a claim.
Given the increase in size to the watermark between February and July 2020, I think its 
more likely than not, that if Mr and Mrs D had been able to visit their property in this time, 
they would have made a claim under their warranty before it expired on 29 June 2020. 
Taking into consideration the unusual circumstances, I agree with our investigator that it was 
unfair for NHBC to refuse to deal with the claim because of the late notification. 
Turning now to whether the claim itself is valid. The policy says that NHBC will pay the cost 
of putting right physical damage caused by a defect.
Mr and Mrs Ds contractor has already carried out the repairs. The contractor has explained 
that two defective chimneys needed to be replaced because they were constructed from 
shuttering plywood, and the plywood was completely rotten so that only lathe and render 
was holding up the chimneys. He also said there was no lead detail to stop the ingress of 
water from the top. And that the flaunching of the chimneys was cracked allowing water 
ingress. 
We provided this evidence to NHBC and it hasnt argued that the description given by the 
contractor was not a defect. So, I think its reasonable to accept that there was a defect, and 
therefore Mr and Mrs D have a valid claim.
I understand some other nearby properties (presumably built by the same developer) had 
the same problem with the chimneys, and that NHBC settled some of those claims. NHBC 
says it cash settled those claims and the cost was lower than the amount Mr and Mrs D paid 
to their contractor. 
If NHBC hadnt refused to consider Mr and Mrs Ds claim due to the late notification, then it 
could have inspected the damage itself and chosen how to settle the claim. However, as Mr 
and Mrs D were left with no option other than to arrange the repairs themselves, I think 
NHBC should reimburse them for the full cost of this.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require National House-Building Council to 
pay Mr and Mrs D £4,980. It should also add interest at the rate of 8% simple per annum 
from the date they paid the invoice/s to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to accept or reject my decision before 28 May 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman