DRN-2019489
 
The complaint
Mr N complains that Zurich Assurance Limited refused to inform him that he could amend his 
term assurance policy from a decreasing term to a level term basis  and this has resulted in 
him being significantly under-insured. 
To resolve his complaint, he wants Zurich to amend his policy back to the level sum assured 
it would have been in 2006, if it had told him about undertaking a switch.    
What happened
Mr N took out a decreasing term assurance policy with Zurich in January 2005 through an 
independent financial adviser. It offered him an initial £123,750 of cover for a 25-year term.  
In April 2006, Mr N had to change his mortgage to interest only from capital repayment 
mortgage, because of financial issues. He says he contacted Zurich at that time to enquire if 
he could change the policy to keep his insurance value the same as the outstanding 
mortgage, which by that time was £122,725. However, he was not told about any option to 
do so.  
Mr N says he contacted Zurich again in 2014, but again he was not told that he could 
change the policy over to a level term one and instead, he had to remain with a decreasing 
term policy.  
In December 2019, Mr N called Zurich to ask if he could amend his policy to change the type 
of cover and increase the sum assured to match his actual mortgage liability. The sum 
assured by that time was £84,187. However, he was told that this type of change wasnt 
possible. Mr N said that he was considering cancelling the policy and applying for a new 
one. However, the call handler couldnt assist him with a new application, as the facility was 
not available by telephone. Instead, Mr N was invited to either apply online or via an 
independent financial adviser, if he wished to seek new cover altogether.  
Mr N complained. In a letter of 17 January 2020, Zurich told Mr N that it rejected the 
complaint. It explained that it was sorry Mr N couldnt undergo a quote for a new policy 
during the telephone call, but the call handler had correctly explained that the application 
process needed to be completed online or through a suitable adviser.
Further, the call handler had also been correct when informing Mr N that he could not amend 
the policy to increase his sum assured or change the type of the cover. That was because 
the policy terms didnt allow those changes on that basis. The terms did allow for a 
guaranteed insurability option  this being an increase to the sum assured for specific life 
events, such as marriage, a new mortgage or birth of child. But, it did not include a change 
to the type of mortgage so the change Mr N had asked for could not be agreed.  
Zurich did note that Mr Ns policy had a switch option which could amend the sum assured 
from decreasing term to level term without undergoing any medical underwriting, but this 
would be at the current sum assured  it wasnt possible to increase the sum assured as 
well. 
Mr N referred his complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators. 
She said she could see Zurich offered to switch Mr Ns policy to one that provides level 
cover, whereby it won't require any further details about his health or activities. She did not 
think this that was unreasonable because what Zurich had suggested was in line with the 
terms and conditions of Mr Ns policy.
Mr N said he disagreed. He said that when he contacted Zurich, it never explained to him 
that he could have used the switch at the time he had to change his mortgage  if he had 
known that, he could have kept the sum assured at a sum matching his outstanding 
mortgage liability. 
Though the investigator had suggested he had called Zurich in 2019 only, this was not the 
case. He said he had recently been made aware through persistence in asking the question 
of options available to him that he was given the wrong information on the two earlier dates 
in 2006 and 2014. Mr N clarified that matters of December 2019 were a final straw for him, 
and it was at this time that he felt the need to complain.  
Mr N explained he had continued to pay the policy and kept it running in good faith as he 
expected to be able to catch the mortgage up by paying a lump sum. Unfortunately his 
business did not perform as well as expected and that was not possible.
He said that he recognised his policy terms would have contained the option, but Zurich 
ought to have told him, as it was in an informed position to do so. Mr N said he didnt have 
his policy documentation to hand and relied on Zurich for advice. Mr N also noted he 
remained concerned that he has a policy with a sum assured which is insufficient to clear the 
mortgage for his family should he pass away.  
The investigator queried the two earlier communications of 2006 and 2014 with Zurich. It 
said it had record of Mr N contacting it on both occasions, but the contact was concerned 
with submission of new direct debits and underpaid contributions. It said there was no 
evidence of any notes suggesting Mr N enquired about changing his type of cover.
There was a further call which took place in January 2015 where Mr N did enquire about 
amending his policy. During that call Zurich explained there were some amendments options 
on the policy, but it was not licensed to give advice, so it told him to contact his IFA.
The investigator reconsidered the complaint, but she did not believe the outcome ought to 
change. She listened to the call from 2015 as Zurich was able to obtain a recording.  
In that call, Mr N acknowledged that the policy didnt provide sufficient cover as the 
mortgage balance wasn't decreasing. The call handler explained to him that he should to 
speak to his financial adviser who helped with this policy and offered the contact number. 
Mr N also asked whether he would have to opt for another policy. The call handler explained 
that he couldnt advise Mr N on this, but the IFA may be able to help look at any changes or 
a new policy. In the December 2019 call, the same action took place  that Mr N was 
informed that a financial adviser would be able to advise him on his best next steps.
Our investigator noted that Mr N wasnt specifically told about the switch option in 2015, but 
she didnt feel this changed that Zurich had acted reasonably during the call in 2015. She 
said it was reasonable to have expected Mr N to have acted on the call handlers suggestion 
in 2015 and sought financial advice to switch or change to a policy which better suited his 
circumstances.  Mr N said he did not accept the decision and he disagreed with it. He said the investigator 
agreed that he was not given the correct information in 2015 so this service should be 
instructing Zurich to honour an insurance at the value of the mortgage at that time. 
Mr N asked for the matter to be passed to an ombudsman. Zurich had no additional 
comments to make.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked carefully at the information from both parties, I agree with the outcome 
reached by our investigator and for largely the same reasons. 
I realise that Mr N had to change his mortgage for financial reasons and from this time, his 
insurance cover did not match his outstanding liability (which has remained in excess of 
£120,000 to date).  However, that is not a decision that Zurich has any bearing on. Nor is it 
responsible for making any changes to Mr Ns policy  these must be instigated by Mr N.  
Like our investigator before me, I cannot see that the evidence suggests that Mr N talked to 
Zurich about the sum assured either in 2006 or 2014. I dont doubt Mr Ns recollection, but 
where the parties have conflicting versions of events, I need to look at what I think is most 
likely to have happened, on balance. Having done so, I have seen no reason that the 
records from Zurich would be incorrect and I believe they reflect what happened in 2006, 
2014 and 2015.  
Zurich has call notes from each occasion it has been contacted by Mr N. And since it has 
correctly recorded the discussion from 2015, I cannot see why it would be likely that the 
other two records are wrong. Mr N called Zurich in May 2006, because his premiums had 
been unpaid since 1 April 2006 and he needed to take action to rectify that. 
In 2014, the records show a change of direct debit and mobile number (on 4 July 2014) but 
again, there was not a discussion about the policys sum assured at this time.  
However, on 2 January 2015, Mr N is specifically recorded as calling to discuss the 
mismatch between his policys sum assured and the mortgage which had remained at the 
same level since 2006.  
Looking at what was discussed during that call, I dont believe Zurich has acted unfairly such 
that it is responsible for Mr N continuing to pay for decreasing term cover. Mr N was aware 
by the time of that call of the differing bases of cover and he was expressly invited to take 
action about it by contacting his IFA (or seeking advice elsewhere). I dont see anything 
wrong with that instruction. 
I realise Mr N has rightly pointed out that the switch option wasnt expressly discussed 
during this call; instead it only mentioned once he had complained. But I dont agree that 
failure to mention that specifically (rather than being told that there were options to amend or 
take out new cover) has resulted in the position Mr N finds himself in now  where he is 
unfortunately under-insured.  
That is because Mr Ns outstanding sum assured as at January 2015 already left him under-
insured by the time he placed the call to Zurich as this was nine years after the policy had 
begun and more than eight years since Mr N changed his mortgage type. So, even if he had 
been advised of the option, hed have still needed to 1) seek financial advice because Zurich couldnt action this for him and 2) if he had switched, he was still left with a sizeable 
insurance shortfall. If Mr N had sought advice at that time, it would have been based on 
protecting his entire mortgage liability, as he has told us (and Zurich) that is what he wanted 
to do.  
I realise there has been some confusion about what to do on Mr Ns part, but I cannot say 
that Zurich has behaved unfairly by telling him to seek advice or that it has unreasonably 
prevented him from acting on the matter of being under-insured. And for those reasons, Im 
not able to uphold his complaint.  If Mr N wishes to take further action about the level and 
type of cover, he will need to either do so online or he may wish to seek financial advice.
My final decision
I understand that my decision will be disappointing for Mr N, but I do not consider Zurich to 
be at fault for the fact that his decreasing term assurance policy was not changed for a 
differing policy. I therefore do not uphold this complaint, nor do I make any award.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2020.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman