DRN-3281291
The complaint
Mr W has complained that the market value Admiral Insurance Company Limited decided his 
car was worth under his motor policy after an incident wasnt reasonable. It wouldnt allow 
him to keep his car without retaining their salvage rates and he felt it pressurised him by 
sending him cheques when he was still in dispute.
What happened
In December 2020, Mr W drove his car through some water which hydro locked the engine. 
Admiral decided his car was a total loss. Mr W said the repair costs were £16,500 including 
a third partys fee and £14,200.00 without it. 
Admiral offered him £18,340 as the market value. But Mr W wanted to keep his car and 
wanted Admiral to pay him £16,500.00 in full and final settlement. Admiral refused.
Mr W believed he was unable to buy a comparable car with the settlement offer from 
Admiral, so he felt he wasnt put back in the same position as before the incident occurred. 
He ended up buying another car for £21,999.00 so he believes he out of pocket. He feels 
Admiral should make up this difference.
As Admiral wouldnt do this, Mr W brought his complaint to us. The investigator didnt think 
Admirals valuation was incorrect. Mr W didnt agree so his complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint, Ill now explain why.
Admirals duty to Mr W in situations where it decides a car is a total loss is to pay Mr W the 
market value of his car. First it is Admiral who decides if a car is a total loss or not, not Mr W. 
And this is the essence of the dispute here. Mr W believed because the repair estimate was 
lower than what he believed the market value was, he should be allowed to keep his car with 
Admiral paying the repair costs. Admiral was happy for Mr W to keep the car but wouldnt 
pay him a cash in lieu payment because it deemed the car a total loss so any payment to Mr 
W would be the market value less than the salvage value. 
This because under the section in the policy headed Damage to your car at section 2 
entitled what we will pay it says the following:
We will decide how to settle you claim [my emphasis] and will either:
Pay to repair your car, or
Pay a cash sum to replace the damaged car or item
If we give you a cash sum, the most we will pay is the market value of the car 
Further the policy defines the market value as:
The cost of replacing your car, with one of a similar make, model, year, mileage and
condition based on market prices at the time of the loss. Use of the term market in 
which you would normally shop for your car e.g. retail value, will not apply if you buy 
your car privately or at an auction.
Admirals engineer categorised the car as a total loss with a category maker N which means 
the car is repairable, but the insurer has chosen not to repair it. Considering the car needed 
a new engine, it was this engineers professional opinion that the repair estimate of 
£16,500.00 was simply an estimate. He anticipated in all probability that estimate would 
increase also given the extent of the repairs the car needed. He believed there would be a 
lot of ongoing faults due to the water ingress. So, he felt that it wasnt appropriate to give 
figures for Mr W to retain the car. He felt it should remain a total loss which in effect means 
Admiral are fully entitled to retain the salvage value. Ive no evidence before me which 
contradicts this professional opinion. Further I consider it reasonable given the extensive 
damage sustained too.
It is Admirals decision to decide at what value it thinks a car is unrepairable and this service 
wouldnt necessarily say an insurer is wrong when the repairs are more than 60 to 70% of 
the market value. Our role to ensure the insurer did this reasonably. Based on the engineers 
opinion above, I think Admiral was being reasonable here, given the evidence of the very 
real possibility that the repair costs could exceed the estimate. 
We would also expect an insurer to allow the policyholder, Mr W here, to retain car if they 
wished. Admiral has done this, but because it has deemed the car (reasonably in my view) 
as total loss then Admiral is entitled to deduct the salvage amount from the market value 
before payment to Mr W. Those amounts are agreed on a commercial basis with the salvage 
agent. And further its a principle of insurance that when the insurer pays out the value of an 
item insured under the policy, it then gets to keep the damaged item as it then belongs to the 
insurer instead of the policyholder. Admiral has shown us the salvage value was worth 
£7,336.00. So therefore, if Mr W wanted to keep the car, which Admiral was permitting him 
to do, I consider Admiral deducting the salvage value to be reasonable. 
Turning now to the valuation Admiral gave to Mr Ws car, as the investigator explained this service isnt a car valuation service but we look at the industry trade guides to ensure the 
valuation offered by the insurer was in line with those guides. These guides do show the 
selling prices of car and it is the most objective and fair way to provide such market 
valuations of cars. 
Admiral valued the market value of Mr Ws car at £18340.00 (after some negotiation with Mr 
W over the mileage to be used) less the excess of £350. The industry guides valued Mr Ws 
car on the lower agreed mileage at £17,795.00, £18,120.00, and £18,230 respectively. Since 
Admirals valuation is higher than any of these, theres nothing to show me that its market 
valuation of Mr Ws car was unreasonable.
Therefore, I dont consider Admiral did anything wrong in deciding Mr Ws was a total loss, or 
that it wasnt entitled to the salvage value if Mr W wanted to keep his car. Further I consider 
its market valuation of his car to be generous given the industry valuation guides. The fact 
that Mr W said he could only buy a comparable car for £21,999.00 doesnt show me that 
Admirals valuation is incorrect given its use of the industry guides and indeed offering to pay 
more than the valuation in those guides.
Mr W said he felt pressurised because Admiral kept sending him cheques in settlement 
when he was still in dispute with it over the settlement amount. However, whilst Admiral 
should have explained the cheques were sent on a without prejudice basis, I nonetheless 
consider it reasonable for Admiral to attempt to out Mr W in funds at the earliest opportunity. 
As it explained to Mr W its not permitted to retain fund thats are belonging to it and as it 
decided his car was a total loss this isnt unreasonable.
My final decision
So, for these reasons its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2022.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman