DRN-3425763
The complaint
Mr K complains that Black Horse Limited trading as Land Rover Financial Services (BHL) 
didnt support him when he experienced financial difficulties in relation to a hire purchase 
agreement that hed entered into with them. Mr K was also unhappy that missed payments 
were recorded on his credit file.
What happened
In March 2019 Mr K acquired a new car through a hire purchase agreement with BHL. The 
purchase price of the car was £36,212. A deposit of £2,069 was made which meant that the 
total amount financed on this agreement was £34,143 payable over 49 months.
Mr K explained that as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic he lost his job. He said that BHL 
allowed him to take six payment deferrals on his agreement. However, Mr K says when he 
requested a further two months payment deferral, BHL declined his request. Mr K says this 
was in spite of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) advising businesses that they had to 
help consumers if they wanted to extend payment deferrals.
Mr K says BHL recorded two missed payments on his credit file which will affect his credit 
score for six years, even though hes now repaid it. Mr K complained to BHL saying his 
deferral period should have been extended and his credit file shouldnt have been affected 
for something that was out of his control.
In April 2021 BHL provided their final response to Mr Ks complaint. BHL explained that 
theyd supported Mr K with payment deferrals throughout 2020 and 2021 in response to the 
impact the Covid-19 pandemic had on him. They also said Mr K didnt accept their offer to go 
through an income and expenditure so they could explore other options with him, and at the 
time of their final response his account was two payments in arrears, which they reported on 
his credit file as a true reflection of Mr Ks payment history.
Unhappy with their decision Mr K brought his complaint to this service for investigation. Our 
investigator gave their view that BHL didnt need to take any action. Our investigator felt that 
BHL had correctly followed the guidance as set out by the FCA.
Unhappy with our investigators view, Mr K asked that his complaint be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
The agreement in this case is a regulated hire purchase agreement. As such, this service is 
able to consider complaints relating to it
To decide if BHL have acted fairly, Ive considered whether it was fair that they didnt grant 
Mr K an additional two months payment deferral for February and March 2021. Ive also 
considered if it was fair for BHL to have two missed payments recorded on Mr Ks credit file 
given it was a result of the Covid-19 pandemic.
BHL provided us with a statement of Mr Ks agreement, which showed that Mr K made no 
payments for five months in 2020 and three months in 2021. BHL confirmed that Mr K 
contacted them in February and March 2021 to request a payment deferral which they say 
they were unable to apply. They also confirmed that the payments due in February and 
March 2021 fell outside of the six payment deferrals already granted to Mr K and were 
reported to the credit reference agencies (CRA).
When Mr K made the payment deferral request, businesses and consumers were facing an 
unusual and unprecedented challenge as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. Many 
businesses were dealing with significant numbers of consumer enquiries, and many 
consumers were having to deal with unprecedented personal and financial challenges as 
the global pandemic unfolded. So, Ive taken the exceptional circumstances of the global 
pandemic into account when considering whether BHL acted fairly in the circumstances.
In April 2020, the FCA published temporary guidance for businesses in relation to motor 
finance agreements. The guidance was updated in July and November 2020. It was 
applicable in the exceptional circumstances arising out of the Covid-19 pandemic and the 
impact it had on motor finance consumers. The guidance set out the FCAs expectations that 
businesses provide, for a temporary period only, exceptional and immediate support to 
customers facing payment difficulties due to circumstances arising out of coronavirus.
In relation to payment deferrals the guidance says:
Eligible customers impacted by coronavirus should be able to benefit from payment 
deferrals of up to 6 monthly payments in total, but firms should not provide deferrals under 
this guidance for payments extending beyond 31 July 2021. Subject to the overall maximum 
of 6 months, we expect firms to give payment deferrals in tranches of up to three months 
payments in a single payment deferral period.
BHL explained to us that they made a temporary business decision to allow a six-month 
payment deferral to consumers that needed it as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. And by 
February 2021, Mr K had already benefitted from six months payment deferrals under the 
FCA Covid-19 guidance; so, Im satisfied that BHL acted fairly by not providing Mr K with any 
further payment deferrals under that guidance. 
Mr K spoke to BHL in February and March 2021 to advise that he needed further support 
with his repayments, Mr K explained that due to the Covid-19 pandemic he was not receiving 
any income as he hadnt yet returned to work. In October 2020 the FCA published additional 
guidance for firms to supplement the existing Covid-19 guidance as described above. The 
guidance set out the FCAs expectations of firms when providing tailored support to 
customers. 
Having listened to the phone recordings Im satisfied that BHL had acted fairly and in line 
with the FCA guidance by providing Mr K with options for tailored support in the absence of 
further payment deferrals.When Mr K spoke to BHL, they advised Mr K that six months was the maximum deferral 
period they could offer under the FCA guidance. However, they also discussed various 
support options with Mr K that included suspending further payments for a short period of 
time, making token payments, postponing the payment date and arranging a repayment plan 
when he could to repay any arrears gradually. BHL also discussed Mr Ks options to end the 
agreement early to save further financial hardship. I find that BHLs actions here are 
consistent with the expectations of the FCAs tailored support guidance.
During each call, BHL advised that any further missed payments would be recorded on Mr 
Ks credit file as they were obliged to report accurate repayments to credit reference 
agencies. 
The additional FCA guidance says: we expect firms to resume normal CRA reporting at the 
end of payment deferral periods taken under the Payment Deferral guidance.
In consideration of this Im satisfied that BHL acted fairly in continuing to support Mr K where 
possible. Im also satisfied that they acted reasonably in having the missed payments 
recorded on his credit file. 
I acknowledge Mr Ks strength of feeling that his credit file shouldnt be affected given the 
circumstances were out of his control. However, for the reasons explained above Im 
satisfied that BHL acted fairly and so I wont be instructing them to do anything in relation to 
this complaint.
My final decision
Having thought about everything above along with what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint against Black Horse 
Limited trading as Land Rover Financial Services. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2022.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman