DRN-3831144
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Post Office Management Services Limited trading as Post Office 
Insurance mis-sold them a travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs L bought a travel insurance policy online in February 2020 to cover a holiday 
later that year. They purchased Enhanced Trip Disruption cover which meant theyd be 
covered in the event of a natural catastrophe, including a pandemic.
Mr and Mrs L claimed on the policy, but the claim was declined. They complained to our 
service and their complaint was upheld. Mr and Mrs Ls claim was settled by Great Lakes.
Our investigator looked into the mis-sale complaint. Initially she upheld the complaint and 
directed Great Lakes to refund the premiums as she didnt think the sales process had made 
the limitations of cover clear.
Great Lakes provided further information about the sales journey which included a screen 
shot of a pop up. This changed our investigators mind about the outcome of the complaint 
and she didnt uphold it. Mr and Mrs L didnt think that this information had been provided to 
them during the online sales process and questioned whether this was actually the 
information that was provided at the time they purchased the policy.
So, the complaint was passed for me to make a decision. In November 2022 I issued a 
provisional decision explaining that I wasnt intending to uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. I 
said that I didnt think I needed to make a finding about the information Mr and Mrs L were 
given about the Enhanced Trip Disruption cover because I thought there were other reasons 
why their complaint shouldnt be upheld. I said: 
Mr and Mrs L made a claim on the policy. As Ive outlined above this was initially 
rejected. But it was ultimately settled under the Enhanced Trip Disruption section of 
the policy.
That means Mr and Mrs L have had the benefit of the cover theyve paid for.
It wouldnt be fair and reasonable to refund their premiums because theyve 
successfully claimed on the policy. Otherwise theyd have had the benefit of the 
cover but not paid for it.
So, even if I accepted the policy was mis-sold, I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
uphold this complaint. Thats because I dont think Mr and Mrs L have lost out as a 
result as theyve successfully claimed on the policy.
Post Office didnt respond to my provisional decision. 
Mr and Mrs L said my provisional decision seemed fair. They said their biggest concern was 
that the Post Office hadnt informed them of the seven-day limit and in their opinion the 
policy was mis-sold. They said they had been honest throughout the process and that they 
hadnt found Post Office easy to deal with. They said that Post Office had destroyed their 
trust and confidence.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ls complaint for the same reasons Ive outlined above, and in 
my provisional decision.
I can understand why Mr and Mrs L were disappointed to find out the cover wasnt what they 
expected and why they feel let down by their whole experience. But, as I outlined in my 
provisional decision, I dont think this is something I need to make a finding about. 
Thats because, even if I concluded the policy was mis-sold due to the lack of information 
about the enhanced trip disruption cover, I think theyve benefitted from the cover provided 
as their claim has been settled.  
My final decision
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman