DRN-3966505
The complaint
Mr N complains that Santander Consumer (UK) Plc trading as Volvo Car Financial Services 
(VCFS) paid a penalty charge notice without giving him an opportunity to appeal it. 
What happened
Mr N had a hire agreement for a car with VCFS. 
On 25 June 2022, a penalty charge notice (PCN) was issued by a local authority to VCFS 
in respect of a parking contravention allegedly committed on 22 June 2022. The PCN said 
the charge was £160 if paid within 28 days, £240 if paid after, or £80 I paid within 21 days.
VCFS emailed Mr N on 2 July 2022 and told him that in accordance with his agreement, it 
had paid £80 in settlement of the PCN. It said formal grounds for appealing the PCN were 
enclosed with the notice and enclosed a letter giving Mr N authority to deal with an appeal. 
Shortly after VCFS collected the sum of £110 from Mr N. 
Mr N complained to VCFS as he felt it should have transferred liability for the PCN to him so 
he could have appealed it first. He said he was unable to appeal the PCN now that it had 
been paid. 
In response to Mr Ns complaint VCFS said the hire agreement permitted it to pay the PCN 
and recover the cost from Mr N. It said he could still have appealed the PCN by writing to the 
local authority. 
Mr N was unhappy with this response and referred his complaint to this service. 
An investigator didnt think Mr Ns complaint should be upheld.  He accepted the hire 
agreement did permit VCFS to pay the PCN and subsequently charge it to Mr N with an 
administration fee. And he said even if Mr N was unable to appeal the PCN online once it 
had been paid, he was able to do this in writing so VCFS hadnt prevented him from 
appealing.
Mr N did not agree and asked an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having given careful thought to everything, I dont find VCFS treated Mr N unfairly or acted 
unreasonably towards him. I say this because:
VCFS was the owner of the vehicle and recipient of the PCN. It could make the 
decision whether to pay the kind of penalty issued in this case itself or transfer 
liability to Mr N.
There was nothing in the hire agreement that said VCFS had to transfer liability for 
this kind of penalty to Mr N. 
Nevertheless, VCFS said it will always try to do this in respect of penalty charges  
as it appears it did with different kinds of penalties Mr N had previously incurred. 
Ive not been provided with anything in this case that makes me think VCFS couldnt 
have transferred liability to Mr N. Indeed, the PCN itself made provision for this. 
However, I dont think VCFSs decision not to transfer liability caused Mr N to lose 
out. When VCFS told Mr N it had paid the fine, it made him aware he could appeal it 
by writing to the issuing authority. And it gave him the necessary written permission 
to do this. 
Information from the issuing authority shows that while it appears Mr N couldnt make 
an appeal online once the penalty was paid, he was able to appeal by writing to the 
issuing authority within 28 days of VCFS receiving the PCN. VCFS provided Mr N 
with the PCN which included a section he could complete and return to the issuing 
authority to make the appeal. 
So, when VCFS emailed Mr N to tell him it had paid the fine on 2 July 2022, it left him 
with around three weeks within which he could have submitted an appeal to the 
issuing authority. That was reasonable time. 
I dont therefore find that Mr N was treated unfairly by VCFSs decision to pay the 
fine. 
Mr Ns hire agreement required him to reimburse VCFS for penalties like this that it 
paid along with an administration fee of £30. So VCFSs requirement that Mr N pay 
these sums wasnt unreasonable either.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ns 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Michael Ball
Ombudsman