DRN-3985191
The complaint
T raised a complaint that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited (trading as Cashplus) wont 
refund transactions it didnt make. 
Mr C is the sole director for T, who Ill refer to throughout the decision. 
What happened
Mr C received a call from someone pretending to be from Cashplus. They told him 
there were three fraudulent transactions on Ts account and theyd need one-time-
passcodes sent by text to put the money back into the account. 
That day, three online card payments were made from Ts account totalling 
£28,047.98. As they were international payments, T was also charged £450.02 in 
fees. 
Mr C contacted Cashplus to report the fraud. It declined to refund T, primarily 
because Mr C shared one-time-passcodes with the caller. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator for these reasons: 
In line with the Payment Service Regulations 2017, T is not liable for payments that 
Mr C, as the sole director, didnt authorise. Thats unless he failed with gross 
negligence or intent to comply with the terms of the account or keep Ts personalised 
security details safe.
Its agreed Mr C didnt authorise the transactions, because he didnt complete the 
agreed steps to make the payments. Instead it seems the fraudster already had Ts 
card details and completed the card payments using one-time-passcodes they 
convinced Mr C to share by falsely saying there had been fraudulent transactions on 
Ts account. 
I dont think Mr C failed with intent to keep Ts details safe  he genuinely believed 
what he was doing was to sort out fraudulent transactions on Ts account. 
Im also not satisfied Mr C failed with gross negligence. He received the call from a 
private number. Hes said lots of businesses who call him appear like this, so he 
didnt think it was unusual. Hes mentioned theyd his CVV number too, so I can see 
how he trusted the caller. 
The caller asked him to share three one-time-passcodes theyd send by text to 
restore Ts account after three fraudulent transactions had been taken. Mr C said he 
felt concerned that someone had taken so much money and was anxious to sort it 
out. So he shared the codes. 
Ive considered the content of the messages received, which Mr C shared with us: 
[XXXXXX] is your code to verify the payment [amount] EUR at [merchant] with card 
ending [XXXX].
I note this doesnt contain a warning and the code comes first. So I can see how 
Mr C couldve focused on this without taking in the rest of the message, particularly 
when he was anxious and acting in the heat of the moment. Either way, it strikes me 
that the language used  to verify the payment  means its at least plausible this 
could be connected to receiving money back to the account. 
Cashplus say Mr C wouldve been familiar with how these messages are for making 
card payments. But most customers dont know how their banks deal with fraudulent 
transactions  so they wouldnt know that one-time-passcodes couldnt have more 
than one purpose. Im also mindful that Mr C wasnt acting in the context of making 
card payments  he thought he was speaking with his genuine bank about fraud and 
wouldnt have known this was in fact a fraudster who already had Ts card details. 
Ive also reflected on how Mr C was primed to expect these codes from Cashplus. So 
when they came through as expected, I can understand how he wouldve felt 
reassured this was genuine. 
Cashplus has also raised that Mr C wouldve received warnings about scams from it 
and more generally in the media. But Im not persuaded that failing to remember 
generic warnings means that he seriously disregarded an obvious risk. I note that 
Cashplus own staff commented on how these scams are still commonplace and how 
they are increasingly more sophisticated and convincing. 
Ive finally noted its point that as T is a limited company, it would expect more. But 
even considering this, Im not persuaded that Mr C acted with very significant 
carelessness, for all the reasons Ive explained. 
Taking this into account, I dont think Cashplus has shown that Mr C failed with gross 
negligence. So I conclude that T isnt liable for the transactions and Cashplus need to 
put things right  by refunding the total of the unauthorised transactions, less any 
amount already returned, alongside the fees in connection with them. 
Cashplus shouldve refunded these transactions much sooner. To reflect the time T 
has been out of pocket, Ive also awarded 8% simple interest per year. 
My final decision
For these reasons, my decision is to uphold Ts complaint and I order Advanced Payment
Solutions Limited to:
Pay T the total of the unauthorised transactions, less any amount already returned, 
alongside the fees in connection with them. 
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount, from the date of the unauthorised 
transactions to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible). Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2023.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman