DRN-2969302
The complaint
Mrs R complains about the way that Capital One (Europe) plc dealt with a transaction on her 
credit card account that she disputed.
What happened
Mrs R was concerned to see a payment for £48.99 on 21 August 2020 made to a merchant 
from her account. She contacted Capital One and told it that this was an error and the 
merchant had cancelled it. She was told that this was still showing as a pending transaction. 
And that it would take up to seven days for this to be removed. Mrs R was unhappy that she 
couldnt access the full credit on her account and believed that she would be charged an 
over limit fee and interest.
Capital One said it hadnt made a mistake. It said that it couldnt cancel a pending payment. 
And that the merchant had up to seven days to claim the funds or the amount would drop 
off the system. There was no interest or over limit fee charged as a result of this payment.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He understood Mrs Rs 
frustration at what had happened. This payment had been authenticated with Mrs Rs card 
details and approved. The merchant had agreed that it had been taken in error. But this 
didnt affect how it was shown as pending in the system. This payment was never added to 
the balance on the account that was subject to interest. But it was taken into account when 
working out how much available credit was left. The time taken for this to be removed was 
an industry standard period and not something that Capital One could reduce here. 
There had been no actual payment debited or interest or fees relating to it and so Mrs R 
hadnt suffered a financial loss. Although Mrs R had told him that the payment shouldnt 
have been authorised as shed told Capital One not to allow payments over the limit, the 
account balance hadnt actually gone over the limit. And there was no evidence to support 
Capital One having agreed not to authorise payments in this way or in any event as hed 
said that this specific payment had caused any loss to her.
Mrs R didnt agree and wanted her complaint to be reviewed. She asked for more time to the 
end of August 2021 to give further comments taking into account some difficult personal 
circumstances for her.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about Mrs Rs personal difficulties. She hasnt provided any further 
evidence during the time period she requested, and I think I can now fairly continue to make 
my decision about her complaint.
On her evidence the merchant  who shed made a payment to before  made an error 
when it processed this payment. And she rightly contacted it when she noticed what had 
happened and it seems it agreed to cancel the payment. But when the payment was 
authorised that reserved an amount on her account. That wasnt applied to the actual 
balance, but it reduced her available credit. Here I know Mrs R says had the payment been 
applied it would have taken her over the limit. And I can see she made credit payments to 
her account shown on her statement on 21 August 2020 and 24 August 2020 believing these 
were required to stop her being charged fees. 
Our investigator is right when he said that this was a pending payment. And it remained on 
the account for a standard period to allow for the merchant to claim it. Here the merchant 
didnt do so as agreed with Mrs R, so the pending amount eventually was removed. I fully 
understand that this wasnt quick enough for Mrs R and Ive listened to recordings of calls 
she had with Capital One on 24 and 27 August 2020 when she raised her dissatisfaction 
about this. On 27 August 2020 she spoke to a manager in the complaints team who 
explained to her that the pending amount couldnt be removed. He asked her to hold on 
while he explored other options to assist but believing that Capital One was refusing to 
refund the money Mrs R terminated the call.
We dont have a role in saying what processes Capital One puts in place as we arent the 
regulator. And here the way this pending payment was reflected was in line with industry 
practice. Mrs R says that she had an arrangement with Capital One that it wouldnt authorise 
payments that could take her over the limit. Thats not something she raised with Capital 
One as part of this complaint and she hasnt provided evidence to support this. She explains 
that something similar had happened before and that she didnt want it to happen again. But 
Im afraid that how Capital One manages the limit on the account generally and whether it 
agrees to payments over the limit when presented with a request for authorisation is a matter 
for it to determine. I have nothing to support any special arrangement here for Mrs R. And 
the overriding point it that her balance didnt actually go over the limit resulting in any 
additional charges. She may want to contact Capital One about whether any specific 
measures can be put in place to help her in future but thats not something I can require it to 
do as a resolution to this complaint.
I understand Mrs Rs frustration but Im afraid on the information that wasnt caused by an 
error by Capital One. I dont have a reasonable basis to require it to do anything further.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 October 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman