DRN-4361410
The complaint
Mr B and Ms B complain about AWP P&C SAs settlement of their travel insurance claim. My 
references to AWP include its agents.
What happened
Mr B and Ms B have travel insurance through a bank account. The insurer is AWP.
Mr B and Ms B had to extend their holiday abroad as Mr B tested positive for Covid-19. They 
isolated in their bed and breakfast accommodation for three days then the doctor they saw 
said they could leave their accommodation but a fit to fly certificate couldnt be issued for at 
least 10 days. Mr B and Ms B claimed for medical costs, food and amenity costs for their 
extended stay.
AWP paid the medical costs and a medical confinement benefit of a total of £300 for the 
three days Mr B and Ms B were confined to their accommodation. AWP wouldnt pay the 
food costs or other amenity costs Mr B and Ms B incurred after they came out of 
confinement and before they returned to the UK. AWP accepted it had delayed in assessing 
the claim and offered £30 compensation as an apology for the delay.
Mr B and Ms B complained to us. They said if theyd originally booked to stay in half-board 
or all-inclusive accommodation AWP would have covered that type of accommodation for 
the trip extension which would have included food costs, so AWP should pay their food 
costs. 
Our investigator said AWP had reasonably settled the claim.
Mr B and Ms B disagree and want an ombudmans decision. They added:
AWP unfairly penalised policyholders who chose bed and breakfast accommodation 
which people chose for economic or dietary reasons.
They didnt choose to extended their stay and incur additional costs, they had to.
AWP should have been clear that it wouldnt pay for food when Ms B told it about the 
situation. They queried why AWP told Ms B to send it all their receipts if it wasnt 
going to pay food costs. 
They would like a list of what costs AWP had considered, other than medical costs.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly and 
they mustnt turn down (or settle) claims unreasonably.
I think AWP reasonably settled the claim. Ill explain why.
The policy terms set out the contract of insurance between AWP and Mr B and Ms B which 
includes the costs AWP is prepared to cover. 
The policy says under the Emergency medical and associated expenses section that if Mr B 
and/or Ms B are diagnosed with Covid-19 while on their trip AWP will pay emergency 
medical costs and:
A medical confinement benefit of £50 a day (up to a maximum of £1,000) for every 
complete period of 24 hours you are admitted to hospital as an in-patient or are 
confined to your accommodation outside of your home country, on the advice of a 
treating doctor.
AWP paid Mr B and Ms B £300 for the medical confinement benefit, so £50 per person for 
the three days they were confined to their accommodation, which is the correct payment on 
the evidence Ive seen.
The poilcy also says under the same section that AWP will pay:
reasonable additionalaccommodation expenses incurred, up to the standard of 
your original booking, if it is medically necessary for you to stay beyond your 
scheduled return date.
I understand Mr B and Ms Bs point that if they had originally been in accommodation where 
the cost of food was included AWP would have covered the food costs. But as Mr B and 
Ms B had originally booked bed and breakfast accommodation AWP acted in line with the 
policy terms, and fairly, in covering the extended cost of that standard of accommodation 
which didnt include other meals.
I sympathise with Mr B and Ms B as they didnt choose to have the extended stay abroad 
and they incurred additional food and amenity costs as a result. But there isnt any cover for 
such costs in the policy. And I dont think theres any basis on which I can fairly say that 
AWP should pay for those expenses, which it never agreed to cover. Most travel policies 
dont include cover for food costs for an extended stay apart from perhaps if the original 
accommodation was inclusive of food, which wasnt Mr B and Ms Bs situation. 
Even if AWP wasnt clear to Ms B when she called that it wouldnt pay food costs I dont 
think that disadvantaged her and Mr B as they were always going to have to pay for meals 
whether or not AWP would cover the cost. AWP told Mr B and Ms B that it asked for receipts 
for any expenses incurred as its claims team would assess the costs claimed against the 
policy wording to see what it would pay. I dont think AWP acted unreasonably in asking for 
the receipts when they claimed. 
On the evidence I have I think AWP reasonably settled the claim.
AWP has set out what the settlement payment covered in its 23 November 2022 letter to 
Ms B. If Mr B and Ms B think there are any costs AWP hasnt covered that it should have, 
bearing in mind what Ive said above about cover, they should contact AWP direct. If the 
parties cant agree about cover for any additional costs ultimately Mr B and Ms B can make 
a separate complaint to us.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Ms B to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman