DRN-4297405
The complaint
Miss M complained that her motor claim was unduly delayed and the customer service 
lacking under her policy with Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral). She also 
didnt think the settlement received was fair. Miss M had representation during the claim, but 
for ease and simplicity, Ill only refer to Miss M.
What happened
Miss M made a claim when her car was vandalised, but she raised a complaint two weeks 
later as she felt it wasnt progressing quick enough. Miss M was unhappy that she was 
passed between departments, and she didnt think Admiral called her back when it promised 
to.
Admiral apologised for not calling back and it said backlogs caused its engineer to take 
longer than normal to review Miss Ms repair estimate. Admiral paid £100 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience caused and paid £20 for the cost of Miss M making calls.
Miss M didnt think this was enough, she wanted her premiums refunded and higher 
compensation as she said she used taxis and wasted time making phone calls. Miss M was 
unhappy as Admiral cash settled the claim for £6,885  she said the repairs cost £12,031. 
Admiral didnt authorise the higher figure as it said it could get the repairs done for a lower 
amount at a different garage.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. She thought the compensation paid 
was in line with our services compensation framework. She also thought the cash 
settlement was fair as Admiral had provided evidence it could get the work done cheaper. 
Miss M disagreed, so the case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Admiral offered to get the repairs completed through one of its authorised garages or to 
provide a cash settlement instead. Ive checked what the policy sets out for how Miss Ms 
claim should be settled. It sets out that Admiral will repair any damage using its approved 
supplier. However, the policy states Admiral could choose to cash settle the claim and 
stated, we will offer you cash sum to cover reasonable costs of parts and labour.
I think Admiral have acted reasonably as it offered to repair the car in line with the policy. 
However, Miss M wanted her car to be repaired by her own chosen garage. This is her right 
under the policy. However, when Miss M presented the estimate to have the repairs carried 
out by her own garage the cost was significantly higher than it wouldve cost at Admirals 
approved supplier. I think Admiral has proven it couldve got the work carried out cheaper, I 
think when Miss M chose to have the repairs done at her own garage, Admiral was fair in 
only paying the costs it wouldve cost itself to get the work carried out. So, I dont uphold this 
aspect of the complaint.
Ive considered the service and delays Miss M experienced. I think any claim there is likely to 
be a certain level of process to follow. Its important a claim is properly reviewed and 
validated. The very nature of a claim is inconvenient, its very unfortunate that Miss M had 
her car vandalised. This inconvenience isnt the insurers fault, its just Miss M is a victim of a 
crime.
Admiral acknowledged it caused some delay due to backlogs at the time. However, I dont 
think these were excessive and I think part of the perceived delay was over the 
disagreement on what any cash settlement should be. Therefore, I dont think the delays and 
service provided by Admiral warrants more than the £120 compensation that has been paid.
I can see the policy doesnt cover a courtesy car when a cash settlement is paid, so in these 
circumstances Miss M wouldve been expected to arrange her own temporary transport 
(E.g., her own courtesy car or taxis and pay for it herself). I think the compensation paid is 
aligned with what our service would deem appropriate for these circumstances. Ive also 
noted that Admiral asked Miss M to provide further evidence if there were any outstanding 
concerns. I think this is a reasonable approach and havent seen evidence of any new 
issues.
Miss M has asked our service to review some calls, but without her being specific as to 
which calls we need to listen to and what evidence we would find, I cant be convinced this 
would have any impact on my decision.
In summary, I think Admiral has compensated Miss M fairly for the drop in service level and I 
think it settled the claim in a reasonable manner. So, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require Admiral Insurance 
(Gibraltar) Limited to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman