DRN-4249972
The complaint
Mr T complains Bank of Ireland (UK) plc (BOI) provided poor customer service when he 
visited a local branch to withdraw cash.
What happened
Mr T says in early December 2022 he prearranged with BOIs call centre to withdraw £3,000 
in cash from his bank account at a city centre branch. Mr T says when he visited the branch 
he was served by a young female member of staff who had the cash ready for him, but 
during the transaction a more senior member of staff intervened and asked him the purpose 
of the withdrawal. Mr T says he was shocked at the rude manner in which the questions 
were being asked by the member of staff and felt he should have been taken aside into a 
private room to discuss this. 
Mr T feels BOI, and the member of staff should apologise in writing for the way he was 
treated. 
BOI says the member of staff was carrying out the branch standard procedures when 
dealing with cash withdrawals above £2,000. BOI says it has apologised for the lack of 
privacy granted at the time and this has been fed back to the relevant management for future 
training. BOI says it has spoken to the member of staff concerned who didnt feel a personal 
apology was warranted, as all banking procedures were correctly followed. BOI also felt that 
if a member of staff didnt want to have their personal details named in a letter of apology, it 
couldnt insist they must do so. 
Mr T wasnt happy with BOIs response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator says BOI followed its standard procedures for dealing with cash withdrawals of 
this size. The investigator says she understood Mr Ts upset over the fact he wasnt provided 
privacy at the time of the transaction, but it had apologised for that and provided feedback to 
the relevant members of staff for future consideration. The investigator says she wasnt able 
to ask BOI to tell its member of staff to write a personal letter of apology and the fact BOI 
has apologised was sufficient here.
Mr T didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision.
I can understand it would have been frustrating for Mr T having pre ordered the cash 
withdrawal only then to be asked further questions in branch before the cash was released. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if BOI have provided Mr T with a suitable 
explanation and apology regarding this matter. 
Mr T feels when he visited the BOI city centre branch in December 2022 to withdraw £3,000 
in cash from his bank account, as this had been already pre-arranged, no further questioning 
should have been necessary and if it was, then this should have been done in private. While 
I do have some sympathy with Mr T here, its worth saying the member of staff was carrying 
out the procedures of BOI for cash withdrawals of this size and I have been provided details 
of those procedures. So, the member of staff was carrying out his duties here even if Mr T 
may not agree. 
I do agree it would have been more appropriate for the member of BOI staff to have asked 
Mr T if he wanted to be provided with privacy before asking the questions he did, but BOI 
have apologised for that and provided feedback to those concerned.
My role as an ombudsman isnt to penalise or punish businesses when service issues like 
this arise but to ensure that it apologises for that and takes actions to avoid such issues re-
occurring  given it has provided a written apology, an explanation why these questions 
were asked and provided feedback to its staff  I am satisfied it has acted reasonably here. 
While Mr T would like a personal letter of apology from BOIs member of staff, I agree with 
BOI thats not appropriate here as the member of staff was carrying out BOIs own 
procedures, put in place to protect its customers from potential fraud. BOI dont feel it can 
insist its member of staff should write a personal letter of apology regarding the privacy 
provided and I cant insist it must- as I have said previously, BOI have apologised for that 
already. 
While Mr T will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of BOI here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2023.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman