DRN-3416206
The complaint
Mr S complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) wont refund two payments he made after 
falling victim to a scam.
What happened
In 2016, Mr S was introduced to an investment opportunity off the back of a referral by a 
tradesperson who had completed work for Mr S. The opportunity involved investing in 
overseas holiday/rental property and receiving a rental return. The investment was meant to 
be made through a company Ill refer to as  A.
What Mr S says happened:
He was promised huge capital growth and massive rental yields - a guaranteed 
return of 5% which could go as high as 20%. 
Mr S was presented with and signed a contract that had a UK jurisdiction clause, 
which was later switched for a contract with an overseas jurisdiction clause.
The contract was taken to a conveyancer the family knew, who said it was fine. Albeit 
they had no knowledge of overseas property law.
It was arranged for fake investors to talk to Mr S about their satisfaction with the 
investment.
A family member travelled overseas to the location where the new property would be 
built and was shown properties that A had previously completed.
After making the payments and buying into the property development, the person 
who convinced Mr S to invest suggested they had potential buyers, but nothing ever 
came of the buyers.
Mr S saw a television program that reported on unsuitable pension advice relating to 
A and introducers it used. Mr S asked about this and was told A was suing the 
program producer for incorrect information, which reassured Mr S.
Mr S made two payments from his Halifax account as part of the investment, both on 30 
November 2016. The first payment was for £25,000 and the second was for £5,000. Mr S 
believed the payments were being made to an account held by A.
After not receiving the returns he was promised Mr S spent significant time researching A, 
their introducers and the person who introduced him to the investment. 
As a result, Mr S became convinced that he had been the victim of a scam and contacted 
Lloyds in 2021, raising a fraud claim and asking Lloyds to refund him.
Lloyds investigated Mr Ss claim but declined to refund him. They said A is a registered 
company who has been trading since 2007 and are still trading. As such, they dont believe 
Mr S was the victim of a scam, rather it was a civil matter whereby Mr S was not happy with 
the goods/services he received. They also said the payments Mr S made didnt meet their 
criteria for any additional security checks. 
Mr S wasnt happy with Lloyds response, so he brought a complaint to our service.
An investigator looked into Mr Ss complaint and didnt uphold it. In summary, they felt the 
payments Mr S made were unusual and out of character whereby Lloyds shouldve identified 
Mr S as potentially being the victim of a scam. The investigator thought Lloyds shouldve 
called Mr S to discuss the payments, but felt it was unlikely Lloyds wouldve uncovered the 
scam and prevented the payments.
Mr S didnt agree with the investigators opinion, saying:
Lloyds were required to check that the sort code and account number were 
legitimate, and this shouldve flagged that he wasnt paying the company he thought 
he was.
A lot of the information he relied on about the investment came from a family member 
who wasnt a professional, and Lloyds shouldve told him to conduct his own 
research.
He didnt seek legal advice and Lloyds shouldve told him to do so. Lloyds also 
shouldve satisfied themselves that any solicitor he did use had the right legal 
background to provide that advice.
Lloyds were wrong for not intervening. Their intervention wouldve given him the 
information he needed to make an informed decision. And the investigator didnt take 
into account the errors Lloyds had made.
As Mr S disagreed with the investigators opinion, the case was passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same out as the investigator and for broadly the same 
reasons. Ill explain why.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and
conditions of the customers account. And I have taken that into account when looking into
what is fair and reasonable in this case. But a bank also has to be on the lookout for, and
help to prevent payments, that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. 
So, Ive taken all of that into consideration when looking through Mr Ss complaint.Should Lloyds have prevented the payments from being made?
The two payments Mr S made were for £25,000 and £5,000. Having reviewed Mr Ss 
previous account use, I can see these payments were particularly unusual and out of 
character. Previously his account had been used for purchases and payments that didnt 
exceed £300, and these payments were significantly higher. On that basis I think Lloyds 
shouldve identified that Mr S could be the victim of a scam and should have contacted Mr S 
to discuss the payments before processing them.
The sort of questions I would expect Lloyds to ask during that discussion would include the 
purpose of the payment, how Mr S came across the investment, what he knew about the 
company he was investing with, and what checks hed done.
Based on what Mr S has told us, I think its most likely he wouldve told Lloyds that hed 
learned about the investment through an individual introduced by a tradesperson theyd 
worked with. And that a family member had flown overseas and seen previous property 
developments that A had successfully completed. I also think any questioning is likely to 
have brought out that a lot of the information about the investment came from a family 
member, and the contract had been taken to a solicitor who said it was fine.
While I would expect Lloyds to ask relevant and appropriate questions to try and identify 
potential victims of a scam, there is a limit to how far I would expect that questioning to go. In 
this case, where the purpose of the funds was for overseas investment, it was probably 
appropriate for Lloyds to ask if Mr S had sought independent advice  which he had. 
However, I wouldnt expect Lloyds to go to the lengths suggested by Mr S, by asking 
questions to make sure that the person Mr S talked to was appropriately qualified to give him 
the advice. Especially when taking into account the other information he wouldve given 
them. And there wasnt an expectation on Lloyds to carry out their own research on the 
appropriateness of the investment or the validity of the company Mr S was investing in. 
Mr S has raised a concern about Lloyds not checking the account he was making the 
payment to  as he feels this wouldve uncovered the scam. But, at the time Mr S made the 
payment, Confirmation of Payee (COP) wasnt in place and banks were only required to 
check that the sort code and account number was valid. That didnt require Lloyds to find out 
who actually owned the account Mr S was making the payment to, or find out if the account 
name matched the payee name hed provided on his payment instructions. I appreciate that 
its highly possible if Lloyds had done that check, it wouldve uncovered the scam, but I cant 
hold Lloyds accountable to complete checks that werent an industry standard or best 
practice at that time. 
I appreciate that Mr S feels we should take into account the mistakes Lloyds has made, by 
not intervening and discussing the payments with him. But, that doesnt mean that Mr S is 
entitled to a refund or a payment. Especially as Im not persuaded that their intervention 
would have changed the outcome with regards to the payments being made. 
Mr S also referred us to a decision issued on a separate complaint brought by a family 
member which we upheld. But its important to note that we consider each case on its own 
individual merits  which I what is what Ive done here.
Having considered everything carefully, Im satisfied that Lloyds shouldve discussed the 
payments with Mr S before processing them. But Im not persuaded that a discussion 
wouldve uncovered the scam or prevented Mr S from making the payments. So, I dont think 
Lloyds acted unreasonably in processing the payments and I cant fairly ask them to refund 
Mr S.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2022.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman