DRN-2266062
The complaint 
Mr T complains that TFS Loans Limited lent him an unaffordable loan in February 2017. 
What happened 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time the loan was offered. 
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the adjudicator for these reasons:
Mr Ts loan was for £7,500 due to be repaid over 48 monthly payments of £317.75. 
From the results of the credit search that TFS carried out, Mr T had a default 
recorded on his file within the last two years. I think that given the term of the loan 
and the fact that the repayment was more than 20% of his declared income of 
£1,480, TFS should have taken its checks further to independently verify some of the 
information Mr T provided about his monthly income and expenses when he applied 
for the loan. As it didnt do this, I dont think its checks went far enough.
TFS disagreed with the adjudicators findings that this complaint should be upheld on 
the grounds that it believes Mr T provided misleading information about his finances 
at the time of the loan. But TFS had an obligation as a lender in this instance to take 
reasonable steps to satisfy itself that Mr T could sustainably repay the loan over the 
term.  I dont think it was reasonable for TFS to rely solely on what Mr T told it about 
his circumstances when agreeing to lend.
Had TFS taken its checks further, I think its likely to have found that Mr T couldnt 
sustainably afford to repay this loan over the 48-month term. Mr T has provided 
copies of his bank statements which Ive used to get a better understanding of his 
circumstances at the time of the loan.
From the information Ive seen, Mr Ts income was around £1,519 and although the 
loan was used to repay some his other debts, Mr Ts statement shows he continued 
repaying debts to family and friends of over £500 regularly, his rent including utilities 
was around £500 and he was making credit card payments of around £80 per month. 
Also, Mr Ts insurance payments were around £168. Without even taking into 
account his food and transportation costs, Mr T didnt have enough to make the 
monthly repayment of £317.75. 
On this basis, I conclude that Mr T couldnt afford the loan and TFS shouldnt have 
lent to him.
For these reasons, my decision is to uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Putting things right 
I require TFS Loans Limited to:
Remove all interest and charges applied to the loan.
Treat all payments Mr T has made as payments towards the capital amount of 
£7,500.
If theres a surplus, TFS should add 8% simple interest on the above from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*. 
If theres still an outstanding capital amount, then TFS should agree a suitable 
repayment plan with Mr T.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ts credit file as a result of the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS Loans Limited to deduct tax from the interest 
payment referred to above. TFS Loans Limited must give Mr T a certificate showing how 
much tax its deducted if he asks it for one.
My final decision 
My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2021.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman