DRN-4360600
Complaint
Mr L has complained about a personal loan Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 
Money) provided to him. He says the loan was unaffordable and so irresponsibly lent to him.
Background
118 118 Money provided Mr L with a loan for £3,000.00 in June 2022. This loan had an APR 
of 37.9% and a term of 36 months. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of 
£4,741.92, including interest, fees and charges of £1,741.92, was due to be repaid in 36 
monthly instalments of £131.72. 
118 118 Moneys final response also referred to a credit card that was provided to Mr L in 
May 2022. However, Mr Ls completed complaint form specially refers to only referring the 
complaint about the loan. So weve only looked at Mr Ls complaint about his loan. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed Mr Ls complaint and that thought that it didnt do anything 
wrong when providing Mr L with his loan. So he didnt recommend that Mr Ls complaint be 
upheld. 
Mr L disagreed with our adjudicators assessment. So the case was passed to an 
ombudsman as per the next step of our dispute resolution process. 
My provisional decision of 4 September 2023
I issued a provisional decision  on 4 September 2023 - setting out why I intended to uphold           
Mr Ls complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a summary of my 
findings. 
I started by explaining that weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable 
and irresponsible lending on our website. And that I had used this approach to help me 
provisionally decide Mr Ls complaint. 
118 118 Money needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means 
is that 118 118 Money needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr L could afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. I 
considered what 118 118 Money had done in light of this.
The credit search 118 118 Money carried out appeared to show that Mr L had had difficulties 
with credit. He had a number of defaults on his credit file and Mr L was approaching for this 
loan shortly after having taken out a credit card with 118 118 Money. Bearing all of this in 
mind, I thought that 118 118 Money needed to find out more about Mr Ls actual monthly 
expenditure before concluding that the payments to this loan were affordable for him.
Mr L provided us with evidence of his financial circumstances at the time he applied for his 
loan. I did accept that different checks might show different things. And just because 
something showed up in the information Mr L had provided, it didnt mean that it would have 
shown up in any checks 118 118 Money might have carried out. 
But in the absence of anything else from 118 118 Money showing what this information 
would have shown, I thought that it was perfectly fair, reasonable and proportionate to place 
considerable weight on what this information said as an indication of what Mr Ls financial 
circumstances were more likely than not to have been at the time. 
I thought that it was also important to note that 118 118 Money was required to establish 
whether Mr L could sustainably make his loan repayments  not just whether the loan 
payments were technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. The loan 
payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence basis might be an indication that a 
consumer could sustainably make the repayments. 
But it didnt automatically follow that this was the case. And as a borrower shouldnt have to 
borrow further in order to make their payments, it followed that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower would not be able to sustainably make 
their repayments if it was on notice that they were unlikely to be able to make their 
repayments without borrowing further. 
I carefully considered the information provided in light of all of this.The information provided 
showed that the reason for Mr Ls indebtedness and apparent inability to manage his money. 
Given what I could see, it was apparent to me that Mr L was unlikely to have been able to 
repay his loan without borrowing further or experiencing financial difficulty. 
As this was the case, I thought that Mr Ls existing financial position meant that he was 
unlikely to be able to afford the repayments to this loan, without undue difficulty or borrowing 
further. And I was satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would more like than 
not have shown 118 118 Money that it shouldnt have provided this loan to Mr L. 
As 118 118 Money provided Mr L with this loan, notwithstanding this, I was minded to 
conclude that it failed to act fairly and reasonably towards him. And I confirmed that it was 
my intention to uphold this complaint in my final decision. 
Mr L ended up paying interest, fees and charges on a loan he shouldnt have been provided 
with. So I explained that it was my intention to find that Mr L lost out because of what              
118 118 Money did wrong and issue a final decision which directed 118 118 Money to put 
things right for Mr L.
Responses to my provisional decision
Neither Mr L nor 118 118 Money responded to my provisional decision or provided anything 
further to me to consider.My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I set out in some detail why I intended to uphold Mr Ls complaint in my provisional decision 
of 4 September 2023. As Ive not been provided with anything further by the parties to 
consider, Ive not been persuaded to alter my conclusions. So overall and having considered 
everything, Im still upholding Mr Ls complaint and I remain satisfied that 118 118 Money 
needs to put things right. 
Fair compensation  what 118 118 Money needs to do to put things right for Mr L
Having thought about everything, Im currently minded to conclude that 118 118 Money 
should put things right for Mr L by:
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset. The 
payments Mr L made, whether to 118 118 Money or any third-party debt purchaser, 
should be deducted from the new starting balance  the £3,000.00 originally lent. If 
Mr L has already repaid more than £3,000.00 then 118 118 Money should treat any 
extra as overpayments. And any overpayments should be refunded to Mr L;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if any, from the date 
they were made by Mr L to the date of settlement
if no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, all adverse 
information 118 118 Money recorded about this loan should be removed from Mr Ls 
credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires 118 118 Money to take off tax from this interest. 118 118 
Money must give Mr L a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision of 4 September 2023, 
Im upholding Mr Ls complaint. Madison CF UK Limited should put things right in the way 
Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman