DRN-3447340
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that Lloyds Bank PLC introduced a fee for its Gold account.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P had a Gold account with Lloyds. In the past, the account operated on the basis 
the monthly fee would be waived if a balance of over £2,000 was maintained. In June 2021 
Lloyds wrote to Mr and Mrs P and said it intended to withdraw the fee waiver arrangement it 
had in place. That meant from 1 September 2021 Mr and Mrs P would be charged £14.95 
regardless of their account balance. 
Mr and Mrs P complained about the upcoming change to the fees and said theyd previously 
been promised it would be free. Lloyds didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint and said its 
account terms and conditions allowed it to vary the fees it charges. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. They thought Lloyds had 
dealt with the complaint fairly and didnt ask it to take further action. 
Mr and Mrs P asked to appeal and said a promise of no charge had been given in writing 
when the account was opened. Mr P said hed regularly contacted Lloyds previously and it 
had agreed to leave the fee waiver in place in the past. Mr P also said the account was not 
fee bearing when it was first opened and that Lloyds had made a no fee promise. As Mr and 
Mrs P asked to appeal, their complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs P have told us the account was opened in the 1960s and that Lloyds promised 
at the time it wouldnt incur any fees. But Mr and Mrs P have provided a letter from Lloyds 
from February 2008 titles Introducing your new Gold account. The letter gives details of new 
benefits that were available for Gold account holders. These included the ability to collect 
airmiles and use Lloyds mobile phone insurance. These were new features, not previously 
included in the services offered under the Gold account. I make this point to show that the 
way an account operates over time can change. Services can be added or removed on the 
basis a bank account provider acts in line with the account terms. 
Mr and Mrs P have forwarded a letter from March 2008. In that letter, Lloyds said Mr and 
Mrs P would continue to enjoy the account benefits on the basis that they maintained a 
credit balance of at least £2,000. The letter refers to this arrangement as a fee waiver. In my 
view, Lloyds letter makes it clear that the account was fee bearing but that it would be 
waived on the condition Mr and Mrs P maintained a certain balance. Thats not the same as 
saying the account was fee free. 
Mr P has told us he was previously able to contact Lloyds and agree that no monthly fee 
would apply. Whilst that may be the case, Lloyds has reviewed Mr and Mrs Ps request and 
declined to waive the monthly fee again. Lloyds says its account terms and conditions allow 
it to vary how much it charges by giving reasonable notice of its intentions. Ive checked the 
relevant terms and Im satisfied that Lloyds has given reasonable notice in this case. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs P didnt pay a monthly fee for their Gold account but Im 
satisfied thats on the basis their balance was over £2,000. I havent seen anything that 
verifies the claim Lloyds promised to never charge a fee for Mr and Mrs Ps Gold account. 
And, as Ive set out above, Im satisfied Lloyds can vary the terms on which it provides a 
current account and associated services by giving notice. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs P but as Im satisfied Lloyds has dealt with their complaint 
fairly Im not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman