DRN-3442523
The complaint
Mr P complains the whole of life policy Zurich Assurance Ltd sold him in 1999 was 
unsuitable and he wasnt provided with any alternative options for the cover it provided.
What happened
In April 1999, Mr P met with an adviser from a provider that has since been acquired by 
Zurich. As Zurich has taken on responsibility for the policy any reference made to Zurich also 
applies to the business that sold the policy. At the meeting Zurich recommended Mr P take 
out a reviewable whole of life policy to provide critical illness and life cover.
Mr P, who is represented by a claims management company (CMC), complained to Zurich 
that the policy was unsuitable. Mr P said he hadnt been made aware of alternative policies, 
such as term assurance, nor that the premiums and sum assured were reviewable. He said 
that had he known he could have taken a term policy he would have done so. Mr P said he 
already had a significant amount of life cover at the time.
Zurich didnt uphold the complaint. It said Mr Ps main priority was to protect his family 
against death and protecting his lifestyle against a specific illness, both which were lifetime 
needs. Zurich said the cover provided was lower than Mr P required but this was based on 
his budget at the time and it would be reviewed when Mr P was in a position to do so. Mr P 
didnt agree with Zurich and the CMC brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. 
One of our Investigators looked into things and felt that Zurich hadnt done anything 
significantly wrong. The CMC told the Investigator it didnt agree and asked that an 
Ombudsman decides the complaint. The case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr P will be disappointed, but for very much the same reasons as the 
Investigator Ive decided it wasnt unreasonable for Zurich to have recommended a 
reviewable whole of policy in view of the circumstances at the time. I will now explain why.
The meeting at which the policy was recommended was over 20 years ago. The CMC says 
Mr P wasnt told there were alternative policies on the market and the adviser had a duty to 
tell Mr P it didnt sell term assurance policies at the time. The CMC says that when the 
reviewable whole of life policy was sold, Mr P wasnt told the premiums could increase, or 
that the cover provided could decrease. Ive considered recollections of Mr P, and what 
Zurich recorded at the time of the sale. Having done so, Ive made my decision based on 
what I think is more likely to have happened.
The fact-find records Mr P had a need for critical illness cover. And, although the need was 
for more than the cover provided, the fact-find also records Mr P was working to a monthly 
budget. It seems likely there was a discussion about how long Mr P wanted the cover to last 
as its recorded in the fact-find that Mr P wanted the cover to last for his lifetime, rather than 
a specific term. And, although this policy provided life cover, it seems likely this would be in 
addition to the existing term assurance policy Mr P held at the time that ended in 2013. So, 
in my opinion, it wasnt unreasonable for the reviewable whole of life policy to include some 
life cover for the rest of Mr Ps life and I dont think the additional cover made the 
recommendation unsuitable, or meant that Mr P was over-insured.
CMC says Zurich shouldve told Mr P that a term assurance policy was an alternative at the 
time of the sale. Zurich has provided a copy of an adaptable term assurance brochure and 
application form from this time that supports it offered a term assurance plan, albeit with a 
reviewable premium. A term assurance plan provides cover for a specific period and is often 
used to protect borrowing or fixed term commitments. Indeed, Mr P already held a term 
assurance policy. However, it seems more likely to me that Mr Ps stated need in 1999 was 
for critical illness and life cover to last for the whole of his life, so that there was still some life 
cover in place after his existing term assurance policy ended. Therefore, I dont consider the 
recommendation of a whole of life policy was unsuitable as it reasonably met that need.
The CMC says Mr P wasnt told the premiums were reviewable. Of course, I cant say 
precisely what Mr P was told, but Ive seen a copy of the illustration, policy schedule and key 
features Zurich provided to Mr P. These show the premiums and sum assured were 
reviewable after the first 10 years. So, I consider it more likely Mr P would reasonably have 
been aware the premiums could increase and werent fixed. And that the critical illness and 
life cover could decrease.
It's not in dispute the policy was surrendered after five years and it seems from the 
submissions made by the CMC that Mr P was happy to lose the cover. That may be the 
case, but this doesnt necessarily make the policy unsuitable when it was sold. Mr Ps needs 
may have changed, but I remain satisfied it wasnt unsuitable when it was sold.
My final decision
Ive decided that the whole of life policy Zurich Assurance Ltd sold to Mr P wasnt unsuitable 
at the time of the sale
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2022.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman