DRN-3653712
Complaint
Mr B has complained that Match the Cash Limited (Match the Cash) unfairly brought about 
an unaffordable guarantor loan for him. He says proper affordability checks werent carried 
out and if they had been it would have been clear that the loan was unaffordable. 
Background
Match the Cash operated the electronic system in relation to lending which led to Mr B being 
provided with a guarantor loan in August 2019. The loan was for £5,000.00. The loan had a 
36-month term and an APR of 69.1%. This meant that the total amount of £10,148.40, 
including interest and other charges of £5,148.40, was due to be repaid in 36 monthly 
instalments of just over £280.
Mr Bs complaint was reviewed by one of our investigators. She thought that Match the Cash 
should have brought about this loan as it ought to have seen that it would increase Mr Bs 
indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful. As Match the Cash 
disagreed with our investigators view, the complaint was passed to an ombudsman.
My provisional decision of 29 July 2022
I issued a provisional decision  on 29 July 2022 - setting out why I wasnt intending to 
uphold Mr Bs complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a 
summary of my findings. 
I started by saying that weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and 
irresponsible lending on our website. And that I had used this approach to help me decide 
Mr Bs complaint. 
I went on to explain that Match the Cash needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able 
to understand whether Mr B could afford to make the loan payments before bringing about 
this guarantor loan for him. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for checks to be less thorough  in 
terms of how much information is gathers and what is done to verify it  in the early stages of 
a lending relationship.
But we might think more needed to be done if, for example, a borrowers income was low or 
the amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the 
risk of it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed 
expect a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Match the Cash enquiries into Mr Bs circumstances suggested that he was employed and 
earning around £2,600.00 a month. It was also my understanding that Match the Cash 
carried out a credit check which showed Mr B had a hire-purchase agreement he was 
making payments to, balances on a couple of other active accounts with no repayment 
issues at the time. Match the Cash also obtained some information on Mr Bs living 
expenses from him too. And everything gathered did suggest that Mr B would be able to 
make the repayments to his loan. 
As there was no recent concerning information on Mr Bs credit file, anything else to 
contradict what Mr B had declared and this was his first loan with Match the Cash, I didnt 
think that it was unreasonable for Match the Cash to rely on the information it obtained. 
Furthermore, even allowing for this there appeared to have been a reasonable margin left 
over to make the loan payments. And I couldnt see anything on the bank statements 
provided which indicated that the loan payments were unaffordable either.
I accepted that our investigator suggested that this loan was unsustainable because Mr B 
was regularly using his overdraft. But I didnt share that view. Instead I thought that whilst the 
regular use of an overdraft could sometimes be an indication that a consumer might be 
struggling, I was mindful here that Mr Bs overdraft limit was very low  only £140. 
And with such a low limit, I couldnt reasonably say that Match the Cash ought to have 
realised that Mr B may have been struggling to exit his overdraft, rather than choosing to use 
it, when he appeared to have had the funds to clear the balance. Equally, given Mr B had 
such a low limit it was fair to say Mr B could have used a small proportion of the loan 
proceeds to clear his overdraft had he wished to do so. 
I did accept that Mr B might have had difficulty making the payments to this loan and it was 
possible that his circumstances did worsen and I was sorry to hear about Mr Bs difficulties. 
But I was satisfied that Match the Cashs checks before approving this loan were 
proportionate. And the information gathered suggested that Mr B could afford the payments 
at least at the time the loan was provided. 
I also thought I should explain it was only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in 
circumstances where a respondent firm did something wrong. And, in this case, I didnt think 
that Match the Cash had done anything wrong when bringing about Mr Bs loan. The key 
thing here was that it carried out proportionate checks which suggested the repayments 
would be affordable for him. 
So overall I was minded to conclude that Match the Cash didnt treat Mr B unfairly or 
unreasonably when bringing about his guarantor loan. As this was the case and while I 
sympathised with Mr B as a result of any difficulties he might have gone on to have, I 
concluded by saying that I wasnt intending to uphold his complaint. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Match the Cash responded to my provisional decision confirming that it agreed with it and 
that it had nothing further to add. 
Mr B didnt respond to my provisional decision, or ask for any further time to do so.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I set out in some detail why I wasnt intending to uphold Mr Bs complaint. And as neither 
party has provided any further arguments for me to consider, Ive not been persuaded to 
alter my conclusions. So Im still not upholding Mr Bs complaint. I do appreciate this decision is likely to be very disappointing for Mr B - especially as it has 
taken some time for him to receive an answer on his case and our investigator initially 
suggested the complaint should be upheld. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my 
decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained and in my provisional decision of 29 July 2022, Im not 
upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman