DRN-3780003
The complaint
Mr W says Scottish Widows Schroders Personal Wealth Limited trading as Schroders 
Personal Wealth (Schroders) is responsible for the fall in value of his personal pension 
following its advice to switch his provider. As well as causing him financial detriment he says 
this has caused him considerable anxiety.
What happened
Mr W met with Schroders in September 2021. He held five personal pension policies with 
different providers some of which would not allow him to keep his funds invested beyond age 
75. He wasnt looking to take benefits from this provision, his aim being to leave his pension 
funds untouched for inheritance tax purposes, but with the option of having access to flexible 
drawdown in case he needed to access money in the future.
Schroders produced a suitability report for Mr W dated 27 September 2021. Under the 
section Your Objectives it noted the following:
You would like me to review and if appropriate to move the schemes into a new Fusion 
SIPP so that the pension is consolidated and simplified into a more suitable environment so 
that you have greater control of the capital, access to a scheme that offers flexible access, 
online availability and a scheme that simplifies your affairs. This is important to you as you 
do not feel you have the experience, expertise or desire to manage this yourself. You want 
to enjoy retirement and you do not want the burden or hassle of managing your pensions 
yourself.
Schroders conducted an assessment of Mr Ws attitude to risk. He answered a series of 
questions, typical responses confirmed: in terms of willingness to take financial risk he was a 
moderate risk taker; in considering major financial decisions he accepted both gains and 
losses were possible; he tended to agree that if he held a share-based investment he would 
worry about it if he heard bad financial news; he was unlikely to use spare cash to make 
risky investments. On this basis Schroders assessed Mr W as having a medium appetite for 
risk.
Schroders liaised with Mr Ws then current pension providers and summarised key features 
of each. The following is a short summary:
- Aviva  fund value about £30,000. No exit penalties or benefits lost on switching. 
Invested in medium-high risk funds.
- Aegon  fund value about £58,500. No exit penalties or benefits lost on switching. 
Invested in medium-high risk funds.
- Halifax - fund value about £275,000. No exit penalties or benefits lost on switching. 
Invested in high-risk funds.
- Royal London - fund value about £8,500. No exit penalties or benefits lost on 
switching. Invested in low-risk funds.
- Utmost - fund value about £34,000. No exit penalties or benefits lost on switching. 
Invested in medium-high risk funds.
Schroders recommended Mr W switch from these five pension providers into a Self-invested 
Personal Pension (SIPP) with Fusion Wealth. And that he should invest the funds according 
to his assessed attitude to risk. It noted this would be more expensive than his existing 
arrangements, but would be a good fit with his objectives.
Mr W agreed to Schroderss recommendations. The funds from his previous providers were 
received into his new SIPP between 4 November 2021 and 24 December 2021.
Mr W contacted Schroders on 12 March 2022 raising concerns about what had happened 
following the switch of his pensions into his SIPP. He was unhappy that the value of his fund 
had fallen to around £374,000 by 4 February 2022. He also thought thered been a delay 
investing his Halifax funds once these had been received.
Schroders rejected Mr Ws complaint setting out its investment approach, noting that this 
was a medium to long-term strategy and therefore the problems with forming judgements 
about performance over such a short time frame. It also explained why it wasnt appropriate 
to compare the performance of his former funds with his current arrangement.
Mr W disagreed and brought his complaint to this Service. In summarising his position he 
said:
my main complaint is relating to the reduction in value of my pension pot over a very short 
period following the transfer of funds from the previous pension providers when if the funds 
had been invested in similar funds as those with the Halifax the value would actually have 
increased. It is reasonable to assume that as the other transferred funds were similarly 
invested they would also have increased.
An Investigator considered Mr Ws case and didnt uphold it. She thought that Schroderss 
advice had been suitable based on his objectives. She thought the funds selected had been 
appropriate for his risk appetite. She also concluded there hadnt been an unreasonable 
delay between receipt of the funds and the investments being made. 
Mr W disagreed. He said:
Whatever the risk factors of the various pensions were, and so far as Schroders pensions 
are concerned we have to accept their definition of medium risk, the fact is they lost a 
considerable amount of my pension (several years contributions) during a very short period 
after transferring the pensions which was inexcusable.
As both parties couldnt agree with the Investigators view, Mr Ws complaint has been 
passed to me to review afresh and to provide a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive considered the extensive regulation around transactions like those performed by 
Schroders for Mr W. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for businesses, which it 
says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA Handbook). 
These include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
- Principle 7, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of it s 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms like Schroders. As 
such, I need to have regard to them in deciding Mr Ws complaint.
When Mr W told us about the distress the events hes complained about have caused him, I 
believe what he says. Pension pots are built up over many years and in his case held 
considerable funds. Taking decisions about these are big financial considerations. And when 
things dont go according to expectations its natural to experience the feelings he did.
When considering Mr Ws complaint Ive looked carefully at the advice and service 
Schroders gave him. Based on the available evidence I think:
- The advice to switch from his previous pension providers met his objectives including 
to consolidate his arrangements, allow increased investment options and provide 
greater flexibility for drawing benefits.
- The recommended funds were consistent with his assessed medium attitude to risk. 
His former pensions were invested in a way which left him over exposed.
- There were no unreasonable delays between receipt of his funds and their 
subsequent investment.
I can see Schroders also gave Mr W appropriate information and warnings about the 
transaction he was entering into. For example the suitability report noted:
The value of your investment can go down as well as up and will be dependent on the effect 
of charges and actual fund performance, in addition to any amount being withdrawn.
You are aware that investing your capital to meet your objectives will expose you to 
investment risk and there may be fluctuations that cause the value of your investment to fall. 
There is no guarantee that the performance of my recommendation will be better than your 
existing plans.
In terms of trying to compare the performance of Mr Ws former arrangements with his new 
SIPP, this is problematic as the Investigator explained:
I have had a look at the asset allocation of the [Halifax] funds and they are quite highly 
weighted in Equity investments. This would normally be considered to be suitable for 
someone with a higher attitude to risk than Medium.Your current portfolio is invested in a mix of Equities, Fixed interest, which is considered to 
be more suitable for a medium risk investor.
As I explained in my view, the asset classes and underlying assets in your existing funds 
and your new funds will be different so it isn't possible to compare the performance of the 
two investments. I also cannot see any evidence that the fund has been mismanaged by 
Schroders.
I think the Investigators findings here are right.
So, taking all these matters together, it wouldnt be reasonable for me to uphold Mr Ws 
complaint and to direct Schroders to make good the value he calculates hes lost from his 
pension funds. It hasnt done anything wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out, Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2023. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman