DRN-3973889
The complaint
Mrs Ps complained that HSBC Life (UK) Limited declined her critical illness claim after she 
suffered head injuries in a cycling accident.
What happened
Mrs P unfortunately had a cycling accident in the first half of 2022.  She suffered a number of 
injuries, including a bleed in her brain.  Since then, she has a number of ongoing symptoms.
Mrs P has two critical illness policies with HSBC.  So she made a claim on the policies under 
the section Traumatic head injury  resulting in permanent symptoms.  The policies define 
this as: 
 Death of brain tissue due to traumatic injury resulting in permanent neurological deficit with 
persisting clinical symptoms.
HSBC declined Mrs Ps claim.  They said the medical notes didnt show that brain tissue had 
died as a result of Mrs Ps injuries.  Nor did they confirm permanent neurological deficit.  So 
they said the policy criteria hadnt been met.
Mrs P complained to HSBC about their decision.  HSBC reviewed the claim but didnt 
change the outcome.  So Mrs P brought her complaint to our service.
Our investigator reviewed the matter and concluded HSBC didnt need to do anything 
different to resolve the complaint.  She was satisfied from the evidence she considered that 
Mrs P hadnt met the full policy definition of traumatic head injury.  So she said it had been 
fair for HSBC to decline the claim.
Mrs P didnt agree with our investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mrs Ps complaint.  Im sure shell find that upsetting and 
Im sorry about that.  I hope it will help if I explain the reasons for my decision.
Its clear from all Ive seen that Mrs P suffered extensive and serious injuries from her 
accident.  And Im sorry to see she continues to suffer from its effects.  I dont mean to 
diminish that in any way by my decision.
But meeting the criteria set out in the policies requires more than this.  Ive set out the 
definition of traumatic head injury above.  In addition, permanent neurological deficit with 
persisting clinical symptoms is defined as:
Symptoms of dysfunction in the nervous system that are present on clinical examination 
and expected to last throughout the insured persons life.
Symptoms that are covered include numbness, hyperaesthesia (increased sensitivity), 
paralysis, localised weakness, dysarthria (difficulty with speech), aphasia (inability to speak), 
dysphagia (difficulty in swallowing), visual impairment, difficulty in walking, lack of co-
ordination, tremor, seizures, lethargy, dementia, delirium and coma.
Mrs Ps described symptoms that may fall into some of these categories.  But nothing Ive 
seen has indicated that any symptoms are expected to last for the rest of her life.  
I can see that HSBC reviewed the medical evidence available and requested a report from 
Mrs Ps GP to help them assess the claim.  The notes and records relate to the months 
immediately following Mrs Ps accident.  HSBC were satisfied a follow up scan didnt show 
any ongoing brain issue.  And her GP indicated that it wasnt known at the time of their 
report whether Mrs P had any permanent neurological deficit.  Based on the information they 
considered, I cant say it was unreasonable for HSBC to conclude shed not met the policy 
criteria.
I note that both policies are still in place and have a number of years left on the term.  So, 
while I sincerely hope Mrs P makes a full recovery, she may be able to submit a claim in 
future if that doesnt happen.  I note HSBC said in their final response to her complaint that 
they would be happy to consider any new evidence that becomes available to see if that 
changes the position.  Id expect them to do that.  But, at this point, I dont think they need to 
do anything more to resolve Mrs Ps complaint.   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs Ps complaint about HSBC Life (UK) 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2023.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman