DRN-2350689
The complaint
 Mr B complains about the performance of his pension. He says that The Prudential 
Assurance Company Ltd havent managed his pension investments properly as his pension 
pot hasnt increased in value as much as it usually does. He wants compensation. 
What happened
Mr B has a personal pension with Prudential invested in its With-Profits Fund.  In February 
2020 he received an annual statement for the year mid-February 2019 to Mid-February 2020 
showing that the value of his pension pot was £91,558.62. The previous year the value had 
been £90,480.32. It also showed hed contributed £800 and paid around £1,000 in charges. 
The increase in the value over and above his contributions was just under £280 from the 
previous year. In the previous year the increase had been £7,939.14.
In early March 2020 Mr B called Prudential to complain about the performance of his 
pension investments. The Prudential representative explained that the performance of funds 
can go up and down and referred him to information about the With-Profits Fund on its 
website. It provided a written response to his complaint shortly afterwards. Prudential said:
Mr Bs pension was invested in Prudentials With-Profits Fund. His payments were 
added together with other investors and then invested in a wide range of assets in 
the UK and abroad. 
The statement he was complaining about was based on the performance of the With-
Profits Fund in 2018. This is because bonuses are set with regard to the previous 
years returns. Once regular bonuses are added, they cant be removed, unlike 
terminal (final) bonuses which can be reduced at any time. 
2018 had been a difficult year for financial markets with many seeing negative 
returns. The With-Profits Fund had made a net loss of 2.2% before taking into 
account charges or the effects of smoothing. 
Declaring bonus rates at a prudent level aims to help the fund and gives a better 
opportunity of paying higher terminal bonuses in future.
Investments can go up and down in value at any time and Prudential were satisfied 
that the values hed been quoted were correct, in line with the performance of the 
fund and the bonuses declared. 
Mr B remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint as he was satisfied with Prudentials explanation 
for the lack of growth. He said he understood Mr B was disappointed that his pension value 
hadnt grown as he expected, but that didnt necessarily mean it had been poorly invested.
Mr B didnt agree. He said Prudential hadnt managed his investments properly which is 
what he pays it to do.
Our investigator added that Prudential are required by the Financial Conduct Authority (the 
FCA) to manage the With-Profits Fund in accordance with the FCAs guidelines. The FCA 
regularly monitors such Funds, and there is no evidence it has any concerns about 
Prudentials With-Profits Fund.
 
Mr Bs complaint came to me for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr B is very disappointed with the performance of his pension. Thats 
understandable. But I dont think that Prudential has done anything wrong, so Im not going 
to uphold the complaint.
 
The essence of Mr Bs complaint is that his pension didnt do as well as previous years. The 
value of his pension pot only increased by a few hundred pounds when Mr B says it normally 
increases by a few thousand. He says Prudential hasnt done the job he pays them for.
It wouldnt be fair of me to find that Prudential has done something wrong just because Mr 
Bs pension pot didnt increase by several thousand pounds each year, as Mr B expects. 
Page 2 of the Annual Statement sent to Mr B indicates that:
Investing in funds involves risk. Fund values can go up and down and theres no guarantee 
that youll get back what you put in. 
Prudentials reply to Mr Bs complaint explains how Mr Bs pension plan operates so I wont 
repeat it all here. As Ive said, Mr Bs pension is invested in Prudentials With-Profits Fund. 
The growth achieved by a pension pot invested in a With-Profits Fund depends on the level 
of bonuses awarded by Prudential, which in turn depends on the underlying performance of 
the assets in the fund. As Prudential also explained, the Annual Statement Mr B received in 
February 2020 includes a bonus based on the performance of the With-Profits Fund in 2018. 
Prudential explained that 2018 was a hard year for investment markets. I agree. It is general 
knowledge that most share markets and asset classes fell in value during 2018. Prudentials 
With-Profits Fund is invested in UK and overseas shares, bonds, property and cash. I dont 
think the fact that the value of the With-Profits Fund fell by 2.2% shows any mismanagement 
by Prudential in these circumstances. 
In fact, Mr Bs pension pot didnt fall by 2.2% because Prudential added a small regular 
bonus in line with its discretion to smooth returns. It does this by holding back some of the 
profits from previous years to use as bonuses for years with poor or negative investment 
performance. This meant it didnt pass the loss onto Mr B, but rather, used profits from 
previous years to pay a small bonus. But it must be fair to all policy holders in how it does 
this, it cant just increase the bonus in the current year without considering the impact on 
future years. It must administer its With-Profit Fund in line with the requirements of its 
regulator, the FCA. 
The FCA requires Prudential to have and publish a document called Principles and Practices 
of Financial Management (PPFM) which explains how it manages its With-Profits fund 
including the nature and extent of decisions it takes to manage the fund and how it applies 
discretion to treat customers fairly. Among other things, the PPFM sets out how policy 
values are calculated, and its practices in relation to declaring regular and final bonuses. 
As our investigator said, Ive no reason to think that the FCA is concerned about Prudentials 
management of the With-Profits Fund. Taking account of what Ive said above, Ive no reason to think Prudential did anything wrong 
in its management of Mr Bs pension pot so I wont be upholding the complaint. I appreciate 
that this will come as a disappointment to Mr B. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2021.
 
Helen Wheatley
Ombudsman