DRN-2785452
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S have complained about their property insurer XL Catlin Insurance Company 
UK Limited because it has recorded a claim on their record when they hadnt authorised it to 
do so.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S made a claim for a water leak in 2017. The claim was accepted and payment 
against a quote they provided for repairs was made. Mr and Mrs S hoped this sum would be 
recovered from their neighbour, where the water leak had originated from. However, they 
didnt hear anything from XL about recovering this sum and at renewal in 2017 and 2018 
they noted the claim was recorded on their renewal documents, with their premium having 
increased. Their costs increased in 2019 too, even though, at that time, their insurance 
provider had changed underwriters, with XL no longer being involved in the policy (and the 
new underwriter came to an agreement with Mr and Mrs S about costs for that year).
Mr and Mrs S complained to XL. They said they had expressly told it that unless recovery 
was achieved, this was not to be recorded or dealt with by it as a claim. They were aware 
they could self-insure and had been told that if the claim settlement was paid back, the claim 
could be removed from their record  however they said they needed the extra premiums 
charged to be refunded in order to return the claim monies. XL said it hadnt been possible to 
recover its claim outlay, as negligence in respect of the neighbour couldnt be shown. It 
affirmed that the claim had to be recorded. Mr and Mrs S complained to us. 
Our investigator didnt think XL had processed an unauthorised claim and felt the premium 
charged had been in line with the claims recorded. So she didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr and Mrs S said they didnt agree with the outcome and asked for an ombudsmans 
consideration. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not persuaded that Mr and Mrs S told XL not to progress the claim unless recovery was 
successful. That isnt what the available email correspondence shows. In the emails XL very 
clearly states that its unlikely any recovery will be successful; Mr and Mrs S are then asked, 
if they wish to proceed with the claim, to give their bank details for settlement to be made. 
Mr and Mrs S did give their bank details and the claim was settled. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs S were keen for the claim costs to be recovered, because the 
loss wasnt their fault. But that is the purpose of insurance  to offer cover to resolve 
fortuitous damage. And Mr and Mrs S benefitted from the policy even whilst knowing that the 
chances of XL recovering the outlay were slim. I dont think XL misled them.
Ive seen detail provided about how the premiums for this particular policy are calculated. Im 
satisfied, given this data and Mr and Mrs Ss claims history, that the premiums they were 
asked to pay for the XL policy were set fairly. 
The price Mr and Mrs S were charged, in 2017 and 2018, for cover resulted from their claim 
record. Im satisfied that this was correctly recorded, that XL didnt mislead Mr and Mrs S 
regarding the 2017 claim and that the premiums charged were in line with general pricing for 
that policy  so they were set fairly. As such Im not minded to uphold this complaint or make 
XL provide any refund to Mr and Mrs S.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against XL Catlin Insurance Company 
UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 June 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman