DRN-3281273
The complaint
Mrs H says S.D. Taylor Limited trading as Loans at Home (LaH) lent to her irresponsibly. 
Mrs H says that she was in a debt spiral and she couldnt properly afford the lending. She 
says that LaH should have made better checks and not lent to her.
What happened
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be partially upheld. LaH disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion about the jurisdiction of this complaint. The complaint was then passed 
to me. 
I issued my provisional decision clarifying which loans we could, and couldnt look at, and I 
also said that Mrs Hs complaint should be upheld in part. A copy of the background to the 
complaint, and my provisional findings, are below in italics. These form part of this final 
decision. 
This complaint is about ten home collected loans LaH provided to Mrs H between April 2010 and 
August 2016. Some of the information I have been provided about the lending is in the table 
below.
loan 
numberdate 
startedamount 
borrowedterm 
(weeks)date ended
1 08/04/2010 £500 41 27/01/2011
2 27/01/2011 £500 41 08/12/2011
3 16/02/2012 £500 41 20/12/2012
4 11/04/2013 £500 41 27/02/2014
5 22/08/2013 £375 41 01/05/2014
6 27/02/2014 £500 41 22/01/2015
7 01/05/2014 £375 41 21/05/2015
8 22/01/2015 £500 41 19/11/2015
9 10/12/2015 £250 42 18/08/2016
10 18/08/2016 £250 45 22/06/2017
LaH has said that this Service shouldnt consider loans 1 to 7 as Mrs H complained more 
than six years after they were advanced. So, it doesnt think this lending is within the 
jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman Service. It didnt agree to uphold loans 8 to 10.
Our adjudicator firstly looked at the jurisdiction of this complaint. Mrs H has confirmed that she 
was aware that she could have complained in January 2013. Because of this our adjudicator 
said that Mrs H had until January 2016 to complain about loans 1 to 3. As Mrs H complained in 
September 2020 she hadnt done this. Our adjudicator thought we could look at loans 4 to 10.
Our adjudicator then looked at the merits of the complaint and went on to partially uphold it. She 
said that by loan 4 the lending pattern itself looked to have become harmful, and so LaH 
shouldve stopped lending at this point.
LaH responded to the adjudicators opinion about the jurisdiction of this complaint only. It said 
that, essentially, if Mrs H knew that she could complain in 2013 then it was only the loans 
started within six years of her actual complaint that were within the jurisdiction of this service.
Mrs H didnt disagree with what the adjudicator said.
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
Why I cant look into loans 1 to 7 but I can look into loans 8 to 10
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments provided by Mrs H and LaH to 
decide whether we are able to look at all loans being complained about. Having done so, I 
have reached a different conclusion to the adjudicator  that is I only have the power to 
consider only loans 8 to 10. Ill explain why.
The rules I must apply say that, where a business doesnt agree, I cant look at a complaint made 
more than six years after whats been complained about, or if later, more than three years after 
the complainant (in this case, Mrs H) knew, or ought really have known they had reason to 
complain. This is set out in Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R and can be found online in the FCAs 
Handbook.
So, as loans 1 to 7 were started more than six years before Mrs H made her complaint Mrs H 
needed to have complained within three years of when she knew, or ought to have
known, for me to be able to consider them. As our adjudicator said Mrs H has confirmed that she 
was aware she could complain in 2013. So, if Mrs H was aware she could complain in 2013 she 
should have done so within three years of this time. As she didnt do this I can only consider the 
loans she started within six years of when she made her complaint, that is loans 8 to 10.
So, I currently think loans 8 to 10 were raised within the time limits I need to apply and that I do 
have the power to consider them. I cant consider loans 1 to 7 as the complaint about them was 
brought here too late.
Ill now go on and consider whether or not I think loans 8 to 10 were lent responsibly.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
LaH needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs H could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner.
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that LaH should fairly and reasonably have done more 
to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be an 
indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically 
follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to 
be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Hs complaint in part and Ive explained why below.
As I said above I cant look at loans 1 to 7. So, I wont be making a decision about this 
lending. But they were part of the borrowing relationship Mrs H had with LaH. So, they are 
something I will take into account when considering the other loans she took.
I havent recreated individual, proportionate affordability checks for loans 8 to 10 because I dont 
think that it is necessary to do so. Ive looked at the overall pattern of LaHs lending history with 
Mrs H, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which LaH should reasonably have seen that 
further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so LaH should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans.
Given the particular circumstances of Mrs Hs case, I think that this point was reached by 
loan 8. I say this because:
At this point LaH ought to have realised Mrs H was not managing to repay her loans 
sustainably. Mrs H had been indebted to LaH for just under five years. So LaH ought to 
have realised it was more likely than no she was having to borrow further to cover the 
hole repaying her previous loans was leaving in her finances and that her indebtedness 
was unsustainable.
Mrs Hs first loan was for £500 and loan 8 was for the same amount. At this point LaH 
ought to have known that Mrs H was not likely borrowing to meet a temporary 
shortfall in her income but to meet an ongoing need.
And the information LaH has supplied showed that Mrs H was having some problems 
making the loan repayments. From loan 5 onwards Mrs H was in arrears on her 
existing lending when she took a new loan from LaH.
And right from the start Mrs H was often provided with a new loan a short time after 
her previous one had finished. There was very little time when she wasnt making 
repayments to LaH.
Mrs H wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed LaH. Loan 10 was taken 
out over six years after Mrs Hs first. And it was for a larger amount. Mrs H had paid 
large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to LaH over an extended period.
I think that Mrs H lost out because LaH continued to provide borrowing from loan 8 onwards 
because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mrs Hs indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive credit over an extended period of time.
the length of time over which Mrs H borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on Mrs Hs ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the 
market for these high-cost loans.So, Im intending to uphold the complaint about loans 8 to 10 and LaH should put things right
LaH, and Mrs H, both received my provisional decision. LaH has agreed to pay the 
compensation I recommended, and it has provided a calculation to show how much this is.
Mrs H, through her representative, has confirmed that she agrees with the redress 
calculation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
LaH and Mrs H now seem to agree on how to put this complaint right. And no party to the 
complaint has raised any new points after receiving my provisional decision. So, Ive 
reached the same conclusions I reached before, for the same reasons. Im upholding this 
complaint about loans 8 to 10. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress LaH should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Mrs H from loan 8, as Im satisfied it ought to 
have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Mrs H may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between her and this particular lender which she may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, she may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how she would 
(or ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly 
dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender 
would have been able to lend to Mrs H in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mrs H would more likely than not have taken up any one 
of these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce LaHs liability in this case for 
what Im satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
LaH shouldnt have given Mrs H loans 8 to 10.
A) LaH should add together the total of the repayments made by Mrs H towards interest, 
fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party where 
applicable, but not including anything it has already refunded.
B) LaH should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mrs H 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mrs H originally made 
the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.C) LaH should pay Mrs H the total of A plus B.
D) The overall pattern of Mrs Hs borrowing for loans 8 to 10 means any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so it should remove these loans entirely from Mrs 
Hs credit file. If LaH has sold any of the loans LaH should ask the debt purchaser to 
do the same.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires LaH to deduct tax from this interest. LaH should give Mrs 
H a certificate showing how much tax LaH has deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, I partly uphold Mrs Hs 
complaint.
S.D. Taylor Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2022.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman