DRN-3333749
The complaint
Mr W complained that Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans lent to him 
irresponsibly and provided lending that was unaffordable. 
What happened
Mr W took out loans with Everyday Loans as follows:
Loan Date 
takenAmount Term Monthly 
repaymentLoan status
1 Feb 2015 £3,000 36 months £216.17 Paid when loan 2 
taken
2 Nov 2015 £4,952.46 60 months £298.16 Outstanding 
When Mr W complained to Everyday Loans it didnt uphold his complaint so he brought his 
complaint to us. One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and she thought that 
Everyday Loans hadnt done anything wrong when it provided loan 1 but didnt think it should 
have provided loan 2. Our adjudicator set out directions indicating what Everyday Loans 
should do to put things right. 
Everyday Loans agreed with what our adjudicator had recommended in respect of loan 1 but 
disagreed that it had done anything wrong when it provided loan 2. So, as the complaint 
hasnt been resolved, it comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending, 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, on our 
website. Having thought about everything, I agree with our adjudicator for broadly the same 
reasons. 
As far as I can see, Mr W hasnt objected to what our adjudicator said with respect to not 
upholding his complaint about loan 1. So I dont think I need to say more about loan 1 except 
that Ive reviewed this loan and independently reached the same conclusion as our 
adjudicator. I havent seen enough to say that Everyday Loans shouldnt have provided this 
loan  so Im not upholding this part of Mr Ws complaint.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. Lenders must work out if a borrower can 
sustainably afford the loan repayments alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower 
also has to pay. This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation  a proportionate check might also 
require the lender to find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify 
the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think about whether theres any other 
reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender shouldve 
realised that the loan was likely to lead to significant adverse consequences or more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
Everyday Loans asked Mr W about his income and expenses  including what he spent on 
his credit commitments. It also did its own credit check to understand Mr Ws credit history. 
Everyday Loans recorded Mr Ws average monthly take home pay was around £1,961 
based on the information it saw on payslips and bank statements he provided to the lender. 
Everyday Loans also took into account nationally available statistics when thinking about 
Mr Ws likely spending. Based on this, Everyday Loans said Mr W shouldve been able to 
afford the monthly repayment on this loan as he should still have had around £265 spare 
cash left after paying for this loan as he was partly using it to clear the balance owing on 
loan 1. 
Ive taken carefully into account everything Everyday Loans has said in response to our 
adjudicators assessment about the way it assessed affordability. And I've thought carefully 
about what I think a responsible lender should have made of all this information and in 
particular whether it was enough for Everyday Loans to make a fair decision to lend.
Like our adjudicator, I think the checks Everyday Loans caried out were broadly 
proportionate. But despite recording information that appeared to show that Mr W had 
enough spare cash each month to cover the loan monthly repayments, I think Everyday 
Loans shouldve realised that it couldnt rely on this information. Thats because what Mr W 
had declared was significantly at odds with what Everyday Loans saw on its up to date credit 
checks showing Mr Ws credit history and the information it had gathered about his change 
in circumstances since hed taken out loan 1. 
I think Everyday Loans should have been concerned to see that when Mr W applied for this 
loan, just nine months or so after hed taken out his first loan, despite being in a better paid 
job (and seemingly with lower living costs) he had taken out multiple short-term and 
unsecured loans from other providers of high cost credit since borrowing loan 1. A credit 
card hed taken out shortly before borrowing loan 1 was also up to its £250 limit and his debt 
servicing costs to existing creditors were now around £900 monthly. 
I think that this amount was such a significant proportion of his take home pay it was a clear 
indication that Mr W had become over-reliant on credit and, in reality, he was already 
experiencing financial difficulty. 
I think Everyday Loans shouldve realised that Mr Ws credit file showed that managing his 
debt had got beyond his control and it seemed likely he was borrowing from one creditor to 
pay others. 
Even after using loan 2 to repay loan 1, his spending on credit would go up, because the 
monthly repayments for loan 2 were more expensive than for loan 1. 
So I think Everyday Loans should have recognised that this loan was likely to add to his 
overall indebtedness and financial difficulty. The monthly repayments for this loan would still mean Mr W needed to spend such a large 
proportion of his take home pay servicing debt, around half his total income. Like our 
adjudicator I think Everyday Loans shouldve realised this was unlikely to be sustainably 
affordable for Mr W over the five year loan term. 
So I dont think Everyday Loans shouldve provided this loan. 
I've taken into account that Everyday Loans said Mr W made his repayments to the loan until 
his circumstances changed. But this doesnt affect the outcome. For the reasons I've 
explained, I think it was reasonably foreseeable that the loan wasnt going to be sustainably 
affordable for Mr W over the loan term  and so it shouldnt have been provided. 
As Mr W has been further indebted with a high amount of interest on a loan that he shouldnt 
have been provided with he has lost out as a result of what Everyday Loans did wrong. 
I think Everyday Loans needs to take the following steps to put things right.
Putting things right
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that Everyday Loans should pay any additional redress. 
Mr W hasnt commented on that and I havent seen anything which makes me think 
Everyday Loans acted unfairly towards Mr W in any other way. So Im not awarding any 
additional redress. 
And I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr W to repay the capital amount that he borrowed, 
because he had the benefit of that lending. But he has been charged extra for a loan that 
should not have been provided to him. 
In line with this Services approach, Mr W shouldnt repay more than the capital amount he 
borrowed. 
If Everyday Loans sold any outstanding debt it should buy this back if able to do so and then 
take the following steps. 
Otherwise, Everyday Loans should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results 
outlined below and do the following:
add up the total amount of money Mr W received as a result of having been given 
loan 2 . The repayments Mr W made towards loan 2 should be deducted from this 
amount. 
If this results in Mr W having paid more than he received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
If any capital balance remains outstanding, then Everyday Loans should attempt to 
arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Mr W bearing in mind the need to 
treat him positively and sympathetically if he still needs further time to pay what he 
owes.
Whilst its fair that Mr Ws credit file is an accurate reflection of his financial history, 
its unfair that he should be disadvantaged by the decision to lend loan 2. So 
Everyday Loans should remove any negative information recorded on Mr Ws credit 
file regarding loan 2 . *HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to deduct tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans should give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if 
he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ws complaint about loan 2 and direct Everyday Lending Limited trading as 
Everyday Loans to take the steps I've set out above to put things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman