DRN-1930526
The complaint
Mr C complains about the way Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) handled 
arrears on a hire purchase agreement.  
What happened
In September 2018 took a car on hire purchase from VWFS. He borrowed £82,500, and the 
total amount payable if the agreement ran its course and Mr C exercised his option to 
purchase at the end of it would be over £103,000. His monthly payments were just over 
£1,400.
Mr C however found himself unable to make monthly payments on time, and from January 
2019 VWFS wrote to him regularly about the shortfall on the account. The direct debit 
instruction had been cancelled and Mr C made manual payments instead. He paid more 
than the monthly amount due under the agreement, in an attempt to make up the arrears, 
but in June 2019 missed the monthly payment. This brought the arrears to some £2,000. 
On 7 August 2019 VWFS sent Mr C a default notice. It required payment of just over £1,990 
by 26 August. If payment was not made by that date, the letter said that VWFS might end 
the agreement, repossess the car and demand payment of other sums due on early 
termination. The payment needed was not made in full by 26 August 2019 and VWFS 
terminated the agreement.
Mr C says that he contacted VWFS on 5 August 2019, intending to make two manual 
payments. He was told that would not be possible, so Mr C agreed to get in touch a week 
later to pay the balance of the arrears. He didnt however do so. 
Mr C thought it was unfair that VWFS had terminated the agreement when he was making 
active efforts to reduce the arrears. He could have repaid them if VWFS had accepted two 
card payments on 5 August 2019. He says too that he didnt receive notices, which were 
sent to an old address.
VWFS didnt accept that it had acted unfairly, and Mr C referred the matter to this service., 
where two of our investigators considered it. Both agreed with VWFS that it hadnt acted 
unfairly. Mr C asked that an ombudsman review the case.           
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is of course unfortunate that Mr Cs personal circumstances left him in a position where he 
was having difficulty making the required monthly payments. Its apparent too that he was 
making overpayments in an attempt to make up the arrears. He did however agree to make 
the full monthly payments as set out in the hire purchase agreement but was unable to do 
so. The consequences of missing payments were set out in the agreement. In ending the 
agreement, I dont believe that VWFS was doing any more than exercise its rights under that 
agreement. 
I note what Mr C says about the address to which notices were sent. He indicated in the 
telephone call of 5 August 2019 that he was no longer at the address used in the hire 
purchase agreement, and I think it would have been prudent for VWFS to check at that point 
whether the address should be changed. I dont believe though that Mr C suffered any 
detriment because it wasnt changed until later. He knew what payments he needed to make 
and the consequences of not making them. 
Nor do I think VWFS was at fault for not taking two card payments on the same day. There 
was a risk that they might be declined. In any event, Mr C knew he still needed to make a 
payment to clear the arrears, but then didnt make it. 
I dont agree either that the default notice was premature. Even though Mr C had indicated 
he would bring the account up to date on or about 12 August, until that had happened there 
had been arrears on the account for several months. I dont believe it was unreasonable of 
VWFS to take the steps it did or that VWFS has treated Mr C unfairly.   
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I dont require Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited to take any further steps to resolve Mr Cs complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision 
before 22 February 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman