DRN-1608169
the complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Haven Insurance Company Limited (Haven) declined his car 
insurance claim.
what happened
Mr A purchased a car from a friend at the end of June 2019 and brought it to his home 
address on a recovery truck, where it was parked on the road. The car had no MOT or road 
tax and Mr A says he didn't use the car as he was aware that there was no MOT. He says 
he was waiting for the log book to be sent to him, at which time he intended to get the car 
taxed and take it for an MOT.
At the end of September 2019, Mr As car was stolen from where it had been parked on the 
road. Haven rejected Mr As claim on the basis that the terms of his policy stated that he 
must keep the car in a roadworthy condition, which includes having a valid MOT.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. In short, she said that while she 
agreed with the business that the car wasn't taxed and didn't have a valid MOT, those facts 
weren't material to the theft of the car, so she thought Haven should consider the claim 
under the remaining terms of the policy.
Haven disagreed so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
what Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusions as our investigator and for the same reasons.
Haven has declined Mr As claim due to it not being in a roadworthy condition  and there is 
no dispute that the car didn't have a valid MOT and it wasn't taxed. But regardless of 
whether that is the case, Haven must show that this breach of the policy conditions is 
material to the loss. In this case, Haven must show that had Mr A had a valid MOT and road 
tax, the theft wouldn't have happened.
Haven has said that it believes the vehicle being left stationary and not driven for several 
months may have made it look abandoned, which is likely to be what led to the vehicle being 
stolen. But we have no details about how the car was stolen and I havent seen any 
evidence that it was recovered. So there is no evidence that the car being left stationary for 
several months caused the theft of the vehicle.
Haven has said that it is illegal for a car to be left on the road without tax or a valid MOT. But 
it isn't for me to make decisions about the legality of Mr A's actions - instead, I have 
considered whether it was fair for Haven to decline Mr A's claim. And, as Haven hasn't 
provided any evidence that persuades me that the car being unroadworthy caused it to be 
stolen - in other words, that the breach of the policy condition is material to the loss - I think 
Haven should settle the claim in line with the remaining policy terms.my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Haven Insurance Company Limited should 
settle the claim in line with the remaining terms of the policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2020.
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman