DRN-2972062
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B have complained that Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) has unfairly 
declined their cancellation claim.
 
What happened
Mr and Mrs B bought a single trip travel insurance policy, underwritten by Great Lakes, to 
cover a trip to Wales. Reference to Great Lakes includes any agents acting on its behalf. 
In January 2020, Mr and Mrs B booked an accommodation-only trip to Wales for 25 July 
2020 to 8 August 2020. They paid a deposit of just over £1,500 with the balance being due 
on 13 June 2020. Mr and Mrs B have told us they would have been travelling with their son, 
daughter in law and two of their grandsons, one of whom lived in France. 
As a result of Covid-19, they cancelled the trip on 10 June  they said this was due to:
Covid-19 restrictions and unsafe conditions at the property. 
Their son was shielding for at least 12 weeks from 16 April 2020 as advised by the 
NHS. 
Their grandson who was travelling from France, would have been subject to a 14 day 
quarantine. 
Mr and Mrs B are both over 80, classed as being vulnerable and were advised to 
self-isolate.
Government restrictions would have prohibited them from driving to North Wales.
They asked for details of the cleaning regime from the accommodation provider but 
never received this.
Great Lakes reviewed the claim but said there was no cover under the policy for cancellation 
for the above reasons. Unhappy with this, Mr and Mrs B complained and referred their 
complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think there was any cover under the 
policy. Mr and Mrs B disagreed and felt their claim fell under the quarantine term of the 
policy. They have also said the accommodation was re-let for the period they were due to 
travel and have asked whether this service can help obtain a refund.
And so the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Mr and Mrs Bs complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
The relevant industry rules say an insurer must handle claims promptly and fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
The cancellation section of the policy says:
We will pay you up to £5,000 per booking for trips to the United Kingdomfor the 
unused proportion of any travel and accommodation costs or prepaid non-refundable 
expenses which you have paid or legally have to pay if cancellation of the trip is 
necessary and unavoidable as a result of any of the following events:
...2 You or any person you are travelling or have arranged to travel with being 
quarantined
The cancellation section also covers other specified events such as death, injury, 
redundancy and damage to the home. 
Under what is not covered, the cancellation section says:
Anything arising directly or indirectly from a) your reluctance to travel
Mr and Mrs B say their claim falls under the quarantine term as both their son and grandson 
would be quarantined. Their grandson would have to quarantine on arrival from France and 
their son was shielding as advised by the NHS.
Having considered what Mr and Mr B have said very carefully, I dont agree that the above 
term applies to their situation. The policy refers to necessary and unavoidable cancellation. 
And the specific term Mr and Mrs B are relying on refers to being quarantined. At the time 
they cancelled, they werent due to travel for another 6 weeks and so didnt know if 
government restrictions, the advice to shield, self-isolate or quarantine would be in force on 
25 July. The policy doesnt provide cover for future quarantine. 
The letter for their son from the NHS, advised him to shield for 12 weeks from 16 April. So 
that advice would have expired before the start of the trip. In addition, Mr and Mrs B say they 
were both vulnerable and advised to self-isolate. Again, at the time they cancelled their trip, 
they didnt know if they would have needed to continue self-isolating in July 2020. And 
reluctance to travel is excluded under the terms of the policy. 
I appreciate and understand why Mr and Mrs B felt they needed to cancel at the time that 
they did. But I dont think their reasons are covered under the terms of the policy. And so 
theres no insured event or basis for me to ask Great Lakes to pay the claim.   
I note Mr and Mrs B say the cottage was re-let. This is something they would need to take up 
with their accommodation provider  and they may wish to raise a formal complaint with the 
provider if they havent already done so. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 October 2021.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman