DRN-3534947
The complaint
Mr T complains about the way Legal and General Assurance Society Limited administered 
the payment of his spouses pension. Mr T says it didnt tell him hed only receive 50% of its 
value.
What happened
Sadly Mr Ts wife passed away and Mr T says he contacted Legal and General in relation to 
a life insurance policy in January 2021  Mr T says he also mentioned the pension in this 
call.
Mr T continued to received payments in relation to his wifes pension, Legal and General say 
Mr T contacted it on 5 March to let them know his wife had passed away. Legal and General 
stopped annuity payments from this point. 
In May Mr T contacted Legal and General by telephone to say the pension had stopped 
being paid. The call handler confirms the date of passing and that it was notified on 5 March. 
Mr T says he did speak to somebody in relation to the life policy and thought it would be 
sorted. The call handler says the pension ought to pass to Mr T. She confirms that the 
pension will be transferred to him but she cannot confirm the amount but shell organise for a 
letter to be sent out with all the details and values set out.
A week later Legal and General on 18 May 2021 wrote to Mr T to set out his options going 
forward. At the top of the letter it confirmed the pension Mr Ts wife had been receiving. It 
then went on to give Mr T two options  either to take a cash lump sum of £7,346.67 (after 
tax) or to take the regular annuity income of £464.76 per year.
Mr T decided to take the regular annuity income because the cash lump sum would have 
taken him over the savings limit to receive Universal Credit. After Mr T received his first 
payment of £38.73 per month from Legal and General he was unhappy as he believed it 
hadnt been explained there would be a 50% reduction in the annuity payments. 
Furthermore, this had affected his Universal Credit as hed told HMRC the income would be 
at the same level as his wifes had been at of £60 per month.
Legal and General responded to Mr Ts complaint to say they had provided clear information 
about Mr Ts options.  They also explained that once the annuity had been taken it couldnt 
be reversed or changed.
Mr T said that he would have taken the cash lump sum to start a new business instead of the 
monthly annuity income. He would like compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
Our investigator looked into matters and concluded that Legal and General didnt need to do 
anything to put matters right as it had set out the payments Mr T could receive and he chose 
to take an annuity.
Mr T said in response that it hadnt been explained to him the value would be reduced by 
50% and he couldnt be expected to read the small print (in reference to the letter of 18 May 
where the values were set out). He also said Legal and General had stopped his wifes 
pension without warning. 
Mr T had continued to receive his wifes pension for a few months after she had passed 
away, and Legal and General as part of setting up his spouses pension had requested he 
return the overpayments. Mr T sent a cheque which was unfortunately lost. This was subject 
to a separate complaint and Legal and General paid Mr T a small amount of compensation 
and waived the overpayment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I wont be upholding the complaint.
Mr T says that it wasnt explained to him that the pension would reduce by 50% and that the 
pension was stopped without warning.
The letter of 18 May 2021 set out the exact values his wife had received and the values Mr T 
would receive going forward. Mr T says he cannot be expected to read the small print, 
however I disagree this was small print. It was within the body of the letter and given the 
appropriate prominence. Mr T is right the letter didnt state anywhere that it was a 50% 
reduction in payment but it did give the exact figures, so I think the information was clear. I 
appreciate this must have been a difficult time for Mr T but it was his responsibility to read 
the letter and make a selection suitable for his needs. 
Furthermore, the payment instruction form enclosed with this letter explained that this choice 
couldnt be reversed and instructed Mr T to carefully consider his options. So I think Legal 
and General gave Mr T all the relevant information to make an informed choice.
It appears that Mr T had instructed Legal and Generals life insurance department of Mrs Ts 
passing and this information wasnt passed onto the department dealing with Mrs Ts 
pension. However, once it was informed, Legal and General took steps to sort out the 
administration of Mr Ts spouses pension going forward. 
The letter of 18 May 2021 set out that the pension hadnt been stopped in time and two 
monthly payments had been made that ought not to have been. This had also been 
explained to Mr T in a telephone conversation previously. I appreciate that Mr T had already 
notified Legal and General in advance of these payments but regardless it offered three 
options to settle matters. I think this was reasonable. Either Mr T could send a cheque for 
the overpayment, he could send the money by making an internet banking payment or it 
could be deducted from the benefits payable in future. Mr T chose to pay by cheque (as was 
subject to a separate complaint  the overpayment was waived and some compensation 
was paid) and he sent in the forms required for the spouses pension to be paid. So I dont 
think Legal and General did anything wrong here (apart from the issues with the cheque 
which was subject to another complaint). 
I cannot hold Legal and General responsible for Mr T selecting an option he didnt want. The 
figures were clearly set out and Mr T made his choice. Im sorry to hear that Mr T in fact 
wouldve wanted the lump sum option but for the reasons explained I do not believe Legal 
and General did anything wrong to influence Mr Ts mistaken choice. My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint and make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2023.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman