DRN-1671540
The complaint
Mr Y complains about the service he received from Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) whilst he was 
in Vietnam.
What happened
Our investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and issues, and is 
known to both Mr Y and Monzo, so there is no need for me to repeat it here in any detail. 
Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. So, if Ive not mentioned 
something its not because Ive ignored it, rather its because I dont think its of direct 
relevance to the issues I need to deal with. 
Whilst on holiday, on the 28 January 2020, Mr Y tried to use his Monzo card at several 
ATMs but found them to be not working. He called Monzo and had to wait some time before 
he got a response. When he did the advisor asked him to send a photo of the ATM, he was 
having trouble with, which he did. 
Monzo said they couldnt see from their system any evidence of previous failed attempts at 
making a withdrawal and so didnt think it was an error they were responsible for. Mr Y also 
said he asked to speak to a manager, but the call was terminated. Monzo said they were 
trying to advise him that this would require a call back as they had no facility to transfer the 
call, but he became frustrated and due to the way he spoke to the advisor she ended the 
call. 
Monzo did accept that part way through a subsequent call its advisor gave Mr Y some wrong 
information about the ATM withdrawal limits on his account, and so apologised for that and 
credited his account with £25.
Mr Y was unhappy with Monzos final response and so approached this service to see if we 
could assist in resolving the dispute. An investigator looked into the complaint, and having 
done so, concluded that Monzo hadnt done anything wrong and had dealt with 
the complaint fairly.
Mr Y didnt agree with our investigators view and asked for the complaint to be passed to an 
Ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to mediate individual disputes between 
consumers and businesses, and to award redress where it is appropriate.  
I have considered both sides views in considering whether Monzo acted fairly and 
reasonably. Ive looked at the issues raised and considered all the available evidence. 
Where evidence is not complete, I think about what is more likely to have happened in the 
light of the evidence which is available. I have to make an independent decision about what I think is right for each case, and thats what Ive done here. In this case, I dont think that 
Monzo has done anything wrong and Ill explain why.
I can certainly understand the frustration and irritation Mr Y would have felt when trying to 
withdraw his cash from an ATM. I also recognise that he must have wasted a good deal of 
time trying different ATMs, all to no avail.
However, what I must focus on is the service Monzo did or didnt provide to Mr Y. The 
evidence that I have seen shows that Monzo had no information to suggest that Mr Y 
had any failed withdrawal attempts when he contacted them on the 28 January. I do not say 
therefore that he had not made such attempts, only that the evidence shows that from 
Monzos system it was not apparent. Monzo did try to help Mr Y and made suggestions, 
including the sending of photos in order that they might better understand the problem and 
assess what they could do to resolve it. I am satisfied from the web chat transcript and the 
phone call recordings that the Monzo advisor was trying to help and assist Mr Y.
Monzo have also confirmed that the issue Mr Y complained of was escalated to their 
specialists who confirmed there werent any issues with his account and that it was the 
ATMs in Vietnam which werent sending any information to Monzo. That they said suggested 
that the problem was due to those particular ATMs he was using and not with his bank card. 
They noted that Mr Y was able to successfully withdraw cash from an ATM two days later.
I have considered Mr Ys request to speak to a manager. Monzo were happy to escalate his 
complaint to a manager but their system is such that it requires the manager to call the 
customer back and calls cannot be transferred. That is Monzos system and it is not one I 
can interfere with or tell them to change.  I know our investigator has addressed this issue, 
but I feel I should also clarify that any overall concerns about business process would need 
to be raised with The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). They take a principles-based 
approach to conduct regulation, letting businesses choose how they incorporate those 
principles into the way they deal with customers. This is reflected in the remit the FCA has 
given this service under the Dispute Rules in the FCA Handbook. 
Our service doesnt have the power to make rules for financial businesses, assess or direct 
that they change their policy or procedures. We only look at what happened in the 
circumstances of the individual complaint and check that Monzo followed its rules and 
procedures and is applying them fairly to all customers. And in Mr Ys case I think it did.
Ive also thought about the ending of the telephone call, and it is quite correct that it was the 
Monzo advisor who terminated the call. I have listened to the call and the reason she did that 
was because of the way Mr Y was speaking to her. She was trying to explain their 
procedures, and he was talking over her dismissively and without listening, so she politely 
told him she would end the call. Having heard that call, and whilst I can empathise with the 
situation Mr Y found himself in, I also believe the advisor was justified in ending the call as it 
was unfair of Mr Y to speak to her in the way he did. 
So, on the evidence available, it seems more likely than not, that the problem Mr Y faced 
was not of Monzos making. I can see that Monzo tried to assist and in so doing Mr Y 
became frustrated leading to a terminated call.
Monzo have of course accepted that another advisor was in error when Mr Y was given 
incorrect information about the ATM withdrawal limits. Monzo have apologised for that and 
credited Mr Y with £25. 
As Mr Y doesnt believe this is enough to put matters right, Ive given this some further 
thought and in so doing Ive considered the level of awards this service has made for trouble and upset in similar cases. Ive also considered, in the light of my findings, the impact the 
error is likely to have had on Mr Y. In this instance the advisor was trying to fathom why Mr Y 
could not withdraw cash and simply came to the wrong conclusion. That opinion of itself had 
little impact on Mr Ys predicament, and he was in any event able to obtain money later that 
same day. So, I regard the impact of this wrong information as minimal.
Putting all of this into the balance I think what Monzo paid is fair and reasonable. And I think 
it is enough to put matters right. So, although Mr Y will probably be disappointed with my 
decision, and whilst Monzo have indeed made an error, I cant say Monzo has subsequently 
acted unfairly or unreasonably here and Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
Monzo has already paid £25 to settle this complaint, and that is fair and reasonable. So, my 
final decision is that I dont require Monzo to do anything else.
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Monzo Bank Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2020.
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman