DRN-3976768
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain about the way that Aviva Equity Release UK Limited organised a 
valuation of their home for an equity release mortgage. 
What happened
In 2021, a third party recommended that Mr and Mrs R should take out an equity release 
mortgage with Aviva. 
When the valuation was carried out, the surveyor said the value of Mr and Mrs Rs property 
was lower than they expected. Mr and Mrs R provided evidence that they considered 
supported their valuation of the property. But the surveyor would not change their valuation. 
Mr and Mrs R had to borrow less than they planned and at a higher interest rate because 
their home had been down valued.
Mr and Mrs R complain that Aviva:
Did not tell them they were paying for a valuation for mortgage purposes rather than a 
full report.
Did not explain that it already had a contract with the surveyor before they paid for the 
valuation. If they had known that, they would not have accepted the surveyor as being 
truly independent.
Did not explain, before they paid for the valuation, that its contract with the surveyor 
prevented them obtaining any additional information from the surveyor, such as the 
reasoning behind the valuation or why their evidence wasnt accepted.
Initially refused to give a copy of the valuation report to Mr and Mrs R.
Would not disclose the response from the surveyor to their comparable properties. We 
should investigate whether it had received a comprehensive response with detailed 
consideration of the three properties as it claimed.
Only asked the surveyor to review the evidence they provided by phone and did not send 
full details of the further three comparable properties to the surveyor. When it received 
evidence of the comparable properties Aviva should not have accepted the surveyors 
claim there were no such properties without a satisfactory explanation.
The investigator did not think the complaint should be upheld,
Mr and Mrs R did not accept what the investigator said. They made a number of points, 
including:
Their general complaint was that it was unreasonable for Aviva to have prevented itself 
from being able to give reasoned explanations. 
The information that Aviva would not share was not commercially sensitive. The only 
reason it has a clause preventing information being shared is to protect Aviva and its 
valuers where a valuation is incorrect, such a clause is unfair. 
The surveyor was acting as Avivas agent  therefore Aviva is responsible for the acts of 
the surveyor.
Aviva had a duty to satisfy itself that the valuation was correct once it was told about 
apparent errors. To do that, it needed to obtain a reasoned explanation. It appears to 
have only received an unexplained reassurance from the surveyor. Mr and Mrs R had 
given Aviva evidence that the valuation was wrong. It should not have rejected that 
without a satisfactory explanation.
The valuation report is designed so that it contains very little data. But there were two 
errors. First, it described the second property incorrectly as a conversion rather than a 
new build. Second, the estimated value was not supported by comparables. There was 
extensive evidence of sales of comparable properties that supported the estimated 
valuation.
They provided more detail about the comparable properties and why they consider Aviva 
and the surveyor had not properly or fairly taken into account that information.
Mr and Mrs R were then given a copy of the surveyors comments and they provided their 
reasons why they considered it was inadequate. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
That includes everything that Mr and Mrs R have said after the investigator issued their view 
of the complaint.
Aviva is a regulated business and part of our compulsory jurisdiction. I only have the power 
to consider any acts or omissions by Aviva. The mortgage valuation report was carried out 
by a third party, who is not covered by our jurisdiction. So I cant consider anything the 
surveyor did or not do or whether valuation was correct. 
I must still consider whether Aviva has acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances of 
this complaint. In this case the surveyor was a member of the Royal Institute of Chartered 
Surveyors (RICS). And the point of instructing someone independent to do the valuation is 
that they value the property independently and impartially. 
So it was reasonable for Aviva to rely on the surveyors professional opinion. I agree with Mr 
and Mrs R that when challenged about the comparable properties, Aviva ought to have put 
that to the surveyor. It was then for Aviva to decide whether to accept what the surveyor said 
or not. I accept that if there was clear evidence of a mistake by the surveyor there might be 
good reason for it not to accept what the surveyor said. 
After very carefully considering everything that Mr and Mrs R have said and provided, I 
consider that Aviva acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances of this complaint,
full valuationNone of the evidence I have seen supports that Aviva misrepresented the type of valuation 
report it was going to instruct on behalf of Mr and Mrs R. It is in line with normal practice for 
a basic mortgage valuation report to be carried out where a potential borrower is 
remortgaging, rather than buying a new property, and where an equity release mortgage is 
being taken out. I cant see any error by Aviva.
Mr and Mrs R refer to a RICS red book report. The red book issued by RICS contains the 
mandatory practices for surveyors carrying out valuations. It is not a type of valuation report.  
Mr and Mrs R were receiving mortgage advice from a broker. It was for the broker to give 
them clear, fair and not misleading advice about the application process. 
independent valuer
It isnt unusual for lenders to have contracts with third parties to provide various services 
associated with mortgage lending. Its not for me to interfere in that. In this case, Aviva has a 
contract with a third party. The third party then instructs a firm of surveyors to complete the 
valuation report. 
The surveyor was a member of RICS and had to abide by its rules of conduct. It was 
reasonable for Aviva to consider that the surveyor, as a member of RICS, was acting 
independently and impartially. I havent seen any evidence that would lead me to conclude 
that Aviva had any reason to consider that the surveyor did not reach their conclusions 
independently and impartially in this case. There is no evidence that Aviva tried to influence 
the surveyors valuation. 
I cant see any reason why Aviva would be required to disclose how it appoints surveyors at 
the otuset. Bearing in mind the surveyors professional obligations, it would be reasonable 
for Aviva to describe them as being independent.
disclosure
I cant see any reason why Aviva could not release the valuation report to Mr and Mrs R. It 
eventually did so.
Aviva has explained that the contract it has with the third party that instructs surveyors 
prevents it disclosing certain information. It also said that some of the information from the 
surveyor was not in the public domain at the time in question. I consider this was fair and 
reasonable. I also consider it gave Mr and Mrs R sufficient reasons why the property had 
been down valued. It would not necessarily be required to tell borrowers about every reason 
for the decisions it reaches.
In saying that, once the complaint was with us, I couldnt see any reason why, in the interest 
of fairness, the information could not be shown to Mr and Mrs R. They have now seen it and 
had the chance to comment on it.
response to appeal
I am satisfied that Aviva acted reasonably in putting Mr and Mrs Rs appeal to the surveyor 
in line with its processes. It went further than this by putting a second appeal to the surveyor.
The evidence we have supports that Aviva did send all relevant information to the surveyor. 
In any event, the surveyor explained that they base their valuation on their own research and evidence. It is unlikely that Mr and Mrs Rs report from an estate agent would make any real 
difference to that. 
The surveyor gave sufficient reasons for not accepting what Mr and Mrs R said and why they 
thought the initial valuation was correct. I consider it was reasonable for Aviva to accept 
what the surveyor said. 
I dont consider there were clear errors in the report as Mr and Mrs R have said. Aviva had 
no reason to challenge the surveyors comments on the second house. And there is little 
persuasive evidence that this would have made a material difference to the valuation. In 
respect of the comparable properties, it is for the surveyor to use their professional expertise 
to decide what they consider to be relevant evidence and what the value of the property was. 
The surveyor gave sufficient reasons why they ruled out the comparables provided by Mr 
and Mrs R.
Just because the surveyor did not go into the level of detail that Mr and Mrs R expected, 
does not mean that all relevant factors werent taken into account. It was reasonable for 
Aviva to accept the surveyors independent opinion.
Ultimately, Aviva was the lender here. It was entitled to rely on the surveyors professional 
expertise in considering the propertys value and whether it offered suitable security. It was 
reasonable for it to place more weight on the surveyors opinion than Mr and Mrs Rs. I dont 
agree that there were clear errors in the surveyors responses that meant it was 
unreasonable for Aviva to accept what the surveyor said. 
As Ive explained, my decision is limited to whether it was fair and reasonable for Aviva to 
accept what the surveyor said. Mr and Mrs R would need to complain to the surveyor if 
theyre unhappy about what the surveyor did or did not do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 June 2023.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman