DRN-4084432
The complaint
Mr M complaint about Shelby Finance Limited trading as Dot Dot Loans has three parts. 
Firstly, he called Shelby on 13 January 2022 and was advised a 30-day hold would be 
placed on the account  where he was told he wouldnt be contacted by Shelby. Shelby then 
sent Mr M an arrears email and he thinks that was wrong. 
Secondly, Mr M was told he would be receiving a default notice in the post  during the 
period when the 30-day hold was applied. And when the notice was sent, Mr M wasnt three 
months in arrears with his payments. So, he thinks this was incorrect. 
Thirdly, in the email informing him that the default notice would follow, Shelby provided 
incorrect office opening times. And Mr M tried to contact Shelby to discuss the default notice 
at a time when it was closed. 
In order to put things right, Mr M has requested an apology and compensation. 
What happened
Following a complaint to Shelby, it issued its final response letter in February 2022, and 
concluded:
It did agree to put the account on hold for 30 days, but it didnt tell Mr M that during 
this time that regulatory communications  such as a notice of default could still be 
sent. 
As a result of Shelby refunding the payments Mr M had already made, in 
December 2021 his account fell into arrears and this led to the notice of default being 
issued to Mr M on 28 January 2022. 
Shelby accepted Mr M was given the wrong business opening hours in an email. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr M referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
where it was considered by an adjudicator. He didnt uphold the complaint, although he did 
agree that Shelby had provided the wrong opening times. And while Mr M hadnt been told 
about the letters, he may receive during the 30 days hold Shelby hadnt made an error when 
it sent the arrears notice. Finally, he didnt think an error had been made with regards to the 
default notice. 
Mr M didnt accept the adjudicators outcome saying:  very serious errors have occurred. 
But no further comments were provided by Mr M and instead the complaint has been passed 
to an ombudsman for a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed Mr Ms complaint form, there appears to be three distinct elements of his 
complaint and therefore Ive split the decision into three separate parts  dealing with each 
one in turn. 
30 days hold 
There is a fair amount of agreement about what happened in relation to the 30 days hold. 
Mr M called Shelby to discuss having his last two payments refunded  which was needed 
following a family situation  which I am sorry to hear about. While this refund was 
processed Shelby arranged for a call back with Mr M to discuss the account.
On this call back  14 January 2022, Shelby did agree to place the account on hold for 
30 days  to allow Mr M to review his finances and seek any advice that he may have 
wanted. This in my view was entirely fair and reasonable for Shelby to place the hold on the 
account. And it is agreed that Shelby told Mr M that while his account was subject to the hold 
there would be no further collection activity  such as calls or letters. But Shelby accepts that 
it failed to inform Mr M that during this hold he could receive arrears notices and / or a 
default notice. 
So, I can quite understand Mr Ms unhappiness then when he received the sum in arrears 
notice dated 15 January 2022, which was the day after he had been told the account would 
be placed on hold with no contact. 
The error, here is that Shelby led Mr M to believe, that he wouldnt receive any contact from 
Shelby during the 30 days hold. Whereas the actual position was that he could still receive 
letters that were required to be sent such as arrears notices. That is what Shelby ought to 
have explained to Mr M on 14 January 2014. 
Ive thought about whether a further award ought to be made, but in this case, the loss to 
Mr M is a loss of expectation that he wouldnt be contacted. Whereas he was always going 
to receive the letters that he did  regardless of the 30 days hold. And I can see from what 
Shelby says in the FRL that the correct position with regards to contact was explained on 
17 January 2022. This seems to have been the first opportunity Shelby had to make sure 
Mr M was fully aware of the 30 days hold after the notice was sent. I consider this 
reasonable, and no award needs to be made. 
Default notice 
Shelby has explained that the reason why a default notice was issued was due to it 
refunding two payments made by Mr M in December 2021. The refund was processed on 
14 January 2022. As a result of the returned payments, it pushed Mr Ms account into 
arrears  which Shelby says was around 63 days by the end of January 2022 and it was 
therefore sufficiently in arrears for a default notice to be sent. 
Shelby said it was required to send the default notice, because the account was sufficiently 
in arrears, and it gave Mr M time to either come to an arrangement  and/or pay the amount 
specified in the notice. Should that not happen, Shelby was within its rights to default the 
account. 
Whereas Mr Ms position is that no one explained to him that he may receive a default notice 
during the 30 days hold and he said this was the last thing he needed, as he was going 
through a difficult time. 
Firstly, Ive already concluded  and which Shelby has agreed, that Mr M was given 
incomplete information on the phone call on 14 January 2022 about the nature of the hold and what letters may or may not be sent. And, at the time of this call, Mr Ms account wasnt 
in arrears, it only fell into arrears once the payments had been refunded to him. While Mr M 
clearly needed the returned funds to help alleviate a family situation this did have the effect 
of putting his account significantly in arrears. 
When thinking about the default notice, Ive kept in mind the Information Commissioners 
Office (ICO) guidance. The ICO is the body set up to monitor personal data and how it is 
used. 
The ICO has issued a paper entitled Principles for the Reporting of Arrears, Arrangements 
and Defaults at Credit Reference Agencies. This sets out standards and guidance as to 
when a default can or cant be reported and so I consider this to be good industry practice 
and Ive reviewed what it says to establish whether Shelby has made an error in this 
complaint. Principle 4 of the guidance says that a default can be applied: 
As a general guide, this may occur when you are 3 months in arrears, and normally 
by the time you are 6 months in arrears.
Clearly, when Shelby issued the default notice in January 2022 Mr Ms account wasnt 
sufficiently in arrears for a default to be applied but had Mr M made no further payments and 
or not come to an arrangement with Shelby for the balance then it wouldve been entitled to 
record a default with the credit reference agencies because by the end of February 2022 the 
account wouldve been three months in arrears.  
I accept the default notice wouldve been unexpected for Mr M, but equally, his account was 
in arrears and while it is accepted Mr M was told there wasnt going to be any further contact 
during the 30 days hold, Shelby says its position was clarified on 17 January 2022 which 
was before the default notice was sent. 
Overall, while receiving the default notice may have been concerning for Mr M, Im not 
persuaded, Shelby made an error when it issued it. So, I do not uphold this part of the 
complaint.  
Business hours 
Shelby has accepted in the FRL that Mr M had been provided with incorrect information 
about its opening times. Mr M says he was trying to call to speak to Shelby to discuss the 
default notice. He says he was in a panic but when he called  during the hours Shelby said 
it was open - he received a message to say the office wouldnt open until 9 oclock. 
Mr M says he didnt ring back on the same day  during the time when it was open as he 
waited for the default notice to be received in the post and for the 30 days hold to expire. I 
understand why he did that, but equally, Mr M was told that the office would be open around 
40 minutes after his attempted call and I see no reason why he couldnt have called back 
then if he wished. 
Shelby has apologised for this error and given the circumstances I think this is fair and that 
no compensation is warranted. Unfortunately, dealing with lenders  like Shelby isnt always 
straightforward or hassle free, and ringing at the time the office was closed would be a 
nuisance and annoying. But just because a lender has made an error  that doesnt mean an 
award of compensation is warranted. Having thought about everything, including Shelbys 
explanation for the error, I do consider the apology sufficient, and I therefore make no award. 
Overall, while Shelby has accepted errors were made when it dealt with Mr M in 
January 2022, I am not instructing Shelby to pay any compensation to him. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman