DRN-3106860
The complaint
Mr H complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with 
Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited, trading as Mercedes-Benz Finance, wasnt 
of satisfactory quality.
What happened
A new car was supplied to Mr H under a hire purchase agreement with Mercedes-Benz 
Finance that he electronically signed in September 2019. The car was returned to the dealer 
after a breakdown in December 2019 and he returned the car to the dealer three times in 
2020 because of other issues with the car. He then complained to Mercedes-Benz Finance 
and said that he wanted to reject the car because of other issues with it. Mercedes-Benz 
Finance said that he should return the car to the dealer for it to be repaired and that it 
wouldnt support rejection of the car.
Mr H wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service. Our investigator 
recommended that his complaint should be upheld. He thought that the car had a fault and 
Mercedes-Benz Finance had tried to repair the car so it was reasonable for Mr H to be able 
to reject the car. He recommended that Mercedes-Benz Finance should: end the agreement 
and collect the car; refund Mr Hs deposit/part exchange contribution of £1,390, with interest; 
and remove any adverse information from his credit file in relation to the agreement.
Mercedes-Benz Finance has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. It 
says that it should be allowed an opportunity to confirm whether or not a fault is present with 
the car but Mr H hasnt agreed to an inspection. It also says that Mr H didnt make it aware of 
this specific issue when he complained to it and, if he had, it would have had an independent 
inspection arranged at that point. It says that it will pay for the inspection, keep Mr H mobile 
and, if the issue is experienced, it will take the car back.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for these reasons:
Mercedes-Benz Finance, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that 
it was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr H - whether or not it was of 
satisfactory quality at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the age 
and mileage of the car and the price that was paid for it;
the car that was supplied to Mr H was a new car with a price of £26,080.81 and I 
consider that it was reasonable for him to expect that it would be free from even 
minor defects;
satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within 
the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long 
that time is will also depend on a number of factors;
Mercedes-Benz Finance has described the work that has been carried out on the car 
since it was supplied to Mr H  it says that the car was repaired after a breakdown in 
December 2019, the software was updated after a lane monitoring issue in January 
2020, the software was updated again in August 2020 to deal with a radar sensor 
issue and a screen fault was remedied in December 2020;
in addition to those issues, Mr H has described the issues that hes had with the cars 
media screen showing an incorrect speed limit and with the engine fan  and hes 
provided photos showing the incorrect speed limit on the cars media screen and a 
video showing the noise from the engine fan;
having looked at that evidence, I consider it to be more likely than not that there are 
issues with the car and Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for me to 
require Mr H to agree to an inspection of the car; 
I consider that those issues cause the car not to have been as durable as it was 
reasonable for Mr H to expect it to be and that, for that reason, it wasnt of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to him; and
I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Mercedes-Benz 
Finance to allow Mr H to reject the car.
Putting things right
I find that Mercedes-Benz Finance should end the hire purchase agreement and arrange for 
the car to be collected from Mr H  both at no cost to him. Ive seen no evidence to show 
that Mercedes-Benz Finance has recorded any adverse information about the agreement on 
Mr Hs credit file but I find that it should remove any information about the hire purchase 
agreement that its recorded on his credit file.
The hire purchase agreement shows that Mr H paid a deposit of £1,390 for the car. I find that 
it would be fair and reasonable for Mercedes-Benz Finance to refund that deposit to Mr H, 
with interest. Mr H has been able to use the car despite the issues with it and Im not 
persuaded that those issues will have significantly impacted his use and enjoyment of the 
car  so I dont consider that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require Mercedes-Benz 
Finance to refund to Mr H any of the other payments that hes made for the car or to pay him 
any other compensation. I consider that its fair and reasonable for it to keep the monthly 
payments that Mr H has made under the agreement as payment for the use that hes had 
from the car.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint and I order Mercedes-Benz Financial Services 
UK Limited, trading as Mercedes-Benz Finance, to:
1. End the hire purchase agreement and arrange for the car to be collected from 
Mr H  both at no cost to him.
2. Refund to Mr H the deposit of £1,390 that he paid for the car.
3. Pay interest on that amount at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement.
4. Remove any information about the hire purchase agreement that its recorded on 
Mr Hs credit file.HM Revenue & Customs requires Mercedes-Benz Finance to deduct tax from the interest 
payment referred to at 3 above. Mercedes-Benz Finance must give Mr H a certificate 
showing how much tax its deducted if he asks it for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2021. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman