DRN-3921493
The complaint
Mr W complains that KGM Underwriting Services Limited (KGM) hasnt settled his claim on 
his car insurance policy fairly.
What happened
Mr Ws car was damaged by a fire in his garage, so he made a claim on his car insurance 
policy.
KGM said Mr Ws car was a total loss. Its engineer valued Mr Ws car at £23,950. KGM 
offered Mr W £19,995 to settle his claim (minus his policy excess of £100) because his 
policy said KGM would pay the market value of Mr Ws car up to the value stated in his 
schedule. The value stated in Mr Ws schedule was £19,995.
Mr W didnt think this was fair and, when KGM didnt uphold his complaint, he brought it to 
us. The investigator who looked at Mr Ws complaint upheld it. She didnt think KGM had 
clearly set out the limit on the amount the policy would pay out if Mr Ws car was a total loss, 
either when the policy was taken out or when it was renewed.
KGM has asked for an ombudsmans decision on Mr Ws complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr Ws car insurance policy says that if his car is a total loss, the most KGM will pay him is 
the market value of his car, less the policy excess. And it says market value is the cost of 
replacing his car with another of a similar make, model, age, mileage and condition as at the 
time of the loss or damage up to the value stated in your policy schedule. 
KGM has relied on this wording to limit Mr Ws settlement to £19,995. I understand this was 
the value Mr W gave for his car when he first took the policy out and which was set out in his 
policy schedule then and when he renewed the policy.
Our general approach to complaints like these is that, unless a business clearly explains to a 
potential policyholder the importance of declaring a value for a car and its ramifications were 
unlikely to say its fair and reasonable of that business to rely on it. 
From what Mr W says, he didnt know about this policy term  which he describes as being 
in the small print of a large policy document  until after KGM declared his car a total loss. 
And Ive seen no evidence from KGM that it made the ramifications of this term clear to      
Mr W either when he took the policy out or renewed it. So on the facts and circumstances of 
this complaint, I dont think KGM has acted fairly and reasonably in relying on this term to 
limit the settlement of Mr Ws claim to £19,995.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr Ws complaint and direct KGM Underwriting Services 
Limited to settle Mr Ws claim based on a valuation of £23,950, rather than £19,995 (minus 
his policy excess of £100).  KGM Underwriting Services Limited says its already paid Mr W 
£19,895, so it must now pay him the outstanding settlement amount. I believe this is £3,855. 
KGM Underwriting Services Limited must also pay interest on the outstanding settlement 
amount at the rate of 8% a year simple from the date of payment of the first settlement 
amount to the date of payment of the outstanding settlement amount.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2023.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman