DRN-3903049
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund money she lost when she was the 
victim of a scam. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
In 2021 Mrs C was the victim of a cryptocurrency scam after she contacted a firm Ill refer to 
as G. She made the following fund transfers to various cryptocurrency exchange platforms, 
where it was converted into cryptocurrency and ultimately lost to the scam:
Date Amount
8 July 2021 £3
8 July 2021 £5
13 August 2021 £5
19 August 2021 £2,000
10 September 2021 £20
14 September 2021 £3,500
24 September 2021 £5,750
27 September 2021 £7,246
28 September 2021 £8,900
30 September 2021 £9,500
1 October 2021 £5,000
4 October 2021 £2,700
4 October 2021 £5,000
4 October 2021 £4,900
5 October 2021 £10,000
5 October 2021 £6,000
5 October 2021 £9,000
6 October 2021 £18,000
8 October 2021 £23,000
13 October 2021 £20
Total: £120,549
Mrs C received the following credits from the cryptocurrency exchange platforms:
Date Amount
16 September 2021 £2,000
1 October 2021 £9,500
21 October 2021 £20
8 November 2021 £3
8 November 2021 £5
Total: £11,528
And so, Mrs Cs total loss is £109,021 from the scam. 
Mrs C reported the scam to Barclays on 26 October 2021. Barclays called Mrs C on 
21 February 2022 and explained, after investigating the claim, they wouldnt be refunding the 
payments and advised that she would need to pursue the matter through the cryptocurrency 
exchange platforms. Mrs C said she was unhappy that Barclays released the 6 and 8 
October 2021 payments  totalling £41,000 - without contacting her. Barclays explained this 
was because theyd already had several scam conversations with Mrs C before these 
payments and she confirmed she was happy for them to go through. Mrs C remained 
dissatisfied, as she felt Barclays showed a lack of duty of care, and so raised a complaint. 
She thought Barclays couldve refused to release the payments until theyd been 
investigated  especially as it was huge amount of money. Mrs C also added that, in the last 
call she had with Barclays, she was treated like an idiot. 
Barclays responded to the complaint on 25 March 2022. They said their fraud detection 
system flagged numerous payments relating to this scam and they had multiple in-depth 
scam conversations with Mrs C. In these calls, they said Mrs C denied being involved with 
any third party or broker and that shed opened the cryptocurrency accounts of her own 
volition (with nobody else having access). And that there hadnt been any remote access 
software installed on Mrs Cs device, and shed done due diligence on the companies 
involved. 
Barclays added that Mrs C made no mention of G, so they were unable to locate a warning 
published by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) - that said G were providing financial 
services or products in the UK without their authorisation  which meant they couldnt 
identify it was a scam. And, as Mrs C received multiple credits into her bank account from 
the cryptocurrency exchange platform, it indicated she had control of the accounts. Barclays 
didnt uphold the complaint as theyd found no bank error. 
Mrs C referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman and clarified she was only 
seeking the refund of the £18,000 and £23,000 payments she made on 6 and 8 October 
2021. She thought Barclays shouldve done more checks before releasing the payments, 
particularly due to her sounding hysterical in previous calls. 
 Our investigator, in short, said:
He listened to the calls in which Barclays questioned Mrs C about the payments as 
part of their fraud prevention. And although Mrs C sounded inconvenienced at 
answering the questions, he didnt think she sounded distressed or hysterical (even if 
she felt this way), or that Barclays ought to have overruled what she was telling them.
He thought Barclays handled the calls well, asking relevant questions and giving 
appropriate advice  such as recommending Mrs C try to withdraw funds to ensure it 
was a legitimate investment. And, when asked, Mrs C didnt inform Barclays that 
there was a broker (G) involved. 
Even if Barclays had contacted Mrs C about the £18,000 and £23,000 payments, 
given G had convinced her they were a legitimate firm, he thought Mrs C wouldve 
proceeded with making the payments and asked Barclays to release them.
He noted that Mrs C says she was told by Barclays that payments over £10,000 
couldnt be processed via the mobile banking app. But Barclays have confirmed there 
isnt a £10,000 limit and so, if Mrs C was told this, she was unfortunately given wrong 
information. 
After informing Barclays shed been scammed, Barclays sent acknowledgement 
letters to Mrs C on 26 October and 4 November 2021. There wasnt however any further contact until Mrs C got in touch with Barclays on 21 February 2022. And so, 
he thought £150 compensation should be paid to recognise this poor service.
Mrs C disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry that Mrs C has been the victim of a scam. I realise shes lost a significant sum of 
money and so I dont underestimate the impact this has had on her. But, while I know this 
isnt the outcome Mrs C will be hoping for, I dont think Barclays has acted unfairly by not 
refunding her loss for similar reasons to our Investigator. Ill explain why.
Ive thought about the CRM code which can offer a potential means of obtaining a refund 
following Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams like this one. But the CRM code only 
applies to payments made to an account held by another person. As the payments Mrs C 
made were sent to accounts she held in her own name with cryptocurrency exchange 
platforms, theyre not covered under the CRM code. Ive therefore considered whether 
Barclays should reimburse Mrs C under any of their other obligations.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that their customer authorises them to make. Here, it isnt disputed that 
Mrs C knowingly made the payments from her Barclays account. I appreciate Mrs C was 
tricked by the scammer as she thought it was a genuine investment opportunity. 
Nevertheless, Im satisfied the payments were authorised by Mrs C. So, under the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017 and the terms of her account, Barclays are expected to process 
the payments and Mrs C is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and good industry practice, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate 
for Barclays to take additional steps or make additional checks before processing a payment 
to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
In this case, Barclays called Mrs C on multiple occasions about payments she made before 
those in question on 6 and 8 October 2021. Ive carefully listened to these calls and Barclays 
explained to Mrs C that, due to the prevalence of cryptocurrency scams, they needed to 
carry out further checks  including asking her questions  before releasing the payments. 
And I think Barclays asked Mrs C appropriate questions to ascertain the purpose of the 
payments and to establish whether there was a risk of a scam. In response to the questions 
Barclays asked, Mrs C confirmed:
Shed research cryptocurrency and the firms she was dealing with online, with them 
being reputable. And she was satisfied shed carried out enough checks on the firms 
she was sending the payments to  including checking the FCA website. So, she felt 
quite secure with making the payments.  
Shed attended an online cryptocurrency seminar that was recommended by a friend 
of someone she knows who works in financial services. 
Nobody else had access to her cryptocurrency accounts (wallets) or knew her 
account details. Nor was anyone else connected to her device  via remote access 
software  when the accounts were opened. 
There wasnt a middleman or broker involved with the cryptocurrency investment. 
And she hadnt been asked to send money for time sensitive reasons (so she wasnt being rushed). Nor had she taken out a loan to make the investment, clicked on a 
social media advert or been asked to make the payment on behalf of someone else. 
She also hadnt been given a script from someone to use when speaking with 
Barclays. 
She understood the risks associated with cryptocurrency, had invested before and 
would like to take the risk with her money. So, she asked for Barclays to release the 
payments. 
She could withdraw from her cryptocurrency account if she wanted. But when asked 
to test a withdrawal prior to releasing one of the payments, she refused as she didnt 
have time and was willing to take responsibility for the payment. 
From what Mrs C told Barclays, I think it was reasonable for them to be reassured the 
payments werent being made in relation to a scam. Its unclear why Mrs C didnt tell 
Barclays about Gs involvement, including that G had assisted her in opening her 
cryptocurrency accounts using remote access software. If she had done, given there was a 
warning on the FCAs website about G at the time, then I think its possible Barclays couldve 
given more suitable advice and the scam may have been prevented. But I dont think I can 
hold Barclays responsible for this. 
Im aware Mrs C feels that Barclays ought to have realised something was wrong as she 
was in a terrible state at the time and sounded hysterical. So, she thinks they shouldve 
spotted this and done more checks before releasing the payments. But while I appreciate 
Mrs C felt this way, I dont think this came across in the calls. Instead, I think Mrs C came 
across more annoyed at the inconvenience of having to go through the fraud prevention 
checks on multiple occasions  as she had to explain the same thing(s) to Barclays each 
time.  I therefore dont think they couldve reasonably known something was wrong. And 
while I understand Mrs C believes they spoke to her in a condescending manner and treated 
her like an idiot in one of the calls, I disagree. I think Barclays were, largely, polite and dealt 
with Mrs C in an appropriate manner. 
Mrs C has argued that Barclays shouldve called her before releasing the 6 and 8 October 
2021 payments  especially due to them being of a significant value. And, by not doing so, 
they showed a lack of duty of care towards her. Although I understand her feelings in this 
regard, I think it was reasonable for Barclays to release these payments without carrying out 
additional checks based on the previous payments that were made and the conversations 
theyd already had with Mrs C. This is because by this point, although they were of a higher 
value, I consider the payment instructions Mrs C had given Barclays were consistent with 
her typical account activity  as shed been sending money regularly to cryptocurrency 
exchange platforms. And in response to the questions Barclays had asked Mrs C in their 
attempt to identify whether she was at risk of the financial harm from fraud, shed reassured 
them otherwise  by, amongst other things, confirming shed carried out due diligence on the 
firms and explaining she understood the risks of cryptocurrency (which she was willing to 
accept). 
In any event, even if Barclays had called Mrs C about these payments, Im not persuaded it 
wouldve made a difference. I think its most likely that Mrs C wouldve answered any further 
questions in a similar manner as before and requested the payments be released. Because 
of this, I dont think Barclays is responsible for the loss Mrs C has suffered.
On a final note, Ive considered the service Mrs C received from Barclays. This includes 
Mrs C saying she was told by Barclays there was a £10,000 payment limit on the mobile 
banking app (and so being led to believe the payments shouldnt have gone through). While 
Ive not heard this in the calls Ive listened to, Barclays has since confirmed a £10,000 limit 
doesnt apply. Therefore, if Mrs C was told this, it seems she was sadly given incorrect information  albeit this wouldnt change my view on whether Barclays is responsible for the 
loss suffered.
I do however agree with our investigator that Barclays ought to have communicated better 
with Mrs C when considering her claim. And, although the delay in considering Mrs Cs claim 
didnt change the outcome, I appreciate it wouldve caused her trouble and upset that 
couldve been avoided. I appreciate Mrs C may think its not enough, but I think £150 
compensation is a reasonable amount to recognise this 
Im sympathetic to Mrs Cs situation and the loss she has suffered. But in the circumstances 
of this complaint, I think Barclays has acted fairly by not refunding the payments. And so, Im 
only awarding the £150 compensation for the service issues Mrs C experienced. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay 
Mrs C £150 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2023.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman