DRN-2011910
The complaint
Mrs R and Mrs B, in their capacity as trustees of T, complain that Albert Goodman Financial 
Planning Limited (AGFP) failed to advise them of their options when the bonds held within T 
were surrendered.
What happened
In 2010 the late Mrs C took out an Isle of Man Estate Control Bond (ECB) which contained 
100 identical unit-linked single premium endowment policies. The lives assured were 
Mrs Cs four grandchildren. The ECB was placed in a trust, T, of which Mrs R and Mrs B 
were appointed trustees, along with the late Mrs C.
Sadly Mrs C passed away in 2017 and the ECB was surrendered in full. This triggered a 
chargeable gain, giving rise to an income tax liability of £39,287.45 to the trustees.
Mrs R and Mrs B complained. They said that they had spoken with another independent 
financial adviser (IFA) whod explained that the trustees had a range of options available to 
them which wouldve reduced the income tax liability. The IFA told Mrs R and Mrs B that 
they could have saved approximately £27,269 if they had assigned the policies to 
themselves prior to surrendering the ECB. Mrs R and Mrs B said AGFP shouldve advised 
them as trustees on the best course of action to reduce their tax liability. They said AGFP 
was aware they were seeking to reduce their tax liabilities at the time.
AGFP said it wasnt engaged to provide any advice to Mrs R and Mrs B as trustees. It said it 
acted on the trustees instruction to surrender the ECB and they hadnt asked for any advice 
on the tax implications of surrendering it.
Mrs R and Mrs B referred their complaint to our service. They said AGFP was paid to 
provide ongoing advice to T from the ECB.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt think AGFP had been engaged to 
provide ongoing advice to T and neither Mrs R nor Mrs B had asked for any advice in 
respect of the tax implications of surrendering the ECB.
Mrs R and Mrs B didnt agree and asked for a final decision. Mrs R and Mrs B added that 
they shouldve been advised to retain the ECB to limit their own inheritance tax liability in the 
future.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
I should first explain that this complaint has been brought by Mrs R and Mrs B, in their 
capacity as trustees, on behalf of T. So, I cant consider any concerns they have raised 
about the advice AGFP has given (or lack thereof) to them individually as part of this 
complaint.
There are two issues to determine here; the first is whether AGFP had been engaged to 
provide ongoing advice to T and the second is whether AGFP ought to have informed the 
trustees of their options when the ECB was surrendered. Ill address each in turn.
Mrs R and Mrs B say that when advice was provided to the late Mrs C in October 2009 a 
report was prepared which shows that ongoing advice was to be provided. They say the 
report shows it would be paid for by way of a yearly charge of 0.5% of the value of the ECB.
Ive reviewed the report and I can see that a charge of 0.5% of the value of the ECB would 
be deducted annually. However, it was stated that this would be for the review and any 
appropriate management of the funds. So, there wasnt any agreement for further advice to 
be provided in respect of the ECB. This is consistent with the client agreement signed by the 
late Mrs C on 29 January 2010, which said:
When we have arranged any investments for which you have given instructions, we will not 
give you any further advice unless you request it, but will be glad to advise you at any time 
you ask us to do so.
In any event, the advice was provided to the late Mrs C in her capacity as a retail client. 
I havent seen any evidence to suggest that the trustees engaged the services of AGFP to 
provide them with advice. AGFP said if they had, a separate advice agreement and fee 
wouldve applied.
Im aware that both Mrs R and Mrs B are retail clients of AGFP and were in discussions with 
its advisers about their own investments and inheritance tax planning in 2017. However, 
I havent seen any evidence that either of them asked AGFP to provide advice about the tax 
that would be payable by the trustees if they surrendered the ECB.
In light of the above, I dont think AGFP had been engaged by the trustees to provide T with 
any advice.
Mrs R and Mrs B also say that AGFP ought to have informed them of the options available to 
them as trustees instead of allowing them to surrender the ECB.
Ive reviewed the exchanges that took place between the trustees and AGFP following 
Mrs Cs passing.  
On 31 January 2017 Mrs B informed AGFB that Mrs C had passed. She asked for a 
valuation and what else needed to be done. Thereafter AGFB dealt with a solicitor who was 
arranging the probate. I can see Mrs R met with AGFP in March 2017 to discuss her 
intentions to invest the money she would inherit. Mrs B also met with AGFP and discussed 
her intention to purchase a property with the money she would inherit. In April 2017 Mrs B 
chased AGFP, informing it that she and Mr B needed this money to complete the property 
purchase. She asked whether AGFP needed the trustees signatures to release the funds. 
AGFP says that it was simply instructed to surrender the ECB as both Mrs R and Mrs B 
required the funds for investment.
Overall, it seems to me that AGFP received instructions to surrender the ECB and carried 
out that request. I dont think it was obliged to highlight the different options available to the 
trustees without any enquiries having been made. This is because Mrs R and Mrs Bs 
intention from the outset was to surrender the ECB and invest the proceeds elsewhere.I think that Mrs R and Mrs B wouldve understood that surrendering the ECB could have tax 
implications. I say this because they were present at the meeting where AGFP 
recommended Mrs C take out the ECB and the report from October 2009 says Mrs R and 
Mrs B understood the recommendations that had been made. The report set out the tax 
implications in detail and in particular, it stated income tax would likely be payable on 
surrender of the ECB. So, if Mrs R and Mrs B wanted to limit the income tax payable, I think 
they needed to make a specific request before any instruction to surrender the ECB was 
given. As this didnt happen, I dont think AGFP acted unfairly by not volunteering the other 
options available to the trustees.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mrs B, 
on behalf of T, to accept or reject my decision before 26 October 2020.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman