DRN-4063313
The complaint
Ms T complains that she was unable to access her pension policy with ReAssure Limited
(ReAssure) online. ReAssure was unable to say when online access would be restored.
Manual calculations took time and Ms T didnt always receive all of the information shed
requested and she felt was unable to monitor her account properly.
What happened
Ms T had a stakeholder pension with Legal & General (L&G). In 2020 part of L&Gs business
was taken over by ReAssure. Ms Ts pension was transferred to ReAssure. She registered
for online access. When she was unable to log in on 27 September 2021 she contacted
ReAssures call centre the next day. ReAssure promised to look into things. But the weeks
went by without access or explanation.
ReAssure sent a final response letter to Ms T on 15 December 2021. ReAssure said, due to
a system error, Ms Ts one off contributions to her policy couldnt be applied so a hold had
been put on her account which meant she couldnt view it. That was so any incorrect
information or values couldnt be confirmed to her. ReAssure said, once the issue had been
resolved, the contributions would be applied and backdated to ensure there was no financial
loss, the account updated and available to view again. ReAssure was unable to say when
that would be done but, in the meantime, ReAssure could provide information on request
and manually calculate any values and issue these by post. ReAssure said it would be
sending a cheque for £150 for the inconvenience caused.
Ms T wrote to ReAssure on 25 January 2022. She said she hadnt had online access for five
months. She asked for an update as to when online access would be restored. In the
meantime she asked for some information, including breakdowns of two valuations shed
received, on a fund by fund basis with the number of units, unit price and value for each
fund. She also said shed made three lump sum payments and she asked for details as to
when each payment had been applied and the number and prices of the units bought.
Ive seen that ReAssure replied on 23 February 2022. ReAssure gave most of the
information Ms T wanted but she wrote again on 16 March 2022 as some details shed
requested hadnt been provided. She also asked again when she could expect to regain
online access to her policy.
By the time we started to look into Ms Ts complaint, in about August 2022, online access
still hadnt been restored. We asked ReAssure for some further information, including when
it anticipated Ms T being able to have online access again.
Unfortunately we didnt get all the information wed requested. The investigator issued her
view on 1 December 2022 based on what shed seen. The investigator didnt think ReAssure
had acted fairly. In summary she said Ms T had confirmed she still wasnt able to access her
account online. And shed not been receiving paper statements. If ReAssure couldnt say
when the issue with online access would be fixed, ReAssure should be keeping Ms T
updated and provide information in another format. It had been over a year since the issue
had arisen and it hadnt yet been resolved.
The investigator said, to put things right, ReAssure needed to reinstate Ms Ts online access
and ensure regular statements were sent to her and provide any information she requested.
ReAssure had made a payment of £150 and had offered a further £250 which the
investigator said was fair and reasonable. And, if Ms T was paying management charges,
ReAssure should refund those from the date online access was lost to when it was resolved.
In response ReAssure accepted what the investigator had said apart from the refund of
management charges. The policy did have such charges but they were in place for all
policies and whether they could be accessed via ReAssures portal or not. The charges
werent specifically related to portal access and ReAssure didnt feel it was appropriate to
refund for any period the policyholder didnt have access. Thered always been other means
(in writing or by telephone) of actioning requests from policyholders and as Ms T had done.
The investigator asked ReAssure for some more information. That wasnt forthcoming and
so the investigator told Ms T an ombudsman would review the complaint and make a
decision. ReAssure then provided the information the investigator had requested. ReAssure
said Ms T now had access to the portal. The payments shed made had been applied to her
account. Shed last received a statement in June 2022. Shed been sent regular information
on request. Most recently (11 October 2022) shed used the secure message facility with
information being issued on 21 October 2022. ReAssure said historically Ms T had switched
funds by telephone, records of which ReAssure provided.
The investigator considered the further information ReAssure had provided before writing to
Ms T on 31 January 2023. The investigator now didnt think the management charges should
be waived. She accepted it wouldve been easier for Ms T to monitor her account online but
she could obtain information by contacting ReAssure direct, which shed done. And shed
switched funds over the telephone. When online access was lost, ReAssure had sent
information in response to requests from Ms T. ReAssure hadnt kept Ms T updated as to
when online access would be reinstated. There was no charge for online access. Under the
terms and conditions an annual management charge, based on the value of the pension,
was payable.
The investigators letter crossed with a letter from Ms T who said her difficulties with
ReAssure had continued, including mistakes in statements and delays in sending
information, making it difficult to keep track of her investments. Although online access had
been reinstated (shed been able to log in on 31 January 2023) the figures didnt make
sense. She wanted a statement showing all unit transactions, bought and sold, since the
transfer from L&G. She was also disappointed that ReAssure wasnt prepared to waive the
management charge. She said, although her requests for information had been actioned, it
had taken time and the figures provided hadnt been accurate. ReAssures systems, manual
and online, hadnt worked and she didnt think it was fair she had to pay for a service which
wasnt delivered.
We explained that if Ms T had other concerns which arose after her complaint had been
made, shed need to make a new complaint. In the meantime wed asked ReAssure to
provide the transactions statements Ms T had requested direct to her.
In response Ms T said, when online access had been withdrawn, manual calculations were
offered. But the figures drawn up manually werent correct. And since online access had
been restored the figures didnt tally with those provided through manual systems. So things
hadnt moved forward since September 2021. She also commented that, although she had
switched funds by telephone, it hadnt been straightforward. A request on 26 February 2021
to transfer out of a cash fund wasnt completed until 21 April 2021, a mistake having been
made. And making additional contributions was cumbersome.A new investigator considered Ms Ts further comments. He asked if Ms T had received the
statement shed requested and, if so, if it had helped clarify any discrepancies. Although
thered been a mistake when completing the switch out of the cash fund  ReAssure initially
having transferred all Ms Ts holdings and not just the cash fund  it had been corrected and
the switch backdated. The new investigator thought the sums offered - £150 plus a further
£250  for distress and inconvenience were fair and reasonable.
Ms T confirmed shed received a unit statement. She understood why the investigator didnt
think any further action in respect of the fund swich in February 2021 was necessary. But
she thought the recommendation to waive management fees should be reinstated. She
wanted the matter to be considered by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I think what ReAssure has offered for distress and inconvenience suffered
by Ms T (£400 in total) is fair and reasonable. In the main it reflects the loss of online access.
Thats a facility which Ms T clearly values and uses to monitor her pension policy. The loss 
of online access for a considerable period  between September 2021 and the end of 
January 2023  will have caused a fair amount of inconvenience and annoyance to Ms T.
I know Ms T is disappointed that the investigator said management fees should be waived
but then changed her mind. But I dont think it would be fair to say that Ms T shouldnt have
to pay the management fees, even though the service shes received from ReAssure has
been lacking in some respects.
Generally if theres been poor service we wouldnt usually say management fees should be
refunded. Instead wed look at the impact of any service failings on the consumer, including
if any financial loss had resulted and the degree of any inconvenience and distress caused. I
think thats the right approach here. ReAssure still needed to manage and run Ms Ts policy.
And she was able to obtain information from ReAssure about her policy even if it wasnt
always provided as quickly as Ms T might have wished and led to some further queries. I
dont think it would be fair to say that ReAssure shouldnt be entitled to the management
fees that Ms T was contractually bound to pay.
I cant see that Ms T has suffered any financial loss. Theres some ongoing dialogue with
ReAssure arising from the unit statement Ms T requested and which ReAssure provided. As
Ms T has noted, much of the statement shows units being sold to meet administration
charges. Ive seen Ms T queried with ReAssure some of the entries  shown as fund
decrease or increase corrections. ReAssure replied to that query and Ms T then raised some
further questions.
I dont think theres anything we can add. I think this is a matter between ReAssure and Ms T
 she has her own records as to the contributions shes made, any fund switches and the
sort of values she expects to see which shell need to reconcile with ReAssures figures. I 
think, as things currently stand, its for Ms T to satisfy herself  and which might entail further
queries to ReAssure  that the statements are correct and that her account now reflects the
correct position.
If Ms T gets to the point where she thinks the explanations given by ReAssure as to any of
the entries made arent correct and ReAssure maintains that they are, she can raise that as
a new complaint with ReAssure. I dont think that stage has been reached. Hopefully any
outstanding queries can be dealt with by ReAssure so that Ms T is satisfied that her accountentries are correct. I dont think theres currently any impasse or that any ongoing dialogue
with ReAssure means that I shouldnt determine the current complaint.
To sum up, Ms T has had difficulties with ReAssure caused, in the main, by the lack of
online access for a considerable period. Online access has now been restored. I cant see
the difficulties which arose have caused any financial loss and the amount offered for the
distress and inconvenience is fair and reasonable. Online access has now been restored so
that, hopefully, going forwards, things will proceed more smoothly. As Ive said, if Ms T is
unable to resolve any outstanding queries about her account, shell need to raise that as a
formal complaint with ReAssure and give it an opportunity to respond. If she still remains
dissatisfied the issue can be referred to us.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. ReAssure Limited must pay Ms T £400 (less any sums already paid)
as compensation for the distress and inconvenience ReAssure Limiteds service failings
have caused Ms T.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2023.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman