DRN-3620910
Complaint
Miss A is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) closed her account and recorded a fraud 
prevention marker against her. 
Background
In April 2021, Monzo wrote to Miss A to inform her that her account had been referred to its 
investigation team for review and as a result of its investigation it had taken the decision to 
close her account with immediate effect. 
After subsequently learning that Monzo had recorded a fraud marker against her, Miss A 
complained. Monzo looked at Miss As complaint and didnt uphold it. As Miss A remained 
dissatisfied, she referred the matter to our service. 
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss As concerns. She thought that Monzo had 
reasonable grounds to close Miss As account. But she didnt think that Monzo had done 
enough to show that Miss A was complicit in fraud and so it unfairly recorded the fraud 
prevention marker against her. Monzo disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that Monzo has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of facility 
 relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a marker, it 
isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Miss A is guilty of a fraud or financial 
crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or concern. The 
relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that Monzo must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
entered Miss As account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. Secondly, 
Monzo also needs to have strong evidence to show that Miss A was deliberately dishonest in 
receiving any fraudulent payments and knew they were, or might be, illegitimate payments. 
This can include Miss A allowing someone else to use her account in order to receive an 
illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was 
unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Miss As complaint, I need to decide whether I think Monzo had 
enough evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Miss As account and that she was 
complicit in this. Its important to note Monzo had to have enough evidence to meet both 
parts of test for it to have acted fairly and reasonably.
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that the funds in question, which entered Miss As 
account in April 2021, did so as a result of fraudulent activity. So the only matter which 
remains in dispute here is whether Miss A was complicit in allowing her account to receive 
these illegitimate payments. 
Miss A has said that she was persuaded to open this account by a friend who told her he 
needed help to access money he was owed. As a result, she opened this account and 
shared her login details as well as her provisional driving licence with him. On the other 
hand, Monzo says the terms and conditions of Miss As account permitted it to close it 
without notice where she broke the terms of her agreement. It says Miss A breached the 
terms and conditions by allowing someone else to use it and by passing on her card and 
security details. 
Ive thought about what Monzo has said. But it only found out that Miss A had shared her 
account details after it had closed the account and recorded a fraud marker. Nonetheless, 
given fraudulent funds had found their way to Miss As account, I think that Monzo was 
reasonably entitled to suspect fraud may have taken place and legitimately entitled to reach 
the conclusion that there was an immediate risk in keeping Miss As account open. 
Therefore, I think that Monzo was entitled to block and close Miss As account in the way 
that it did.
That said, even though Monzo may have had reasonable grounds for concern about the 
usage on Miss As account and this was enough to justify its closure, it doesnt automatically 
follow that Monzo was entitled to register a fraud prevention marker. This is because in order 
to fairly record a fraud marker Monzo not only needs to have sufficient evidence to show that 
fraud may have taken place, it also has to have sufficient evidence to show that Miss A was 
complicit in any fraud that took place. And I dont think that Monzo has that here.
As previously explained, Miss A has said that she opened this account to allow her friend to 
receive his wages. Shes also provided messages which support her having had discussions 
relating to these matters around the time. 
Ive thought about what Miss A and Monzo have said and there isnt anything Ive seen in the 
evidence provided which directly contradicts Miss As version of events  indeed, I note that 
another financial institution was persuaded that she was tricked into allowing someone to 
use her account in the way it was. So it seems entirely possible to me that Miss A allowed 
someone she knew access to this account in order to receive payments they were 
legitimately owed.
More importantly, it is Monzos responsibility to demonstrate that Miss A was knowingly and 
dishonestly part of any fraud. And I think that it has failed to do that here. Monzo needs to 
have relevant and rigorous evidence such that it could report the matter to the police. In 
other words, reasonable grounds for concluding that Miss A acted dishonestly because she 
knew that her friend would carry out fraudulent activity, or arrange for this to be done, when 
she allowed him to use the account. Simply pointing out that fraud may have taken place, when Miss A allowed someone else to 
use her account when this has never been in dispute, just isnt enough to meet what is a 
high bar. This is especially the case seeing as Miss As version of events here appears to be 
plausible. Furthermore, there isnt anything to support Miss A having made a financial gain 
either, on the contrary it seems as though the friend left her in debt. So Id question why 
shed knowingly participate in a fraud where she would end up owing money rather than 
benefitting.
Overall and having considered everything, while I think that Monzo had sufficient grounds to 
close Miss As account, I dont think that it had sufficient evidence to meet the test for 
recording a fraud marker against her. As this is the case, I think that it was unfair for Monzo 
to record a fraud prevention marker in the circumstances that it did. So Im upholding      
Miss As complaint and Monzo needs to remove any and all fraud markers it has recorded 
against her.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss As complaint. Monzo Bank Ltd should 
remove any and all fraud markers it has recorded it has recorded against Miss A. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 August 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman