DRN-4132878
The complaint
Miss J and Miss J complain that Moneysupermarket.com Financial Group Limited (MSMFG) 
mis-sold them a travel insurance policy
What happened
On 1 March 2022, Miss J and Miss J took out a travel insurance policy online, through 
MSMFG, to cover an upcoming skiing holiday. They said that during the sales process, they 
selected an option to take out winter sports cover on MSMFGs website. Later on in the 
process, they were asked whether theyd like to add-on optional winter sports cover, which 
was described as providing cover to protect a policyholders sports gear. As Miss J and Miss 
J had hired their ski equipment as part of their trip booking, they said they didnt think they 
needed cover for ski equipment. And they said they thought theyd already selected cover for 
the skiing trip itself. So they chose not to pay for the add-on cover and proceeded to take out 
a policy with an insurer Ill call P.
Unfortunately, while they were abroad, Miss J suffered an accident whilst skiing, which 
required hospital treatment. So she made a claim on the travel insurance policy to P.
However, P turned down the claim. Thats because it said Miss J and Miss J hadnt taken out 
winter sports cover or paid the appropriate premium. And therefore, their claim wasnt 
covered.
Miss J incurred medical expenses on top of those covered by her Global Health Insurance 
Card. And Miss J and Miss J say that they lost their holiday, as a result of Miss Js injury, 
along with suffering upset and distress when they learned that their claim wasnt covered. 
They felt they been mis-sold the policy by MSMFG, as they didnt think the website made it 
clear enough that an additional premium would need to be paid in order for a policyholder to 
have any winter sports cover at all. So they asked us to look into their complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Miss J and Miss Js complaint should be upheld. She felt 
MSMFG had given Miss J and Miss J enough information during the sales process to allow 
them to make an informed choice about the level of cover they needed.
My first provisional decision
I issued my first provisional decision on 17 February 2023. In summary, I considered the 
evidence provided by both parties about the online sales journey Miss J and Miss J 
appeared to have followed, including screenshots provided by MSMFG. That evidence 
indicated that Miss J and Miss J had specifically selected a travel extras hyperlink, which 
referred to winter sports cover. It then appeared that theyd been taken to an article about 
winter sports cover, with an immediately adjacent option to get a quote.
Based on the available evidence, I felt Miss J and Miss J would have had a reasonable 
expectation at that point that any policy options they were later shown would include cover 
for medical expenses incurred during a winter sports holiday. The winter sports cover add-on 
option later on during the process referred only to protecting winter sports gear  there was 
no reference to the lack of medical cover for skiing related injuries if the add-on wasnt 
purchased. So I didnt think MSMFG had given Miss J and Miss J enough clear, fair and not 
misleading information about the winter sports cover to allow them to take it out. I was 
persuaded that if they had been given clearer information, it was most likely that theyd paid 
the premium for winter sports cover and that Miss Js claim would accordingly have been 
covered by P. So I provisionally decided that MSMFG should pay compensation to the value 
of Miss J and Miss Js claim, together with £350 to recognise the trouble and upset theyd 
been caused by MSMFGs error.
I asked both parties to send me any additional evidence or comments they wanted me to 
consider.
Responses to my first provisional decision
MSMFG initially asked for information to show what the claim settlement wouldve been had 
P paid it. Miss J and Miss J sent us this information, which was passed on to MSMFG.
However, MSMFG then provided me with detailed new evidence about the sales journey 
Miss J and Miss J followed when they took out the policy. It said its Head of Data Analytics 
had been able to provide URL data which showed the sales process Miss J and Miss J had 
taken. This data showed Miss J and Miss J visited MSMFGs main travel insurance 
homepage from an affiliate link on another website. Theyd then followed the standard travel 
insurance sales journey. The data showed that Miss J and Miss J hadnt clicked to get a 
quote from an article called Compare winter sports travel insurance and neither had they 
clicked on a hyperlink to take them to a specific winter sports insurance guide page.
MSMFG considered that during the standard travel insurance sales journey, it had given 
Miss J and Miss J enough clear, fair and not misleading about the winter sports add-on for 
them to have made an informed choice about whether the policy was right for them. And so, 
it didnt accept my provisional findings.
My second provisional decision
I issued a second provisional decision on 18 April 2023. In that provisional decision, I 
explained the reasons why my view had changed and why I didnt plan to uphold their 
complaint. I said:
Under our rules, following the issue of a provisional decision by an ombudsman, both 
parties are entitled to submit further evidence in support of their position. In this case, 
MSMFG has provided entirely new evidence which sets out the sales journey it now says 
Miss J and Miss J followed when they took out the policy. A copy of that sales journey has 
been sent to Miss J and Miss J with this second provisional decision. This sales journey is 
markedly different from the original sales process screenshots MSMFG sent to us.
Ive considered whether Im persuaded, on balance, that this sales journey does now 
represent the process Miss J and Miss J have followed, given the conflicting information Ive 
seen. And I think it most likely does. Thats because alongside the sales journey visual, it 
has sent me a copy of a spreadsheet which shows each URL which was visited at the point 
of sale; the date of visit and exact time. The URLs correspond with the stages of the sales 
journey Ive now been sent (even though some content has been updated since March 2022 
and now includes more detail about cover) and the date correlates with the date the policy 
was taken out. On that basis, I find its more likely than not that MSMFG has now provided 
an accurate version of the sales process. It is unfortunate though that it didnt provide us with 
the correct information when we first requested it. Its failure to do so has led to the process being unnecessarily prolonged and the likely raised expectations of both Miss J and Miss J.
As I explained in my provisional decision, theres no dispute that Miss J and Miss J took out 
this travel insurance policy online. That means I dont think MSMFG advised them to take it 
out and so MSMFG didnt need to check it was suitable for Miss J and Miss J. But it did need 
to give Miss J and Miss J enough clear, fair and not misleading information about the policy 
so that they could decide whether it was right for them.
It now appears that Miss J and Miss J werent directed to obtain a quote by following a 
hyperlink to an article comparing winter sports. So it now seems to me that Miss J and Miss 
J likely wouldnt have seen information which said: If youre planning a snowboarding or 
skiing trip, a winter sports policy provides cover for medical treatment or high-value 
equipment related to your activities. Or that theyd have seen Skiing and snowboarding are 
risky activities, and dedicated winter sports insurance costs a bit extra as a result and 
been prompted to click on an adjacent link to get a winter sports policy quote, as Id 
concluded in my first provisional decision.
Instead, the evidence points to them arriving on MSMFGs main travel insurance home page 
after following an affiliated link on a third-party website. Ive looked very carefully at the 
information set out on that website. This includes a large section called: What does travel 
insurance typically cover? This lists the following heads of cover:
- Cancellation cover;
- Baggage and belongings;
- Delays;
- Medical expenses;
- Repatriation
- Personal liability.
The next stage of the process states: Add holiday extras to your trip. At the top of the list of 
holiday extras, in a larger, emboldened font, this page says:
Winter sports cover
If youre planning a snowboarding or skiing trip, a winter sports policy provides cover for 
medical treatment or high-value equipment related to your activities.
There was an option called read more below, which likely took Miss J and Miss J to an 
option to obtain a quote for winter sports cover.
I think this part of the process makes it sufficiently clear that winter sports cover is an 
additional extra, which isnt included as a part of the standard policy. It also makes specific 
reference not just to skiing trips, but also that a winter sports policy provides cover for 
medical treatment related to that activity. So I do think MSMFG took steps here to highlight 
the fact that medical expenses caused by winter sports werent covered as standard and 
explained what winter sports cover was.
Later on in the process, Miss J and Miss J were presented with options for additional covers 
called Sun, show and security. They were asked to choose whether they wanted to add any 
of those options. One check box was titled winter sports cover and stated: Id like to protect 
my winter sports gear, like skis or a snowboard.
I still dont think this check-box clearly sets out as full as reminder as it could have done 
about what winter sports cover protected. But there was an information option adjacent to 
the additional covers list, which Miss J and Miss J had the option to click on. Had they done so, theyd have seen a pop-up box which did refer to winter sports cover covering medical 
rescue, as well as ski equipment.
Ive taken together the totality of the information MSMFG gave about winter sports cover up 
to this point in the sales journey. And on balance, I do think it gave enough clear information 
to show that the winter sports option needed to be added as an extra before related medical 
treatment would be covered. Theres no dispute that Miss J and Miss J opted not to do so at 
this point, or indeed, at a later opportunity in the sales journey.
On that basis, I now currently think that MSMFG did give Miss J and Miss J enough clear, 
fair and not misleading information about this cover to allow them to decide whether or not to 
add it. And that it isnt responsible for their failure to do so.
Following the sale, MSMFG needed to provide Miss J and Miss J with copies of the policy 
documents. MSMFG says it emailed Miss J and Miss J a link to the policy wording, which 
was followed-up by the insurer sending the policy schedule and policy wording. So Im 
satisfied MSMFG met its information responsibilities here too.
Overall, I do sympathise with Miss J and Miss Js position. Im very sorry that this second 
provisional decision is likely to come as a shock and disappointment to them. But based on 
the evidence I now have; I simply dont think I can fairly continue to uphold this complaint. 
And so Im not planning to direct MSMFG to take any action. Id add that complaint handling 
in and of itself isnt a regulated activity I can look at. So while its frustrating that MSMFG 
provided me with the incorrect information originally, this isnt ancillary to the sale of the 
policy. This means I dont think I could fairly award any compensation for distress and 
inconvenience either.
Responses to my second provisional decision
MSMFG had nothing more to add.
Miss J and Miss J confirmed that theyd received my second provisional decision. They said 
that they were struck by the change in opinion and had therefore taken legal advice on the 
matter. They said that once theyd received my final decision, they could continue to pursue 
the complaint further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im very sorry to disappoint Miss J and Miss J, Ive decided not to 
uphold their complaint and Ill restate the main reasons why, although I have set out a full 
summary of my provisional findings above.
Miss J and Miss J havent provided a substantive response to my provisional decision. They 
havent explained which of my findings they disagree with. And nor have they questioned the 
sales process which MSMFG sent to us and which was attached to my provisional decision 
or responded specifically to my findings on that point. 
It remains the case that MSMFG has now provided evidence which corroborates that Miss J 
and Miss J did most likely follow the sales process it provided in response to my first 
provisional decision. For completeness, Id reiterate that it doesnt now appear that Miss J 
and Miss J reached MSMFGs landing page after following a hyperlink specifically relating 
to winter sports. Im still persuaded that this evidence indicates, on balance, that Miss J and Miss J instead reached the landing page after following an affiliated third-party link and then 
proceeded to follow MSMFGs main travel insurance sales process. 
So Im still satisfied its more likely than not that Miss J and Miss J were presented with a 
sales journey which made it sufficiently clear that winter sports cover didnt form part of the 
standard, core policy. Therefore, I find that MSMFG did enough to make it clear that winter 
sports cover was an optional extra  including any associated medical expenses. And 
despite opportunities to add winter sports cover to their policy during the online sale, they 
chose not to do so. 
Im still persuaded too that MSMFG met its regulatory obligations to send Miss J and Miss J 
the relevant post-sale documentation on behalf of the insurer. It was for Miss J and Miss J to 
check the cover theyd purchased and to make sure it was right for them. If they were 
unhappy with the policy, they could have cancelled it within the cooling-off period, or they 
could have contacted the insurer to add winter sports cover to their policy.
Overall, I do have a great deal of sympathy with Miss J and Miss Js position and I 
appreciate that my final decision will come as a disappointment to them both. But based on 
the evidence which has now been provided to me, I dont think there are any reasonable 
grounds upon which I could continue to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my second provisional decision, my final decision is 
that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J and Miss J 
to accept or reject my decision before 21 June 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman