DRN-3258293
The complaint
Mr S has complained about One Sure Insurance Limited. He isnt happy about the charges 
it placed when amendments were made to his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S took out a motor insurance policy through a broker One Sure. He clearly explained his 
no claims discount (NCD) had been gained abroad. One Sure contacted a number of 
insurers to establish that he could use his NCD and Mr S proceeded with that insurer.
It later transpired that the insurer wouldnt accept this NCD as it wasnt in a format the 
insurer accepted. But it did accept a separate NCD Mr S had from his time in the UK that 
One Sure had previously told him he couldnt use as it was out of date. The insurer charged 
Mr S an additional premium of £5.60 and One Sure charged Mr S an administration fee of 
£35. As Mr S wasnt happy about this he complained to One Sure and then this service.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr S and upheld his complaint. She listened to the 
calls and said Mr S made his position abundantly clear and that his NCD had been partly 
accrued abroad. So she thought One Sure should waive the additional adjustment charge of 
£35 and the £5.60 additional premium charged.
One Sure didnt agree. It said it wasnt responsible for the insurers decision not to accept the 
NCD documentation provided or to charge a small additional premium, as that was a matter 
for the underwriter. So, the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I looked at this case and provided my initial thoughts in my provisional decision previously. In 
summary I said that the complaint should be upheld but for slightly different reasons which 
Ill summarise below. 
I was of the view that One Sure should waive its adjustment fee of £35 as a gesture of 
goodwill and I thought that it should pay Mr S £50 compensation. This was because Mr S 
had made it abundantly clear that his NCD was accrued abroad when he first took out his 
insurance through One Sure and I thought it could have done more to help Mr S when the 
insurer questioned this. I say this as Mr S provided all he could and clearly explained how 
the NCD would be presented and how it could be verified if there were any difficulties. And 
so, I think One Sure could have been more helpful and its failings here caused Mr S 
inconvenience.
Secondly, Mr S provided his UK NCD that was accepted (even though it was a few years 
old) when he was asked for his documentation originally. And his representative explained 
that he had this document when he first applied but One Sure advised that it couldnt be 
used because it was too old. So, One Insurance had all the documentation it required in any 
event and didnt really explain to Mr S how the use of his NCD had changed which must 
have been confusing. After all it told his representative that his UK NCD document from a 
few years ago couldnt be used, yet this document was used without a clear explanation as 
to why the position had changed.
But I did highlight that One Sure wasnt responsible for the insurers decision not to accept 
the NCD proof that Mr S had accrued abroad and to charge a small additional premium. 
While I understood Mr S frustration with this I explained that I couldnt hold One Sure 
responsible for this as that was a matter for the insurer. I know Mr S doesnt want to 
complain to the insurer about this as he holds One Sure responsible, but it isnt responsible 
for this small increase in premium and didnt decide whether the documentation he provided 
was suitable or not. 
Given all of this, I thought the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular circumstances 
of this case is for One Sure to waive its adjustment fee of £35. And to pay Mr S a small 
amount of compensation (£50) to cover the inconvenience all this has caused him.
Both sides didnt respond to my provisional decision, so I see no reason to change my 
position. And so I think the fair thing to do in the particular circumstances of this case is to 
uphold it. 
  
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I require One Sure 
Insurance Limited to waive its adjustment fee and pay Mr S £50 compensation.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2022.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman