DRN-2862343
The complaint
Miss R, represented by a third party, complains that Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending 
Stream was irresponsible in its lending to her.
What happened
Miss R was provided with eight loans by Lending Stream between January 2019 and 
February 2020. The details of the loans are set out below.
Loan Date Repaid Instalments Amount
1 23/01/2019 01/02/2019 6 100
2 06/02/2019 08/04/2019 6 150
3 16/02/2019 28/02/2019 6 50
4 09/03/2019 16/03/2019 6 550
5 01/04/2019 26/04/2019 6 230
6 10/02/2020  6 350
7 12/02/2020  6 290
8 18/02/2020  6 120
Miss R says that she was given several loans by Lending Stream and became dependent on 
these over a two year period. She says she ended up having to enter a debt management 
plan.
Lending Stream says that before the loans were provided it asked Miss R about her 
employment, income and expenses. It says it checked the income amount and used external 
sources to assess the expenses information. It also carried out a credit check. It says that 
based on its checks the loans were affordable for Miss R.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold this complaint. He noted there was a ten month gap between 
when loan 5 was repaid and loan 6 provided and thought this enough to say that a new 
lending chain started with loan 6. He thought further details could have been gathered for the 
later loans but he said he hadnt seen anything that showed if this had happened the loan 
repayments would have been shown to have been unsustainable. 
The third party, on behalf of Miss R didnt accept our adjudicators view. It said that further 
checks should have taken place as Miss R was taking out new loans while others were still 
outstanding. The amount being borrowed increased and further checks were needed to 
establish whether the loans were sustainably affordable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We've set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Miss R could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required to 
establish whether Miss R could sustainably repay her loans - not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Rs complaint.
Our adjudicator noted that there was a break of around ten months between loan 5 being 
repaid and loan 6 being provided. I agree that this break was substantial enough to say that 
a new lending chain started at loan 6. 
The first lending chain consisted of five loans. Before the loans were provided information 
was gathered on Miss Rs income and expenses. Miss R had a declared monthly income 
ranging from £1,400 to £1,700 at the time of these loans. The first three loans were for £100, 
£150 and £50 respectively. They were repayable over six monthly instalments. The first loan 
was repaid early and before the second was provided a few days later. Loan 2 was still 
outstanding when loan 3 was provided. I have considered the repayment amounts due under 
these first three loans (including both loan 2 and loan 3 payments where appropriate). 
Comparing these amounts to Miss Rs monthly income and noting these were the first loans in the lending chain, I find that the checks carried out before these loans were provided were 
proportionate. As these didnt raise concerns that I think required further investigation or 
verification and as they suggested the loans were affordable, I do not find I can say Lending 
Stream was wrong to provide these loans.
Loan 4 was for a much larger amount, £550. It was repayable over 6 instalments with 
instalments of around £170. This loan was taken out while loan 2 was still outstanding and 
so I have factored in the loan 2 repayment amounts in assessing the affordability of this loan. 
Having done so, I think that Lending Stream should have carried out further checks to 
ensure that this loan was sustainably affordable for Miss R. However, I havent seen 
anything to show that further checks would have shown the loan to have been unaffordable 
and so I do not find that I have enough evidence to say that this loan shouldnt have been 
provided.
Miss R repaid loan 4 a week after taking it out and then took out a fifth loan around two 
weeks later. At this time loan 2 was still outstanding. As this was Miss Rs fifth loan in less 
than three months I think a thorough check should have been undertaken to ensure that 
Miss R could sustainably afford the repayments. However, further details of Miss Rs 
financial situation at the time havent been provided and without these I cannot say that 
further checks would have shown the loan to have been unaffordable. Therefore, I do not 
find I have enough evidence to say that this loan shouldnt have been provided.
Loan 6 was the first in a new lending chain. It was for £350 repayable over six monthly 
instalments of around £110. Before the loan was provided information about Miss Rs 
income and expenses was gathered. Miss Rs monthly income was recorded as just over 
£1,700 and her expenses as £1,000. As this was the first loan in the lending chain and 
noting the repayment amounts compared to Miss Rs income I think the checks carried out at 
this time were proportionate. As these suggested the loan was affordable do not find I can 
say the loan shouldnt have been provided.
Miss R then took out a further loan for £290 two days later. This brought her total borrowing 
at that time to £640. And her monthly repayment amounts to around £200. Considering the 
total amount borrowed and the repayment amounts compared to Miss Rs income I still find 
the checks at this stage were reasonable. These suggested the loan was affordable and so I 
do not find I can say that loan 7 shouldnt have been provided.
Miss Rs final loan was taken out six days after the previous loan meaning she had taken out 
three loans with Lending Stream in just over a week. I think this was beginning to show a 
pattern that had it continued would have raised concerns about Miss Rs reliance on the 
loans. However, at this stage I think it was too early to say the pattern had been established. 
Therefore, I have considered the total amount borrowed under the three loans, £760 and the 
total monthly repayment amounts of just under £250. Having done so I find that the checks 
were reasonable and as these suggested the loan was affordable I do not find I can say that 
Lending Stream was wrong to provide this loan.
Overall, while I think further checks should have taken place before loans 4 and 5 were 
provided, without further evidence I do not find I have enough to say that had the additional 
checks taken place then these loans would have been shown to be unaffordable. Regarding 
the other loans, I find the checks carried out were reasonable and as these suggested the 
loans were affordable, I do not find I can uphold this complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Gain Credit LLC trading as 
Lending Stream.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 July 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman