DRN-3547240
The complaint
Mr R complains that Aviva Insurance Limited has deemed his back pain to be a chronic
condition and therefore excluded from cover under his corporate private medical insurance
policy.
What happened
Mr R is a member of his employers group private medical insurance policy. In 2014, Mr R
made a claim for back pain. Aviva covered Mr Rs consultation and injection treatments.
Later that year, as Mr R continued to suffer pain, Aviva covered him for a further consultation
with a specialist. Further treatment was authorised, including a lumbar epidural and
physiotherapy. Aviva covered further physiotherapy treatment in 2015 and 2016, together
with injections and it agreed to pay for additional treatment in 2018.
In November 2019, Mr R requested further physiotherapy. Aviva let him know that it wouldnt
provide ongoing, long-term physiotherapy cover, although it did authorise further
physiotherapy sessions. And in September 2020, following a further request from Mr R to
see a specialist, it decided to withdraw cover for his back pain, unless he underwent curative
surgery. Aviva did, however, agree to cover Mr R for osteopathy sessions until 31 March
2021, at which point, cover for Mr Rs back condition ended.
Mr R was unhappy with Avivas decision and he asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. She didnt think Aviva
had demonstrated itd relied on specialist evidence when it deemed Mr Rs condition to be
chronic. So she felt that Aviva ought to obtain a medical report on Mr Rs condition and
reassess its position.
I issued a provisional decision on 26 April 2022. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I thought it had been for Aviva to turn down Mr Rs claim. I said:
First, I appreciate that when Mr R first brought his complaint to us, he was unhappy because
Aviva proposed to apply an excess to his osteopathy treatment. However, Aviva later agreed
to waive the excess until 31 March 2021  the point at which it withdrew cover for Mr Rs
back pain. As I understand this element of Mr Rs complaint has been resolved, I dont
intend to consider this issue further.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the
terms of Mr Rs corporate policy and the available evidence to decide whether Aviva has
treated him fairly.
Ive first looked closely at the terms of Mr Rs policy, as these form the basis of his contract
with Aviva. The policy says:
The purpose of this policy is to cover you during a period of cover for the treatment of acute
conditions on a short-term basis.
The policy provides cover for eligible treatment  which is defined as treatment of an acute
condition. So Ive gone on to look at the definition of an acute condition. This is:
A disease, illness or injury that is likely to respond quickly to treatment which aims to return
you to the state of health you were in immediately before suffering the disease, illness or
injury or which leads to your full recovery.
The contract also says that Aviva doesnt cover treatment of any condition which is a chronic
condition. Aviva has defined what it means by a chronic condition. The policy says this is:
A disease, illness or injury that has one or more of the following characteristics:
it needs ongoing or long-term monitoring through consultations, examinations, check-
ups
and/or tests;
it needs ongoing or long term control or relief of symptoms;
it requires your rehabilitation or for you to be specially trained to cope with it;
it continues indefinitely;
it has no known cure;
it comes back or is likely to come back.
Aviva concluded, in September 2020, that Mr Rs condition had become chronic. And it was
at this point that it let him know that it would no longer be providing any further cover for it 
after 31 March 202 - unless it was for curative surgery. So Ive looked at the available
evidence to decide if this was a reasonable conclusion for Aviva to draw.
Its clear from Avivas records that Mr R underwent a variety of treatment and consultations
with specialist doctors, physiotherapists and an osteopath for his back condition between
2014 and 2020, which Aviva paid for. I can see that in 2014, Mr R underwent injections; an
epidural, specialist conditions and physiotherapy. In 2015, he underwent further
physiotherapy and between July and November 2016, Mr R received treatment including
physiotherapy and further injections. In 2018, he requested further consultation with a
specialist and an injection. Aviva subsequently agreed to cover further physiotherapy in
November 2019. And in September 2020, following Mr Rs request to see another specialist
to look into finding a cure for his condition, it withdrew cover for his back condition unless
treatment would be curative. Despite this decision, it agreed to cover the osteopathy
treatment which seems to have been recommended.
Based on this timeline, Im satisfied that Aviva covered Mr Rs condition over several years 
including a number of injections  and paid for several physiotherapy and other pain
management options to try and restore Mr R to health. I think Aviva acted reasonably in
accepting cover over such a prolonged period, given the evidence suggests that the
condition was ongoing in nature.
Ive also taken into account Mr Rs own reporting of his symptoms. He told us that: since
2013, he had managed his back with daily exercises and stretches. He also said he
manages his back complaint very well without the need for surgery. He told us medical
evidence suggested he managed his back complaint (although he hasnt provided me with
such reports.) In my view, based on this self-reporting, I dont think it was unreasonable for
Aviva to conclude that Mr Rs condition required ongoing control of his symptoms through
self-management and that the condition came back or was likely to come back.
And I think, based on the evidence available and the long-term nature of the treatment, thatit was reasonable for Aviva to conclude, in September 2020, that Mr Rs condition was
chronic. So this means I currently dont think Aviva acted unfairly when it withdrew cover for
Mr Rs condition.
If Mr R is able to provide medical evidence though which shows that his condition isnt
chronic or that any treatment he plans to undergo will be curative, its open to him to send
this to both me and to Aviva for further consideration in response to this provisional 
decision.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence or comments they wanted to me to 
consider.
Mr R disagreed with my provisional findings. He said he didnt have any additional medical 
evidence, as this had all previously been sent to Aviva. He told us that at some point, he 
may require spinal fusion surgery, but this wont happen whilst the condition is well-managed 
by physiotherapy. He said he thought the BacktoBetter benefit on the policy would provide 
up to 10 physiotherapy sessions per year. He didnt realise this benefit would end due to an 
ongoing back problem.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr R, I still think Aviva treated him fairly and Ill 
explain why.
The BacktoBetter benefit does provide cover for up to a total of 10 combined physiotherapy; 
chiropractor; and osteopath sessions per year if the treatment itself remains eligible in line 
with the policy terms. In this case though, Aviva decided that further treatment for Mr Rs 
back condition was no longer eligible because it had become chronic. And thats the reason 
that Mr R is no longer able to claim for these sessions.
I note that Mr R has told us that he may require surgery at some point in the future. But he 
said that at the moment, the condition is well-managed by physiotherapy and therefore, 
surgery wont be done. Should Mr R later need spinal fusion surgery, its open to him to get 
in touch with Aviva to see if its prepared to cover that particular cost. 
However by Mr Rs own account, his back condition is currently well-managed by the 
physiotherapy hes been undergoing. As I set out in my provisional decision, Mr R has 
received physiotherapy over a number of years. So it still seems to me that Aviva acted 
reasonably when it concluded that Mr R required ongoing treatment of his symptoms and 
that his condition had come back; would come back in the future; or is likely to come back. 
And therefore, I still find that it was fair for Aviva to decide, in September 2020, that Mr Rs 
back condition had become chronic and to withdraw cover for it.
Overall, while I sympathise with Mr Rs position, Ive decided Aviva has treated him fairly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman