DRN-3040891
The complaint
Mr V complains that Tesco Bank Plc registered a default against him when he was in 
financial difficulty.
What happened
Mr V took out a credit card with Tesco in May 2018. In January 2019, he missed a payment. 
Tesco issued a letter about the arrears in February and applied a late payment fee. Mr V 
continued to miss payments and in May 2019 Tesco issued a default notice. This notice set 
out how much Mr V had to pay and the consequences of not doing so. Following this notice, 
Mr V spoke to Tesco and made a promise to pay around £337 on 21 May 2019.
Mr V didnt make the payment hed promised and Tesco wrote to him on 3 June 2019 to say 
the account would be terminated. It said it would apply the default unless full payment was 
received within five days. As payment wasnt received, Tesco applied the default.
On 20 June 2019, Mr V called Tesco to explain he was in financial difficulty. It carried out an 
income and expenditure with him and agreed a repayment plan. Mr V complains that the 
default has caused him difficulties going forward. He believes Tesco shouldve done more to 
find out his circumstances at the time and shouldnt have applied a default.
Our Investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She explained that Tesco had 
given Mr V sufficient notice that a default would be applied, and it had asked him to tell it 
whether he was in financial difficulty. She explained that he was asked directly in the call 
after he received the default notice and he said he wasnt in financial difficulty. She didnt 
think Tesco needed to do anything more. The Investigator also said that Mr Vs credit file 
should be an accurate representation of how hes managed his accounts  and in this case a 
default being applied accurately reflected the way he managed his credit card account with 
Tesco.
Mr V disagreed with our Investigators view. He said that a default is too harsh a punishment 
for the situation he was in. And he explained at length the difficulties he was facing at the 
time. He asked for an Ombudsman to reach a decision so the complaint has been passed to 
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our Investigator for similar reasons. I 
dont uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Looking at Mr Vs circumstances at the time he missed his payments, I can see he was in 
financial difficulty. I can see that it must have been a very stressful time and Mr V has my 
sympathies. But my role here is to determine whether Tesco has acted reasonably when 
applying the default to his credit file, and I can see that it has.
When customers miss a payment, we expect lenders, like Tesco, to get in touch and remind 
them that payments are outstanding. Wed also expect them to give details on what 
customers can do if theyre facing financial difficulty. I can see this is what Tesco did. It 
provided statements as well as arrears letters to Mr V. It also explained who he could 
contact if he was in financial difficulty. But Mr V didnt tell Tesco about his circumstances.
When accounts have been in arrears for between three and six months, wed expect lenders 
to think about issuing a notice to default. I can see in Mr Vs case that Tesco issued its 
notice to default in May 2019  after over three months of missed payments and arrears. It 
was only at this point that Mr V spoke to Tesco. Ive listened to this call and Tesco asked Mr 
V if he was suffering financially. He said that he wasnt and that he could pay 75% of the 
outstanding amount. Mr V said the missed payments were due to issues with his bank 
account changing. So, I cant see that Tesco couldve done more here. It acted on the 
information Mr V gave it, and in any event, Mr V hadnt made any of the payments due for 
over three months. So, even if Mr V had told it about his financial difficulties, this doesnt 
mean that a default wouldnt have been applied.
Mr Vs credit file should be an accurate reflection on how hes managed credit in the past. I 
understand he feels a default is punishment, but it does reflect how he managed this 
account. He failed to make his repayments and continued to do so over the period of the 
default notice. So, I dont think Tesco has acted unfairly in applying the default to his credit 
file.
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr V, and I do understand that having a default 
is now affecting his ability to get credit. However, I hope Ive explained why I dont think 
Tesco was wrong in applying the default on this occasion.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2022.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman