DRN-3838338
The complaint
Mr S says that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (trading as Hargreaves 
Lansdown (HL)) have incorrectly valued his exchange traded commodity (ETC) holding, 
causing him a loss.
What happened
Mr S opened a stocks and shares ISA with HL in 2020. He subsequently invested in an ETC, 
which tracked the Bloomberg Brent Crude Oil SL Excess Return Index (BCOSLER). The 
ETC was also 2x daily, which meant it was two times daily leveraged and so profits or losses 
should go up twice as much. 
Mr S complained to HL in March 2021. He said that he had been closely monitoring the 
Brent crude oil price, and that the value of his holding hadnt gone up twice as much. After 
initially directing him to the ETC provider, they did respond and maintained that website 
prices were indicative but that his holding had been valued correctly. They also advised Mr S 
to review the BCOSLER index price, rather than oil prices, as that is what the ETC was 
intending to track. 
Mr S remained unhappy. He said that his main concern was the accuracy of the pricing on 
24 March 2021 and that for the rest of the period he had invested, the pricing seemed 
correct. He said that hed had to sell his holding due to the issue and wanted to be 
compensated for a loss he felt hed suffered due to inaccurate pricing. 
Our investigator looked into it. He initially upheld the complaint, saying that although he 
thought it had been priced correctly, HL didnt do enough to explain why the value wasnt as 
Mr S expected. However, after HL responded with more information on the pricing and with 
the Key Investor Information Document (KIID), he was of the opinion that Mr S should have 
been aware how it was priced and that any distress and inconvenience wasnt the fault of 
HL. 
Mr S didnt accept this and still felt that the price on 24 March 2021 cant have been correct.  
As no agreement was reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr S was concerned when comparing the value of his holding to the 
oil price on 24 March 2021. However, I dont believe there is any evidence of incorrect 
pricing and I am satisfied with the explanation given by HL. 
Firstly, the ETC tacks the BCOSLER index rather than the general oil price. Secondly, the 
valuation he saw used indicative pricing. This is a reasonable estimate of the current market 
price. Mr S should have been aware that he was able to seek a no obligation, live quote from 
the market. 
HL have also tried to clarify (and pointed to the KIID where it explains) that where the 
product is held for more than one day, the return on a day is not the same as multiplying the 
index by a factor of two (the leverage factor for this ETC). HL explain that this factor is reset 
every day, giving a compounding effect and meaning that when there is more a volatile 
performance (like 24 March 2021) the product will deviate more from the index performance. 
HL have also provided Mr S with an example of this and I am satisfied it explains the 
discrepancy. 
Whilst our Investigator initially thought HL should have done more to make Mr S aware how 
this product was priced, I agree with his later position that they did enough. Mr S had to 
answer questions to show he was a sophisticated customer and understood the risks, prior 
to investing. This included confirmation that hed read the KIID. I believe this document was 
clear in how the ETC was priced and how his holding was valued. If Mr S had read this as he 
should have, there shouldnt have been any concern as to the discrepancy in prices. 
In summary, I havent seen any evidence that the ETC has been priced incorrectly or Mr Ss 
holding has been valued incorrectly. HL have clarified why it wasnt as Mr S expected. I also 
cant hold HL responsible for the value not meeting Mr Ss expectations, when the KIID 
should have made clear to a sophisticated consumer that this might happen.    
My final decision
My final decision, for the reasons set out above, is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2023.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman