DRN-3477685
The complaint
Mr G complains about First Central Insurance Management Limiteds (First) administration of 
his account and the increased charges for changing his address under his motor insurance 
policy.
What happened
In May 2021 Mr G went online to update his address details on his motor insurance policy. 
He experienced difficulties in doing so and called First instead. He says he was asked to pay 
£49.14 as a one-off payment. He understood this was to cover the final three months of the 
policy inclusive of the admin charge for the change of address. He says he was told hed be 
sent updated documents. But this didnt happen. 
In June 2021 Mr G noticed £71.28 had been taken from his bank account. He called First 
and was told this was his monthly premium. Mr G thought the one-off charge for £49.14 
covered his premiums until the end of the policy term. He says he had moved to an address 
with a garage, which was safer for his car. And that this should result in cheaper premiums, 
which he has found from looking at quotes from a comparison website. 
First says Mr G called to discuss a quotation he received online to change his address. He 
thought the website confirmed it was free to make this change. First says it offered Mr G the 
option of paying the additional premium or adding this to the remaining direct debit 
payments. It says he asked to make one payment and was told the remaining monthly 
premiums would stay the same. 
First says it told Mr G it would reduce the admin fee to match the online cost, which is £25 as 
opposed to £30 for changes made over the phone. It says it couldve been more helpful 
when responding to Mr Gs concerns during other calls when explaining the charges. In 
response to this point it says its addressing training needs within its teams. 
First says the premium a customer pays is based on the likelihood of a claim occurring. A 
customers address is a consideration here. It says Mr Gs change of address resulted in an 
increase in his premium, which is payable along with any remaining monthly charges that he 
owed. 
First says it acted in line with Mr Gs policy terms and will not reimburse the monthly 
premium payments. But it has refunded the admin fee for £25 and paid £50 compensation 
for the distress it caused him. 
Mr G wasnt satisfied with this outcome and referred his complaint to our service. He says he 
didnt think his address was changed despite being charged an additional premium. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint. He didnt think the evidence showed the 
address had been changed on the policy documentation correctly in May 2021. But it had 
amended the policy risk address correctly to reflect the change in risk and the increased 
premium. This meant Mr G received the correct cover albeit the policy documents referred to 
the previous address. He thought £50 compensation and a refunded admin fee was fair to 
acknowledge this point. 
Mr G didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My remit here is consider whether First treated Mr G fairly when handling his request to 
update his address details and in the charges it applied.  
Ive listened to the call recording when Mr G contacted First in May 2021. 
During the call it is explained to Mr G that there is an admin fee for changing address. This 
costs £25 if completed online or £30 if done over the phone. Firsts agent made the changes 
as Mr G was having difficulty with the online system. But he applied the lower admin fee of 
£25. 
During the call the agent explains that there is an additional premium for the address 
change. He asks if Mr G wants to pay this in one lump sum or spread it across the remaining 
monthly instalments. Mr G confirms that he wants to make one payment. 
I acknowledge Mr Gs understanding that he would pay no further premiums having made 
this one-off payment. But having listened to the call, this isnt what he was told. The situation 
is explained a number of times that the remaining instalments will stay the same, once Mr G 
paid the additional premium and the admin fee. 
Having considered this Im satisfied that First confirmed the premiums continued to be due 
for the remaining months. And that the additional charge was for the admin fee plus the 
premium increase for the address change.
Ive read Mr Gs policy terms to understand what charges hes expected to pay. The terms, 
under the section entitled, fees on page 77, say:
Arrangement fees: Fees for making a change:
If you make a change on the phone or webchat - £30
If you make a change online through your account - £25
In the May 2021 call First agreed to reduce the admin fee to £25. This reflected an address 
change that had been completed online without the need for a phone call. Based on the 
terms this charge was correct as Mr G made a change to his policy details. I think Firsts 
offer to reduce the admin fee to reflect the lower online charge was fair. 
In its final response to Mr Gs complaint First explains the factors that are considered when 
assessing the likelihood of a customer making a claim on their policy. It explains that location 
is a consideration, so when Mr G changed his address the risk had to be re-assessed to 
acknowledged this. It says this resulted in an increase to his premium for the remaining three 
months of the policy. Mr G paid £49.14 as a one-off payment which included the premium 
increase for the last three months and the £25 admin fee. 
I have thought about whether this was fair. I think it was. A customers address is an 
important factor when assessing the risk an insurer is taking on. When he moved address, Mr Gs policy had to be review as the risk factors had changed. I cant say that First behaved 
unreasonably here when assessing the risk and applying an additional premium. 
I have also thought about Mr Gs comments that First didnt change his address when he 
contacted in it May 2021. Ive listened to the call from mid-June. During the call Mr G is 
asked to confirm his address. He refused and asked the call handler to tell him what the 
policy address was from Firsts records. The call handler read out his old address. I can 
understand why Mr G was concerned about this. He had been charged an increased fee for 
changing his address  but according to First his address hadnt been updated. 
From the call in May 2021 Mr Gs new address wasnt discussed. The conversation was 
around the additional cost. First says that Mr G changed the address himself online. It says 
its call handler only pushed through the payment. 
First supplied a copy of the statement of fact dated in August 2021. This shows Mr Gs old 
address under the proposer details. I asked First why the premium had changed to reflect Mr 
Gs new address if the policy was still showing his old address. 
First responded to say the risk address was changed in May 2021. It says this is when the 
additional premium was calculated. The business has provided screen shots that show the 
address at which Mr Gs car was to be kept. This is correctly recorded at his new address. 
First says that although the policy documentation contained the old address, the premium 
calculation had been performed using the new, correct address. 
Having considered this, I think First has reasonably shown the correct premium was paid by 
Mr G. The policy documents werent initially updated with the correct address. This was 
Firsts error. But Mr G has been charged for the cover provided at his new address. 
In summary, Im satisfied that First charged Mr G correctly as a result of his change of 
address. This included the £25 admin fee. It was explained his remaining instalments would 
continue until the end of his policy term. And that he had agreed to pay the additional 
premium and admin fee in lump sum in May 2021. 
I think its fair that First refunded the £25 admin fee and paid £50 compensation to Mr G for 
failing to respond to his concerns more helpfully during some calls. But I cant reasonably 
ask it to do any more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman