DRN-3087700
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC incorrectly set their mortgage up in just 
Mr Rs name rather than jointly, which they say has significantly impacted their finances. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs R applied for a mortgage with Barclays in late 2016. They were re-mortgaging 
from another lender and the application was made through a broker.
Mr and Mrs R applied for a joint residential mortgage, with a ten-year fixed rate of interest. A 
mortgage offer was issued by Barclays in December 2016. The mortgage offer was in joint 
names. The mortgage was subsequently taken out in April 2017.
In late 2020, Mr and Mrs R contacted Barclays to discuss a further advance. It came to light, 
at that point, that their mortgage had been incorrectly set up in Mr Rs sole name. Barclays 
had also incorrectly recorded a middle name for Mr R, which was in fact Mrs Rs middle 
name. So, they complained to Barclays.
Barclays acknowledged that it had made an error. It said it couldnt explain what had 
happened. But it apologised. It arranged for the mortgage to be amended so that it was 
correctly in joint names and update the relevant records with credit reference agencies. It 
also said it would remove the middle name it had incorrectly recorded for Mr R from its 
records. And it offered Mr and Mrs R £450 for the distress the error had caused.
Mr and Mrs R asked our service to consider the complaint. They said they were not satisfied 
with Barclays response and wanted an explanation of how the error had occurred. They also 
said didnt accept Barclays offer. They said, because the mortgage had only been recorded 
in Mr Rs name, this had significantly impacted his credit file. As a result, hed been unable to 
obtain other credit to refinance debt in the time since the mortgage was taken out. They said 
this had a significant impact on their finances and Mr Rs health. As a result, they felt 
Barclays should refund all interest theyd paid on the mortgage to that point, as well as 
compensating them for the costs theyd incurred as a result of being unable to refinance their 
other debts. They added that despite what Barclays had said, credit reference agencies 
hadnt fully rectified the issue with the incorrect middle name having been recorded. And, as 
a result of the stress caused by Barclays actions, they had now sold their property and 
incurred a substantial early repayment charge (ERC) which they felt Barclays should refund.
One of our Investigators looked into matters. She agreed that there had been an error by 
Barclays, but she didnt think it needed to refund the ERC Mr and Mrs R had paid. And she 
didnt think she could say, on balance, that the issue with the mortgage being reported in Mr 
Rs sole name rather than jointly, had been the cause of any difficulties hed had obtaining 
credit. So, she didnt think Barclays was responsible for the costs he and Mrs R had 
mentioned. She was also satisfied that Barclays had removed the incorrect middle name, so 
didnt think it needed to do any more in respect of this. As a result, in the circumstances, she 
felt the offer already made by Barclays was fair.
Mr and Mrs R did not agree. They still wanted to know how the error had occurred and felt 
that Barclays should be required to pay a significant sum to ensure it took matters seriously 
and avoided making a similar error.
As Mr and Mrs R didnt agree with the investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt in dispute that Barclays has made an error here. The application for this mortgage 
was made in joint names  Ive seen evidence of that. But the mortgage was set up with Mr 
R as the only borrower.
Mr and Mrs R have said they want to know how this happened. But Barclays has been 
unable to confirm this. I understand that Mr and Mrs R feel strongly about this. But our 
services role is to informally consider and settle disputes between parties based on what we 
consider to be fair and reasonable. It is unfortunate that an error occurred. But I dont need 
to know exactly why that happened in order to make a decision here. And, as there isnt any 
information available to confirm what happened, I cant say exactly why the error occurred. I, 
like our investigator, think on balance this was likely due to human error on Barclays part. 
But Barclays doesnt dispute that it was at fault. 
So, as it isnt in dispute that Barclays did something wrong, what I need to think about is 
what the fair way to put that right is. Id add that our service is not a regulator. And we dont 
fine or punish businesses where an error has been made. Rather we look at what is fair and 
reasonable, in the circumstances.
The mortgage that Mr and Mrs R applied for was advanced. So, theyve had the use of 
borrowing - to repay their previous mortgage. Theyve made payments towards the 
mortgage, at the same level that they wouldve done if the error hadnt occurred. So, in terms 
of the cost of the mortgage, they arent any worse off. As a result, I dont think it would be 
fair, as they have suggested, for me to require Barclays to refund the interest theyve paid, 
and agreed to, under the mortgage.
Mr and Mrs R have said that this error impacted Mr Rs credit file and ability to obtain credit, 
which has put a significant strain on their finances and caused them to incur significant 
additional costs through interest. Theyve said lenders charged them higher interest rates 
and offered less credit. And they think this is because the mortgage was showing in Mr Rs 
sole name. 
Barclays did incorrectly note Mr R as the sole borrower and record that information with 
credit reference agencies. But if the mortgage had been set up correctly, it would still have 
been recorded on Mr Rs credit file. And under the joint mortgage, Mr and Mrs R were jointly 
and severally liable for the balance. So, despite what Mr and Mrs R have said, Im satisfied 
the full outstanding balance would always have been noted on his credit file.
Mr and Mrs Rs credit files indicate theyd built up unsecured debt, prior to taking out the 
mortgage with Barclays, which would always have incurred interest until it was repaid. And 
the level of this unsecured lending would also have played a part in Mr Rs creditworthiness 
and decisions made by other lenders about whether they were willing to provide additional 
borrowing.
Mr and Mrs R have said that other lenders wouldve been, incorrectly, under the impression that Mr R was responsible for the full mortgage payments from his salary alone, when 
considering income and expenditure. But Mr Rs income isnt noted on his credit file. And 
any assessment of income and expenditure is usually based on the information provided as 
part of an application  at which point discrepancies could be discussed and addressed.
I also note that, since the mortgage was taken out, Mr Rs credit file does indicate he was 
able to obtain quite significant further borrowing from some lenders, including a new 
mortgage on another property. This was on top of the credit already available under existing 
credit agreements  which again was not an insignificant amount. So, I dont agree that 
Barclays error has had the level of impact on Mr Rs credit file that he and Mrs R have said.
Mr and Mrs R have provided evidence to show that Mr Rs credit file has recently improved, 
since the error was identified and addressed. So, they say this shows his credit file was 
impacted by the error. But the evidence Ive seen indicates that Mr Rs credit score was in 
fact improving before this issue was discovered, in late 2020. And his credit report indicates 
the level of unsecured debt he had was reducing gradually around that time, which I think 
would explain the improvements shown. 
Im sorry to hear of the financial difficulties Mr and Mrs R have experienced and the impact 
this has had on Mr Rs health in particular. But, based on everything Ive seen, I dont think I 
can reasonably conclude this was due to the error Barclays made. So, I dont think itd be fair 
to require Barclays to meet the interest costs incurred on other debts, since the error 
happened.
Mr and Mrs R have said theyve now sold their property and repaid the mortgage with 
Barclays, incurring an ERC. And theyve said this was in part due to the stress caused by 
their financial situation, which they think was due to Barclays error. So, they think Barclays 
should agree to refund the ERC. But, as Ive already explained, I dont think the error 
Barclays made has impacted Mr Rs credit file to the extent theyve said. And so, I dont think 
Barclays is responsible for the issues theyve had with their finances. With that in mind, and 
as the ERC has been applied correctly in line with the terms of the Barclays mortgage Mr 
and Mrs R applied for, I dont think itd be fair to require Barclays to waive this fee.
When Barclays became aware of the problem, it appears to have acted promptly to correct 
the mortgage and record it as being on a joint borrowing basis. It has also shown that it 
corrected the error with Mr Rs name promptly on its systems. This is in line with what I 
wouldve expected it to do.
Mr and Mrs R have sent us evidence that at least one credit reference agency is still 
reflecting the incorrect middle name for Mr R. But the information doesnt show that Barclays 
is still the source of that information. Barclays did originally record an incorrect middle name. 
And I dont doubt that this is where the incorrect information held by credit reference 
agencies originated. But as Ive said, Barclays has evidenced it has amended this, and 
confirmed in its response to the complaint that it was doing so. So, on balance, I dont think 
the reason this is still being reported is due to Barclays not having done what it said it would. 
Barclays has already offered Mr and Mrs R £450 for the distress caused by this. Mr and Mrs 
R have said that their financial situation has caused ongoing stress for a significant amount 
of time. But as Ive already explained, I dont think the error by Barclays was the cause of 
their financial situation. I dont doubt it was upsetting for them to learn of the error with their 
mortgage in late 2020. But, as Ive said, Im satisfied Barclays acted promptly to address 
this. So, I think the £450 already offered by Barclays is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Taking everything into account, while I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs R, I think what Barclays has already done and offered to address the error it made is fair 
and reasonable. So, I wont be asking it to do anything more here.
My final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC has already made an offer of £450 to settle the complaint and I think 
this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that, if it hasnt already done so, Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr 
and Mrs R £450.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 December 2021.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman