DRN-2886862
The complaint
Mr M and Miss Rs complaint is that Admiral Insurance Company Limited communicated
poorly with them when dealing with a claim. Miss R is the policy holder  so, for ease, Ill
refer to Miss R only. 
What happened
Around December 2019, Miss R made a claim on her policy. Miss R later complained
because she was unhappy with Admirals level of communication during the claim.
Miss R says she wasnt contacted when her car was ready to collect after being repaired and
that she had to contact the mechanic for updates. Miss R says emails were not responded
to, that she spent around 30 hours making telephone calls and spent several hours using
Admirals webchat service to ask for updates. Miss R says this put her under emotional and
financial strain as she wasnt able to collect her car as soon as it was ready and had to use
other means of transport.
Admiral acknowledged its poor communication, that there were instances where it had failed
to review new information and update Miss R. So it paid Miss R £50 compensation to put
things right. Miss R remained unhappy and asked this service to review the matter.
Our investigator upheld the complaint and recommended that Admiral pay another £200 in
compensation to Miss R. The investigator felt this amount would be fairer, given the time
Miss R spent contacting Admiral and the emails Miss R says werent responded to.
Admiral didnt agree and offered £100 more instead. Miss R didnt accept this offer, so the
complaint has been passed to me to review.
Ive noted that Miss R has a separate complaint related to the same claim  I wont be
commenting on any aspects of that complaint in my decision.  
My provisional decision
I issued my provisional findings and said as follows:
Im minded to conclude that the additional £100 Admiral has offered is a fair way to resolve 
this matter  Ill explain why.
Weve asked Admiral for more information on what happened when Miss Rs car was taken
to be repaired. Admiral says the car arrived at its approved repairer on 30 December 2019
and was estimated the next day. The insurer says the repairer confirmed the repairs were
completed on 9 January 2020 and that Miss R was informed of this the next day  Miss R
collected her car later that day and Admiral sent us the dated excess receipt as evidence of
this.
It seems the repairs took less than two weeks to complete and Miss R seems to have been
notified that her car was ready to collect the day after the repairs were completed. So I cant
fairly say that Admiral failed to notify her without delay or that Miss R was left without her car
for longer than necessary. Ive noted that Miss R may have been contacting the repairer for
updates in the meantime, but Ive not seen anything that makes me think the communication
on Admirals part was poor in the first place.
Miss R says she spent a significant amount of time contacting Admiral over the phone and
spent several hours using Admirals web chat service. To date, Miss R has been unable to
provide any further information or records that allows me to determine when and for how
long the calls and web chat conversations took place.
Admiral says its own records do not show details of Miss R spending as much time as she
says on the phone with the insurer. And the only web chat record Admiral can find was one
that it had sent us a copy of as part of its submissions. This web chat record details a
conversation in June 2020 which lasted around 20 minutes.
Given this, I cant reasonably conclude that Miss R more likely than not spent over 30 hours
contacting Admiral over the phone and via the web chat service. So I dont intend to ask the
insurer to do anything differently because of this.
Miss R says Admiral didnt respond to her emails. Ive had a look at the email copies we
have on file and I can see there are a few emails that Miss R didnt seem to have a response
to. But it seems these were sent to a third party that bears a similar name to the insurer. Its
likely Miss R sent these to the third party but intended for them to be received by Admiral
Insurance. So I cant fairly say that Admiral treated Miss R unfairly, as it doesnt seem to
have received some of the emails Miss R sent.
Admiral accepts that there were instances it couldve communicated better with Miss R and
acknowledges that it didnt update Miss R several times. So to put things right, the insurer
paid Miss R £50. I dont think this is a fair amount of compensation.
As Admiral itself admits, there were at least three occasions where significant updates
werent provided to Miss R  particularly when key information in relation to the claim had
been received and when Admiral itself recognised that an update was overdue. And this took
place across at least three months, during which Miss R would have had limited knowledge
of how her claim was progressing. Miss R says she was emotionally stressed by the
situation and the lack of updates likely exacerbated this.
In response to our investigators view, Admiral offered an additional £100 compensation.
Although Miss R declined this offer, Im minded to conclude that this additional £100 is a fair
way to put things right.
In summary, Im satisfied that the poor communication that Admiral itself has pointed out
seems to be the only unfairness Miss R has experienced in relation to this complaint. Ive not
seen enough to persuade me that Miss R did indeed spend as much time as she says she
did, trying to contact Admiral over the phone and via web chat. And although Miss R appears
to have sent several emails that werent responded to  I cant see that Admiral received
these, so Im not persuaded it acted unfairly in relation to this either. Im of the view that
further compensation of £100 is the fairest way to resolve this matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party provided any additional comments in response to my provisional decision. So 
my decision remains the same. Putting things right
As per my provisional findings, Admiral should pay Miss R £100 compensation.
My final decision
Im upholding this complaint and instruct Admiral Insurance Company Limited to pay Miss R 
£100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 July 2021.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman