DRN-4282885
The complaint
Mr C complains that Advantage Insurance Company Ltd mishandled a claim on his motor 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr C had a hatchback car that had first been registered in 2007. For the year from April 
2022, he renewed a comprehensive policy for the car. The policy was branded with the 
name of an insurance intermediary. Advantage was the insurance company that was 
responsible for dealing with any claim. 
The policy schedule said that Mr C had 9 or more years no claims discount (NCD), but he 
didnt have protected NCD. (Mr C has referred to no-claims bonus (NCB) and that is 
equally correct.)
Unfortunately, in late February 2023, the car was involved in an accident involving a third 
partys vehicle on a roundabout. Mr C reported that to Advantage.
In early March 2023, Mr C complained to Advantage that it should confirm he wasnt at fault. 
In the meantime he said he wasnt going to make a claim on his policy and book his car in 
for repair.
Much of the complaint is about acts or omissions of the intermediary acting as claims-
handler for Advantage. Insofar as I hold Advantage responsible for such acts or omissions, I 
will refer to them as Advantages.
By a final response dated late March 2023, Advantage apologised for delay in contacting Mr 
Cs witness and said it was paying £30.00 compensation. Advantage said it was waiting to 
hear from the witness, so liability hadnt yet been decided.
Mr C asked us to investigate. 
On about 19 May 2023, Mr C withdrew his claim.
In late May 2023, Mr C told us he was making a statutory off-road notification (SORN) for the 
car and would cancel the policy.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that 
Advantage had acted in a fair and reasonable way.
Mr C disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
He hadnt made an accident claim for over 30 years. 
He took out an Advantage policy in 2020. He renewed it in 2021 and 2022. He was 
paying about £400+ per year.
Advantage recorded his NCD at 9 or more years.
The accident damage to his car was only on the nearside front door. The front of his 
car was ahead (and to the right) of the other car when the collision took place. He 
was not responsible for the incident.
When the policy expired in April 2023, he renewed it. He paid £830.00 with 3 years 
NCD.
It was being argued that the car was not worth repairing
He withdrew his claim and cancelled the policy.
He took out a policy with another insurer. Advantage incorrectly told his new insurer 
that he only had 4 years NCD.
At the moment the car is covered by his sons motor trade insurance. 
He would like Advantage to restore his NCD of 9 or more years. He would prefer to 
have his own insurance with the correct NCD reducing the premium.
He would also expect some compensation for the unnecessary aggravation he has 
suffered for the last few months. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Scope of this final decision / NCD
The Financial Ombudsman Service is bound by the Financial Conduct Authoritys dispute 
resolution rules. One of those rules means that  before we can investigate a complaint  
the consumer must first have made that complaint to the regulated firm and waited for up to 
eight weeks for a final response. It follows that we cant usually investigate complaints about 
events that happened after the complaint which is the subject of the final response.
Also, the rules require us to operate a two-stage process under which an investigator gives 
an opinion on a complaint and an ombudsman gives a final decision on that complaint.
Mr Cs complaint in March 2023 and the final response dated late March 2023 relate to 
events in February and March 2023.
Mr C hadnt complained to Advantage about NCD. After he cancelled the policy in about May 
2023, and after the investigators opinion, Mr C made a complaint, to us, about NCD.
In line with the rules, I cant deal with that complaint in this final decision.
Mr C may wish to ask Advantage about the policy terms under which it stepped back his 
NCD to 4 years in about April 2023. He may wish to remind Advantage that he later withdrew 
his claim. He may also wish to ask Advantage to confirm the position on any claim by the 
third party.
Liability
Where a policyholder makes a claim on a policy, or a third party makes a claim against the 
policyholder, its common practice for the policyholders insurer to treat such a claim as a fault claim or an open claim against the policyholder unless and until the insurer has 
established that it wont have to bear any outlay.
Most motor policies include a term allowing the insurer to decide how best to deal with a 
claim involving a third party. Mr Cs policy with Advantage included the following term:
Your Insurer has the right to:
 Carry out the repair; and
 Take over and conduct the defence or settlement of any claim under the Policy for 
its own benefit. This includes taking proceedings in your name, or in the name of any 
other person claiming under the Policy, at its own expense. Save in respect of the 
Excess, Your Insurer has the right to retain sums recovered in full insofar as they 
reflect the diminution in value of the vehicle.
These actions may be taken in your name or the name of any insured person.
In my view, that meant that  on a question of how best to deal with a question of liability 
involving a third party  Advantages view would prevail over Mr Cs.
I can understand that Mr C didnt want to make a claim if Advantage was going to treat it as 
a fault claim against him. And he didnt want Advantage to write off his car.
However, at the time of the final response in late March 2023, Advantage was still 
considering the question of liability. And in May 2023, Mr C withdrew his claim. So I cant 
conclude that Advantage had treated Mr C unfairly on the question of liability. 
Therefore I dont find it fair and responsible to direct Advantage to pay Mr C compensation 
for distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Advantage Insurance Company Ltd to do any more in response to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman