DRN-2134819
The complaint
Mr E is unhappy that Society of Lloyds has declined his claim. 
What happened
Mr E had a lifestyle protection insurance policy which included unemployment benefit, 
underwritten by the Society of Lloyds.
In January 2020, Mr Es contract with his employer ended. This had started in October 2019. 
Mr E made a claim which Society of Lloyds declined on the basis that Mr Es work was of a 
temporary nature  and this type of employment was excluded under the terms of the policy. 
Mr E complained to Society of Lloyds and unhappy with its response, referred his complaint 
to this service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think Society of Lloyds had done 
anything wrong as Mr Es circumstances werent covered under the terms and conditions of 
the policy.
Mr E remained unhappy and said he had been paying for his policy for a number of years 
and the clause the insurer had relied on was unfair. He says he should have been told this 
when he tried to claim at the start.
And so the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Mr Es complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
The relevant industry rules say an insurer must deal with claims promptly and fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
The policy terms and conditions say:
Unemployment cover under this policy will vary in accordance with your employment 
status:-
(i) Permanent Employment 
If you are working, you will be insured if you are made unemployed
(ii) Contract Employment
(a) If you have been employed on a renewable fixed term contract of at least 13 weeks 
with the same employer for more than 2 consecutive years or on an annual contract 
which has been renewed then you will be insured if you are made unemployed 
(b) If you have been employed on a renewable fixed term contract of at least 13 weeks 
with the same employer but for less than 2 years then you will be insured if you are 
made unemployed during the term of your contract. You will not be insured against 
the non-renewal of your contract and any entitlement to monthly benefit under this 
policy will automatically cease on the date your contract was originally intended to 
terminate.
The policy goes on to set out the exclusions relating to unemployment:
No benefit will be payable to you ifyour work is casual, seasonal or of a temporary nature; 
you accept voluntary redundancy, resign or retire.
Mr E was employed on a temporary contract between October 2019 and January 2020, 
which wasnt renewed. As set out in the policy terms and conditions, Mr E would be entitled 
to a benefit if he was made unemployed during the term of his contract. But Mr Es contract 
came to an end and the policy doesnt provide cover for non-renewal of a short-term 
contract. Based on this, Society of Lloyds told Mr E his claim couldnt be accepted. 
Mr E sent some further evidence to Society of Lloyds and said he had been employed in a 
permanent role between 2017 and 2018 when he was made redundant. He said he could 
have claimed on the policy at that point. Society of Lloyds considered this further information 
and found that Mr E had left his permanent job and took a temporary contract as he thought 
it would last longer. It told Mr E that as he had resigned from the previous job, this was also 
excluded under the terms of the policy. As Society of Lloyds considered the further 
information and clearly explained why Mr Es claim was declined, I dont think it has treated 
Mr E unfairly.
Mr E says hes unhappy because hes been paying for a number of years and should have 
been told at the start that he couldnt claim. But Im satisfied that the terms of the policy and 
exclusions are clear. This information would have been sent to Mr E when he took the policy 
and when he renewed. Mr E had a policy which covered him for specific circumstances. But 
unfortunately, his circumstances werent covered under the terms of the policy and so I dont 
think Society of Lloyds has done anything wrong by declining Mr Es claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2021.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman