DRN-4414579
The complaint
G, a limited company, complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money didnt do 
enough to prevent it being the victim of an email invoice interception scam. It also complains 
that Virgin Money have not obtained and shared with it the recipient accountholders details. 
G is represented in this complaint by Mr H, the companys director.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief summary here.
In January 2022 G was sadly the victim of an email interception scam. It received an invoice 
from its regular supplier, but unbeknownst to G at the time the invoice had been interfered 
with, and the account details changed. This meant that instead of sending the money to its 
suppliers genuine bank account, it transferred these funds to an unknown third-party 
account. Initially a test payment of £10 was sent, a few days later a payment of £19,881.80 
(the remainder of the invoice balance) was sent. When Mr H realised G had likely been the 
victim of a scam, he reported this to Virgin Money, who notified the recipient bank, 
TSB Bank. 
Mr H complained, as he was unhappy with the service Virgin Money had provided and 
because he wanted it to accept culpability and refund Gs full loss.
Virgin Money didnt agree that it needed to refund Gs full loss. It said the payments wouldnt 
have flagged on their fraud prevention systems as G makes payments of similar or larger 
amounts frequently. It said when making the payment Mr H had selected Paying a Bill for 
the £10 payment and Sending to family/friends for the £19,881.80 payment. It said it 
presented online warnings for both payments, which were acknowledged by Mr H before the 
payments were made. It also explained why a refund was not due under the Lending 
Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (the CRM Code). However, 
Virgin Money did accept that there was a delay in it reporting the scam to the recipient bank, 
and to remedy its error it returned to G what funds wouldve been available for recovery had 
it reported the scam on the day it ought to have. Ultimately £10,442.49 was returned to G, 
but a loss of £9,449.31 remained. It also addressed a number of other concerns Mr H had 
raised about his experience as well as Virgin Moneys business processes. It agreed that the 
service provided whilst handling the fraud claim couldve been better, it apologised and 
made a compensatory offer of £350 in recognition of this, which Mr H rejected as he didnt 
consider it to be reflective of the time hed spent trying to contact Virgin Money.
Mr H referred Gs complaint to our service. One of our Investigators considered the 
complaint and didnt recommend it should be upheld. Mr H didnt agree and asked for an 
Ombudsman to review the complaint. 
Mr H had also asked our service to consider Gs complaint against TSB Bank, which 
resulted in G recovering an additional sum of £5,889.31. So, its outstanding loss now stands 
at £3,560.
During this time, an additional complaint point relating to Virgin Moneys failure to obtain and 
disclose the recipient accountholders details upon receipt of a written request from G was 
also raised.
In October 2023 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has made several comments about our service being biased and siding with 
Virgin Money. But as Ive tried to explain to Mr H there is never an easy way to deliver news 
that may not be welcomed or expected, and inevitably the nature of my role is such, that I 
will disappoint one party. Therefore I do understand Mr Hs disappointment, but Id like to 
assure him that we are an independent and impartial service  we do not take sides. And 
Ive carefully considered all the evidence provided by both parties before reaching my 
intended decision.
Im also required to take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, 
guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the relevant time. But ultimately my role as an Ombudsman is 
to determine a complaint by reference to what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the case.
Whilst Gs complaint has been with our service, Mr H has made lots of submissions in 
support of its complaint. Ive reviewed all the material Mr H has submitted. But Im not going 
to address every single point he has raised here. Instead, my intended decision will 
concentrate on what I think are the key issues. Id like to assure Mr H no discourtesy is 
intended by this. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our 
service as a free alternative to the courts.
Firstly, I want to be clear, that my findings here only relate to Gs complaint about 
Virgin Money. I will not be making any findings in relation to Mr Hs concerns about the 
actions of the recipient bank, TSB Bank. I note Mr H doesnt consider this a fair and 
reasonable approach. He says his position has always been that both complaints are 
intrinsically linked and should be considered together. He argues to not consider his points 
about TSB Bank would mean that Im only considering half of the parties involved. And if this 
is our process, then it is flawed and should be changed. But my reasons for not commenting 
on TSB Banks acts or omissions are twofold (1) Gs complaint against TSB Bank has been 
settled and closed upon Mr Hs acceptance of our Investigators assessment  (2) 
Virgin Money are not responsible for TSB Banks acts or omissions, only their own, and 
under the rules which govern this service a complaint must be framed by the complainant 
against a firm, based on its own acts and omissions, and decided by an Ombudsman 
accordingly.
Mr H has raised (and I will address below) complaint points about ancillary issues such as 
customer service and Virgin Moneys failure to share information about the recipient 
accountholder and its communication with TSB Bank. But ultimately what Mr H would like is 
for Virgin Money to refund Gs outstanding loss. So what I need to decide is whether I can 
fairly ask Virgin Money to do so.As a payment service provider, Virgin Moneys principal duty is to process payments that its 
customer instructs it to make without undue delay. But I agree that this is not the end of the 
story. It also has regulatory and lawful obligations to be alert to various risks in relation to the 
accounts held with it. And it is the friction between such competing obligations where the 
crux of the matter is found. Naturally, with the benefit of hindsight its easy to say that 
Virgin Money ought to have identified Gs payments as being fraudulent. But in practice this 
isnt always possible and can be quite challenging as payment service providers like 
Virgin Money process thousands, if not millions of payments on a daily basis, and it would 
not be realistic or reasonable to expect them to stop and check each one. There is a balance 
to be struck between identifying payments that could potentially be fraudulent and 
minimising disruption to legitimate payments. Whilst ultimately, its a matter for Virgin Money 
as to how it chooses to configure its fraud detection systems and strike a balance between 
allowing its customers to transact and questioning transactions to confirm they are 
legitimate. Ive thought carefully about whether in the circumstances of Gs case 
Virgin Money ought to have had concerns and intervened before processing the disputed 
payments.
The prior activity of Gs account with Virgin Money is an important consideration when 
considering whether these payments were sufficiently unusual or uncharacteristic such that 
Virgin Money should have paused the payments pending further enquiry, before allowing 
them through. And in the context of Gs normal spending and account usage, Im satisfied 
here, that it wouldnt be fair to say that the size of the payments should have appeared 
sufficiently unusual, uncharacteristic or suspicious to Virgin Money such that it ought to have 
intervened and contacted Mr H about them. Ive reviewed Gs previous account activity, and 
in the six months or so prior to the scam payments being made, I can see regular monthly 
payments for a comparable amount being made. I appreciate Mr H says that the disputed 
payments were made to a new payee and included the word NEW in the payment 
reference, something which Virgin Moneys transaction monitoring systems shouldve picked 
up. But I dont agree. As Ive said, there is a balance to be struck, and I dont think it is 
unreasonable to say there would have been a picture of Gs account being used for 
transferring quite large amounts of money on a monthly basis, such that a payment to a new 
payee wouldnt in this case be sufficient to say Virgin Money ought to have been reasonably 
obliged to have intervened.
Mr H also argues that Gs account is only used to make payments to other businesses, and 
if the recipient account was not a business account, this is something Virgin Money ought to 
have identified. He feels by not checking that the funds were being paid into a business 
account Virgin Money have failed to protect G. Firstly, the recipient account was not a 
Virgin Money account, it was held at another bank, TSB Bank. Details about TSB Banks 
customers would not have been accessible or known to Virgin Money. And even if Mr H 
were to argue they were, I havent seen any evidence that persuades me that Virgin Money 
had any knowledge of any inconsistencies in the details given on the payment instruction 
and those of the recipient accountholder at the time of processing the payments.In fact, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the PSRs), it is the unique identifier 
that defines a payments destination. That expression essentially means the sort code and 
account number. And Regulation 90 of the PSRs (which Ive set out later in my assessment) 
says that where a payment instruction is executed in accordance with the unique identifier, 
the payment order is deemed to have been correctly executed by each bank involved in 
executing the payment order with respect to the payee specified by the unique identifier. The 
checking of the name given on the payment instruction against the name of the recipient 
accountholder or identifying the type of account (business/personal) was not a requirement 
nor was it a part of the payment process at the material time. This is further supported by the 
Payment Systems Regulator more recently introducing a name checking systems for UK 
payments referred to as confirmation of payee (CoP). If matching a payee name or 
identifying the type of account being paid was already a part of the payment execution 
process, there wouldnt have been a need for this initiative to help combat fraud. And 
unfortunately, the CoP system had not been implemented by Virgin Money (nor was there a 
requirement for them to do so) at the time Gs payments were made.
Mr H has also in his submissions referred to warnings which he has more recently been 
given when trying to make payments, along with emails and messages banks are sending 
highlighting the risks of fraud. He argues Virgin Money, by not carrying out such robust fraud 
checks at the time he was tricked into transferring money to a scammers account, has failed 
to protect him. He believes had it done so, Gs losses couldve been averted. He says this 
makes Virgin Money culpable and liable. But its important to note that whilst the obligations 
to be alert to fraud and scams are longstanding, it wouldnt be fair for me to apply todays 
standards and expectations retrospectively. The fraud landscape is continually evolving with 
new initiatives and mechanisms regularly being introduced to try to tackle and prevent fraud. 
So, a fair assessment of Virgin Moneys actions requires me to evaluate these against what 
reasonably couldve been expected of them at that time.
Overall, from what Ive seen aside from the payments being made to a new payee, there 
was nothing else that was different about the payments Virgin Money had been asked to 
make. And in my opinion, it isnt a realistic expectation to say that Virgin Money should be 
stopping and checking every payment made to a new payee. So taking all the above into 
consideration Im satisfied Virgin Money didnt unreasonably miss an opportunity to prevent 
Gs loss.
In addition to the above, Mr H has shared information that he believes is relevant to Gs 
complaint and a basis upon which Virgin Bank should reimburse its loss. This information 
consists of commentary about the Treasury supporting new laws that would see fraud 
victims who are tricked into sending their funds reimbursed, as long as they havent been 
negligent. And the CRM Code, which is a voluntary code under which victims of fraud can be 
reimbursed. I appreciate Mr H would like to do all he can to recover Gs outstanding loss, but 
Im not persuaded that the above is applicable to the circumstances of Gs case. I say this 
because the mandatory law changes referred to are currently a proposal, and have not come 
into effect, and at the time of Gs payments Virgin Money were not a signatory of 
the CRM Code.Ive considered the point Mr H has made; that Virgin Moneys intent to join the scheme and 
reimburse victims of fraud stretches beyond the arbitrary date at which they formally joined 
as members of the CRM Code. He also believes as Gs payments fell within the interim 
period of when these matters were being formalised, Virgin Money shouldve considered 
reimbursing Gs loss under the CRM Code  he argues by not doing so it has acted unfairly. 
Virgin Money have said they were not members of the CRM Code at the time of G being 
scammed. They became full members on 28 February 2022 and are not assessing any case 
retrospectively. I can, of course, understand why this feels grossly unfair to Mr H given that 
his payments were made only a matter of weeks before Virgin Money became signatories of 
the CRM Code and that he believes that had this matter been assessed under 
the CRM Code, G would have received a full refund. But a decision about whether claims 
will or wont be considered retrospectively under the CRM Code is a commercial matter for 
Virgin Money. And I dont think its decision to apply it to payments on or after the date it 
became a signatory of the CRM Code is unreasonable. So, it follows that I dont think 
Virgin Moneys basis for not considering Gs claim under the CRM Code is unfair or 
unreasonable.
Part of Gs complaint is that Virgin Money hasnt satisfactorily assisted it in the recovery of its 
losses.
Virgin Moneys records show Mr H reported the scam on 8 February 2022. They accept that 
due to an error on their part this notification was not passed to their fraud team, which 
caused a delay in this being reported to the recipient bank. To remedy this, they returned to 
Gs account the sum they wouldve recovered had they correctly sent notification on 
8 February 2022. Ive reviewed the recipient accountholders statement and I am satisfied 
the available balance on 8 February 2022 was £10,442.49, which is the total sum Virgin 
money have paid G. Mr H believes that this should be backdated to 4 February 2022, and if 
there was a greater sum available for recovery, he should receive this as he tried to contact 
Virgin Money but was unable to speak to someone due to phone delays. Virgin Money do 
not agree, and there remains a difference of opinion on this point. But I dont consider it 
necessary to make a finding on whether Mr H contacted Virgin Money on the
4 or 8 February 2022 as it doesnt make a difference to the sum which Virgin Money couldve 
recovered. As Ive seen the recipient account statements and am satisfied the balance 
available for recovery on 4 February 2022 was the same as that which was available on 
8 February 2022.
For completeness Ive also thought about whether an interest award is payable by 
Virgin Money for the time between Mr H reporting the fraud and the recovered funds being 
returned to G. But Im satisfied in these circumstances it doesnt need to, as I can see from 
Virgin Moneys records that the delay in returning those funds to G (including the £13 
discrepancy) was due to Virgin Money waiting for confirmation from TSB Bank of the amount 
which couldve been recovered on 8 February 2023. And even if Virgin Bank had done 
everything perfectly, Im not persuaded that this wouldve resulted in G receiving the 
recoverable sum sooner than it did. I say this because from what Ive seen TSB Bank didnt 
return any recovered funds (which for Mr Hs information were less than the sum 
Virgin Money returned to G) to Virgin Money till late March 2022, and after this had already 
been paid to G.
Mr H says he asked Virgin Money for copies of communication between itself and TSB Bank 
so that he could be satisfied that the sum G received back (recovered funds) was correct. He 
also asked that they share with him the accountholders details, with his reasons initially 
being that he needs to provide this information to the police and later being that he wishes to 
pursue the party who received Gs funds. He is unhappy that privacy laws have been cited 
as the reason for why they cant share this information with him. He doesnt agree that a 
criminal should be, or even is, protected in this way.I recognise that Mr H is unhappy that Virgin Money will not obtain and share with him 
information about the recipient accountholder. He has told me that the police would not 
investigate the matter without these details being providedsomething which I found rather 
surprising. As quite often victims of crime do not know who the perpetrator is  and in such 
circumstances it would commonly be for law enforcement, not the victim, to investigate and 
identify a suspect. Also, a police investigation into a reported crime is an independent 
matter. It wouldve been for the police to contact Virgin Money. And Im sure had 
Virgin Money been contacted by the police; it wouldve co-operated with their enquiries. But 
knowing how much this means to Mr H I can see why Virgin Moneys refusal to obtain and 
share this information would be disappointing for him. And I can absolutely see how, to the 
victim of a scam, it would feel unfair that an individual who has acted dishonestly and 
criminally is protected by privacy rights. But Virgin Money is required to comply with 
privacy laws. And if it does not have a lawful basis for holding and processing personal data 
(which includes disclosing that information to a third party) it will be in breach of these.
Regulation 90 of the PSRs says the following:
90. Incorrect unique identifiers
(1) Where a payment order is executed in accordance with the unique identifier, the payment 
order is deemed to have been correctly executed by each payment service provider involved 
in executing the payment order with respect to the payee specified by the unique identifier.
(2) Where the unique identifier provided by the payment service user is incorrect, the 
payment service provider is not liable under regulation 91 or 92 for non-execution or 
defective execution of the payment transaction, but the payment service provider
(a) must make reasonable efforts to recover the funds involved in the payment transaction; 
and
(b) may, if agreed in the framework contract, charge the payment service user for any such 
recovery.
(3) The payee's payment service provider must co-operate with the payer's payment service 
provider in its efforts to recover the funds, in particular by providing to the payer's payment 
service provider all relevant information for the collection of funds.
(4) If the payer's payment service provider is unable to recover the funds it must, on receipt 
of a written request, provide to the payer all available relevant information in order for the 
payer to claim repayment of the funds.
(5) Where the payment service user provides information additional to that specified in 
regulation 43(2)(a) (information required prior to the conclusion of a single payment service 
contract) or paragraph 2(b) of Schedule 4 (prior general information for framework 
contracts), the payment service provider is liable only for the execution of payment 
transactions in accordance with the unique identifier provided by the payment service user.In the circumstances of this complaint, Im satisfied that Mr H entered incorrect unique 
identifiers for the purposes of triggering the banks respective duties under Regulations 90(2) 
to (4). I say this because Mr H on behalf of G was trying to make a payment to its genuine 
supplier. The payment had been agreed and was expected. The emails between G and its 
supplier were intercepted, and bank details changed. So here I consider the suppliers 
legitimate bank details to be the correct unique identifier. I say this because  but for the 
interception and changing of account details  Mr H would've sent the payments to the 
suppliers legitimate details. Virgin money have questioned whether this was email 
interception, as the amounts on the invoice containing the changed details (which Mr H had 
shared with them) was different to the amount paid. I sought clarification of this point from 
Mr H, who shared further emails which collaborate his version of events. So I am satisfied 
that this is a case of incorrect unique identifiers being entered.
Im aware and have taken into consideration that data controllers such as Virgin Money are
required to comply with the principles under the Data Protection Act 2018 (DPA 2018) and
UKs General Data Protection Regulation (UK GDPR). And if they do not have a lawful basis
for holding and processing personal data (which includes disclosing that information to a
third party) they will be in breach of DPA 2018 and UK GDPR, and any individual whose
privacy rights have been affected may have a number of rights against them. I also accept
that banks also owe their customers contractual duties of confidentiality. However, individual
privacy rights are not absolute, and the organisation holding the data may have a lawful
basis for providing it to a third party in a way that would otherwise be unlawful if the above
exemption did not apply. Similarly, duties of confidentiality are subject to qualifications and
dont apply where the law requires disclosure of the relevant information.
The regulations set out above require disclosure of data, so even where the relevant
information contains data relating to individuals Virgin Money will have a lawful basis for
disclosure  under regulation 90(4) which says if Virgin Money has been unable to recover
all the funds, as is the case here, on receipt of written request from Mr H on behalf of G, it
must provide all available relevant information in order for G to claim repayment of its loss.
Mr H says he verbally asked Virgin Money for this information and is willing to sign an
affidavit. But the regulation is clear that such request must be written. And whilst I note Mr H
questions whether Virgin Money were obliged to have informed him of this? Virgin money
could also argue based on the reasons Mr H had initially given for why he wanted this
information, and looking at the evidence hed shared with them, reaching a conclusion that it
couldnt share third-party information due to privacy laws and that regulation 90 did not apply
is not unreasonable. Nevertheless, I can see on 4 May 2023 Mr H did send Virgin Money a
written request, asking them to provide details of the recipient accountholder for pursual of
Gs outstanding loss. I cant see that Virgin Money have ever tried to obtain any information
from TSB Bank. So I intend on directing Virgin Money, to request this from TSB Bank, and
upon receipt share with G as required under regulation 90(4) of the PSRs which says:  on
receipt of a written request, provide to the payer all available relevant information in order for
the payer to claim repayment of the funds. If there is a dispute as to whether Virgin Money
has fulfilled its obligation under the direction, G will need to go to court and argue that our
direction/regulation 90(4) entitles it to more than it has been given.
I think its important I also highlight that payee bank accounts in fraud cases could be in
hands of dangerous criminals/individuals with possible links to organised crime  or indeed a
vulnerable person/innocent party or someone who themselves are also a victim. So, if on
receipt of this information, Mr H intends to contact the payee, I strongly suggest he seeks
advice  from the police or a solicitor  before attempting recovery of funds, and to leave any
practical steps which need to be taken to the appropriate authorities.This naturally leads on to the question of whether Virgin Banks omission is a basis upon 
which I can ask it to refund Gs outstanding loss. And Im sorry to disappoint Mr H but I dont 
think it does. During one of our conversations Mr H made suggestions that Virgin Moneys 
delay in responding to his request for this information has impacted his ability to recover Gs 
outstanding loss. But Ive seen no evidence to support this. Whether or not Mr H couldve 
even recovered any money through civil means rests on so many unknown factors and/or 
variables that I can only base my conclusions on what I think is most likely, and whilst I 
accept the point Mr H has made about his persistency, on balance, based on what weve 
seen in scam cases, its unlikely acting more promptly (in relation to obtaining and sharing 
the accountholder details) wouldve resulted in a higher recovery amount. So it follows that I 
cant ask Virgin Money to refund Gs outstanding loss as I cant fairly conclude that its 
omission was the cause of it.
And just because I dont think Virgin Money are liable or culpable for Gs outstanding loss,
doesnt mean that Im inadvertently finding G liable. For absolute clarity I accept G has been
the innocent victim of a scam, but this alone isnt a basis upon which I can ask Virgin Money
to refund its outstanding loss. I can only do so if I find that Virgin Moneys acts or omissions
have fairly and reasonably caused its loss. And here for the reasons Ive outline above I
cant say they have.
Finally, Mr H has asked our service to consider whether the £350 compensatory offer made
by Virgin Money is fair and reasonable, in light of the poor service and time hes needed to
spend dealing with the matter, taking into account he is a one-man band. Firstly, G is a
distinct and separate legal entity. It is the eligible complainant. So I can only consider the
impact on the entity itself, rather than the person bringing its complaint  here Mr H. G isnt
an individual person, it cant experience distress, pain or suffering. But it can, of course,
experience inconvenience and or damage to its reputation. And I do think in a scenario such
as this where the company is made up of just one director, the inconvenience caused can
have a greater impact than if the complainant were a larger company. So with all this in mind
Ive considered whether it would be fair and reasonable to direct Virgin Money to pay G more
than the £350 compensatory award it has made for delays, poor service and lack of
communication whilst handling Gs fraud claim. Clearly Mr H is disappointed with how
Virgin Money have handled matters, and I agree with him that it couldve done a better job,
but I think the offer it has made is a fair and reasonable way to resolve this aspect of Gs
complaint. So I wont be asking Virgin Money to pay anything more than the £350 it has
already offered to pay. Of course, I have considerable sympathy for the situation in which
Mr H has found himself. I know he needed to find additional funds to settle the payment with
the supplier, and whilst Virgin Money had returned around half of Gs loss, I appreciate there
was still a deficit, which to a company like G was significant, and from what Mr H has said
caused it to have severe difficulties. But ultimately, I think the majority of this stems from the
actions of the fraudster  not Virgin Money, so it wouldnt be fair to ask it to compensate G
for inconvenience it suffered as a result of another partys actions.
My provisional decision
For the reasons outlined above, but subject to any further information I receive from either 
Mr H or Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money Im intending to uphold this complaint 
in part.
To put things right I intend to direct Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money to:
-Within 28 days of acceptance of the decision ask TSB Bank to provide it with all 
relevant information for the collection of Gs lost funds; and within 56 days of 
acceptance of the decision provide G all available relevant information in order for G 
to claim repayment of the funds.-Pay G £350 compensation if it hasnt already been paid.
Virgin Money responded and said it has asked its Fraud Team to action the request with 
TSB Bank. It also shared an extract of Gs bank statement to show that a compensation 
award of £400 was paid into Gs account on 5 September 2022.
Mr H responded and naturally he was disappointed with my provisional decision. To 
summarise, he said he fundamentally disagreed and reiterated the reasons for why, in his 
opinion, Virgin Money ought to have done more, and why he believes it couldve prevented 
Gs outstanding loss. He said there is an absence of culpability and justice, G is the victim; 
and the scammers have profited and been allowed to escape with the swag. He still 
believes that Gs complaint about Virgin Money and its complaint about TSB Bank should 
both be considered together; that G should receive a refund of its full loss (from one or both 
banks); and that the compensation award should be increased as the sum paid by 
Virgin Money is derisory. 
Mr H also pointed out that hes not seen all the evidence that has been relied upon to reach 
the conclusion that the sum Virgin Money returned to G was what was available for recovery 
in the recipient account. He also questioned the validity of some of the things which I set out 
in the background of this complaint. In the interest of being fair to Mr H, before finalising my 
decision, I shared with him a redacted copy of the recipient account statement. I also set out 
for him where the information in the background came from.
Now that both parties have had an opportunity to comment, I can go ahead with my final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear that G has fallen victim to a scam. Understandably Mr H wants to do all 
that he can to try and recover as much of Gs loss as possible. But nothing he has said in 
response to my provisional decision has persuaded me to deviate from the outcome Ive 
reached, as set out above.  
I appreciate Mr H remains of the opinion that Gs complaint about Virgin Money and its 
complaint about TSB Bank should both be considered together  and that one or both banks 
should reimburse Gs outstanding loss. I note in his submissions, he says the reason for why 
he agreed and accepted the outcome reached in relation to Gs complaint about TSB Bank 
was that he needed the money. He says acceptance was under duress, as without it 
TSB Bank wouldnt have made the payment. I can sympathise with the position Mr H found 
himself in, but this still doesnt change the fact that the complaint Im considering here is 
against Virgin Money, not TSB Bank  and as Ive set out in my provisional decision, under 
the rules which govern this service, a complaint must be framed by the complainant against 
a firm, based on its own acts and omissions, and decided by an Ombudsman accordingly. 
And here I have considered Virgin Moneys acts and omissions as the remitting bank and 
Gs payment service provider  and based on everything Ive seen there isnt a basis upon 
which I can fairly and reasonably ask Virgin Money to pay Gs outstanding loss.Mr H says he has done nothing wrong, and that Virgin Money have a moral obligation to put 
the matter right despite the reasons I have given for why it doesnt need to. I understand that 
he thinks the outcome Ive reached is unfair as: this is a David and Goliath matter; they 
feel little pain, I feel a lot of pain; and banks have the funds, profits and infrastructure 
This loss is huge to me and a drop in the ocean for them. But none of these are a basis 
upon which I can fairly direct Virgin Money to refund Gs outstanding loss. Ive also taken on 
board Mr Hs comments about technology which exists that confirms recipients of emails 
only review them for a maximum of 10 seconds and his belief that this is a critical factor. But 
to be clear Im not disputing or deciding Gs blameworthiness  that is not the test. I accept 
that G has been the innocent victim of a scam, but this doesnt automatically entitle G to a 
refund from Virgin Money. I can only ask Virgin Money to refund Gs outstanding loss, if I can 
reasonably conclude that its act, or omission was the cause of it, and for the reasons set out 
in my provisional decision I cant say that it was. Ive also noted Mr Hs concerns that the 
criminals have got away with the swag but my role does not extend to investigating the 
individual(s) that perpetrated the scam  that is a criminal matter and one for the police and 
courts.  
Ultimately, Mr Hs response to most of the explanations Ive provided, and the reasoning I 
have given for the conclusions Ive reached is that he simply doesnt agree. And where Mr H 
has provided a reason, he hasnt said or presented anything new that changes my mind, or 
that which I havent already considered. So it follows that I have no reason to depart from the 
outcome I reached in my provisional decision.    
I appreciate Mr H feels strongly that Gs complaint should be fully upheld. I know my 
decision will be disappointing and isnt the answer he was hoping for. But I hope it brings 
some closure to this matter for him. He has expressed repeatedly that he holds a different 
opinion and doesnt agree with my conclusions. And thats ok. Mr H is in no way obliged to 
accept what Ive said, in which case he remains free to pursue this matter on Gs behalf by 
alternative means (if possible) should he wish to do so. He should consider taking 
independent legal advice if thats a course of action he intends to pursue.
Putting things right
As both parties have confirmed that the compensatory award has already been paid to G. 
To put things right Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money need to:
- If it hasnt already done so, within 28 days of acceptance of the decision ask 
TSB Bank to provide it with all relevant information for the collection of Gs lost funds; 
and within 56 days of acceptance of the decision provide G all available relevant 
information in order for G to claim repayment of the funds.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and 
direct Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money to take the actions outlined in the 
putting things right section of this final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman