DRN-3674979
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P have complained about the way Aviva Insurance Limited propose to settle a 
claim they made under their home insurance policy following a burglary. 
What happened
Unfortunately Mr and Mrs P were burgled in January 2022. They made a claim to their 
insurer Aviva. Mr and Mrs P say their claim was settled promptly and fairly - apart from their 
claim for stolen jewellery. 
Aviva offered Mr and Mrs P a part cash settlement and part voucher settlement for the stolen 
jewellery items. Mr and Mrs P complained to Aviva as they didnt think the settlement was 
fair. They said some of the items were bespoke antique items which couldnt be replaced at 
the retail outlet the voucher could be redeemed. Mr and Mrs P wanted Aviva to settle their 
claim by paying the settlement by cash in full. 
Aviva didnt uphold their complaint. It said it asked for further information in relation to the 
bespoke items but didnt receive enough information from Mr and Mrs P to change its 
decision. Aviva said its settlement was fair and in line with the policy. 
Mr and Mrs P remained unhappy and asked us to look at their complaint. 
Our Investigator thought Aviva had acted reasonably. Mr and Mrs P didnt agree and want 
an ombudsman to decide. In summary they say the policy doesnt specify that Aviva may 
settle on a limited voucher with a single supplier who is the same supplier that values the 
stolen items. They say they have provided Aviva and its appointed jewellery valuer with 
photos, descriptions and valuations for the stolen items. They want a full cash settlement for 
the stolen items. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that having to deal with a claim in addition to the upset of being burgled is 
difficult. Mr P says the way Aviva has dealt with the claim has had a worse impact on Mrs P 
than the burglary. Im sorry to read this. 
Ive looked at whether Aviva acted in a reasonable way and in line with the policy when 
deciding how to settle Mr and Mrs Ps claim. I appreciate that it can be difficult to 
demonstrate the value and uniqueness of jewellery items - particularly those that hold 
sentimental value and have been kept in the family for years. 
It isnt unusual for an insurer to look to settle a claim by using preferred suppliers to provide 
replacement items. Insurers often have preferential commercial rates with third party 
suppliers and are entitled to make use of these relationships in order to mitigate the costs of 
settling a claim. This means that the cash equivalent settlement sum is often lower than the 
value equivalent an insurer can replace an item for with an approved supplier. 
As Mr and Mrs P have highlighted to me, Avivas policy says it will settle a claim in the 
following way:
Settling Claims (not applicable to liability claims)
We can choose to settle your claim by
 replacing;
 reinstating;
 repairing;
 payment.
Replacement will be on a like for like basis or based on the nearest equivalent in the 
current market. If we can repair or replace property but agree to make a cash or 
voucher settlement we will only pay you what it would cost us to repair or replace it.
As things stand, the jewellery valuer says it can provide a like for like replacement for some 
items which Mr and Mrs P dont agree. So they remain included under the part voucher 
settlement amount. 
Mr and Mrs P say that nowhere in the policy document are there any references to vouchers 
being a method of settlement and if refused the full valuation will not be paid out. I 
understand Mr and Mrs P believe the full valuation isnt being met by the way Aviva has 
chosen to settle the claim. But I think Aviva has been clear enough that it can choose to 
settle the claim either by cash or voucher settlement. I dont think it needs to specify that it 
may decide to use both options in part rather than one or the other. 
The appointed jewellery valuer has agreed to reassess Mr and Mrs Ps claim for the 
remaining items if further information as to their specification can be provided. I dont think 
this approach is unreasonable. Its fair for an insurer - or its agent - to ask for reasonable 
evidence to support a claim. This is also set out under Avivas policy:
Proof of value and ownership
It is your responsibility to prove any loss. We therefore recommend that you keep 
receipts, valuations, photographs, instruction booklets and guarantee cards to help 
with your claim.
I understand how upsetting it is to have such personal items of jewellery stolen and how 
some cannot be replaced with an exact match. But there isnt enough for me to decide that 
Aviva has looked to settle the claim in an unreasonable way. So Im not asking Aviva to 
provide a full cash settlement to Mr and Mrs P. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman