DRN-1959464
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy with Nationwide Building Societys decision to not refund him the cost of an 
iPhone purchased online using his debit card.
What happened
The details of this case have become somewhat confused as there have been two separate 
avenues of enquiry that have been explored. Ill broadly summarise whats happened, 
without necessarily commenting on the absolute accuracy of events as they unfolded.
Mr Rs card details were used to buy an iPhone from an online merchant. It was delivered 
shortly afterward, though not to Mr Rs address. Mr R did, however, end up with the package 
in his possession.
Nationwide raised a chargeback request for Mr R when he first contacted it about the iPhone 
purchase. That was on the basis that Mr R said hed received an empty box.
Mr R sent the box back to the merchant.
The chargeback did not succeed. The merchant presented evidence which included details 
of the order (including the name on the order) as well as delivery details (including the 
delivery address, date of dispatch and the weight of item) and confirmation that the item was 
successfully delivered (including the name of who signed for it). That was enough evidence 
for the chargeback to be defended and Mr R received no refund. Nationwide took the dispute 
no further as it didnt think there was enough evidence for the claim to succeed, in part 
because of the clear difference in weight of the parcel sent by the merchant and the one 
returned by Mr R.
Mr R didnt think the evidence provided by the merchant was enough. He pointed out that 
the delivery weight would be different because he received an empty box that had been 
intercepted, with the phone being removed. So hed only returned what he received. But 
Nationwide didnt change its answer.
Nationwide also appears to have carried out a limited investigation into whether Mr R 
authorised the transaction or not. But in doing so it found the iPhone had been ordered using 
the same IP address Mr R had used to log in to his online banking. And so it didnt think the 
transaction was unauthorised.
Mr R brought his complaint to our service as he remained unhappy with Nationwides 
response. One of our investigators looked into the case and didnt uphold it. She 
investigated both the handling of the chargeback and the authorisation of the transaction. In 
doing so she didnt find there was reason to say Nationwide ought to refund Mr R. In 
summary, she said the chargeback had been handled fairly and thought it more likely than 
not Mr R had authorised the transaction himself.
In assessing the complaint, the investigator noted inconsistencies in Mr Rs version of 
events.
 
Mr R was unhappy and so asked an ombudsman to review his complaint. I discussed the 
investigators opinion, including the inconsistencies shed highlighted, with Mr R to get his 
response. Ive taken that into account in reaching my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding it. 
In a case like this I take account of the applicable chargeback rules and the Payment 
Service Regulations, which discuss liability for authorised and unauthorised payments from 
an account. Ive not gone into detail about either of those considerations for reasons Ill 
explain below.
Our service relies on the evidence provided to us by the parties involved, both the business 
and the customer. Businesses generally provide evidence in the form of electronic records, 
call recordings, authorisation reports and so on. There tends to be a lot of tangible 
information on which they base their defence of a complaint.
Customers often only have their version of events to submit as their evidence. We accept 
that evidence in writing or over the phone and we accept it at face value, always assuming 
its the customers most accurate and genuine recollection of whats happened. That remains 
true unless there is cause for us to question what weve been told. 
Im afraid to tell Mr R that I do have reason to question what hes told us about his complaint. 
This arises from some of the same inconsistencies highlighted by the investigator which, in 
my view, hes failed to adequately explain. And as a result I find his version of events to be 
unreliable to the extent Im unable to uphold his complaint. Im not persuaded the iPhone 
wasnt received as intended and Im not persuaded someone used Mr Rs account without 
his authority. It then follows that I cant conclude Nationwide has been wrong to decline Mr R 
a refund.
Before I go on to address some of the specific points Ill acknowledge here that Mr R has 
informed our service he has some memory problems. And so Ive considered whether such 
problems might reasonably explain the inconsistencies in how hes described events. I dont 
find that can fairly said to be the case, for reasons that will become clear.
The first and perhaps most significant inconsistency is what Mr R is actually complaining 
about. The case has taken two different heads of complaint: the chargeback on the basis of 
the iPhone not being received and the claim from Mr R that he never authorised the 
transaction.
Like our investigator Ive listened to the call recordings and read the contact notes that are 
available. Its evident from this evidence that Mr R does change the nature of his complaint. 
At times he says he did order the iPhone but the box was empty. At others he said he never 
ordered it at all. Our investigator was very thorough in addressing this point in her 
conversations with Mr R and its clear the nature of the complaint changes. I can see no 
reasonable explanation for such a significant change and it leads me to question the validity 
of either complaint. It also seems strange that, when discussing the complaint with 
Nationwide on the phone at one point, Mr R makes no mention of not ordering the iPhone 
himself. He only talks about there being no iPhone in the box he had. Mr R has suggested 
that this difference in how the complaint was described came down to advice from Nationwide on how he ought to approach the dispute. But Ive seen no evidence to support 
that and Mr R has repeatedly contradicted himself on the nature of the claim. 
Our investigator questioned Mr R about some of the people that appeared to be linked to the 
circumstances of the case. This was, at least in part, because Mr R had said his carers were 
the people that likely ordered the phone without his consent. It was also because we have 
the names of the person to whom the phone was delivered (it wasnt sent in Mr Rs name) 
and the person that signed for it (also not Mr R). I also asked Mr R about who all of these 
people were.
When our investigator asked for the names of Mr Rs carers  the people he said carried out 
the fraud  he quickly and confidently replied with two names, even spelling one of them out. 
When I asked him, he said he couldnt remember the names of his carers.
Our investigator then asked Mr R if he knew the name of the person on the iPhone invoice. 
He said he had no idea. She then asked if he knew the person that had signed for it and he 
gave a similar answer.
I asked Mr R for the names of his carers and he said he couldnt remember. I then asked 
about the addressee and the signatory. He identified the former as his carer and the person 
that carried out the fraud. That means he gave a different name to me than he did the 
investigator. And for some reason Mr R didnt tell me the name of his carer when I first 
asked. Mr R, when challenged on this point, said it was because he didnt like to think about 
that person, because of what theyd done. But Im sorry to say Im not persuade by that 
explanation.
To be clear, he also told me he did know the person but told the investigator he had no idea 
who they were. 
Mr R identified the second person, the signatory, as a long-time family friend. So, again, he 
gave conflicting answers to me and the investigator. 
Clearly the responses given to me and the investigator are significantly different. I dont 
believe theres a reasonable explanation for that and Mr R didnt present one when 
questioned.
Its also concerning that Mr R sent and received money to both the addressee and the 
signatory after hed reported the iPhone issue to Nationwide. There is no version of events 
presented by Mr R, or that I can otherwise think of, that would mean that makes sense.
There are other points to this case that also dont add up. Why would the empty box be with 
Mr R at all, given it wasnt delivered to him? Would someone that had defrauded him 
realistically bring the empty box to him? That seems unlikely. And I can see the exact 
amount the iPhone cost is transferred into Mr Rs account following the transaction. Mr R 
incorrectly told us this was a result of an automatic top-up feature of his account. When 
challenged on this, given it isnt a feature of his account, he then said that transaction was 
unauthorised too, although hed never raised it as such.
Overall, Im not persuaded by Mr Rs version of events and I dont believe hes made a 
legitimate claim against Nationwide. It stands to reason that I wont then say it ought to 
refund him.
Mr R may feel Ive not considered elements of his complaint, such as Nationwide not taking 
the chargeback further on the basis that the package he returned weighed less than what 
the merchant sent. I agree with him that if a package had been tampered with, and the item removed before delivery, it would of course weigh less. However, Im not going on to 
consider points like this for the reasons Ive set out above: Mr Rs evidence is too 
inconsistent to be relied upon and I think its more likely than not he both ordered and 
received the iPhone as intended, even if not at his own address.
 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2020.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman