DRN-2779352
The complaint
 Mrs C complains that Arbuthnot Latham & Co Ltd mis-sold her mortgage and secured 
overdraft facilities.
Specifically, she complains that the secured overdraft and mortgage she had were not 
suitable for her. She says the lending was irresponsible, as it was too expensive, and she 
had no way to pay it back  so it should never have been recommended to her. She feels as 
though less expensive alternatives should have been offered to her.
What happened
 In 2003 Mrs C took out a £25,000 unsecured overdraft facility, and a £70,000 secured 
overdraft with Arbuthnot. These facilities were set up in such a way that Mrs C would not 
make monthly repayments, the interest would be rolled up and applied to the loans at expiry.
 
Mrs C had recently bought a new property outright which she had planned to develop and 
sell with her late husband before he passed away. This is the property the £70,000 overdraft 
was secured against. She wanted to borrow the money to pay for the renovation costs of the 
property, and for living expenses, as she had been left with no income. At the time, she lived 
in another property herself which she owned outright. 
These facilities with Arbuthnot were intended to be short term (initially one year), as Mrs C 
planned to repay the funds once she had completed the renovations and sold the property. 
However, for various reasons Mrs C was unable to sell the property until 2006, when she 
repaid both facilities. As a result, between 2003 and 2006, extensions were granted, and 
further borrowing was also agreed to fund further development work. 
In 2006, Mrs C also applied for a mortgage with Arbuthnot to purchase the cottage next to 
her existing home. Her plan was to renovate the property and market it together with her 
home. So she borrowed another £330,000 for a term of five months, when she intended to 
sell both properties together. Again, the interest on this mortgage was rolled up so Mrs C 
did not need to make any repayments until the full amount fell due.
Mrs C put the property on the market in late 2006, however she had difficulty selling it. 
Arbuthnot continued to extend the borrowing allowing Mrs C more time to sell, and further 
borrowing was agreed so that Mrs C could complete more work on the house. In 2010, Mrs 
C started to let out the property for holiday rental, so she was able to start making monthly 
interest payments to the mortgage of £2,000. However, in 2011 Mrs C was no longer able to 
manage these repayments and took out a loan with another bank to help her manage these 
alongside her living costs.
The property stayed on the market with several offers being received, some were accepted 
but fell through, others were not accepted by Mrs C. The property was eventually sold in 
2018 and the mortgage, which was then around £530,000 including the interest, was fully 
repaid.
In 2018, Mrs C complained to the bank about the sales of the overdraft and mortgage 
facilities. The bank didnt uphold the complaint. It provided a detailed response about why it 
felt the lending was not irresponsible  as Mrs C had clear plans of how the debts would be 
repaid, with comfortable equity across her properties. It also explained that interest roll-up is 
common when borrowing for property development as the funds would be repaid when the 
property is sold. It did not feel it was responsible for the fact the properties took longer to sell 
than intended, which is the main reason the interest continued to accrue, increasing the 
overall balance due. It explained it could have taken repossession action much earlier, but 
chose to show forbearance to Mrs C and allowed her to sell the properties in line with her 
objectives. 
Mrs C brought her complaint to our service, but Arbuthnot didnt give us consent to consider 
it. It felt the complaint had been made out of time. I issued a decision which said that our 
service didnt have the power to consider the complaint about the original sales of the 
mortgage or overdrafts, as that part of the complaint had been made out of time. But I said 
we could consider what had happened since October 2012, including any further borrowing 
agreed.
Our investigator considered the merits of the part of the complaint we could look at, and 
explained that she thought Arbuthnot had treated Mrs C fairly from October 2012 onwards. 
She felt that Arbuthnot was right to grant extensions allowing Mrs C more time to sell the 
property, rather than take legal action to repossess. She also thought the mortgage had 
been administered in line with the terms and conditions of the account. So she didnt uphold 
the complaint.
Mrs C disagreed. She thought she should have been advised to seek less expensive 
alternatives when it was clear things werent going to plan. 
Our investigator wasnt persuaded to change her opinion so the complaints been passed to 
me to issue a decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 23 March 2021. This is what I said.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is a long history of events here that led to Mrs Cs position in 2018 when she 
eventually sold her property and repaid her mortgage with Arbuthnot. Both parties have 
provided a great deal of information about what happened, and I want to assure them that 
Ive considered everything thoroughly before reaching my decision.
 
I understand Mrs Cs strength of feeling about the issues shes raised, and I empathise with 
her for the difficult times that shes clearly been through. But in this decision, I am only able 
to comment on the actions of Arbuthnot, and the way it treated Mrs C, from October 2012 
onwards as determined in my previous decision. 
By 2012, Mrs C had a mortgage outstanding with Arbuthnot that was being reviewed 
regularly. Her intention was to sell the house, and cottage, to repay the mortgage in full. But 
unfortunately, this took longer than expected. The house had been on the market since 
2006, and in 2013 Mrs C decided to use different estate agents to market the property.
An offer had been accepted by Mrs C in 2014, but there were issues found in the survey 
including repairs needed, and a problem with the consent for previous works. Arbuthnot 
renewed the mortgage facility whilst Mrs C arranged for the necessary work to be completed, but in 2015 the offer to buy the property had been withdrawn. The planning 
issues were resolved in 2016 and in 2018 the property eventually sold. 
Arbuthnot has given two main reasons for the increase in the balance over the life of the 
borrowing. Firstly, the fact that the interest was rolled up over a far greater time period than 
was intended initially. And secondly, the loan renewal fees that were added each time the 
mortgage had to be extended. But ultimately both of these reasons come down to the fact 
that the mortgage was only intended to be short term, but for circumstances that were not 
foreseeable, the mortgage took longer to repay than anticipated. 
  
Several conversations took place between Mrs C and Arbuthnot throughout this period about 
her plans, as both parties were fully aware that the mortgage could not be repaid until the 
property was sold. That was always the intention. Ive considered all of the notes of these 
conversations, as well as what both parties have told us about what happened. Its clear that 
all parties wanted the property to be sold.
Ive thought carefully about whether the advice Arbuthnot gave to Mrs C to continue 
renewing the mortgage after 2012 was suitable. Mrs C says there were other cheaper, more 
suitable options available to her  such as equity release. However, I think by 2012 Mrs C 
would have struggled to find a cheaper and more suitable option for repaying this borrowing.
 
I say this because Mrs C had no income at the time, other than what she was receiving from 
her holiday lets and her state pension. This was a relatively large mortgage in comparison to 
her income, and her plan was to sell the house and move elsewhere using the equity. Equity 
release products are intended for those looking to remain in their homes, and typically incur 
a charge for repayment in the event the house is sold for any reason other than moving into 
long term care, or upon death. So considering all the circumstances, Im not persuaded 
Arbuthnots advice to renew the existing mortgage until the house was sold was unsuitable.
However, Arbuthnot kept the secured overdraft and the mortgage accounts running 
separately. By 2012, from what I can see, the overdraft was not being used for anything 
other than to service the fees Arbuthnot were charging Mrs C for the mortgage. The 
overdraft had been drawn down to the limit, which was only extended when new fees were 
added to the mortgage. Both of these facilities were secured against Mrs Cs property, and 
each time the overdraft was renewed along with the mortgage, a separate fee was charged.
I note that at one point it was considered by Arbuthnot that the overdraft should be 
consolidated in with the main mortgage account, but this was not done. Arbuthnot have not 
been able to explain the reason this wasnt done. But they have said that because the 
interest rate charged on both accounts was the same, there was no financial loss to Mrs C 
as a result of keeping the facilities running separately. But I disagree. Whilst the interest rate 
was the same on both accounts, each time the overdraft was renewed Mrs C was charged a 
fee. From what I can see, these fees seem to have been added to the borrowing, and so 
interest would also have been charged on those fees each time they were applied.
 
I havent seen any evidence to show that it was necessary to keep both facilities running 
separately from one another. Both were secured on the property and were attracting the 
same level of interest. As a result, I think Arbuthnot should have recommended that Mrs C 
consolidate the overdraft onto the mortgage account, which would have resulted in fewer 
fees being charged. So I think Arbuthnot should refund the fees Mrs C paid each time the 
overdraft was renewed from October 2012 onwards. Arbuthnot should also refund any 
interest that was charged on those fees as a result of them being added to the borrowing.
Ive said the advice Arbuthnot gave Mrs C to renew the mortgage account from 2012 was 
suitable due to the position Mrs C was in, and the lack of other suitable options. But Ive also considered the way Arbuthnot have administered this mortgage, and whether theyve treated 
Mrs C fairly in light of her complaint about how expensive this mortgage was for her.
All parties agree this was only ever meant to be a short-term finance option whilst Mrs C 
renovated and sold her properties. As a result, each time the mortgage was reviewed, 
extensions were only granted for short periods  typically from five months up to a year.
Arbuthnot has said it did this because it needed to ensure there was still an incentive for 
Mrs C to make quick progress on a sale. It was concerned that extensions given for longer 
periods may have delayed the progress, and ultimately the repayment of the mortgage. I can 
understand this, and I think given the circumstances, regular reviews of Mrs Cs 
circumstances and the progress of the sale were appropriate to ensure things remained on 
track.
Ive also considered that when the mortgage continued to run past its intended terms without 
full repayment, Arbuthnot allowed Mrs C to continue marketing the property herself to 
achieve the best possible return, as opposed to starting any other collections activity such as 
taking steps towards repossession. The notes from the review meetings show that Arbuthnot 
was satisfied Mrs C was doing all she could to sell the property, and was making monthly 
contributions to the interest charged, so Im persuaded allowing Mrs C to continue marketing 
the property herself was the fair thing to do.
However, as Arbuthnot continued to renew the mortgage contracts to allow Mrs C more time 
to sell, this resulted in a significant level of fees being charged overall.  As administering the 
mortgage in the way Arbuthnot did meant that Mrs C was charged a fee of more than £2,000 
every time the mortgage was renewed, which happened roughly every six months to a year 
over a period of 12 years.
Considering all of Arbuthnots internal notes show that it recognised Mrs C was elderly, 
struggling to afford her outgoings, and was in a vulnerable position, Im satisfied it should 
have done more to ease the financial burden she faced as a result of this mortgage it sold 
her. And this includes the fees it charged. Again, each time these fees were charged it 
seems they were added to either the mortgage or the overdraft in the form of additional 
borrowing, and so interest was also charged on these fees.
 
Arbuthnot has told us it decided to stop charging renewal fees for both facilities in 2016 
when Mrs Cs mortgage was placed on its watchlist. It says from this point it could have 
considered repossession, but it chose not to. But I havent seen any information or evidence 
to explain why this decision to stop charging renewal fees was only made in 2016 and not 
earlier.
 
By 2012 Mrs C had been trying to sell this property for six years. She had started a holiday 
let business from the property, and taken out a loan with another bank just so she could 
service the mortgage as Arbuthnot had asked. Arbuthnot was fully aware of Mrs Cs 
circumstances and the difficulties she was facing, and I think it should have done more to 
take this into account. 
Overall given Mrs Cs particular circumstances and the challenges she was facing, Im not 
satisfied Arbuthnots administration of this mortgage resulted in fair treatment for Mrs C. As a 
result, I think Arbuthnot should refund the fees it applied each time it renewed Mrs Cs 
mortgage facility from October 2012 onwards. It should also refund any interest it charged on 
those fees as a result of them being added to the borrowing.
Im also persuaded that the addition of these fees each time Mrs C reviewed her mortgage 
and circumstances with Arbuthnot caused her some unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience. As a result, Arbuthnot should pay Mrs C £300 to recognise this.
 I appreciate Mrs C will feel as though the distress and inconvenience shes experienced 
throughout her time dealing with Arbuthnot should equate to more than this amount. But 
whilst I do fully understand her reasons for that, Im only awarding this payment as a direct 
result of the impact of the fees charged.
I provisionally decided that Arbuthnot should do the following to put things right:
Refund all fees charged for renewing the secured overdraft facility from October 2012 
onwards. Any interest charged on these fees should also be refunded.
Refund all fees charged for renewing the interest only mortgage from October 2012. 
Any interest charged on these fees should also be refunded.
Apply 8% simple interest on the above refund amount from the date the mortgage 
was redeemed until the date of settlement. Unless any of these fees were paid in 
cash by Mrs C, in which case the 8% simple interest should be applied from the date 
the fee was paid until the date of settlement.
Pay Mrs C £300 for distress and inconvenience.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs C accepted my provisional decision, although she was still unhappy that we couldnt 
consider what had happened before October 2012.
However, Arbuthnot disagreed with my provisional decision. In summary, they said:
The overdraft fees and the fees for the mortgage were charged at the same rate of 
1% per annum. As a result, Mrs C has not suffered any financial loss as a result of 
the fees being charged separately on each account.
There is evidence that Mrs C did deliberately prolong the sale of the property at 
points. They provided a timeline to demonstrate what had happened since the 
property was put on the market. They said Mrs Cs rejection of reasonable and 
realistic offers combined with her reluctance to follow her agents advice did prolong 
and compound the debts she would ultimately need to repay. They dont believe 
Arbuthnot can be held responsible for this.
They do not agree the fees should be refunded. The continued servicing of the 
lending to Mrs C was not without risk or cost to the bank. They did the fair thing by 
allowing Mrs C to market the property herself to achieve the best possible price, as 
opposed to taking any collections activity, which would have resulted in higher costs 
for Mrs C, as well as having likely achieved a lower sale price.
Arbuthnot was not made aware that Mrs C had taken out an additional loan to service 
the mortgage. They said Mrs C told them the loan was taken out for ongoing 
maintenance and working capital.
Arbuthnot said that overall, they had done more than could reasonably have been expected 
in the circumstances in order to allow Mrs C to achieve the best possible outcome for 
herself.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Firstly, I appreciate Mrs C still disagrees with the decision I issued setting out what parts of 
her complaint our service can consider. As Ive already issued a decision on that matter, Ill 
say nothing further about that in this decision.
Overdraft fees
In my provisional decision, I explained that I thought Arbuthnot should have advised Mrs C to 
consolidate her secured overdraft into the mortgage account to avoid additional fees.
Arbuthnot have since explained that the fees for both accounts were based on a percentage 
of the amount borrowed. As a result, whether the accounts were kept separate or 
consolidated into one, Mrs C would have paid the same amount in fees overall. So they say 
Mrs C hasnt suffered a financial loss as a result of keeping the accounts running separately. 
Having considered this, it does seem that if the overdraft had been added to the main 
mortgage balance then the fees for renewing the mortgage would have increased due to it 
being a percentage of the overall balance. As a result, I agree that Mrs C has not suffered a 
financial loss as a result of the overdraft fees being applied separately to the mortgage fees. 
However, I will now go on to consider whether I think Mrs C should have been charged any 
fees at all.
The sale of the property
Arbuthnot have essentially said that Mrs C was not doing all she could to try and redeem this 
mortgage in a timely way, and as a result, it doesnt feel it should refund any fees paid for 
the extensions of the borrowing.
Ive reviewed the timeline of events Arbuthnot have provided, along with the original 
submissions containing details of the conversations that were had with Mrs C at the time. 
Looking at what happened from October 2012 onwards, I can see Mrs C instructed new 
selling agents and re-marketed the property in January 2013 due to the lack of previous 
success.
 
In 2014 Mrs C received two offers, and understandably she chose to accept the higher one. 
Whilst I appreciate the lower offer was made by a cash buyer, the offer Mrs C accepted 
would have allowed her to remain living in the property, and have employment managing the 
holiday letting business. However, it was during the process of this sale that the planning 
issues were discovered, and these werent resolved until 2016. By which time, Mrs Cs buyer 
had withdrawn their offer.
 
Given that these issues did not come to light until the surveys and searches were completed, 
I dont agree that it was Mrs Cs actions that led to the house remaining unsold between 
2012 and 2016 when these issues got resolved. I think its understandable Mrs C accepted 
the offer she did, and Arbuthnots records at the time also demonstrated this understanding 
due to Mrs Cs overall position. Mrs C had no provisions for retirement, and would be left 
with nowhere to live once the house was sold. Selling the property to this buyer would have 
helped Mrs C with both of those problems. So whilst I appreciate these delays were not 
caused by any of Arbuthnots actions, Im still satisfied that based on the evidence Ive been 
provided with, Mrs C was doing all she could to sell the property and redeem the mortgage 
during that time.
From 2016, Arbuthnot chose to stop charging renewal fees to Mrs Cs mortgage, which they 
said was due to the fact she was put on their watchlist. But from looking at all the evidence 
afresh, including Arbuthnots recent submissions, Im still not persuaded it was fair for them 
to charge these fees during the earlier years too. 
Since October 2012, Mrs C had accepted an offer on the property, which she couldnt have 
known at the time was not going to go through. Arbuthnots records from that time period 
repeatedly state that the client remains cooperative and realistic as to the need for a sale to 
repay. It seems to be due to external factors that Mrs C was unable to complete on a sale 
before the planning issues were resolved in 2016. And whilst Arbuthnot may not have been 
aware of the real reason Mrs C took out another loan elsewhere as they claim, their notes 
repeatedly referred to the fact that affordability was extremely tight for Mrs C, and she was a 
vulnerable customer.
Whilst I recognise Arbuthnots point that the extended lending did result in further risk and 
costs to the bank, I consider the overall risk was minimal  due to the loan to value being 
less than 60% during the relevant period. Arbuthnots own internal notes also show that they 
were confident they would be able to fully recover their funds from Mrs C.
 
In the meantime, Mrs C was maintaining the interest payments on the loan, albeit with 
difficulty. Arbuthnot were prepared to waive their right to charge Mrs C renewal fees from 
2016 onwards, despite the risks and costs involved. And considering everything, Im 
persuaded they should have made this decision earlier. So overall, Im not persuaded that 
the potential risks and costs to Arbuthnot outweighed the requirement for them to treat their 
customers fairly, particularly in light of Mrs Cs vulnerable circumstances. As a result, Im still 
satisfied the fees should be refunded.
I recognise that Arbuthnot could have taken recovery action earlier in order to recover the 
funds theyd lent Mrs C. And I do think that by granting Mrs C continued extensions on the 
mortgage they were showing her some forbearance in recognition of her circumstances. I 
agree it would have put Mrs C in a much worse position if theyd taken steps towards 
repossession of the property. But whilst they did show some forbearance, I dont think they 
went far enough in recognising the financial impact their administration of the mortgage was 
having on Mrs C. As a result, I still think this complaint should be upheld.
Putting things right
In order to resolve matters Im satisfied that Arbuthnot should:
 Refund all fees charged for renewing the secured overdraft facility from October 
2012 onwards. Any interest charged on these fees should also be refunded.
Refund all fees charged for renewing the interest only mortgage from October 2012. 
Any interest charged on these fees should also be refunded.
Apply 8% simple interest per annum* on the above refund amount from the date the 
mortgage was redeemed until the date of settlement. Unless any of these fees were 
paid in cash by Mrs C, in which case the 8% simple interest should be applied from 
the date the fee was paid until the date of settlement.
Pay Mrs C £300 for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and instruct 
Arbuthnot Latham & Co Ltd to pay the redress award to Mrs C as set out above.
*Interest is at the rate of 8% a year simple. If Arbuthnot Latham & Co Ltd considers that its 
required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs C how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs C a certificate showing this if she asks 
for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2021.
 
Kathryn Billings
Ombudsman