DRN-4036459
The complaint
Mr B complains that a vehicle he acquired through a Hire Purchase Agreement (HPA) with 
MI Vehicle Finance Limited (MI) wasnt fit for purpose. He would like to reject it with a full 
refund of costs or have a price reduction so he can address issues himself.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
I appreciate Mr B feels he could, under consumer rights legislation, reject the vehicle 
and get a full refund within the 14-day cooling off period. But this isnt correct. The 
cooling off period is only for the finance agreement. So, Mr B could have cancelled 
that within 14 days, but he would still have owed MI the funds it supplied  for the 
vehicle. To reject the vehicle and get a full refund as Mr B wanted, the vehicle would 
have had to be not fit for purpose, or of unsatisfactory quality, at the point of sale
Mr B took out an agreement for a four-year-old vehicle with 55,000 miles on the clock 
as such he could explain more wear, tear, and repair issues than with a new vehicle. 
Having said that we do expect vehicles to be fit for purpose at the point of sale. When 
issues do arise within six months of an agreement we usually say its down to the 
business to investigate and , if appropriate, to resolve. And we usually say a 
business should be allowed one attempt to repair
Looking at the issues with the vehicle. The tyres, which I think werent satisfactory at 
the point of sale, have been replaced at no cost to Mr B. This falls within the one 
attempt at repair that we usually allow businesses.
In terms of dents and paint damage Mr B has provided photographic evidence of this. 
But the vehicle is a used one and as such Mr B couldnt expect it to be in the same 
condition as a new one. So, these issues themselves are not grounds to reject the 
vehicle.  Mr B says MI agreed to resolve this as part of the agreement but I have no 
evidence of this. I  appreciate sending someone to look at the vehicle might imply 
work would  be done, but I have no evidence to show this was agreed.  I agree with 
our investigator that the quote Mr B received at just under £9,000 for repair work  
was excessive. I dont think its reasonable to expect MI to cover the costs of a total 
respray and taking out all the dents. I have no evidence this was agreed prior to the 
agreement being taken out. 
I have noted in its final response letter (frl) MI agreed to provide a like for like satnav 
as it accepted the vehicle was advertised with one but didnt come with one. And it 
has agreed to our investigators recommendation to cover the cost of a rear door lock 
that Mr B arranged. I think this is reasonable.
In summary I cant reasonably ask MI to let Mr B reject his vehicle and refund all 
costs incurred to date as Mr B would like. Except for the tyres which were replaced at 
no cost to Mr B , I dont think the vehicle was  not fit for purpose or of unsatisfactory 
quality at the point of sale. I do think Mr B has had some inconvenience so I am 
pleased that MI has agreed with our investigators view to pay him £100 
compensation for any inconvenience.
Finally, Mr B has now told us its not his signature on the inspection form and there is 
a discrepancy with some dates on his documentation. I understand he has referred 
this to the police as a possible fraud issue, so I think that is a matter for the police to 
now take forward.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement MI Vehicle Finance Limited should :-
Reimburse Mr B £24.85 for a replacement rear door lock
Supply an appropriate satnav for Mr Bs vehicle or agree with Mr B to refund the cost 
of one ,on proof of purchase,
Pay Mr B £100 compensation for any inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2023.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman