DRN-3866376
The complaint
Mrs C was the victim of an impersonation scam and is unhappy that Revolut Ltd has decided 
not refund her.
What happened
Mrs C was contacted by scammers pretending to be from HMRC. She has provided a lot of 
detail about what she was told and why she believed the contact to be genuine. But this 
ultimately resulted in her setting up a new account with Revolut, setting up a new payee and 
making two transactions of £3,000 and £890.
 
Mrs C discovered she had been scammed and contacted Revolut several days later to 
report the incident.
The second payment of £890, has since been recovered. Mrs Cs losses are limited to 
£3,000.
Revolut looked into the matter and decided not to refund Mrs C. It said:
- The name of the payee did not match the beneficiary account holder. It provided a 
warning to Mrs C at the time she made the payments.
- Its systems asked Mrs C if this was a trusted beneficiary and informed Mrs C she 
could potentially be the victim of fraud and ultimately deprived of her funds. Mrs C 
selected that she trusted the beneficiary and proceeded with the payments.
- The payment was flagged by Revoluts systems and Mrs C was warned again that 
this was likely a scam and sent a link to Revoluts blog -  where instructions are given 
to customers on various types of scams. Its records show Mrs C received these 
warnings, but proceeded with the payments.
- After Mrs C contacted Revolut about the scam it attempted to recover the funds. The 
funds were initially transferred to another Revolut account and then on to a different 
banking institution and unfortunately could not be recovered.
One of our investigators looked into things she said: 
- The CRM code did not apply as Revolut are not signatories to the code.
- She did go on to consider if Revolut ought to have been concerned about the 
payments Mrs C made on account. She didnt think it should have been. 
- Because it was a new account there was no account activity to compare these 
transactions to. And, setting up a new payee on a new account would not be unusual 
in and of itself.
- She also didnt think the payment values were unusually high, that further 
intervention from Revolut was required when Mrs C made them. 
- So overall she didnt think it was fair to say Revolut should have identified that Mrs C 
was at risk of losing her funds. Or that its decision not to intervene further than it did, 
was unfair in the circumstances.
- Revolut also said that the funds moved on from the recipient account quickly which 
she asked for evidence of. But as Mrs C didnt report the scam to Revolut for several 
days it was likely the funds would have moved on by then anyway. Meaning Revolut 
couldnt have prevented Mrs Cs losses at this point either. 
Mrs Cs representatives disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. in 
summary it said:
- Whilst it accepted that the CRM code did not apply in this instance, Revolut still had 
to observe and adhere to various standards and codes that applied to banking 
institutions. It said Revolut breached its obligations here. 
- It failed to create and sustain an effective fraud detection system, that would have 
otherwise prevented Mrs Cs losses. 
- It disagreed that the account activity wasnt unusual and said the setting up of two 
new payees was enough to put Revolut on notice. As well as £3,890 worth of 
transactions in a short space of time  all of which was suspicious and ought to have 
flagged Revoluts fraud detection systems.
- Revolut failed to effectively educate Mrs C about scams. 
- Revolut failed to intervene and if it had then Mrs Cs losses could have been 
prevented.
The investigator responded to say Revolut is an electronic money institution and is subject to 
different obligations to banking institutions. And whilst we would still consider that it needs to 
be on the look-out for unusual or suspicious transactions she wasnt persuaded that the 
transactions Mrs C made, as part of this scam, warranted intervention. She clarified that 
there was only one new payee and both payments were made to this payee.
As Mrs Cs representative didnt agree with the investigators findings the complaint has been 
passed to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators findings for the same reasons. Ill explain why. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant: law and 
regulations; regulatory rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the time. 
Im sorry to hear Mrs C was the victim of a cruel scam and lost money as a result. I 
understand this loss has had a significant impact on her life and finances. In the 
circumstances, I can appreciate why she wants to do all she can to recover all her losses. 
But I can only direct Revolut to refund all Mrs Cs losses if it can fairly and reasonably be 
held responsible for them.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. And I have taken that into account when looking into 
what is fair and reasonable in this case.I agree with investigators findings that this type of payment isnt covered by the CRM. So,
the starting position is that as Mrs C authorised the payments, and Revolut doesnt need to
refund her. Unless Im persuaded that it ought to have stopped the payments because it was
so unusual or suspicious that it ought to have had concerns that Mrs C was the victim of a
scam.
The payments from Mrs Cs account were authorised by her. Whilst I appreciate, she was
tricked into making the payments, for the purposes of the Payment Service Regulations
(PSRs) 2017, they were still authorised by Mrs C. And Ive explained above, Revolut had
an obligation to follow Mrs Cs payment instructions.
However, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate for Revolut, as an 
electronic money institute (EMI) to take additional steps or make additional checks before 
processing a payment in order to help protect its customers from the possibility of financial 
harm from fraud. An example of this would be payments which are sufficiently unusual or 
uncharacteristic when compared with the usual use of the account. In such circumstances, 
Id expect Revolut to intervene and ask some questions about the intended transaction 
before processing it.
Ive considered whether there was anything about the circumstances surrounding the
payments that could have put Revolut on notice that they were being made as part of a
scam. And I dont think there was. 
- As this was a new account there is no transaction history to compare it. And its not 
unusual to open an account and use it immediately. 
- Funds are deposited and then two transactions are made from the account so there 
isnt a high volume of activity happening here.
- The payments, whilst not insignificant arent what I would consider as unusual high in 
value.   
- Revolut has said that when the payee was added by Mrs C the name didnt match 
the beneficiary account. I havent seen evidence to support this, but in any event that 
factor added with the payment values isnt enough to persuade me Revolut ought to 
have intervened or stopped the payments. 
- Although the payments were made in quick succession, they dont appear to be 
otherwise suspicious. They are made to another UK based account and dont appear 
to be unusual in any other way.
In conclusion, I agree with the investigator. I dont think the transactions and account activity 
were so unusual that Revolut should have been concerned Mrs C was at risk of financial 
harm. So I dont think Revolut made an error by not intervening when Mrs C made these 
payments.
I have also now seen the evidence that the money was moved within minutes of it being 
received into the beneficiary account. So, Im satisfied that Revolut couldnt have prevented 
Mrs Cs losses after she reported the scam. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2023.
 
Sophia Smith
Ombudsman