DRN-2215415
The complaint
  This complaint is about an abortive mortgage application Mr B made to Santander UK Plc. 
Santander originally issued a mortgage offer but then withdrew it, giving no explanation.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld in part, saying Santander should 
pay Mr B £150 compensation.
Both parties asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. Santander said it 
had done nothing wrong so shouldnt need to pay compensation. Mr Bs mortgage broker, 
who represents him in the complaint, say hes incurred £550 of fees for finding an alternative 
lender
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the 
round. In doing that, I dont take instruction from either party to the complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 New rules came into force in March 2017 that made it much harder for a lender to withdraw 
a mortgage offer once its been issued. The outcome of this complaint turns on one question: 
was Santander justified in withdrawing the mortgage offer when it did? 
Mr B is understandably unhappy and frustrated at not being told the reason for the 
withdrawal. The bank has told us, but in confidence. Our rules permit this; its then for me to 
decide whether its fair to rely on evidence that only one party has seen. The information 
(and its source) is sensitive and on balance I dont believe it should be disclosed. But its 
also clearly material to the issue of whether Santander has treated Mr B fairly. So Im 
persuaded I should take it into account when deciding the outcome of the complaint. 
Thats what Ive done, and the conclusion Ive reached is that Santander didnt act 
unreasonably when it withdrew the offer. It could do that the offer itself said this - and Im 
satisfied Santander didnt act unfairly when it exercised its judgement in the way it did. 
But I agree with the investigator that Santander probably could have exercised that 
judgement before the offer was issued, rather than after. In that context, £150 is reasonable 
compensation for Mr B having had his expectations wrongly raised. But I dont agree with 
Mr Bs broker that he should be reimbursed the costs of finding a mortgage elsewhere. That 
would still have happened if Santander had declined Mr Bs application before the offer was 
issued. 
My final decision
  I uphold this complaint in part only. In full and final settlement, I direct Santander UK Plc to 
pay Mr B £150 compensation. I make no other order or award. 
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman