DRN-2474864
The complaint
 Mr C complains that MCE Insurance Company Limited (MCE) avoided his insurance policy 
and refused to settle his claim. 
What happened
In April 2020, Mr C called MCE to report the theft of his motorcycle. MCE investigated the 
claim and found that the motorcycle didnt have an immobiliser as Mr C had said it did when 
he took the policy. 
MCE said Mr C had made a qualifying mis-representation under the Consumer (Disclosure 
and Representations) Insurance Act 2012 (CIDRA). It deemed the misrepresentation to be 
deliberate or reckless. So, it avoided the policy and retained his premiums. 
Mr C complained about this. He said hed been provided with a quick reference card when 
he purchased the motorcycle which made reference to disarming an immobiliser and hed 
assumed it had one. He accepted hed made a mistake but didnt think MCE were treating 
him fairly. MCE didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. So, he referred it to us where one of our 
investigators looked into it.  
Our investigator agreed Mr C had made a qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA. But he 
didnt agree it was deliberate or reckless. Instead he thought it should be considered 
careless under CIDRA. He said that MCE had provided evidence that it wouldve charged a 
higher premium had it known there was no immobiliser. So, a fair resolution would be to pay 
the claim on a proportional basis. 
MCE didnt agree. It said that Mr C had had multiple opportunities to correct the mistake but 
hadnt done so. It also said that the quick reference guide Mr C had referred to didnt confirm 
what security features the motorcycle had and referred him to the manual for full features. 
So, the complaint was passed to me to review and issue a final decision.
I reviewed the file and explained to MCE that I agreed with our investigator that the 
misrepresentation was careless rather than deliberate or reckless. I explained I also thought 
that MCE needed to remove any reference of the avoided policy from its own records and 
any external databases. And I thought it should pay Mr C £300 for the distress and 
inconvenience of not having use of his motorcycle for so long. 
MCE maintained that the misrepresentation was reckless. As we havent been able to reach 
an agreement, Ive decided to issue a final decision on this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not disputed that Mr C was wrong when he told MCE there was an immobiliser on his 
motorcycle. And I agree this is a qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA. What I need to 
decide is whether the misrepresentation was reckless or careless. 
We consider the bar for a mis-representation being deliberate or reckless is a high one. And 
it's for the insurer to prove that it was deliberate rather than careless. On balance, 
considering everything Ive been provided, I dont think MCE has proven it was deliberate or 
reckless. Ill explain why.
Mr C has provided us with a card which came with the motorcycle which our investigator has 
provided. This is a quick reference guide for the security systems of the motorcycle. The 
second point on one side of this card says 
"immobilise only - ignition OFF for more than 45 seconds" 
Whilst I agree this doesnt confirm that an immobiliser is fitted as standard, I can understand 
why this may have led Mr C to believe there was one. Im not persuaded there is anything 
obvious that wouldve alerted Mr C to knowing there wasnt an immobiliser. MCE has said a 
red light would flash if the immobiliser was activated. But if Mr C wasnt aware of this, he 
wouldnt know this meant that there was no immobiliser.
Mr C has been consistent with his testimony to us. Hes also provided us with evidence that 
he spent a significant amount of money on additional security features such as a chain and a 
fitted tracker for which he pays an annual premium. It seems unlikely that someone who 
would do this would deliberately mislead an insurer to save money on an insurance policy 
knowing this could invalidate it. On balance, I think Mr C genuinely believed his motorcycle 
had an immobiliser. 
Ive thought about what MCE has said about Mr C not correcting these details when he 
renewed the policy. But if he was still under the mistaken belief that there was an 
immobiliser, then he wouldnt have known he needed to and wouldve assumed he was 
confirming correct information.
I accept Mr C could've taken more care to check whether there was in fact an immobiliser 
fitted. But, for the reasons above, I do think it was carelessness, rather than a deliberate or 
reckless misrepresentation.
Because of this, I think Mr Cs complaint should be upheld.
Putting things right
To put things right, I require MCE to:
Reinstate Mr Cs policy and settle Mr Cs claim under the remaining terms of the 
policy on a proportional basis, based on the premiums it wouldve charged had it 
known there was no immobiliser.
Remove any reference of the policy avoidance from its internal records and any 
external database it may have reported this to.
Pay Mr C £300 for the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused.  
My final decision
 I uphold this complaint and direct MCE Insurance Company limited to settle it as set out 
above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2021.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman