DRN-2005521
 
The complaint
Miss X complains that Barclays Bank UK plc didnt deal with her chargeback request 
properly and it hasnt fully compensated her for its errors.
What happened
Miss X had a current account and a debit card with Barclays. She contacted Barclays about 
an item shed purchased, using the debit card. She said the item hadnt been delivered. She 
says Barclays applied a chargeback and credited her account with a temporary refund on 
the date she contacted it. But she says it then debited this amount from her account about 
two months later without contacting her.
She contacted Barclays. It told her she hadnt replied to a letter itd sent her about the
chargeback. Miss X says shed told Barclays to send all correspondence to her by email. It 
hadnt done that and so she complained.
Barclays investigated her complaint. It said it had sent her details of a dispute which the 
merchant had raised about the chargeback. But it acknowledged that it shouldve sent this to 
her email address. So, it then emailed details of what the merchant had said to Miss X.
She said the information the merchant had sent showed it hadnt delivered the parcel to her. 
It showed the item had been signed for by a business and the person who had signed was 
not someone she recognised. But Barclays didnt make a refund.
Miss X complained to Barclays. It said it was unlikely the chargeback wouldve been
successful even if it had received Miss Xs comments at the time it initially requested them. 
But because it hadnt sent the information by email in the first place it offered to pay her 
£100 by way of compensation. It also refunded an unpaid fee thatd been debited to her 
account. Miss X thought Barclays should refund the price of the item that hadnt been 
delivered and pay her more compensation. So, she complained to our service.
Our investigator looked into her complaint. He didnt agree with Barclays' view that the 
dispute wouldnt have been successful. He thought Barclays should refund the price of the 
item together with 8% interest by way of compensation.
Barclays agreed to refund the price of the item as a gesture of goodwill but didnt agree with 
our investigator that it should pay Miss X interest on this amount. It said it had followed the 
chargeback process correctly and had already offered to pay £100 for distress and 
inconvenience. It had also refunded £8 for charges. It thought this was fair and reasonable 
and didnt agree it should be required to pay anything more.
Miss X remained dissatisfied with what Barclays had offered to do. So, the complaint has 
been passed to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. In my provisional decision, I 
said
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint
Its important at the outset to explain that the Chargeback Scheme is a voluntary 
code  its not a right and its not guaranteed to recover the money. When Miss X told 
Barclays she hadnt received the item it raised a claim under the Chargeback 
Scheme. That was what wed expect it to have done. We then look at whether the 
bank followed the chargeback process correctly.
I can see that after Barclays raised the chargeback it received information back from 
the merchant which it sent to Miss X for her comments. It sent the information by 
post. But, Miss X says she didnt receive this information because Barclays didnt 
send it to her by email. Barclays has accepted Miss X had told it she wanted 
correspondence by email.
Because Miss X didnt get the information she wasnt able to challenge what the 
merchant had said before the deadline which had been set. And so, she didnt get a 
refund under the Chargeback Scheme. After Miss X contacted it, Barclays did send 
the information by email and asked Miss X to provide her comments.
Ive looked at the dispute the merchant raised and the comments Miss X made to 
Barclays. The merchant said the item had been delivered to the correct address and 
someone had signed to receive it. The merchant also said the GPS records showed 
that at the time of delivery the person making the delivery was in the area where Miss 
X lived. But, Miss X says the delivery note indicated the item had been delivered to a 
business. She said this meant it hadnt been delivered to her as she was not a 
business. She also said she didnt recognise the signature.
Barclays says its unlikely the chargeback wouldve been successful because the 
merchant had provided evidence the item had been delivered to the correct address. 
But, Miss X wasnt a business and it wasnt her signature thatd been provided 
against the delivery receipt.
So, I agree with our investigator that Miss X had provided reasonable grounds to 
challenge what the merchant said. And, I think Barclays wouldve had enough 
information to pursue the chargeback further if itd contacted Miss X in the way shed 
requested. If it had done that I think there was a reasonable chance that the 
chargeback wouldve been successful.
I can see, following our investigators view, Barclays agreed to refund the amount of 
the item in full, as a gesture of goodwill. But, it didnt agree to pay 8% interest which 
was what our investigator thought it should do.
So, the issue I have to decide is whether Barclays has done enough given the
circumstances of this case. Miss X has told us that Barclays actions have caused 
her worry and stress. She says her account became overdrawn as a result of what 
happened and she had other financial difficulties. She thinks Barclays should pay her 
additional compensation because of this. Im very sorry to hear about these issues 
and Ive taken this into account when considering the actions Barclays has taken.
Barclays has now agreed to pay Miss X the full amount that was debited to her 
account as a gesture of goodwill. I think this is fair and reasonable. But, I think the 
refund should be dated back to the date when the original debit was made to the 
account and Barclays should repay any fees and interest that wouldnt have arisen if 
the account hadnt been re-debited on 2 July 2019. This would put Miss X back into 
the position she wouldve been in if the chargeback had been successful. I can see 
Barclays has already refunded one fee that was charged to the account.Ive also thought about the compensation (£100) Barclays has already offered to pay 
to Miss X because it didnt send the dispute information to her by email. Its not our 
role to punish or fine a financial firm where it makes errors. Our role is to consider the 
action the firm took to try to put things right. I think that the offer of £100 
compensation is reasonable for what happened when Barclays sent the information 
by letter, rather than by email as Miss X had requested.
Having considered everything here, my provisional view is that I would require 
Barclays to refund the full amount of the item, backdating this to the date of the 
original debit; to refund any charges and interest that wouldnt have arisen if the 
account hadnt been re-debited on 2 July 2019 and pay £100 in compensation. I think 
that would be fair and reasonable compensation for whats happened. I dont intend 
to require it to pay 8% interest on the amount of the refund or to do anything more.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above, my provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this 
complaint against Barclays Bank UK plc and I would require it to take the following 
actions:
Barclays Bank UK plc should refund £423 to Miss Xs account, backdating the 
refund to the date when the account was originally debited;
refund any charges and interest that have been debited to Miss Xs account 
that wouldnt have arisen if the account hadnt been re-debited on 2 July 
2019; and
if it hasnt done so already, pay her £100 by way of compensation for the 
trouble and upset she was caused by its failure to send her the information 
about the dispute by email.
Barclays has accepted my provisional decision.
Miss X has not accepted my provisional decision. She has made the following comments:
She still hasnt been refunded the amount of £423. She says that shes been going 
through a financial crisis since this happened and she needs the refund as soon as 
possible; 
She received £100 from Barclays in July 2019. But she says that was before she 
complained to our service and she has had ongoing stress as a result of what 
happened;
She says Barclays didnt follow the chargeback scheme properly. She says it would 
be fair to award her 8% interest as set out by our investigator.
So, I need to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision I agreed with our investigator that 
Barclays should refund £423 to Miss Xs account. But I didnt agree that it should pay her 8% 
simple interest on this amount.I provisionally decided that Barclays should backdate the refund to the date of the original 
chargeback. I also thought that Barclays should refund any charges and interest which 
wouldnt have been debited to Miss Xs account if the refund hadnt been reversed. This 
would mean that Miss Xs account would be put back in the position it wouldve been in if the 
reversal hadnt happened. 
As I said in my provisional decision, our role isnt to punish or fine a business. We have to 
consider whether the business has done enough to try to resolve the matter.
Taking everything into account Im satisfied that its fair and reasonable to require Barclays 
to refund £423 together with any fees or charges that otherwise wouldnt have been debited 
to her account. Im mindful that the chargeback process isnt a right and its not guaranteed 
to be successful. But when Barclays takes the action I require it to, Miss Xs account will be 
put back into the position it wouldve been in if the chargeback had progressed and if it had 
been successful.
Miss X has told us about the financial stress shes experienced as a result of the reversal. 
When considering this matter, Ive taken into account the fact that Barclays has already paid 
Miss X £100. Miss X says she was paid this in July 2019. But she says shes experienced 
ongoing financial stress since this compensation was paid. 
Ive considered any ongoing impact on Miss X when deciding that Barclays should refund 
any interest and fees she wouldnt have had to pay if her account hadnt been re-debited. I 
think thats fair and reasonable compensation for everything that happened. So, I dont 
require it to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I uphold this complaint about Barclays Bank UK plc. I now 
require it to take the following actions:
Barclays Bank UK plc should refund £423 to Miss Xs account, backdating the 
refund to the date when the account was originally debited; and
refund any charges and interest that have been debited to Miss Xs account 
that wouldnt have arisen if the account hadnt been re-debited on 2 July 2019
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss X to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 August 2020.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman