DRN-3304510
The complaint
Mr E complains about the interest applied to a settlement balance of a hire purchase 
agreement with BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMW). 
What happened
In March 2017 Mr E acquired a new car through a hire purchase of agreement with BMW. 
The purchase price of the car was £63,700. Mr E paid a deposit of £500, so the total amount 
financed on this agreement was £63,200 payable over 49 months. 
Mr E explained that due to a change in his financial circumstances, from March 2018 he was 
no longer able to maintain the repayments on his agreement with BMW. Mr E says he told 
BMW about his financial situation and tried to arrange a repayment plan with them. 
BMWs internal notes confirms Mr E informed them in June 2018 that he wasnt able to 
maintain his repayments. The notes also confirm that over the following months Mr E had 
tried to arrange the repayment of the arrears but was unable to do so. 
In August 2018 BMW recovered the car from Mr E as the agreement was in arrears. In 
November 2018 BMW wrote to Mr E to say the car had been auctioned and that he had an 
outstanding balance of £14,220.66, which included an interest rebate amount on his 
agreement. The settlement details were outlined on the statement of liability which 
accompanied the letter that BMW sent to Mr E. BMW advised Mr E that hed be entitled to 
the rebate if he contacted them within 14 days to arrange the repayment of the balance.
In December 2018 Mr E was contacted by a third-party debt management agency requesting 
that he repay £19,951.04 to settle his agreement with BMW. BMW said that amount included 
the interest up until the natural end of the agreement. BMW said if the debt was handled by 
them, Mr E would have been entitled to the rebate amount. However, as the debt wasnt able 
to be repaid within 15 months it had to be transferred to a debt collection agency and the 
interest would be added. BMW also advised if the amount was paid by the natural 
agreement end, hed also be entitled to the rebate. 
In April 2021 Mr E emailed BMW to say that hed been trying to get hold of them for several 
months. Mr E explained that due to the size of the balance and changes to his work he 
wasnt able to pay the full amount. However, in May 2021 Mr E came to an arrangement with 
BMW to repay around £500 per month towards the balance. 
Mr E brought his complaint to our service in July 2019 and in August 2021 BMW provided 
their final response to his complaint. BMW explained that although a repayment plan had 
been arranged, as the repayment plan wouldnt clear the balance within 15 months the debt 
was to be transferred to the debt collection agency to oversee and so the interest rebate 
couldnt be applied. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Es complaint and didnt think that the complaint 
should be upheld. The investigator felt that BMW applied the terms of the rebate correctly 
and so didnt think they needed to remove it. 
Unhappy with the investigators view, Mr E asked that his complaint be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
The agreement in this case is a regulated hire purchase agreement. As such, this service is 
able to consider complaints relating to it. 
The Consumer Credit (Early Settlement) Regulations 2004 (CCR) is relevant in this case. It 
says that a borrower is entitled, under a regulated consumer agreement, to a rebate 
whenever early settlement of the agreement takes place. It also provides guidance on a 
date by which the debt should be settled. It says that in certain circumstances, for example 
where notice of termination of the agreement has been given, the date of settlement in 
relation to the rebate shall be the date specified by the business in relation to any 
termination notice given.
In consideration of this, Ive thought about whether BMW acted fairly in removing the 
interest rebate from the outstanding balance on Mr Es agreement with them.
Given that BMW had terminated Mr Es agreement because of the arrears, I think its fair to 
say BMW had served a notice as per the CCR. Under the CCR, BMW were entitled to 
specify a settlement date in relation to the rebate. And so, I think its fair that BMW had put 
a deadline in place. 
Mr E says that he hadnt received the letter with the deadline but also said that he tried to 
contact BMW within that time frame but experienced long waiting times and so wasnt able 
to get through. BMWs internal system notes show that Mr E had made contact with them 
on different occasions in 2018. I also havent seen any evidence to say Mr E was prevented 
from contacting BMW during November 2018, which is when the 14-day deadline would 
have expired. 
In addition, I havent seen any evidence that Mr E had made any arrangements to repay 
the debt shortly after the deadline had passed. So, I dont think its likely that Mr W would 
have arranged repayment of the debt had he contacted BMW within 14 days of receiving 
the statement of liability.
According to BMWs internal system notes, Mr E phoned BMW in December 2018 
regarding the outstanding balance on his agreement. Mr E was told that even had he made 
contact within the 14 days, if he wasnt able to arrange a repayment of the debt within 15 
months the debt would have still been transferred to the third party debt collection agency 
and so wouldnt have included the interest rebate. 
I can also see from the internal system notes, that In April 2019 Mr E was told by BMW that 
unless the debt is managed by them, theyd be unable to include the rebated amount. So, 
Im persuaded that even outside of the 14-day deadline BMW were willing to apply the 
interest rebate to the balance if Mr E was able to arrange a suitable repayment plan with them. As Mr E wasnt able to do so the interest rebate wasnt applied. So, in any case I 
think Mr E was given the opportunity by BMW to make the necessary arrangements to 
qualify for the rebate even outside of the 14-day timescale.
Having considered everything Im satisfied that BMW acted fairly in how they applied the 
interest rebate to the settlement amount and the 14-day timescale that was attached to it. 
My final decision
Having thought about everything above along with what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances I dont uphold Mr Es complaint against BMW Financial Services (GB) 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2022.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman