DRN-1345741
 
The complaint
Mr F says Evergreen Finance London Limited (trading as Money Boat) irresponsibly lent to 
him.
What happened
This complaint is about 12 instalment Money Boat provided to Mr F between September 
2015 and December 2018.  Mr F borrowed amounts ranging between £250 and £1,150 to be 
repaid in monthly instalments over 2, 3, 4 or 6 months. Mr F borrowed from Money Boat 
continuously with no significant breaks for over three years. Mr F repaid all his loans. Money 
Boat offered to refund interest and charges for loans 11 and 12. But Mr F was unhappy with 
this. 
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Fs complaint and thought none of the loans should have been 
given. Money Boat disagreed and so the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Money Boat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr F 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Money Boat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Money Boat was required to establish 
whether Mr F could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Fs complaint.
To check the affordability of loan one, Money Boat asked Mr F about his monthly income 
and expenses and it asked for two months bank statements. As our adjudicator explained, a 
review of these would most likely have shown Money Boat that Mr F was having problems 
managing his money. This is because he had multiple outstanding loans with other 
companies when he asked for loan one. 
Money Boat told us that it had requested the bank statements in order to verify the account 
details were correct. It said it wasnt proportionate to then check the bank statements as it 
was Mr Fs first loan. But I think that as Money Boat had the bank statements it should 
reasonably have then checked them to ensure that Mr F could afford to sustainably repay his 
loan. I think it was wrong for it to ignore information it had asked for and which Mr F 
provided. 
So I think Money Boat should then have realised that Mr F would be unable to sustainably 
repay loan one, or any subsequent loans. And I think it was wrong to have provided them. 
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Money Boats lending history with Mr F, with a view 
to seeing if there was a point at which Money Boat should reasonably have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Money Boat should have realised 
that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Fs case, I think that this point was reached by loan 
five. I say this because:
By loan five, the pattern of Mr Fs borrowing showed that he was persistently reliant 
on short term borrowing. Mr F had taken five loans in twelve months for roughly the 
same amounts. His borrowing then increased. 
From loan five onwards Mr F was provided with a new loan within days or weeks of 
settling a previous one. So Money Boat ought to have realised it was more likely than 
not Mr F was having to borrow further to cover the hole repaying his previous loan 
was leaving in his finances and that Mr Fs indebtedness was increasing 
unsustainably.
Mr F wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Money Boat. Loan 12 
was taken out over three years after Mr Fs first. And it was for a larger amount. Mr F 
had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Money Boat over an 
extended period.
So I think the pattern of lending by loan five showed that the lending was unsustainable for 
Mr F. And so I think it was wrong for Money Boat to have provided loans five to twelve. I think that Mr F lost out because Money Boat continued to provide borrowing from loan five 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Fs indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the sheer number of loans and deferrals was likely to have had negative implications 
on Mr Fs ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these 
high-cost loans.
So Im upholding the complaint about loans one to twelve and I think Money Boat should put 
things right. Money Boat offered Mr F a refund of interest and charges for loans eleven and 
twelve. But I dont think this goes far enough in the circumstances.  
Putting things right
To put things right for Mr F, I think Money Boat should:
refund all interest and charges Mr F paid on loans one to twelve;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loans one to four from Mr Fs credit file;
the number of loans taken from loan five onwards means any information recorded 
about them is adverse. So all entries about loans five to twelve should be removed 
from Mr Fs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Money Boat to take off tax from this interest. Money 
Boat must give Mr F a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that Im upholding Mr Fs complaint. I 
require Evergreen Finance London Limited (trading as Money Boat) to pay Mr F 
compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2020.
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman