DRN-3443474
The complaint
Mr B complains about poor communication, delays and overcharging by Kensington when 
he wanted to make a change to his mortgage.
What happened
Mr B bought a property in 2015 with an interest only buy to let mortgage of around £400,000 
from Kensington. 
In 2019 Mr B discovered the title to the property wrongly included some land outside the 
boundary. He agreed to transfer the land to the developer. Mr B contacted Kensington in late 
April 2019 about making any necessary changes to his mortgage. And Kensington wrote to 
him in early May 2019 setting out their requirements. They included revaluing the property to 
take account of the fact part of the mortgaged property would be released.
Mr Bs solicitors contacted Kensington in late April 2020. It wasnt until around November 
that progress towards the revaluation was made. Mr B blamed delays in the process on 
Kensingtons poor communication. He was also unhappy the valuation fee Kensington 
charged was higher than their published tariff and that they wouldnt take payment of the fee 
by credit card. 
Kensington didnt uphold Mr Bs his complaint, so he brought it to the Financial Ombudsman. 
To put things right Mr B wanted Kensington to apologise for their mistakes, reimburse a 
proportion of the valuation fee and pay him compensation of £100.
Our investigator thought Kensington could have responded directly to the solicitors query 
about whether a valuation was needed instead of sending standard letters when replying. He 
felt compensation of £50 was fair to compensate Mr B for the confusion that caused. But he 
didnt think Kensington had caused any other delays. Our investigator felt the valuation fee 
was in line with the tariff and the terms and conditions of the mortgage. Since the developer 
had paid it in any event, he didnt think it was fair to ask Kensington to reimburse Mr B. And 
he didnt think it was unreasonable that Kensington didnt accept payment of the fee by 
credit card.
Mr B didnt agree our investigators outcome. So, his complaints been passed to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge Mr Bs strength of feeling about what happened. Id like to reassure him, and 
Kensington, Ive considered everything theyve said. I wont set it all out here. No discourtesy 
is intended by that. It simply reflects the informal nature of the service we provide.
I understand Mr Bs concerned about some of Kensingtons processes. Mr B would need to 
refer those concerns to the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. The Financial 
Ombudsman only has the power to consider individual complaints. In summary, our role is to 
consider whether Kensington treated Mr B unfairly and, if so, how to put Mr B back into the 
position he would have been in but for their mistake. 
Ive considered the communications between Kensington on the one hand and Mr B and the 
solicitors on the other. Kensington responded promptly to Mr Bs initial contact in April 2019 
setting out their requirements for considering the change to the mortgage. Im not aware of 
any contact after that until late April 2020. 
I think Kensington should have made it clearer in their June 2020 letter that theyd 
considered the solicitors request to do without a revaluation of the property  which their 
records confirm they had - but decided it was necessary. Their response caused some 
confusion and a short delay. But Kensington confirmed to Mr B over the phone in mid-July 
that their requirements were as set out in the June letter. And they wrote to the solicitors 
confirming they required a revaluation in mid-August 2020, even if the solicitors didnt see 
that letter initially. 
Mr B chased Kensington about progress in late October 2020 when they explained they 
were waiting to hear from the solicitors. Mr B was unhappy Kensington hadnt advised what 
the valuation fee would be. Kensington had said in May 2019 that theyd provide a quote for 
the revaluation fee once they had the information theyd requested from Mr B; once the fee 
was paid, theyd instruct the valuation; and the process would take approximately 4-6 weeks 
from the date of that instruction. 
I dont think its unreasonable that Kensington hadnt advised what the valuation fee would 
be. The issue of whether a valuation was necessary was still being raised by the solicitors. 
And Kensington had explained clearly at the outset, and in later letters, that Mr B could 
appoint his own surveyor. Until they knew the option Mr B was choosing, and when the 
valuation would take place, I dont think its unreasonable they hadnt confirmed the fee. 
Once theyd discussed things with Mr B, they provided details of the surveyors fee in mid- 
November 2020. 
Mr B rang to pay the valuation fee around two weeks later. I acknowledge Kensington 
declined to accept payment by credit card. But it wasnt until February 2021 that Mr B paid 
the fee so the valuation could go ahead. And the valuation was then available within a 
month, in line with the timescales Kensington had set out. 
Having carefully considered the sequence of events, and bearing the above in mind, Im not 
persuaded the delays in the process from August 2020 onwards were Kensingtons fault.
I understand Mr B was frustrated Kensington wouldnt accept payment of the valuation fee 
by credit card. But Im not aware he was unable to pay in another way at the time, and he 
managed to pay later. So, I dont think Kensington treated him unfairly in refusing to accept 
payment by other means.
Mr Bs unhappy with the amount of the valuation fee he was charged. Im pleased to hear 
the developer has reimbursed him so hes not out of pocket. But I dont think Kensington 
were wrong to charge the fee. The terms and conditions of Mr Bs mortgage allowed them to 
charge it. And they could review the level of their fees from time to time. I dont think thats 
unreasonable, given lenders  and surveyors  costs are likely to increase over time. The 
relevant tariff made clear charges may differ from those listed depending on the assessment 
required and location of the property. And the fee Mr B paid doesnt seem significantly out of 
line with the figures set out in the tariff. Mr B said he approached some surveyors to carry out a valuation, but they werent sure if 
they met Kensingtons requirements, so he didnt go ahead. Im not aware Mr B asked 
Kensington for clarification. And, in any event, I think theyd set out clearly enough at the 
outset and in later letters that Mr B could appoint his own surveyor to carry out a valuation 
provided, broadly, the surveyor was suitably qualified and the reports met certain 
requirements. So, he had that option if he wasnt happy with the fee Kensington were 
quoting.
I accept the time it took overall to regularise the title to Mr Bs property and make the 
necessary changes to his mortgage will have been frustrating. But beyond the delay Ive 
mentioned, I dont think Kensington treated Mr B unfairly. That delay happened soon after 
the solicitors had contacted Kensington to start the process. I think the £50 compensation 
our investigator recommended, and Kensington are prepared to pay, is fair and reasonable 
to reflect the distress and inconvenience to Mr B of Kensingtons mistake. 
Putting things right
Whilst I understand Mr B will be disappointed, I think its fair and reasonable to uphold his 
complaint in part and direct Kensington to pay him £50 compensation to put things right. 
My final decision
I direct Kensington Mortgage Company Limited to pay Mr B compensation of £50 for distress 
and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2022.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman