DRN-3484403
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) hasnt refunded the 
premiums they paid for a travel insurance policy.
What happened
On 29 January 2020, Mr and Mrs H took out an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy 
through a broker. They paid £306.33 for the policy, which provided cover between 29 
January 2020 and 27 January 2021. Mr and Mrs H were due to travel abroad in October 
2020.
However, in October 2020, as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, Mr and Mrs Hs trip was 
postponed until the following year. So they asked URV if it could extend their policy or defer 
their cover dates.
URV told Mr and Mrs H that it couldnt offer them either of those options. Instead, it 
cancelled the policy and paid Mr and Mrs H a premium refund of 5% for each full calendar 
month remaining on their policy, in line with the cancellation provisions set out in the policy 
terms. This was a total amount of £45.95.
Mr and Mrs H werent happy with URVs decision and they asked us to look into their 
complaint.
Our adjudicator set out the details of the relevant cancellation rights and how they applied in 
the circumstances of this case. She also explained that it is a fundamental principle of 
insurance law that if the insurer had started to bear risk  for however short a time  the 
premium paid is not returnable. That means its not unreasonable for an insurer to keep any 
premiums relating to the risk it covered during that time. And she explained that Covid-19 
didnt make it impossible for the contract of insurance to be performed because cover under 
the policy started on 29 January 2020 and the policy covered various risks during that time. 
The adjudicator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. 
She thought that the fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of this complaint 
was for URV to pay Mr and Mrs H a premium refund equal to 1/12th of their policy premium 
for each full calendar month remaining. 
URV agreed to calculate Mr and Mrs Hs refund based on 1/12th of the premium for each full 
calendar month remaining. It calculated that this was a total amount of £76.58 (less the 
amount itd already paid).
Mr and Mrs H didnt accept URVs offer. In summary, they said that the restrictions which 
were imposed as a result of Covid-19 meant they hadnt been able to travel during the policy 
year. They didnt think URV was treating its annual trip customers fairly, as they said it was 
allowing single trip policyholders to move their cover dates. They referred to other insurers 
which were allowing date changes for annual policies. And they stated that the policy didnt 
make clear that the insurance was underwritten by URV.
The complaints been passed to me to decide. Its important I explain that the policy terms 
and conditions state, on page 56, that the policy is insured by URV, Branch Office of Union 
Reiseversicherung AG. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs H, I think URVs offer of settlement 
is fair and reasonable and Ill explain why.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
The policy terms and conditions say:
You have a cooling off period where, should you decide that you find that the terms and 
conditions do not meet your requirements, and provided you have not travelled or claimed 
on the policy, you can advise (the broker) within 14 days of purchase for a full refund to be 
considered. Should you wish to cancel your policy outside of the 14 day cooling off period, 
and can confirm that there have been no claims on the policy and that you have not 
travelled, the following cancellation terms will be applied dependant on what type of policy 
you have purchased.
Annual Multi Trip policies - Provided you have not made a claim on the policy (irrespective of 
whether your claim was successful or not) and you confirm in writing that there is no claim 
pending, should you choose to cancel and understand that all benefits of the policy will be 
cancelled, we will refund 5% of the total premium paid, for each full calendar month 
remaining on the policy from the date of cancellation. If you are intending to, or have claimed 
(irrespective of whether your claim was successful or not) we will not consider refunding any 
proportion of your premium.
In this case, its clear that the original policy was cancelled outside the cooling off period and 
so there is no requirement under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for URV to offer a 
refund of premium. 
As Ive outlined above though, the contract of insurance says that if an annual policy is 
cancelled after the cooling off period has ended, URV will refund 5% of the total premium 
paid for each full calendar month remaining on the policy. In this case, Mr and Mrs Hs 
cooling-off period ended on 12 February 2020. But the policy wasnt cancelled until 19 
October 2020. On this basis, URV initially calculated the refund due in line with the policy 
terms.
But Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint 
(as Im required to do) including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding 
Covid-19. URV has now offered to refund 1/12th of the total policy premium for each full 
calendar month remaining on the contract. This is more than its required to do by the terms 
of its contract with Mr and Mrs H. And so, in the circumstances of this case, I think this offer 
is fair and reasonable.
URV wouldve been on-risk between 29 January 2020 and 27 January 2021 had the policy 
not been cancelled. The refund was calculated from the date the policy was cancelled, as 
URV was no longer carrying any risk of Mr and Mrs H making a claim after that point. I 
appreciate that due to lockdown, Mr and Mrs H werent able to travel as theyd planned. But they did have a trip booked and up until that trip was deferred and the policy was cancelled, 
URV was covering the risk of Mr and Mrs H making a claim. So URV is entitled to retain the 
premium it charged to cover the risk of them making a claim while the policy was in force. 
Theres no term in the policy which requires URV to change the date of an annual policy if a 
policyholder is unable to travel as planned. Mr and Mrs H have provided evidence to show 
that other insurers were prepared to do so. But I think it was down to each individual insurer 
to make a commercial decision as to how to respond to the Covid-19 pandemic and what, if 
any, action to take. 
I sympathise with Mr and Mrs Hs position, as I appreciate they werent able to travel for 
reasons beyond their control. But Im satisfied that URVs offer to refund them a total of 
1/12th of their policy premium for each full calendar month remaining on the policy, less the 
refund theyve already been paid, is fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that URVs current offer of settlement 
is fair and reasonable.
I direct Union Reiseversicherung AG to refund Mr and Mrs H 1/12th of their total policy 
premium for each full calendar month remaining on the policy, less the premium refund 
theyve already received.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 June 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman