DRN-3525846
The complaint
Mr N complains that NewDay Ltd (NewDay), trading as Aqua, irresponsibly granted him 
credit that he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
NewDay approved a credit card application for Mr N in December 2020. The credit limit was 
set at £900 and was increased to £1,900 in July 2021.
Mr N says that NewDay were wrong to provide credit as it wasnt affordable for him.
NewDay disagree. They say that when they approved the credit card application they 
reviewed Mr Ns credit file and found he had no arrears, no County Court Judgments, and no 
defaults. They said there was about £2,600 of unsecured debt but they thought that as Mr N 
had told them he was earning £55,000 a year he would be able to afford the credit they were 
providing. They explained that when they agreed to increase the limit they had also been 
able to benefit from reviewing Mr Ns performance on his account with them and that gave 
no cause for concern.
Our investigator agreed but Mr N didnt, and he asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering whats fair and 
reasonable here. 
Account opening
I think NewDay completed proportionate checks before approving the credit card. They 
reviewed Mr Ns credit file and gathered some information from him about his income and 
circumstances. I dont think the information gathered would have given cause for concern. 
There were no recent adverse credit reports and the unsecured debt on the credit file was 
low in proportion to Mr Ns declared income. I dont think it would therefore have been 
proportionate for NewDay to have completed any further checks. They didnt need to review 
Mr Ns bank statements and would therefore not have been alerted to any gambling 
problems or borrowing from friends.
Limit increase
NewDay have explained that they also checked Mr Ns credit file and considered the 
information they had provided about his income and expenditure before they approved the 
limit increase in 2021. They were also able to consider Mr Ns performance on his account 
with them since it opened. I think those checks were proportionate too given the amount of 
credit being supplied and in proportion to Mr Ns declared income and his likely expenditure. 
I dont think they had to ask for bank statements or to have completed more intensive 
checks.
The checks they performed revealed that Mr N had exceeded his credit limit on the account 
on a couple of occasions, but hed reacted by making increased payments and made a 
deposit of over £500 in June 2021 prior to the limit being increased. That didnt suggest that 
Mr N was finding the credit unaffordable. And the credit file showed some variability in Mr 
Ns unsecured debt whilst there were times in the preceding months when it had risen there 
were also times when it had reduced. I dont think there was evidence in the credit file 
performance of over indebtedness or financial strain. So, I dont think NewDay were wrong 
to increase the limit as the information they had suggested it was affordable for Mr N.
I think NewDay carried out reasonable and proportionate checks before approving the credit 
card and before approving the limit increase. The checks didnt identify any sign of financial 
difficulty or suggest that the loan may have been unaffordable and, in those circumstances, I 
dont think the personal and financial problems Mr N was experiencing could fairly have 
been identified by NewDay and I dont think the credit was advanced irresponsibly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman