DRN-1938042
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy that Black Horse Limited (Black Horse) wont let him reject a car that had 
been repaired prior to him getting it.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
Black Horse has confirmed that cosmetic repairs were carried out to the paintwork 
around the bumper prior to sale. It has offered to cover the cost of repairs to this area 
where the paintwork is now bubbling . I think this is a reasonable solution.
Its unfortunate the repair to the paintwork prior to sale was not of a sufficient 
standard that further work now needs to be done. But Black Horse has also offered to 
pay Mr D £100 compensation for the inconvenience. And to consider any loss of use 
if Mr D isnt provided with a courtesy car. I think these offers are reasonable.
I dont agree that repair work needed in this case will cause the car to devalue as Mr 
D suggests. Done  properly the repair work should help to maintain the cars value.
I also dont agree that the car was mis sold to Mr D. Mr D bought a used car so might 
have expected it to have some repairs. I think some preparatory work prior to sale is 
reasonable as was the case here. I dont think its reasonable to expect every minor 
issue to be raised at the point of sale. I do agree if the car had been involved in an 
accident Mr D should have been made aware of this, but I have no evidence that this 
was the case 
We would usually allow a business at least one attempt to make good any problem.  I 
dont feel the problem, which Mr D raised more than a year after having the car, is 
sufficient grounds to allow rejection of the car. I feel Black Horses offer is reasonable 
in the circumstances
My final decision
My final decision is that I agree with the offer that Black Horse Limited has made. So in  full 
and final settlement  Black Horse Limited should:-
- Cover the cost of repairs needed to the paintwork
- Pay Mr D  £100 compensation
- Consider any loss of use if a courtesy car is not available for Mr D whilst the repair 
work is carried out on his car.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2020.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman