DRN-4385023
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Monument Life Insurance Dac has cancelled his income 
protection insurance policy.
What happened
Monument wrote to Mr B in May 2023 informing him that the policy would be cancelled on 30 
June 2023. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint because Monument had made a business 
decision to withdraw this policy and had provided Mr B with sufficient notice of the 
cancellation, in line with the policy terms and conditions. 
Mr B disagrees with the adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me 
for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Monument stopped making the policy available to new customers in 2012 and so it was only 
held by existing customers who had taken it out before then and who had continued to 
renew it on an annual basis. Monument has now taken the decision to withdraw this product 
altogether.
Monument is entitled to take a view on whether it wishes to continue to offer certain products 
and this service would not normally involve itself in the commercial decisions of a business 
in deciding to offer or withdraw particular products. Im only looking at whether Monument 
has acted fairly and reasonably in the way that it has undertaken the cancellation.
Under the terms of the policy, it states that Monument must give 30 days advance notice of 
the termination of the policy. Based on the available evidence, Im satisfied that it did this.
Mr B says that Monument knew in 2012 that it was going to stop providing cover and hed 
therefore like a refund of premiums from then.
The available evidence is that the only decision Monument made in 2012 was to stop 
offering the policy to new customers. And Mr B continued to be covered by the policy from 
2012 until it was cancelled in June 2023  so its only right that he needed to pay for that 
cover. Therefore, a refund of premiums wouldnt be appropriate.
I do understand Mr Bs annoyance at the policy being cancelled. But Monument hasnt 
singled him out. It has cancelled the policies of all the remaining policyholders, in 
accordance with the terms and conditions. As it applied the withdrawal across all of its 
customers, Im unable to conclude that it has treated Mr B unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2023. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman