DRN-3321939
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy UIA Insurance Limited declined his claim for a damaged games console.
What happened
Mr M had contents insurance provided by UIA. In July 2021 he made a claim on his policy 
for a damaged games console. He explained to UIA that it would turn on but there was no 
visual display. UIA asked what had caused the damage, Mr M said he didnt know but he 
had contacted the manufacturer via live chat and was advised to hard reset the console, but 
this didnt work. The manufacturer said it could be an issue with the HDMI timer chip and 
offered to inspect the console for a repair.
As Mr Ms console was outside its warranty period, the manufacturer explained Mr M would 
have to pay for them to assess it and the cost of any repair required. He decided not to send 
it for repair. 
UIAs agent said it sounded like nothing specific had happened to the console it was 
something that had just happened over a period of time. Mr M confirmed that was the case. 
The agent explained that the policy didnt cover every eventuality and with electrical items it 
would depend on the cause as electrical breakdown wouldnt be covered. She explained 
they would need to see a report from the manufacturer to understand what caused the 
damage.
Mr M was unhappy with this, he didnt want to pay to have the console inspected in case UIA 
decided not to pay the claim. He made a complaint and asked to cancel his policy.
In their final response UIA said they would consider any evidence from the manufacturer if 
Mr M provided it. But based on the information they had it sounded like something that 
happened over time rather than an insured event. They declined the claim as the policy 
didnt cover wear and tear or electrical or mechanical failure. They also said for a claim to be 
successful there needs to be evidence that an insured event had taken place.
Mr M referred his complaint to this service. He explained the manufacturer told him there 
could be a serious fault with the hardware. They also explained this type of fault is usually 
due to a sudden power spike, the device being knocked or dropped or where the connection 
has been unplugged when the console is active.
Mr M said he wasnt aware of a power strike but he recalled unplugging and knocking the 
console accidentally whilst cleaning his desk a few hours before the issue occurred. He feels 
UIA should therefore cover the claim.
Our investigator didnt think UIA had declined the claim unfairly so didnt ask them to do 
anything more. As Mr M remained unhappy the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. I know this will be disappointing 
for Mr M but Ive explained my reasoning below.
UIA have a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. And, they shouldnt reject a 
claim unreasonably. Insurance policies dont cover every eventuality, the terms and 
conditions of the policy set out clearly what is and isnt covered under the policy. 
The onus is on the customer to show an insured event has taken place. Mr M has provided 
UIA with his testimony of the issue with the console and some possible reasons for the 
breakdown of it. However, no one has actually inspected the console to establish the actual 
cause of the breakdown.
Mr M has told us he unplugged and accidentally knocked the console whilst cleaning and 
that could be the reason it isnt working. But there isnt anything to support that. I appreciate 
Mr M didnt want to pay to send the console to be checked in case he didnt succeed with his 
claim. However, that doesnt mean it would be fair for me to require UIA to pay the claim 
without evidence of what caused the issue.
The policy provides cover for accidental damage, the definition for it is:
Any damage caused suddenly and unexpectedly by external means, which is not 
deliberate and is not specifically excluded under the terms of this policy.
It later goes onto explain what the policy excludes in relation to accidental damage:
Accidental damage to televisions, video players and recorders, DVD players and 
recorders, home computer equipment and domestic audio equipment in the home
We will not pay for loss or damage arising from: Mechanical or electrical breakdown 
or malfunction
So its important Mr M is able to explain what had actually caused the issue as opposed to 
what might have happened. I say this because if the underlying cause is mechanical failure 
for example that wouldnt be covered under the policy.
As there isnt any information provided directly from the manufacturer or any other specialist, 
UIA only had the information Mr M provided. And as an inspection of the console hasnt 
taken place, they didnt know for sure what had caused the issue. But based on the 
information Mr M provided, it wasnt unfair of them to decline the claim. As the information 
available doesnt show it is something specific that caused the problem or is something that 
is covered under the policy.
They have offered to review any evidence from the manufacturer, but Mr M has said the chat 
logs are no longer available which is unfortunate. But even if they were, without the console 
being inspected there is no way of knowing what the actual cause of the issue is. Mr M has 
decided not to send the console for assessment.
Overall, in light of the lack of evidence for cause of the breakdown I dont think it was 
unreasonable for UIA to decline the claim as Mr M hasnt shown an insured event has taken 
place.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2022.
 
Karin Hutchinson
Ombudsman