DRN-4250493
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a contract hire agreement with Volkswagen 
Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi Finance Services (VWFS) was of an 
unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
In March 2022, Mr H was supplied with a new car through a contract hire agreement with 
VWFS. The agreement was for an advance rental of £5,573.45 and 35 monthly rentals of 
£375.
In July 2022, the car developed an issue with some driver assist functions, which required a 
software update. However, this update wasnt initially available, and the car wasnt repaired 
until April 2023. During this period, Mr H was able to use the car, but some of the functions 
werent always available.
Mr H complained to VWFS, who agreed the car wasnt of a satisfactory quality when it was 
supplied. And, in November 2022, they offered Mr H three options:
1. Keep the car and await the software update, and VWFS would refund £900 of the 
payments Mr H paid (equivalent to 20% of the payments for 12-months), OR
2. Reject the car and receive a pro-rata refund of the advance rental payment, OR
3. Order another VW Group car and retain the existing car until the new car is ready, 
then receive a pro-rata refund of the advance payment.
 Mr H didnt want to reject the car, as a replacement would be more expensive. Now the car 
has been successfully repaired, VWFS are still willing to offer option 1, even though the 
repair took less than the 12-months on which this payment was calculated.
Mr H was unhappy with how VWFS dealt with the matter and brought his complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator thought that VWFS had acted fairly by making the offer they did, and that 
the offer to reject or repair was in line with the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA). And, as 
the car has now been repaired, the investigator thought the £900 offer was reasonable in the 
circumstances  the car had been faulty for around 10-months, during which time Mr H was 
able to use it, but not all of the driver assist functions were working. So, he didnt think 
VWFS needed to do anything more.
Mr H didnt agree. He said he had no option but to have the car repaired, as the agreement 
with VWFS clearly states that I have to keep the vehicle in perfect condition and maintained 
when required. He also said that, as it was safety features with the car that werent working 
the insurance company would have deemed the vehicle not road worthy in the event of any 
accident, which wouldve voided the insurance.
Mr H also said that the offer to refund 20% of the payments didnt take into consideration the 
advance rental he paid, so the offer shouldve been £900 plus 20% of the full advance 
payment (which hed calculated to be £1,108.75).
Because Mr H didnt agree with the investigator, this matter has been passed to me to make 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr H was supplied with a car under a 
contract hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to investigate complaints about it. 
The CRA says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve been of a satisfactory quality 
when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, VWFS are responsible. Whats 
satisfactory is determined by things such as what a reasonable person would consider 
satisfactory given the price, description, and other relevant circumstances. In a case like this, 
this would include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale, and the vehicles 
history and its durability. Durability means that the components of the car must last a 
reasonable amount of time.
The CRA also implies that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, 
where a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless VWFS can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified after 
the first six months, the CRA implies that its for Mr H to show it was present when the car 
was supplied. 
So, if I thought the car was faulty when Mr H took possession of it, or that the car wasnt 
sufficiently durable, and this made the car not of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and 
reasonable to ask VWFS to put this right.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied its not disputed there was a fault with the car, 
nor that there was an extended period while it was being repaired - Mr H was supplied with 
the car in March 2022, it developed a fault in July 2022, and the fault was repaired in April 
2023. Whats more, VWFS have accepted the car wasnt of a satisfactory quality when it was 
supplied. As such, my decision will focus on what I think VWFS should do to put things right.
The CRA allows for a single chance of repair. However, it says that this repair should be 
done without undue delay or inconvenience to the customer. Otherwise, the customer has 
the option to reject the car. While, in his comments on the investigators view, Mr H has said 
that he was given no option but repair, its clear from VWFSs complaint response letter of 21 
November 2022 that he was also given the option to reject the car. And, while I accept that 
this wasnt something Mr H wanted to do for financial reasons, Im satisfied that VWFSs 
offer was in line with the requirements of the CRA.However, as the car has now been repaired, and theres no evidence that the repair was 
unsuccessful i.e. the fault hasnt reoccurred, Im also satisfied that VWFS acted reasonably 
by withdrawing the offer to reject the car. And its just their offer of £900 compensation that 
remains available for Mr H to accept.
Ive taken Mr Hs concerns about the car seriously and into consideration. And I accept he 
wouldnt feel fully confident driving the car in case it was involved in an accident. However, 
when looking at situations like this, and what I think is fair and reasonable compensation, Im 
looking at what actually happened, and not what might have happened. 
Mr H has indicated that his insurance company wouldve voided his insurance had it been 
involved in an accident, and also implied the faults with the car made it both undriveable and 
uninsurable. However, I havent seen anything, for example a letter from Mr Hs insurer at 
the time, to show me that was the case. Nor has Mr H said at any point that he stopped 
using the car, only that he felt he couldnt use it to its full extent.
In his complaint, Mr H explained (and provided some evidence of) that the car was 
experiencing sporadic faults with the following driver assist functions:
Call SOS function
Pre-Sense Collision Management system
Lane Departure Warning function
Distance Warning function
Main Beam Assist function
Adaptive Light function
Cruise Control
Mr H has also provided NCAP details for the Pre-Sense Collision Management system, 
which explains this is a seat belt tensioning system if the car detects unusual longitudinal or 
lateral acceleration and deceleration, for example swerving, above certain speeds.
While I appreciate these driver assist functions were present on the car supplied to Mr H, 
and its reasonable for him to expect them to be fully functioning, none of these systems are 
a legal requirement for vehicles driving on UK roads. As such, and for the reasons already 
given, Im not satisfied the sporadic faults with these systems made the car undrivable, or 
uninsurable. So, I wont be asking VWFS to increase their offer because of this.
However, this doesnt mean that Mr H wasnt inconvenienced by these sporadic faults. And 
this also meant that he wasnt getting full enjoyment from the car. In a situation like this I 
would normally direct a payment reduction to compensate the customer for any frustration 
and/or inconvenience theyd been caused. And, where these faults were sporadic and/or 
affecting some systems that wouldnt be used all the time, I would normally be 
recommending a relatively small percentage of the payments be refunded.
VWFSs offer of £900 has been based on 20% of 12 monthly rental payments. However, the 
car was only suffering the faults for around 10-months. Mr H has raised the issue of the 
advance payment and indicated that VWFS should refund 20% of the full payment. However 
the car wasnt faulty for the full 36-months of the agreement, and the advance payment 
covers the full agreement period. So, if the advance payment were to be considered, then 
any reduction would be calculated on the amount of the payment that was applied to the 
period the car was faulty, and not the entire lifetime of the agreement.
As such, taking everything into consideration, and given that I wouldnt necessarily 
recommend a 20% refund in these circumstances, and while I appreciate that Mr H will be disappointed by this, Im satisfied that the £900 offered by VWFS was reasonable in the 
circumstances. And I wont be asking them to increase this.
Its now for Mr H to decide whether to accept this offer or not.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr Hs complaint about Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited trading as Audi Finance Services. And they are to follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman