DRN-3460058
The complaint
Mr A complains that Santander UK Plc unfairly applied an early repayment charge (ERC) 
when he sold his buy to let property. He says Santander didnt take his circumstances into 
account.
What happened
Mr A took out a buy to let mortgage with Santander in early 2020 to buy a property to let. He 
says the property is in an area where demand for properties to rent has fallen due to the 
Covid-19 pandemic and he couldnt have foreseen this. 
Mr A says he was unable to let the property. As he was struggling to cover the mortgage 
payments and other costs he decided to sell the property. He says the nature of his work 
meant he worked long hours under considerable stress during the pandemic. Mr A says 
Santander didnt take his circumstances into account.
Our investigator said Santander was entitled to apply the ERC. It extended the period for 
porting due to the pandemic, but didnt receive a porting application from Mr A. 
Mr A didnt agree and so the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A applied for a mortgage via a broker. He took out a fixed rate mortgage product which 
included an ERC. The ERC was set out in the mortgage offer that Mr A accepted. The offer 
clearly set out the amount of the ERC (as a percentage of the balance repaid) and the period 
during which it was payable. Mr A repaid the mortgage during this period and Santander 
applied the ERC, as it was entitled to do under the mortgage terms and conditions.
Mr A says, because of his circumstances, its unfair for Santander to apply the ERC. 
Mr A bought and refurbished a property intending to let it out. He says this turned out not to 
be possible. Mr A had ongoing costs associated with the property and decided to sell it. I 
appreciate this was stressful, especially as it happened during the Covid-19 pandemic when 
Mr A says he was working long hours in difficult conditions. Mr A says with the cost of the 
refurbishment and the ERC he made a loss when he sold the property. I understand how 
frustrating this was, and that Mr A couldnt have predicted how circumstances would change 
when he took out the mortgage and bought the property.
Nonetheless, I must also take into account that this was an investment property. Letting 
property is a business, and this wasnt Mr As only buy to let property. Santander is entitled 
to expect Mr A to consider the terms of the mortgage (including the ERC) when making a 
business decision to take out the mortgage and buy the property. 
There was equity left in the property after the mortgage (including the ERC) was repaid. 
Mr A says this was due to his deposit and the improvements he paid for. Whats relevant 
here is that Mr A was able to pay the ERC without evidence of hardship.
Mr A asked Santander if he could avoid paying the ERC by porting the product to another 
property he owned. Santander said it doesnt allow products to be ported to properties 
already owned by the borrower. 
Mr A could have ported the product to a new property and received a refund of the ERC. 
Theres a time limit (the porting window) within which customers have to do this. Santander 
extended the porting window to five months because of the pandemic. It gave Mr A clear 
information about this. I appreciate that Mr A feels his circumstances were particularly 
difficult, but I dont think Santander had fairly to offer him a longer porting window than other 
customers. I think it was fair for Santander to say it wouldnt port the mortgage when Mr A 
contacted it more than a month after the end of the extended porting window. 
Mr A said he didnt know he had to apply to port via a broker. I think if hed tried to apply 
within the porting window hed have been told this. 
I think the ERC was correctly applied in accordance with the mortgage terms and conditions. 
I dont think that Santander made an error or treated Mr A unfairly. It follows that I dont think 
its fair and reasonable to require Santander to refund the ERC. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman