DRN-2184917
The complaint
Mr E says Santander UK Plc (when it was trading as National & Provincial) mis-sold him a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
From now on Ill just refer to Santander as the seller in my decision as it is responsible for 
dealing with this complaint. 
What happened
In 1984 Mr E took out a mortgage. In 1992, Mr E took out a PPI policy when he applied for 
additional borrowing on the mortgage account. He paid a monthly amount for the policy and 
it protected his mortgage repayments against accident, sickness and unemployment.  
Mr E mainly complains that he just acted on advice and as far as he was concerned the 
insurance he had was for buildings and contents. He told us that hes been made redundant 
twice and never made a claim as he didnt know he had taken out PPI. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Es mis-selling complaint. 
Mr E disagrees with the adjudicators opinion and hes asked for a review. So this complaint 
comes to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Es case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Es mis-sale complaint. Ill explain my reasons.
I cant know exactly what was said when Mr E took out the PPI. It wouldnt be reasonable to 
expect him to recall in detail what was discussed at the time as this was so long ago. This 
means that what Mr E says now isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold his 
complaint about the way he was sold the PPI. I have to look at everything and decide what 
I think is most likely.
I can see that when Mr E applied for some extra borrowing he ticked the option on the loan 
application next to where it said:
Redundancy, Accident and Sickness Protection 
Please tick those applicants who require cover
And hes signed the completed loan application confirming the information that hed filled in 
on the form. 
So I think Mr E wouldve understood that he was applying for PPI at the time. And it looks 
like PPI was something he wanted, even if hes forgotten this now. 
I've also seen the separate application that Mr E completed and signed in order to take out 
the insurance. That form clearly stated the protection offered was for redundancy, accident 
and sickness cover.   
So, it looks like Mr E chose to take out the PPI to protect his mortgage monthly repayments 
when he increased his borrowing. He wouldve been aware that the mortgage had been 
running for some years already without PPI and so I think he would've known it was up to 
him to say if he wanted it.
I think its likely that Mr E felt he wanted to have the benefits that PPI offered, especially as 
he was borrowing some extra money. And, on balance, even though hes forgotten this now, 
I think Mr E decided to buy PPI to protect his home and it was added to his mortgage 
account at his request. 
Santander says it recommended the PPI to Mr E, and it seems to have been right for him 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances. 
Mr E couldnt recall what his sick pay mightve been in 1992 or whether he had any other 
ways to pay his mortgage if he wasnt able to work.
Looking at the likely policy terms that wouldve applied, it seems that the policy wouldve 
paid out for up to 24 months per claim in the event of accident and sickness. PPI wouldve 
also paid out for up to 24 months if Mr E lost his job and became unexpectedly unemployed. 
I havent seen anything to make me think that Mr E had any other dependable way of 
making the monthly repayments for long if he wasnt working. And even assuming he 
mightve been entitled to some sick pay, I think the policy wouldve covered his mortgage 
repayments for significantly longer than he couldve relied on getting sick pay from an 
employer if he couldnt work  and PPI wouldve been paid in addition to any work benefits 
Mr E mightve got. Bearing in mind that Mr E mightve also had some additional costs if he 
was too unwell to go back to work or disabled, I think this couldve been a useful benefit at a 
difficult time. Looking at his circumstances at the time, I think the PPI was suitable. 
Its possible Santander didnt point out some things the policy didnt cover. But I dont think 
having more information about the circumstances in which the policy wouldnt pay out 
wouldve affected his decision to take out PPI. 
I say this because it doesnt look as if there wouldve been any significant or long term 
reasons why Mr E wouldnt have been able to take advantage of all the policy benefits. 
So, I dont think that knowing more about what the policy didnt cover wouldve put Mr E off 
taking the policy out. 
I dont know if the PPI cost was made clear to Mr E when he took it out. But the monthly cost 
of the policy was shown in the Home Improvement Loan agreement he had to sign to get the 
borrowing he wanted. Mr E couldve queried it then if he decided this wasnt something he wanted to pay for. Ive 
seen nothing to suggest he did that. 
So, it seems Mr E was happy at the time to pay for PPI. And as he was paying for it monthly, 
he could cancel the policy at any time without further cost, if his circumstances changed or 
he no longer wanted it.
Overall its possible there may have been some failings in the way this policy was sold. But 
I think Mr E still wouldve decided to buy the policy even if hed been better informed as it 
gave him useful protection in his particular situation. His mortgage was a big financial 
commitment and his home wouldve been at risk if his mortgage payments werent kept up to 
date. So, I can see why Mr E mightve felt PPI was useful to have. And, on balance, I dont 
find it was mis-sold.
This means that I dont find that Mr E has lost out as a result of anything that Santander may 
have done wrong. So theres nothing it needs to do to put things right.
Mr E has told us that he didnt make a claim on the insurance when he was unable to work. 
This information doesnt affect my decision. But he may wish to approach the insurer to see 
if it would be prepared to accept and consider a retrospective claim. If he does so and finds 
that he has concerns in this regard, then he should first tell the insurer why hes unhappy. 
And if hes unable to reach a satisfactory conclusion, he may be able to bring a complaint 
relating to the retrospective claim to this Service as a separate matter. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman