DRN-4365097
The complaint
Mrs D has complained about how Zurich Insurance PLC (Zurich) dealt with a claim under a 
home insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs D contacted Zurich to make a claim following a theft at her home. She later complained 
about how long Zurich was taking to investigate the claim. When Zurich replied, it outlined 
what had happened so far during the claim, including the enquiries that were ongoing about 
it and the information Mrs D had been asked to provide. It also said Mrs D had later raised 
concerns that she had been racially profiled by Zurich. It said Mrs D had been asked to 
provide more information about this and it would then investigate further.
A couple of months later, Zurich issued another complaint response. It said it was still 
awaiting information from Mrs D so it could assess the claim further. It also hadnt received 
any further information about the racial profiling and asked again that Mrs D provide this. It 
said its review hadnt identified any avoidable delays or unnecessary information requests 
and that it didnt have evidence of the allegation that she was profiled.
When Mrs D complained to this service, our investigator didnt uphold it. She didnt find 
evidence of delays that were down to Zurichs actions and said the information it requested 
was reasonable. She also didnt find evidence Mrs D had been discriminated against.
As Mrs D didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My decision is only about any delays and the discrimination allegation covered by the two 
complaints that were referred to this service. I am aware the claim continued after that time, 
but anything that happened after this doesnt form part of my decision.
Ive looked at how the claim was handled. From Zurichs records, I saw that after the claim 
was submitted, Mrs D was asked to provide further information about the claim. Following 
this, the claim was assessed, including the value of the items claimed for. A claims 
investigator was then appointed who interviewed Mrs D on a video call. During that call, the 
investigator discussed the circumstances of the claim and explained that further information 
would be required, including any photos and any written communications with the police. 
The investigator also found a County Court Judgement (CCJ) in Mrs Ds name and asked for 
further information on this. I also saw an email the investigator sent Mrs D the following day, 
which explained the further information she had been asked to provide.
Based on what Ive seen, Zurich followed up with the police on a few occasions to try and 
obtain the information it needed for the claim. It also had to ask Mrs D to sign a consent form 
to allow it to get the information from the police. While this continued, Mrs D seemed to be in 
the process of finding out about the CCJ and a couple of months later provided evidence 
that she had now settled the debt. She also explained that a CCJ in her husbands name 
was nothing to do with her, as he lived elsewhere.
Having looked at what happened, I dont think there was anything unusual about the way 
Zurich investigated the claim, including it requesting further information from the police and 
about the CCJs it found when it carried out searches. I can understand Mrs D might have 
wanted the claim to progress more quickly, but I didnt see anything that caused me to think 
Zurich unnecessarily or deliberately delayed dealing with the claim, despite the time it took to 
progress it.
Mrs D was also concerned that she had been discriminated against because of her race, 
including because of questions asked about her husband, who she said had no relation to 
the claim. She said the loss adjuster had cultural biases that she believed were linked to 
their respective countries of origin. I note there wasnt a loss adjuster on the claim. The 
person was an investigator for Zurich. Ive watched the full video call between Mrs D, her 
husband and Zurichs investigator, as well as reviewing email correspondence. Having done 
so, Im satisfied Mrs D wasnt treated any differently than any other claimant in terms of what 
was discussed. Based on what I heard in that conversation, Zurichs investigator also didnt 
appear to be from the place Mrs D thought they were. The investigator named a different 
country. 
Im also aware that when Mrs D told Zurich she was concerned she had been racially 
profiled, she was asked on at least three occasions to provide further details so it could be 
investigated. However, I havent seen evidence that further information was provided to 
Zurich. So, I think Zurichs investigation, which was based on the information available to it 
at the time, was reasonable in the circumstances and that it was fair for it decide there 
wasnt evidence to support the discrimination allegation. 
Having looked at the circumstances of this claim, I dont uphold the complaint or require 
Zurich to do anything further in relation to it.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman