DRN-3102686
The complaint
Mr J complains that Nationwide doesnt recognise his email address, so hes not receiving 
emails which tell him his account statements are ready to view. He wants Nationwide to fix 
the system problem which he says is causing this, and to pay him £150 in compensation.
What happened
Mr J said that Nationwide had stopped sending him email notifications to tell him that his 
statements were available to view. It was sending paper notifications for his credit card, and 
nothing at all to tell him that his current account statements were ready.
Mr J said Nationwide had told him that the system it uses to issue these notifications doesnt 
recognise his email address, because it starts with mail. But Mr J says that Nationwide has 
been able to send other emails, including its final response to his complaint, to this email 
address. And Mr J showed us that other banks were able to send to his address.
Mr J said Nationwide has paid him £50 in compensation, but he wanted a further £150, and 
he wanted Nationwide to fix the problem with its systems which means his email address 
isnt recognised.
Nationwide said it had paid Mr J £50 for initially not logging his complaint, and giving him an 
incorrect complaint reference. It hadnt paid him because of the problems with his email 
address.
Nationwide didnt think that the emails were bouncing back because of any problem on its 
side. It uses a third party to deliver these emails, and that third party has said it was unable 
to make any further amendments in relation to this. Nationwide has advised Mr J to use a 
different email address, avoiding the word mail.
As the system was rejecting his email address, Nationwide was sending paper notifications 
for Mr Js credit card account, because it was required to do that. It had made suggestions to 
rectify the issue, but said it couldnt do any more.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said she could see from 
the screenshots Nationwide had provided, that the system it uses doesnt recognise Mr Js 
email address because it starts with mail and the failure reason is invalid email address.
Nationwide has told us it couldnt fix this. Our investigator recognised that Mr J had a very 
different view, and was clear that Nationwide could fix this. But she said that asking 
Nationwide to change its system wouldnt be fair and proportionate in this case. She said 
that Mr J could change his email address if he wanted to stop paper notifications being sent.
Our investigator said that she was unable to consider the part of Mr Js complaint about how 
his problem was resolved by Nationwide, because complaint-handling isn't an activity this 
service can consider complaints about.
Mr J wrote to strongly object. He was unhappy with how wed looked into his case. He 
wanted to know what regulations had prompted the change to Nationwides email system, 
and if this was to do with his email address. He also said that our service is allowed to 
consider customer service issues, so he didnt think that the issues around recording his 
complaint were out of scope.
Mr J said changing his personal email address or creating a new email address which leads 
to decreased security on his side was not an acceptable resolution. Mr J said it was easier 
for Nationwide to create exception rules in its systems as and when requested by customers. 
He said he wasnt the only customer this would affect, and Nationwide should have the 
flexibility in its systems to accommodate customer needs. And he said his email address 
was clearly not invalid, as our service had been using it to communicate with him.
Mr J said he still wanted more compensation.
Because Mr J didnt agree with our investigator, this case was passed to me for a final 
decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did not propose to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
I should start by saying that, as Nationwide has been sending Mr J paper alerts 
telling him his credit card statements are ready to view, and both his credit card and 
current account statements continue to be available to him whenever he wants to 
view them, I dont think that not sending Mr J the email alerts he would like, is a 
fundamental service failing on the part of Nationwide. However, I understand Mr Js 
preference for email alerts, and I also note these were previously available to him.
Nationwide has said it has made changes to its email delivery system, in response to 
regulation. I dont think that its relevant to this case that Nationwide has asserted its 
changes were prompted by regulation. Thats because Nationwide has not suggested 
that any regulation prevents it from emailing statement notifications to Mr Js 
preferred email address.
Whatever the reason for the changes which have been made, the outcome is that Mr 
J no longer receives Nationwides statement notifications. Nationwide hasnt been 
entirely clear on the reasons for this, perhaps because it is dependent on a third-
party provider to issue these emails. That provider has suggested that Mr J check 
spam filters and he whitelist the address Nationwide is using. Mr J says thats not 
whats going wrong here, and I think its most likely that hes right about that.
Nationwide has also suggested that Mr J uses an email address which does not start 
with mail. Its shown us that the system it uses for issuing these alerts doesnt 
recognise Mr Js address, which starts with mail@ then continues with his own 
domain name. 
I dont think that this message appears on the third-party systems that Nationwide 
uses because Mr Js email address isnt valid at all. I can see that this address 
works, our service has been using it successfully. I think it is more likely to be a 
security precaution taken by Nationwides third-party provider, to avoid emails 
containing even basic information on peoples accounts being sent to a generic or 
shared email address.Mr J says that Nationwide can easily put an exception in place to any such rule, so 
he does get emails. And he says this is the only acceptable solution. He doesnt think 
he should have to get a different email address, especially one which is less secure.
Mr J has his own domain name. So it seems likely that he is able to choose the start 
of this email address. And many providers allow more than one email address to be 
associated with a domain name.
Because of that, I dont think I can assume that Mr J would have to move his email 
address to a different provider. He may be able to try changing the prefix, or adding a 
new address on the same domain with a different prefix. If that does not work, or is 
not possible, then if he wants to avoid paper alerts being issued for his credit card 
account, he could open a new email address with a free provider, just for these 
emails.
I think this is likely to provide a solution to this problem, without asking Nationwide to 
get its third party provider to change its systems, and remove what appears to be a 
security precaution, or even to provide an exception to that. I say that because our 
service has to be fair to both sides in a complaint. And I dont think it would be fair to 
Nationwide to require it to make this change, in order to comply with Mr Js 
preference for email alerts. I dont think this part of Mr Js complaint should be 
upheld.
Mr J also wanted our service to consider that he wasnt initially able to register his 
complaint, and he was given the wrong complaint reference number. Our investigator 
said our service cant consider a complaint if its solely about complaint handling. But 
I dont think that what Mr J has told us about problems getting Nationwide to lodge 
and respond to his complaint is entirely separate from the rest of this case. I think this 
is all about Mr J trying to resolve this problem. So I do think we can consider it.
But I can see that Nationwide has apologised, and has paid Mr J £50 for the 
inconvenience. I think that provides a fair and reasonable outcome to this part of Mr 
Js complaint, so I dont think that Nationwide has to do any more.
I know that Mr J will be disappointed, but I dont think his complaint should be upheld.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both parties replied. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide acknowledged receipt of my provisional decision, and confirmed it had nothing 
further to add.
Mr J replied to say that hed made a subject access request (SAR), and he wanted us to 
wait until that was fulfilled, then he would respond to my provisional decision. But he said 
that some points hed already made hadnt been taken into account.
I will deal with Mr Js points in turn, in the order they were made. Before I do so, Id like to 
acknowledge Mr Js strength of feeling on this matter, and in particular the point he makes, 
which underscores many of his arguments, that a change Nationwide made has caused this 
problem, so it should sort it out. I understand that Mr J is frustrated, because Nationwide is no longer able to send email 
statements to the account hes been using for a while. But I should also note, as I said in my 
provisional decision, that this isnt a fundamental service failing by Nationwide. It currently 
cant supply alerts to tell Mr J that his statements are ready to view, in the electronic format 
that Mr J prefers. But Nationwide isnt failing to supply this information altogether. Mr Js 
statements remain available to him. Nationwide can send paper documents, and it has said 
that it anticipates being able to send emails to a different address, for Mr J. 
I know Mr J doesnt want to make changes to his email address, and I can understand that 
he doesnt want inconvenience. But I have not been able to agree with him, that this means 
the fair outcome in this case is for me to tell Nationwide it must provide an exception to a 
rule which it appears to have put in place for security reasons. 
Ill now look at each of the points Mr J made, in his correspondence to us.
Mr J said that Nationwide used regulatory requirements as a reason for making the change, 
but that I had failed to ascertain what these regulations are. Mr J said this information should 
be provided.
I havent sought this additional information, because I just dont think that it will help to 
resolve this complaint. And I wouldnt ask Nationwide for information which doesnt help me 
with providing a resolution. I explained in my provisional decision why I dont think that 
knowing the reasons Nationwide made a change to its email arrangements would help.
Mr J said that my review does not acknowledge that he switched email providers halfway 
through the complaint. And he said this was pertinent, as it eliminates the email provider as 
the source of the problem.
I agree that this is unlikely to have been the source of the problem. I havent included this in 
my reasoning above, as Ive sought to focus on what I think has gone wrong. 
Mr J said it wasnt possible for him to change the beginning of his email address as the 
inconvenience that would be caused by having to change all his other accounts would be 
disproportionate, and just as irrelevant as the suggestion he creates a new email address.
I note that Mr J doesnt wish to do this. Ive explained that I dont, however, think that this 
automatically means that Nationwide must make changes to its systems. 
Mr J said that my response does not appear to have involved further contact with 
Nationwide, so I had been neglectful in not working towards a solution, which is the key 
objective of this complaint.
Our service is of course always keen to work towards a solution which works for both 
parties, where we are able to do that. But that isnt our core role. My duty, in brief, is to make 
a decision on this case, based on whats fair and reasonable. To do that, I need to check 
that I have enough information from both sides. Nationwides position on this complaint was 
already clear when this case came to me, and I considered then I had sufficient evidence to 
reach a decision. I havent changed my mind about this.
When Mr J received the response to his SAR, he wasnt happy with it, and he said his reply 
would have to wait until he got what hed asked for. Our service sent information to Mr J 
again, and he replied to express concerns with our service. He also queried why our 
investigator had said that Nationwide had certain protocols in order to adhere to certain 
regulation. Our investigator recorded Nationwides statement that it had made changes in line with 
regulatory requirements, and it was those changes that resulted in this problem. I have 
explained why I dont think the reason for these changes is relevant to Mr Js complaint.
Mr J also said that my email also makes presumptions about what he can and cannot do 
with his email address. He said that this was not an appropriate suggestion, nor did he feel it 
was reasonable to suggest that a customer should set up a separate email address for the 
sole purpose of receiving bill and statement alerts which were being received fine in the 
past. Mr J said that it goes without saying it is not feasible to create a new email address. 
Ive noted Mr Js views on this, and explained above why I do not agree.
Mr J noted that I had also said I do not "think it would be fair to Nationwide to require it to 
make this change". Mr J expressed his view, that the change has been made by Nationwide 
which caused the difficulty, so the onus must be on it to correct it. 
Ive explained above why, in this instance, I dont think this follows.
Mr J said that there has never been what he would consider a clear step-by-step explanation 
of why he cannot get these alerts. So he said that if we hadnt received this, then, in his 
view, the quality of the investigation would be tardy. In the first instance, he said he would 
like to request that I go back to Nationwide to ask for this step-by-step explanation, given no 
additional investigatory work had been done. Mr J didnt feel there had been enough work by 
our service to come up with a workable solution.
Im sorry that Mr J is disappointed in our investigation. But Ive explained that I reviewed the 
evidence when I received this case, and I considered I had enough to make a decision. Ive 
also explained that coming up with a workable solution for Mr J isnt the primary focus of our 
service. 
Our service keeps data subject access requests and investigations separate. So that I could 
be sure that Mr J had seen all the documents that I considered when compiling my decision, 
I arranged for those to be sent to him. 
Mr J then responded to say that an email dated 10 March 2021 in the screenshots indicated 
that Nationwide was clarifying its liability. Mr J said that this could be for no other reason 
than to accept it is within Nationwides gift to do something about it if it were liable. Given 
that it is a change that Nationwide had made which establishes liability, Mr J felt that 
Nationwide and our services position in terms of him being the one who had to create an 
email address specifically for this change does not make sense. 
I think that Mr J is referring here to call notes made on 10 March, which say I have emailed 
IT as we need to be 100% sure we are not causing this error. I think these are simply notes 
made as part of Nationwides investigation, as its trying to find out what had gone wrong. I 
dont think this means that Nationwide is clarifying, as Mr J put it, its liability. Nor do I think it 
follows that this statement means Nationwide is able to resolve the issue. 
And the core issue for me to decide here isnt whether Nationwide could get its third party 
email delivery provider to sort this out, by either removing its existing security protocols or 
providing an exception to them, specifically for Mr J. The issue is whether its fair and 
reasonable for me to require it to do so. Ive explained I dont think it is.Mr J said changing his email address may not necessarily rectify this issue, he said that we 
don't know that sending the emails will resolve the problem as a matter of fact; that is a 
matter of conjecture. 
I accept his point, but I dont think it changes the decision I have made.
Mr J felt that it would make more sense to understand why a perfectly valid email address is 
bouncing. And he said that given he now has timestamps from when the emails were 
bouncing, he could provide proof that he was receiving other emails perfectly fine around 
that time.
I have accepted that there is no fundamental problem with Mr Js email address. I noted that 
our service has been using this address without difficulty. However, I have also explained 
above why I dont accept what Mr J has said about the need for further investigation and 
evidence in this case. 
I noted above Mr Js strength of feeling in this matter. So I do understand how deeply he will 
be disappointed by my decision. But I havent changed my mind. I dont think its fair and 
reasonable to require Nationwide to make the changes Mr J would like. So I still dont think 
this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman