DRN-3455991
The complaint
Mr I complains that Ikano Bank AB (publ), has rejected the claim he made under section 75 
of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar panel system he says was 
misrepresented to him by the supplier (which Ill call S).
Mr I was initially represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In August 2018, Mr I purchased a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his 
home. Mr I financed the purchase through an interest-free fixed sum loan agreement with 
Ikano that was repayable over two years.
In November 2020, the CMC made a claim on Mr Is behalf under section 75 of the Act to 
Ikano. The CMC said that the supplier had made a number of representations about the 
system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had 
induced Mr I to enter into the contract.
The CMC said the following misrepresentations had been made:
The financial benefits from the system would make it a self-funding system which 
would pay for itself through the income and savings it would generate. 
Ikano issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Mr I or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
The CMC then referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our 
adjudicators looked into what had happened and didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
The CMC is no longer involved, but it told us that Mr I didnt agree with this. Mr I has not 
provided any further information or comments. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit.
As Mr I paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Ikano agrees that section 75 
applies to this transaction. This means that Mr I could claim against Ikano, the creditor, for 
any misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier in the same way he could have 
claimed against S. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is fair in the 
circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr I and 
the supplier are deemed to have been conducted by S as an agent of Ikano. 
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or their agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both The CMC and Ikano. These 
include the credit agreement and order form.
The order form is a one-page document which sets out key information about the system, 
the expected performance, financial benefits, and technical information. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales process (as it appears to have been completed and signed 
during the sales meeting) and is therefore relevant, alongside Mr Is recollection of the sale, 
when considering if there have been any untrue statements of fact. 
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged (none 
in this case), the total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly 
repayments.
Order form/sales contract
The original order form set out the cost of the system alongside the expected first-year 
benefits of the system as shown below:
I think the sales contract is clear that the system would cost £7,500.00, of which £5,000.00 
was to be funded by a two-year interest-free loan. It refers to this as IKANO IFL 24 
MONTHS. I think Mr I wouldve understood this given he agreed at the same meeting to 
part-fund the purchase using the two-year interest-free loan from Ikano.
I think it is also clear that the first-year benefit of the system was expected to total between 
£543.46 based on self-consumption rate of 50%. This figure includes FIT payments and the 
value of electricity savings.
Self-consumption rate is the proportion of the electricity generated by the system that Mr I 
would use himself. The cost of the system and its first-year benefits are shown close to each 
other on the order form, just above where Mr I signed, so these figures couldve been 
compared easily.
I think it is clear from this that the system would not be self-funding. For a two-year interest-
free loan of £5,000.00, the repayments would be £2,500.00 per year. This is significantly 
more than the potential benefit quoted of £543.46. I think this one-page document was an 
integral part of the sale and these figures would most likely have been discussed with Mr I.
So, I think it is unlikely that the salesperson wouldve misrepresented the solar panel system 
in the way that Mr I has said.
Self-funding
Mr I may have been told the system would be self-funding over some period of time  such 
as its expected 25-year expected lifespan. A simple calculation would suggest that the 
system may be self-funding over fourteen years if the benefit was in line with the estimate 
and remained about the same each year.
However, the FIT payments are linked to inflation, and electricity costs could reasonably be 
assumed to increase over time. So, Mr I couldve been told that the system was self-funding 
over its lifetime (or over a shorter time depending what assumptions were made) without it 
being a misrepresentation. But I think it is unlikely that he was told the system would be 
immediately self-funding or that he would at no stage be out of pocket.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im 
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by the supplier that induced Mr I 
to enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Is complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman