DRN-3543791
The complaint
Mr L is complaining about Financial Administration Services Limited (FASL). Hes unhappy 
about their administration of his stocks and shares individual savings account (ISA).
What happened
Mr L transferred his stocks and shares ISA from another company, Company A, to FASL in 
December 2020. His ISA held around 30 different shareholdings. 
In March 2021 Mr L contacted FASL  hed noticed that the figures shown as the book cost 
of each shareholding werent what he expected. They didnt agree to the figures hed 
received from Company A. Mr L checked his understanding with FASL but still felt that the 
figures were wrong. So he asked how he could edit the book cost online. FASL offered to 
look into it and update the costs if Mr L could send in the details  so he did. But they later 
said they could do nothing more for him.
In their response to Mr Ls complaint, FASL said the book cost showing online was the cost 
at which theyd acquired the fund. They added that theres an option to update book costs 
online for investment accounts but not for ISAs. FASL offered Mr L £50 for the amount of 
time it had taken them to reply to his queries.  
Mr L remained unhappy so he brought his complaint to us. He said its a basic essential 
requirement to have accurate cost information available for each shareholding in order to 
make informed decisions. But, he said, FASL was showing him inaccurate information and 
not allowing him to edit that information despite having that facility for non-ISA accounts. He 
was also frustrated that FASL said theyd received cost information from Company A but 
wouldnt share that with him. 
Our investigator looked into things. In her latest view, she noted that FASL had said there 
was an issue with how some of the book costs are updated - when Mr L had taken up scrip 
dividends and received extra shares instead of a dividend, this hadnt impacted the book 
cost as it should. She suggested FASL pay £200 to Mr L for the inconvenience. But, she 
said, our service doesnt have the power to require a provider to make changes to their 
systems. 
Both parties disagreed with our investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
FASL said that the book costs had been confirmed as correct and Mr L had suffered no 
financial loss  so they didnt think Mr L was due any compensation. Mr L said £500 would 
be a suitable amount to partially compensate him for the significant amount of time and 
trouble spent on the matter but his main request is that FASL introduce the facility for 
consumers such as himself to edit the book costs on ISAs. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ill explain below, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ls complaint. My outcome is unchanged 
from our investigators - Im satisfied her suggested compensation of £200 is fair, and Im not 
asking FASL to change their systems. 
Recording of book cost
I can understand why Mr Ls unhappy with whats happened. Instead of displaying the 
original cost of each shareholding to Mr L, FASL is displaying the cost to them  the cost of 
the shareholdings at the date of the transfer from Company A, also known as the transfer-in 
value. And this isnt explained - the annotation online on the book cost column of Mr Ls 
statement clearly says: This shows how much you paid for each investment. Theres 
nothing that says this isnt the case if the ISA was transferred in. Nor is it set out in the terms 
and conditions. Ive seen one line in a document How to understand your performance 
report which hints at the transfer-in cost being used for book cost but I dont think this is 
particularly clear about the book cost values. 
When Mr L asked FASL about the book cost, their representative was misleading in her 
answers. For example, Mr L asked whether the cost information, at the time of transfer, 
came across from Company A. In response, the FASL representative said We would have 
received the cost information at the time of transfer but not a transaction list to work out the 
book cost from What actually happened was that the transfer-in values (not the cost 
information) were provided automatically through an online platform. 
Then Mr L tried to check his understanding of how the book cost was calculated for his 
transfer. He said if [Company A] stated that the cost of the holding at the time of transfer 
was £5,000 you would bring across to [FASL] a holding of 1,000 shares in ABC Ltd at an 
aggregate cost of £5,000 Is that correct? The FASL representative said yes that was 
correct. 
Its clear that Mr L meant the cost of the shares to him  not the transfer-in value. Its also 
clear that Mr L expected FASL to have received the book cost information from Company A 
 after all, he had himself received this information from Company A and the FASL 
representative implied theyd received it. But the whole transfer would have been done 
electronically and so theres no record of the information received from Company A at the 
time. I know Mr L has raised questions about the information sent from Company A to FASL 
 but there simply wouldnt have been any.
As mentioned, Mr L had his own record of the book cost which Company A sent him around 
the time of the transfer. He sent a picture of this to FASL and asked them to update the 
values on his account to those. They said they checked and the book costs were accurate 
(i.e. transfer-in values), so they wouldnt change them. FASL have since told me that they 
arent able to update the book costs on an ISA. As Ill explain below, I cant ask FASL to 
change their systems, so it follows that I cant ask them to update the book costs for Mr Ls 
account.
During our investigation of this complaint, it came to light that FASLs systems havent 
updated Mr Ls account for shares bought from dividends in relation to his transferred-in 
shares. This adds to Mr Ls experience of not being able to see accurate information in 
relation to the initial cost of his shares.
Impact and redress
Mr L would like to be able to compare what he paid for each shareholding with the current 
valuation at any given point in time. He says this information is essential for making 
investment decisions, and that he has suffered financial loss because he hasnt had it available to him. However, Mr L does have a record of the cost of each shareholding to him 
 its just not on the FASL platform. So he could have avoided any financial loss by 
comparing that information to the current valuations on the platform  and therefore I cant 
ask FASL to compensate Mr L for any financial loss.
Our service aims to provide informal dispute resolution. Were not a regulator. The rules that 
govern our service set out what I can ask businesses to do in response to a complaint  they 
say a direction may require the respondent to take such steps in relation to the complainant 
as the Ombudsman considers just and appropriate (my emphasis). In this case, it 
wouldnt be fair and appropriate to require FASL to change their business-wide systems in 
order to accommodate Mr Ls desire for clearer information on his account. It would be a 
costly and time-consuming process and not proportionate to the complaint. 
I appreciate that FASL has made a business decision to display transfer-in values instead of 
original cost. And its understandable  they dont often have access to enough information 
to display the original cost of shareholdings transferred in. But they should have made that 
clearer to Mr L  both through the information displayed on the website, and in their 
responses to Mr Ls queries. 
Mr Ls been significantly inconvenienced and stressed by the misleading information given to 
him, both on the website, and by the FASL representative. He spent over two months asking 
questions and chasing for answers and didnt receive a clear explanation during that time. 
He was also concerned about what had happened to his investments during the transfer. I 
can understand why that would have caused Mr L stress.  Im satisfied £200 is fair 
compensation. For the avoidance of doubt, this is instead of the £50 FASL previously offered 
to Mr L but havent yet paid.
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im upholding Mr Ls complaint. Financial Administration Services 
Limited need to pay him £200 to compensate him for the inconvenience caused by their 
misleading information. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to 
ask Mr L to accept or reject my decision before 5 December 2022.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman