DRN-2491238
The complaint
Mr P complains that Freeway UK Insurance Services Limited applied charges when his 
commercial motor insurance policy was cancelled. He wants a refund of the charges.
What happened
Mr P called Freeway for a quote for a taxi policy. He was asked if hed had any claims or 
incidents in the last three years. Mr P answered No. Freeway then sent Mr P its Terms of 
Business which included a table of its charges. Freeway completed its validation checks and 
found that Mr P hadnt declared an accident from 2019. It said the insurer wouldnt be able to 
provide a policy. And it cancelled the policy and applied the insurers charge for time on 
cover, its £150 fee for arrangement and £25 charge for cancellation. Mr P thought this was 
unfair as hed been on cover for less than a day.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought it was 
for the insurer to decide to cancel the policy and apply its charge, so she didnt consider this 
aspect. She thought Mr P had accepted Freeways Terms and Business. These stated the 
non-refundable arrangement fee and the cancellation charge. So she thought that was fair 
and reasonable.
Mr P replied asking for an ombudsmans review, so the complaint has come to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr P feels frustrated that his policy was cancelled, and charges were 
applied after just one day on cover. And I can understand that he would want a refund of his 
money. Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the brokers acted in line with 
its terms of business and fairly and reasonably.
Mr P looked for a quote for taxi insurance from Freeway. He was asked for information about 
his claims or incidents within the previous three years. Mr P had been involved in an incident 
in 2019. But he didnt declare this because he thought he wouldnt be held at fault. But I think 
the question makes it clear that it covers any kind of incident. And so I think Mr P should 
have declared the previous incident from 2019. 
Freeway then sent Mr P its quotation pack which included its Terms of Business. Mr P then 
went ahead with buying the policy on Freeways online portal. In doing this he had to tick a 
box saying that he accepted the Terms of Business. He was also told that Freeway would 
validate the policy and incorrect information could lead to its cancellation. Mr P paid his 
premium, the policy was set up and policy documents were issued. 
Freeway then validated the policy and found that the insurer wouldnt offer a policy in Mr Ps 
circumstances. And so it told him the policy would be cancelled and it applied its charges 
according to its Terms of Business. 
I think Freeway reasonably brought its Terms of Business to Mr Ps attention. I think the 
Terms of Business clearly set out Freeways charges. These include a non-refundable 
arrangement fee of £150 and a cancellation fee of £25. I also think Freeway has provided a 
reasonable justification for the fees it charges. And it waived its right to apply a deduction 
from the return premium. So I cant say that the charges are unfair or unreasonable and I 
dont require Freeway to make Mr P any refund. 
Freeway also applied the insurers charge for Mr Ps time on cover. Mr P thought he, rather 
than the insurer, had cancelled the policy. But I think these are points Mr P would need to 
complain to the insurer about as its a separate business to Freeway.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman