DRN-2806475
The complaint
 Miss Cs complaint about JAJA Finance Ltd (JAJA) relates to the service she received 
following the migration of her credit card account from the Post Office. Miss C also has 
concerns about her credit file being negatively affected.
 
What happened
 Miss C held a credit card account with the Post Office. Unbeknown to her, the account was 
migrated to JAJA and when she found out she tried to register with them but was unable to 
for technical reasons. As a result, she couldnt see what was owed nor when it was due for 
payment. When Miss C contacted JAJA to discuss these problems and make a payment she 
was kept on hold for two hours which was very inconvenient for her as she had very little 
time to spare due to her work in a hospital. When Miss C tried to register after receiving a 
new card, she still couldnt and was told it was because her details were incorrect. When she 
spoke to JAJA they confirmed her details were not incorrect and that the problem would be 
rectified, but Miss C says a month later it wasnt. 
Miss C complained to JAJA who accepted that due to technical problems Miss C had been 
unable to register for the online and mobile app services. In their final response they 
explained that because the credit card app and web service functionality was not yet 
available to Miss C they would send her paper statements. JAJA said they did that, but Miss 
C said she never received any. JAJA also invited Miss C to manage her account and make 
payments through the automated self-service options or to speak to an advisor. In 
recognition of the poor service JAJA made a payment of £50 directly into Miss Cs account.
Miss C also complained that because she had been unable to access her account she had 
missed payments in October and November which had resulted in negative late payment 
entries appearing on her credit file. JAJA acknowledged that this was not Miss Cs fault and 
so arranged for those entries to be removed. Miss C was unhappy because at that time she 
was making a mortgage application and it resulted in additional stress and efforts on her 
behalf to sort the matter out.
Miss C was unhappy with JAJAs final response and so approached this service to see if we 
could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that although there had been 
poor service, the amount of compensation JAJA paid was enough to put things right. 
Miss C didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 It is accepted by JAJA that Miss C has received poor service. They have apologised to her 
and paid £50 in compensation. 
I issued my Provisional Decision on 5 May 2021 and Miss C replied to say she accepted it. 
JAJA responded to clarify that it had emailed Miss C regarding the migration of her account 
which was the only point it wished to raise. Having considered that response I dont think 
they effect my decision. Whilst I am happy to accept the email was sent by JAJA, since their 
records reveal it was, it would appear from Miss C that she did not receive it, and I have no 
reason to doubt her either.
 
As I said, in my provisional decision the issue is what the correct level of compensation 
ought to be.
There are a number of issues to take into account; first that Miss C was not advised that 
JAJA had taken over her account; that she was unable to access her account as she had 
previously; that for technical reasons Miss C does not have access to the online and app 
functions to manage her account; that late payments were reported and took some time to 
remedy; that she was kept on hold for a very long period, and that she was promised paper 
statements but didnt receive them. Most of these issues are accepted by JAJA.
Miss C has said that she was told that the problems stem from her details not being properly 
transferred over from the Post Office to JAJA. JAJA havent directly explained whether that 
is in fact the cause of the problem but on balance it would appear to be so. Irrespective of 
the actual cause Miss C should have received the same level of access to her accounts as 
she had prior to JAJA taking it over. She did not and it appears she still does not. 
JAJA have agreed to provide paper statements free of charge which in one sense gets 
around the problem of Miss C not knowing where her account stands. But paper statements 
are not the same as online access which would allow greater ease in management of the 
account. I appreciate Miss C says she did not receive the statements and I have no reason 
to doubt her. Equally having seen that JAJA sent the statements out and that the address is 
correctly noted, I cannot say JAJA are at fault for the statements not arriving at Miss Cs 
home.
I have noted Miss Cs comments about the decreased ability to make payments and the 
difficulties in doing so. I accept that making a payment through an automated system and or 
a telephone operator is not as easy and convenient as it is to use an app or web service. 
And being required to remain on hold for such a lengthy period would have been immensely 
frustrating. So, overall I can accept that Miss C has suffered a fair degree of inconvenience 
through not being able to access her account as she once did.
The late payments issue is accepted by JAJA to have arisen because Miss C was unable to 
properly manage her accounts, but even though it has now been corrected on Miss Cs 
credit file it undoubtedly caused her stress and concern at a time when she was making a 
mortgage application. I can therefore accept that she will have spent time trying to address 
that issue and caused her to worry. 
When this service considers levels of compensation we take into account a variety of factors, 
including the trouble, upset, distress and inconvenience that may have been caused. The 
awards we make can be categorised within the brackets of modest, substantial, severe or 
extreme, and examples of these can be found on our website. 
There is no set figure or table of awards I can turn to, and given that each case is different, it 
is ultimately an exercise of judgement in looking at all the circumstances of the case and 
deciding what feels fair and reasonable when set against the effect upon the complainant of 
any particular service failure.Putting things right
 So, in the circumstances which pertain here, it seems to me that an award should fall within 
the moderate bracket. I do therefore think that £200 overall would be fair and reasonable.
 
My final decision
 My final decision is that I think JAJA Finance Ltd should pay Miss C £200 to settle this 
complaint, and for the sake of clarity that means they should pay her a further £150 beyond 
the £50 they have already credited to her account.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 June 2021.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman