DRN-3219492
The complaint
Ms R complains that Metro Bank PLC has unfairly recorded a credit check on her credit file 
regarding an application for an overdraft facility.
What happened
In February 2021 Ms R visited Metro intending to apply for a small overdraft facility. As part 
of that application Metro carried out a credit check, Metro also input various data into its own 
systems to check what level of lending it might be willing to offer Ms R. But the data that 
Metro had recorded on its own systems about Ms Rs circumstances was incorrect. And this 
meant her application for an overdraft facility could not be completed at that time.
Ms R went back to Metro another day to try and complete the application, and at this point 
she was told that another credit check would have to be carried out and that this might affect 
her credit score as it was so close to the previous credit check. Ms R was unhappy with this, 
and it appears that branch staff told her that if the second credit check was carried out then 
the bank would be able to remove the first credit check, as it was only one application for 
credit and so only one credit check should be recorded. But the branch staff were unwilling 
to put this in writing for Ms R.
Ms R decided not to go forward with finishing the application for an overdraft facility and 
explained to Metro that she was very unhappy that the initial credit check would remain on 
her credit file. She wanted it removed.
Metro wrote to Ms R on 30 April 2021 to explain that it felt the initial credit check was 
accurately recorded and so it would not be able to remove that. But it did accept that the 
service it had provided around this issue could have been better. Ms R remained unhappy, 
so as Metro was unable to resolve her complaint, she referred her concerns to our service. 
We asked Metro for its comments on what had happened, and in its response to us Metro 
reiterated that  while it felt the credit check had been accurately recorded  it wanted to 
make an offer of £50 to Ms R to recognise that it could have handled her overdraft 
application better.
Our investigator looked at what Ms R and Metro had said. She agreed with Metro that the 
credit check had been accurately recorded, and also explained to Ms R why she felt that 
Metros offer was a fair way to resolve any issues around the service that had been provided 
to Ms R. Ms R remained unhappy, she explained that she had not been made aware that 
applying for an overdraft could affect her credit file in any way, and she maintained that as 
errors had been made in her application for the overdraft it was inaccurate for Metro to 
record information about the credit check on her credit file. 
Because no agreement could be reached, this complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Ms R is concerned by the credit search that has been recorded on her 
credit file, but I dont agree that it is inaccurate for it to be recorded. Metro has acknowledged 
that there were errors in its handling of Ms Rs initial overdraft application, but these errors 
were in what Metro had recorded on its own systems, not in what it had reported to the credit 
reference agencies. Ms R applied for credit  in the form of an overdraft  and Metro 
recorded a credit search as part of that application. So Ms Rs credit file shows that she had 
applied for credit with Metro and that is an accurate representation of events. The credit 
search record doesnt include any information about whether Ms Rs application for the 
overdraft was agreed or not, and its not required to.
I understand that Ms R says she was not aware that applying for an overdraft could have the 
same impact on her credit file as, for example, applying for a credit card. But the terms and 
conditions that Ms R agreed to when she opened her account with Metro included a link to 
details setting out how applications for any credit might be recorded on her credit file. I have 
included the relevant passage below 
If you apply for one of our current accounts or credit facilities (not cash account), we may 
use details of your credit history to assess your ability to meet your financial commitments. 
Credit-reference agencies will record details of your application and our search will form part 
of your credit history. They will do this whether or not you go ahead with your application.
Ms R has said her late husband delt with all the family finances, and that she had no 
understanding of overdrafts. But this was her account, not a joint account, and when she 
opened it she signed to say she agree to the terms and conditions of the account. So I dont 
think its unreasonable for Metro to have proceeded on the basis that she understood what 
she was applying for when she asked for an overdraft facility. And I wouldnt expect Metro to 
have specifically stated that an application for an overdraft meant that a credit search would 
be carried out when it had already set this out in the terms and conditions of the account. 
I do acknowledge that Ms Rs application for an overdraft was unnecessarily protracted 
because Metro had initially input some inaccurate information about her circumstances on its 
systems, and that this meant she had to return to the branch a second time. I also agree that 
it would have been helpful for the Metro branch she visited to put in writing that if she wanted 
to complete her overdraft application  meaning that a second credit check had to be carried 
out  it would remove the first check to ensure that only one check had been recorded. As if 
the application had been processed correctly in the first instance that is what would have 
happened. I know Ms R has said she is not looking for financial compensation here, but I do 
think its fair for Metro to pay her the £50 it has offered in recognition of the inconvenience 
and stress caused by its errors. Metro has also told us it will be giving feedback to the staff 
involved about what went wrong here. 
I know this will be very disappointing for Ms R, but for the reasons explained above, Im 
satisfied that what Metro has now offered to do is a fair way to resolve this complaint, so I 
wont be asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Ms Rs complaint as I am satisfied that 
what Metro Bank PLC has already offered to do to put things right is a fair way to resolve this 
complaint. Metro should pay Ms R the £50 it has offered her if it hasnt already done so.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman