DRN-2154581
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain about term assurance policies sold to them by Nationwide Building 
Society. They say they were told they couldnt get the mortgage they wanted unless they 
took these policies. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs A took their policies out when arranging a mortgage with Nationwide in 1996. 
Notes from the time show Mr and Mrs A each took out individual policies, rather than a 
cheaper joint policy. And they added critical illness cover to their policies, on top of the basic 
life cover.
When Mr and Mrs A complained, they said Nationwide had told them they had to take out 
the policies to get the mortgage they wanted, and they couldnt buy the policies from a 
different financial service provider. Nationwide said in response that theyd recommended 
the policies to Mr and Mrs A, but it wasnt a condition of the mortgage, and the information 
given to Mr and Mrs A at the time included details about cancelling the policies. 
The complaint couldnt be resolved, so it came to us. Our investigator looked at the policy 
documents from the time, although the business no longer had details of the mortgage. She 
found nothing to confirm what Mr and Mrs A said they were told  that the policies had to be 
taken out, or taken only with Nationwide. The documents instead showed that the policies 
were recommended, based on Mr and Mrs As circumstances. So our investigator concluded 
the products werent mis-sold, and Nationwide didnt need to do anything else to resolve the 
complaint. 
Mr and Mrs A disagreed, but noted they had nothing to confirm what was said to them when 
they took out the policies. They said theyd taken decreasing term policies  where the 
amount the policies paid out would have reduced with the mortgage  because these were a 
cheaper option. They felt this supported their argument that theyd only taken what they had 
to so they could get the mortgage offer. 
With no agreement to resolve it, the complaints come to me for a formal decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While Mr and Mrs A will probably be disappointed to hear it, Ive seen no evidence of 
Nationwide doing anything wrong here. So Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs As comments in response to our investigator have been about how 
to determine what was said to them in 1996. Looking at the evidence available to me, the 
best indication I have of what they were told is a copy of a personal finance review, written 
by Nationwide after meeting Mr and Mrs A in 1996. This shows me there was a detailed 
discussion of their financial circumstances and needs before the specific policies were 
recommended. 
I can see from this that the policies werent actually the cheapest option Mr and Mrs A could 
have chosen. That would have been a joint policy that didnt include critical illness cover. But 
I can see getting individual policies matched with Mr and Mrs As wish for flexibility, in case 
they decided to transfer responsibility for the mortgage to just one of them. The inclusion of 
critical illness cover was also an extra, adding what the finance review says was a must 
have for Mr and Mrs A.
From this, I find that these policies were sold by listening to Mr and Mrs As needs, and 
trying to match a product to those. Thats quite different to Mr and Mrs A simply being told 
they must have life insurance, and picking the cheapest option to get it. Theres nothing in 
the review, or the other documents Ive seen, to support Mr and Mrs As recollection on that 
point. 
The finance review also speaks to the complaint that Nationwide said the cover had to be 
from one of their products. The review looked at what existing cover Mr and Mrs A had. The 
level of cover was found to fall short of the mortgaged amount, leading to Nationwide 
recommending various policies. But I think if that review had seen Mr and Mrs A had existing 
cover, Nationwide wouldnt have recommended their products. That suggests to me 
Nationwide would have been happy with Mr and Mrs A having cover from other financial 
service providers, if it was compulsory. 
The products gave Mr and Mrs A an assurance that if either of them died or developed a 
critical illness during the life of the mortgage, their mortgage would be paid off. Fortunately, 
they havent needed to use that cover, and I can appreciate that may leave them feeling 
theyd have rather not had it. But all the evidence Ive seen tells me that they chose to have 
them in 1996. The documents recommended policies, but crucially didnt say these were 
needed for the mortgage to go ahead, or that the policies could only come from Nationwide. 
In general terms, the products look to have been suitable for Mr and Mrs As needs. A 
decreasing term policy, like these ones, is normally the cheapest type of life cover available. 
Having two policies rather than a joint one was a little more expensive, but the flexibility 
suited what the finance review says Mr and Mrs A said about their circumstances at the time. 
So overall, I think the policies werent mis-sold, and did suit their needs.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs As complaints about these policies.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 November 2020.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman