DRN-3546928
The complaint
Mrs R complains about the advice given by Holborn Assets Ltd to transfer the benefits from 
her defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a personal pension. She says the 
advice was unsuitable for her. She says she was told that she would get a better pension at 
retirement, but this probably wont be the case. Mrs R says she wasnt told about the risk of 
the transfer. She believes it has caused her a financial loss.
What happened
Mrs R says she was approached by a financial adviser, via a cold call, and they discussed 
accessing her pension. But she says this adviser was unable to give her regulated financial 
advice. 
Mrs R says that after this she contacted her employer and received contact details for 
another adviser. This adviser was unable to give her DB pension transfer advice but did give 
her Holborns details. In 2016, Holborn became involved as it was authorised to give advice 
about DB pension transfers. 
Holborn carried out an assessment of Mrs Rs attitude to risk, which it said was low 
medium. Holborn also looked at her capacity for risk and it said that small / medium losses 
could be tolerated. The fact find recorded that she had very little understanding, or 
knowledge, of risk bearing investments. 
On 22 August 2016, Holborn advised Mrs R to transfer her pension benefits into a personal 
pension with Royal London and invest the proceeds The transfer proceeded on 13 October 
2016 and Mrs R transferred £44,877. She took immediate tax-free cash of £11,219 and 
invested the remainder into one of its managed funds. I understand Mrs R has now 
withdrawn the remainder of the transfer. 
The suitability report said the reasons for this recommendation were: 
Mrs R had a family history of poor health, and she was concerned that she may not 
live long enough to benefit from the DB scheme. 
She wanted to use the tax-free cash to repay her shorter-term debts and her 
mortgage arears. This would also reduce her monthly outgoings. 
She wanted some flexibility in her retirement arrangements and the death benefits 
her pension could provide. 
Mr and Mrs R wanted to make some home improvements.
Mrs R complained in 2021 to Holborn about the suitability of the transfer advice. She said, 
via her representative, that:
There were no actual health reasons for the transfer, Holborn relied on the adverse 
health within her family. 
It was her only private retirement pension so she didnt want to risk it.
She had a low attitude, and tolerance, for risk and she didnt understand the pension 
transfer process. The advice concentrated on the tax-free cash she could release.
Her want to reduce her debt was not, in itself, a good reason to transfer her DB 
scheme benefits. 
Holborn didnt uphold Mrs Rs complaint. It said it wasnt incorrect to focus on her health, 
given her family history of heart problems. And she was able to reduce her debt, and the 
monthly repayments with the transfer. This was important given her past experiences with 
debt. The transfer met her requirements at the time. And Mrs R was fully informed about the 
details and the risk of it. 
Mrs R referred her complaint to our service. An investigator upheld the complaint and 
recommended that Holborn pay compensation. He said the personal pension was likely to 
provide lower retirement benefits for Mrs R, so the transfer wasnt suitable for this reason. 
And whilst there was a history of poor health in the family it wasnt clear that Mrs Rs life 
expectancy would be curtailed. Lastly, she didnt need to transfer to repay any debts or 
improve her home.
Holborn disagreed, saying that:
The DB scheme wasnt a significant part of Mrs Rs retirement planning, it was small 
when compared to the state pension. So, she was not reliant on this pension for her 
retirement income. 
The fund has performed well. 
The fact that Mrs R has dissipated the fund shows that she did not need it in 
retirement. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The excerpts below are not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied 
at the time of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Holborn's actions 
here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6 that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Holborn 
should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in 
Mrs Rs best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it 
was in her best interests.
Financial viability 
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case. 
The investment return (critical yield) required to match the occupational pension at her 
retirement date of 65 was 11.12% if Mrs H took the same pension as the scheme would 
provide. If she took the maximum tax-free cash and a reduced pension this was reduced to 
9.28%. 
This compares with the discount rate of 3.2% per year for nine years to retirement in this 
case. For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the 
middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%.
Holborn didnt complete a full cashflow analysis but it did note that if Mrs R withdrew the 
same income from the fund as the DB scheme would provide it would run out at her age 87 if 
she took a full pension. And at age 91 if she took tax-free cash and a pension.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mrs R's 
attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. I think Mrs R was likely to receive benefits of 
a materially lower overall value than the occupational scheme at retirement, as a result of 
investing in line with her attitude to risk.
Also, as Holborn will know, past performance is no guarantee for future performance and so 
I consider the discount rates and the regulators standard projections to be more realistic in 
this regard in the long term rather than projecting historic returns forward, particularly over 
such a long period of time.Holborn has said that the fund performed well. But the relevant comparison here is whether 
Mrs R can match her scheme benefits. And the fund performance that Holborn has referred 
to is still lower than the critical yields. And this is a hypothetical figure anyway as Mrs Rs 
money is no longer invested. 
For this reason alone, a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mrs Rs best interests. Of 
course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. And 
Holborn noted at the time of sale that the transfer was unlikely to provide the same benefits 
as the DB scheme. But it says there were other considerations which meant that the transfer 
was suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered these below.
Flexibility and income needs
One of the main reasons that the transfer was recommended to Mrs R was that she wanted 
to use the fund flexibly to repay some debt. This would put her, and her partner, on a better 
financial footing. 
Holborn has said that Mrs R would have been able to reduce her outgoings by repaying her 
mortgage arrears and her other short-term debt. And this would save her £230 a month over 
the next few years. And this would make things a bit easier for them going forward.
But as Ive outlined above, this transfer would leave Mrs R materially worse off in retirement. 
So, in order for the transfer to be in her best interests there needed to an immediate and 
pressing need for this tax-free cash. I dont think this is the case here. 
I can accept that Mrs R had some debts and she needed to be careful to make sure these 
were repaid. But it seems there was no current repayment problems and the difficulty Mrs R 
had with credit seems to have been before the time of advice. She and Mr R were repaying 
the mortgage arrears and the modest amount of other debt she had. The fact find recorded 
that they were living within their means. So, I dont think there was an immediate need for 
the transfer, it was more of a nice to have. 
And Mrs R was giving up a pension of £3,315 a year to do this. This would be payable from 
her age 65 and was guaranteed and increasing. So this seems to me to be a very short-
sighted thing to advise Mrs R to do. She was giving up a reasonable income in the future to 
repay these modest amounts of debt. I dont think she needed to do this, and I dont think 
this was in her best interests. And I think that Holborn should have been aware that it wasnt 
appropriate to transfer a DB scheme to pay down debts that are being repaid. 
It was noted that Mr and Mrs R might want some funds for home improvements. But there 
isnt any detail about this, or any indication that it was urgent. So, Im also not persuaded 
that she needed to transfer for this reason. 
Holborn has said that Mr and Mrs R needed £19,200 per year in retirement. This seems to 
be based on their current budget less their mortgage. The section on the fact find about their 
likely expenses in retirement wasnt completed. Holborn has gone on to say that this was 
very close to the amount of state pension her and Mr R would receive. And so, they didnt 
need the income from this DB scheme. 
But I dont think this was good reason to transfer her DB scheme. Whilst Mrs Rs pension 
provision was limited it wasnt in her best interests to limit it further, and for her to potentially 
receive a lower retirement income. 
So, I dont think Mrs R required flexibility in retirement. This is because based on the 
evidence Ive seen; I dont think she had a genuine need to access her tax-free cash earlier than the normal scheme retirement age and leave her funds invested until a later date. I also 
cant see evidence that Mrs R had a strong need for variable income throughout her 
retirement. This was mentioned at the time of sale but not in any detail. 
Overall, I think Mrs R could have met her retirement income needs by remaining in the DB 
scheme and taking an income and some tax-free cash if she needed it. 
Mrs Rs health situation and death benefits 
It was documented that one of the primary reasons for the transfer was Mrs Rs concern 
about her health and how this would impact on her ability to take benefits from the plan. 
Her family had a history of poor health, and this had led to some of them not living as long as 
might be expected. It was assumed that these issues may also affect Mrs R. So Holborn 
says it advised her to transfer away from the DB scheme to maximise the benefits she could 
receive from it. Because if she were to die before it became payable she wouldnt benefit 
from it at all.  
But Im not persuaded that this is reasonable. Im sure her relatives health was a concern for 
her. But the information supplied about her, rather than her family, was that she was in good 
health. I think Holborn needed some kind of indication, other than her general worry about 
her familys health, that she had a reduced life expectancy in order to make this transfer 
appropriate for this reason. Particularly as Mrs R now says she didnt have any serious 
health problems. 
And death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would 
like their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension were likely an attractive feature to Mrs R. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mrs R might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer her DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mrs R about what was best for her retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think Holborn explored to what extent 
Mrs R was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death 
benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mrs R 
was married and they had one dependent child. And so the spouses and dependents 
pensions provided by the DB scheme wouldve been useful to them if Mrs R predeceased 
them. 
I dont think Holborn made the value of this benefit clear enough to Mrs R. This was 
guaranteed and it escalated  it was not dependent on investment performance, whereas 
the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was. And as the cashflow analysis shows, 
the fund may have been depleted particularly if Mrs R lived a long life.  In any event, Holborn 
should not have encouraged Mrs R to prioritise the potential for higher death benefits 
through a personal pension over her security in retirement.
Furthermore, if Mrs R genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for her spouse or children, which 
didnt depend on investment returns or how much of her pension fund remained on her 
death, I think Holborn shouldve instead explored life insurance. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mrs R. And I dont think that 
insurance was properly explored as an alternative.Suitability of investments
Holborn recommended that Mrs R invest in one of Royal Londons managed funds. As Im 
upholding the complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable 
for Mrs R, it follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment 
recommendation. This is because Mrs R should have been advised to remain in the DB 
scheme and so the investments in the Royal London funds wouldnt have arisen if suitable 
advice had been given.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mrs R. But 
Holborn wasnt there to just transact what Mrs R might have thought she wanted. The 
advisers role was to really understand what Mrs R needed and recommend what was in her 
best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mrs R was suitable. She was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mrs R was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and, in my view, there were no other particular reasons which 
would justify a transfer and outweigh this. Mrs R shouldnt have been advised to transfer out 
of the scheme just to repay debts that were affordable, and the potential for higher death 
benefits wasnt worth giving up the guarantees associated with her DB scheme.
So, I think Holborn shouldve advised Mrs R to remain in her DB scheme.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mrs R would've gone ahead anyway, against 
Holborn's advice. 
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mrs R wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against Holborns advice. I say this because Mrs R was 
an inexperienced investor with a low to medium attitude to risk and this pension accounted 
for the majority of Mrs Rs private retirement provision. So, if Holborn had provided her with 
clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in her best 
interests, I think she wouldve accepted that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mrs Rs concerns about her short-term debt and her health were so 
great that she wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose 
expertise she had sought out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for her or in her 
best interests. If Holborn had explained that Mrs R could meet all of her objectives without 
risking her guaranteed pension, I think that wouldve carried significant weight. So, I dont 
think Mrs R would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme.
In light of the above, I think Holborn should compensate Mrs R for the unsuitable advice, 
using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for non-
compliant pension transfer advice. 
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mrs R whether she preferred any redress to be calculated now in 
line with current guidance or wait for the new guidance /rules to come into effect.
She didnt make a choice, so as set out previously Ive assumed in this case she doesnt 
want to wait for the new guidance to come into effect. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mrs R. 
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mrs R, as far as possible, 
into the position she would now be in but for Holborns unsuitable advice. I consider Mrs R 
would have most likely remained in her DB scheme if suitable advice had been given.
Holborn must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, Mrs R has not yet retired, and she has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on her normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mrs Rs acceptance of the decision.
Holborn may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mrs 
Rs contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). 
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mrs Rs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mrs Rs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mrs R as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mrs R within 90 days of the date Holborn receives 
notification of her acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the 
compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to 
the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Holborn to pay Mrs R.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect Holborn to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Holborn Assets Ltd to 
pay Mrs R the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of 
£160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Holborn Assets Ltd to pay Mrs R any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Holborn 
Assets Ltd to pay Mrs R any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Holborn Assets Ltd pays Mrs R the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest 
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mrs R.
If Mrs R accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Holborn Assets Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mrs R can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mrs R may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2023.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman