DRN-4452685
The complaint
Miss M has complained about a transfer from her Scottish Widows Limited (SWL) personal 
pension to a small self-administered scheme (SSAS) in 2013. Miss Ms SSAS was used to 
buy shares in a company. Those shares now appear to have little value. 
Miss M says SWL failed in its responsibilities when dealing with her transfer request. She 
says that SWL should have done more to warn her of the potential dangers of transferring, 
and undertaken greater due diligence on the transfer, in line with the guidance required of 
transferring schemes at the time. Miss M says she wouldnt have transferred, and therefore 
wouldnt have put her pension savings at risk, if SWL had acted as it should have done.
What happened
On 1 February 2013, Miss M authorised Sun Money Ltd, an unregulated introducer of 
investments, to approach SWL on her behalf to elicit information about her pension and to 
obtain transfer documents. On 18 February, she signed an application form to buy 30 shares 
in SCCL Ltd, a small unlisted company that had just been incorporated as a cosmetic 
dentistry venture. On 27 February, Sun Money wrote to SWL with a request for transfer 
documents and information. 
On 21 April, Greenchurch Capital sent SWL paperwork to transfer Miss Ms personal 
pension to a SSAS. Greenchurch Capital was acting as the SSASs administrator. Included 
in the paperwork was Miss Ms signed SWL transfer forms and a HMRC certificate which 
showed the SSAS had been registered on 8 April 2013. 
A date-stamp shows SWL received Miss Ms transfer documents on 23 April 2013. The next 
day, SWL wrote to Miss M to say it had received a transfer request. It also wrote to 
Greenchurch Capital and Miss Ms home address to confirm the transfer had been 
processed. Miss Ms transfer value was a little under £17,500. Miss Ms SSAS was used to 
buy the 30 SCCL Ltd shares, which now appear to have little value. Miss M was 50 at the 
time of the transfer.
In 2018 Miss M was told by SCCL Ltd that the companys value was lower than hoped for 
and that it couldnt find a buyer for her shares. This followed enquiries from Miss M about 
redeeming her investment which she believed was a possibility after five years. In 2019, 
Miss M (with the help of a claims management company) complained to SWL. Briefly, her 
argument is that SWL failed to adequately warn her about the potential risks of transferring. 
In particular, she says SWL didnt follow guidance launched by The Pensions Regulator 
(TPR) on 14 February 2013. This is often referred to as the Scorpion guidance or Scorpion 
campaign because of the imagery it used. The guidance was launched in response to the 
increasing threat of pension liberation, the process by which pensions are accessed in an 
unauthorised way (before minimum retirement age, for instance) which can leave victims 
with little or no pension savings and liable to pay charges to HMRC.
SWL didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said that Miss M had a statutory right to 
transfer and that it had ensured the receiving scheme had been properly registered with 
HMRC. It said this was in line with industry practice at the time. SWL said it didnt follow the 
Scorpion guidance because Miss Ms transfer was too soon after the guidance was launched 
for it to have implemented any training and process changes. It said TPR had agreed it had 
until May 2013 to respond to the guidance (which was after Miss Ms transfer completed).
Our investigator was unable to resolve the dispute informally, so the matter was passed to 
me to decide. I issued a provisional decision, in which I upheld the complaint. I said: 
Although the event complained of happened more than six years before Miss M complained 
to SWL, Ive no reason to conclude Miss M complained more than three years after she was 
aware (or ought reasonably to have been aware) of having cause for complaint. Im therefore 
satisfied Miss M did complain in time and that this is a complaint I can consider. 
The relevant rules and guidance
Before I explain my reasoning, it will be useful to set out the environment SWL was 
operating in at the time with regards to pension transfer requests, as well as any rules and 
guidance that were in place. Specifically, its worth noting the following:
The Pensions Schemes Act 1993 gives a member of a personal pension scheme the 
right to transfer the cash equivalent value of their accrued benefits to another personal 
or occupational pension scheme (in this case, a SSAS).
On 10 June 2011 and 6 July 2011, the Financial Services Authority (FSA) warned 
consumers about the dangers of pension unlocking. It referred to cold-calling and 
websites promoting transfers to schemes that invest money overseas to avoid paying 
UK tax and/or result in cash being drawn from the pension ahead of retirement, 
including as a loan. Particular concerns related to the tax implications of these 
transactions, the fees charged and potential investment losses from scam activity. The 
FSA said it was working closely with HMRC and TPR to find out more information and 
encouraged affected consumers to contact FSA, HMRC or TPR helplines.
TPR announced in December 2011 that it was working with HMRC and the FSA and 
had closed some schemes.
In February 2012, TPR published a warning, and factsheet, about pension liberation. 
The FSA supported this campaign. It was designed to raise public awareness about 
pension liberation, and remind scheme trustees of their duties to members, rather than 
introduce any specific new steps for transferring schemes to follow. The warnings 
highlighted in the campaign related to websites and cold callers that encouraged people 
to transfer in order to receive cash or access a loan.
TPR launched its Scorpion campaign on 14 February 2013. The aim of the campaign 
was to raise awareness of pension liberation activity and to provide guidance to scheme 
administrators on dealing with transfer requests in order to help prevent liberation 
activity happening. The FSA endorsed the guidance. I cover the Scorpion campaign in 
more detail below. 
Personal pension providers are not regulated by TPR. Theyre regulated by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). Prior to April 2013, they were regulated by the FCAs 
predecessor, the FSA. As such, theyre subject to the Handbook, and under that to the 
Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and to the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS). 
There have never been any specific FSA/FCA rules governing pension transfers, but the 
following have particular relevance to transfer requests: 
Principle 2  A  firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence;Principle 6  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat 
them fairly;
Principle 7  A  firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading; 
and
COBS 2.1.1R (the clients best interests rule), which states that a firm must act 
honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client.
The Scorpion campaign
Overview
The 2013 Scorpion campaign comprised the following:
A Pensions Advisory Service insert (the Scorpion insert). The insert warns readers 
about the dangers of agreeing to cash in a pension early and identifies the following 
warning signs: being approached out of the blue by phone or text; pushy advisers or 
introducers who offer upfront cash incentives; companies offering loans, saving 
advances or cash back from a pension; and not being informed about the tax 
consequences of transferring. It concludes by recommending actions that can be taken 
to avoid becoming a victim of such activity. These include talking to an adviser not 
associated with the transaction and recognising any financial advisers should be 
registered with the FCA. TPR said at the time it wanted to see the use of the Scorpion 
insert in transfer packs become best practice.
A longer leaflet issued by the Pensions Advisory Service (TPAS) which gives more 
information, including example scenarios, about pension liberation. Guidance provided 
by TPR on its website at the time said this longer leaflet was intended to be sent to 
members who had queries about pension liberation fraud.
An action pack for scheme administrators that highlighted the warning signs present in 
a number of transfer examples. It suggested transferring schemes should look out for 
various warning signs of liberation. If any of the warning signs applied, the action pack 
provided a check list that schemes could use to help find out more about the receiving 
scheme and how the member came to make the transfer request. Where transferring 
schemes still had concerns, they were encouraged to write to members to warn them of 
the potential tax consequences of their actions; to consider delaying the transfer; to 
seek legal advice; and to direct the member to TPAS, TPR or Action Fraud. 
The status of the Scorpion guidance 
When it was launched in February 2013, the Scorpion guidance was described as a cross-
government initiative by Action Fraud, The City of London Police, HMRC, TPAS, TPR, the 
SFO, and the FSA/FCA, all of which endorsed the guidance, allowing their names and logos 
to appear in the action pack and Scorpion insert. 
So far as TPR itself was concerned, it issued the guidance under the powers at s.12 of the 
Pension Act 2004, which provides: 
12 Provision of information, education and assistance
(1)  The [TPR] may provide such information, education and assistance as it considers 
appropriate to those involved in(a)  the administration of work-based pension schemes, or
(b)  advising the trustees or managers in relation to such schemes as to their 
operation.
Thus, for the bodies regulated by TPR, the status of the guidance was that it provided them 
with information, education and/or assistance, as opposed to creating any new binding rule 
or legal duty.
Correspondingly, the communications about the launch of the guidance were predominantly 
expressed in terms that made its non-obligatory status clear. Likewise, by and large, the 
contents of the action pack are framed in a way that is consistent with its stated purpose, 
namely as points to note or suggested actions a firm might take. For example, rather than 
telling firms they are expected to spot the warning signs of pension liberation fraud, the 
action pack lists some of the things to look out for; and, rather than say that the presence 
of a warning sign requires the firm to run though the check list, it states: If any of these 
statements apply, then you can use the check list  
The language arguably strays into the imperative under the heading Next steps if you have 
concerns, stating Contact the member to establish their understanding of, for example, the 
type of scheme theyll be transferring to. But this appears to be reversed later in a passage 
which states: Trustees may wish to contact members direct where they have concerns 
about a proposed transfer. So, the tenor of the document is essentially a set of prompts and 
suggestions, not requirements.
It would seem inconsistent to view the Scorpion guidance as representing a binding rule or 
legal duty on personal pension providers regulated by the FSA/FCA when such a duty didnt 
extend to those bodies that came under the regulator that drafted the guidance, the TPR. 
Furthermore, the FSAs endorsement of the Scorpion guidance was relatively informal: it 
didnt take the form of Handbook Guidance, because it was not issued under s.139A of the 
Financial Services and Markets Act (FSMA), which enabled the FSA to issue guidance 
provided it underwent a consultation process first. Nor did it constitute confirmed industry 
guidance, as can be seen by consulting the list of all such FSA/FCA guidance on its 
website. 
I take from all the above that the contents of the action pack were essentially informational 
and advisory in nature and that deviating from the action pack doesnt necessarily mean a 
firm has broken the Principles or COBS rules. Firms were able to take a proportionate 
approach to transfer requests, balancing consumer protection with the need to also execute 
a transfer promptly and in line with a members statutory rights.
That said, the launch of the February 2013 Scorpion guidance was an important moment in 
so far it provided, for the first time, guidance for personal pension providers dealing with 
transfer requests  guidance that prompted providers to take a more active role in assessing 
transfer requests. The campaign and guidance were launched in response to widespread 
abuses that were causing pension scheme members to suffer significant losses. And the 
guidances specific purpose was to inform and help ceding firms when they dealt with 
transfer requests in order to prevent these abuses and save their customers from falling 
victim to them. In those circumstances, I consider firms which received pension transfer 
requests needed to pay regard to the contents of the Scorpion guidance as a matter of good 
industry practice.
Taking all this into account, I think its fair and reasonable to conclude providers should have 
recognised that the environment had changed, and more was now expected of transferring 
schemes. It means February 2013 marks an inflection point in terms of what was expected of personal pension providers dealing with transfer requests as a matter of fulfilling their 
duties under the regulators Principles and COBS 2.1.1R. 
Therefore, whilst I dont think personal pension providers had to follow all aspects of the 
scorpion guidance in every transfer request, I do think they should have paid heed to the 
information it contained; and, where the recommendations in the guidance applied, absent a 
good reason to the contrary, it would normally have been reasonable and in my view good 
industry practice for pension providers at least to follow the substance of those 
recommendations. I look at what this means in practice in the next section.
What did personal pension providers like SWL need to do?
TPR said it wanted to see the use of the Scorpion insert in transfer packs become best 
practice. Sending the insert to customers asking to transfer their pensions was a simple and 
inexpensive step for pension firms to take and one that wouldnt have got in the way of 
efficiently dealing with transfer requests. I therefore think it reasonable for the Scorpion 
insert to have been sent by pension providers to transferring customers as a matter of 
course with transfer packs. 
The contents of the Scorpion insert were directed towards consumers themselves and 
contained warnings about dishonest intermediaries who might be trying to lure them into 
pension liberation. It would have defeated the purpose of the insert if, instead of sending it to 
their customer, pension firms sent the insert to the customers representative in the hope 
that that intermediary would then share the insert with their client. I therefore consider it fair 
and reasonable to say the insert had to be sent direct to the transferring member rather than, 
say, to an unregulated introducer.  
Under the Scorpion action pack, firms were told to look out for the tell-tale signs of pension 
liberation and undertake further due diligence and take appropriate action where their client 
might be at risk. The action pack points to the liberation warning signs transferring schemes 
should have been looking out for and provides a framework for any due diligence and follow-
up actions. Therefore, whilst using the action pack isnt an inflexible requirement, it does 
represent a reasonable benchmark for the level of care expected of a transferring scheme 
and identifies specific steps that would be appropriate for them to take, if the circumstances 
demanded. 
It is also important to note that the obligations of regulated firms to customers who were 
transferring didnt start and end with the Scorpion guidance. If a personal pension provider 
had good reason to think the transferring member was being scammed  even if the 
suspected scam didnt involve liberation  then its general duties to its customer as an 
authorised financial services provider would come into play and it would have needed to act. 
Ignoring signs of a scam if they came (or should have come) to a firms attention would 
almost certainly breach the regulators Principles and COBS 2.1.1R.
Before I go on to consider whether SWL met its obligations, I set out my findings on how 
Miss M came to request the transfer.Miss Ms recollections
When our investigator spoke to Miss M, she initially indicated she had no control over the 
transfer. She said she had no idea it was happening until it was too late. She thought SWL 
gave her no choice about it and said she didnt know why shed been sent a share 
certificate.
This is at odds with her complaint as articulated by her representative. In her complaint to 
SWL her representative said the following:
[Miss M] received an unsolicited telephone call from a firm offering a free review of 
her pension arrangements with a view to increasing her returns. This was of interest 
to her and she agreed to speak with an unregulated introducer from Sun Money 
Limited. Miss M never met the adviser. The reviewer recommended that Miss M 
transfer her pension to a SSAS and invest as recommended. She was told that she 
would receive a 4% return in Year 1, 5% in Year 2, 6% in Year 3, 7% in Year 4 and 
8% in Year 5 after which her investment would be returned to herTo [Miss M] it 
sounded like a realistic opportunity to achieve a significant increase on her pension 
savings.
Furthermore, when Miss M referred her complaint to this Service she said:
In 2013 I received a cold call offering me a free pension review and I then spoke to 
Sun Money limited. The adviser from Sun Money advised me to transfer my Scottish 
Widows pension to a SSAS with a view to increasing the returns. I had no experience 
of investments so relied on the advice given. I was unaware that the company were 
not FCA authorised and this information was not offered to me. I was informed that 
the scheme I was investing in was risk free so was not warned about the risks 
involved in this investmentIf Scottish Widows had warned me about the risks, I 
would have taken advice from an authorised independent financial adviser and left 
my pension funds with them, I have suffered a significant loss by reason of the failure 
of at least one of my investments within the SSAS (SCCL Limited) as I was unaware 
that Sun Money Limited were an unauthorised firm and that the recommended 
investment was high risk.
Miss Ms recollections are inconsistent, which to some extent is understandable given the 
time thats passed since the events shes trying to remember; our investigator spoke to 
Miss M over eight years after the events in question. I therefore treat Miss Ms recollections 
with caution. Ive weighed them carefully with the wider circumstances to decide whats more 
likely than not to have happened. 
I can see Miss M signed forms ahead of the transfer, including an application form to buy the 
shares, so Im satisfied she knew about the transfer beforehand. Theres also no evidence 
SWL misled her into thinking she had to transfer her pension and I cant see how it would 
have benefited SWL to do this. So Im also satisfied SWL didnt mislead her about the 
transfer. 
Therefore, and contrary to what Miss M initially told our investigator, it seems likely to me 
that Miss M knew she was transferring and was doing so of her own volition. But I accept as 
more likely than not her assertion that she was cold called by an unregulated introducer and 
advised to take the action she did. I say this because I havent seen anything about Miss M 
and her circumstances that makes me think its likely she would have decided on her own to 
embark on a complicated and esoteric arrangement: transferring out of her existing pension, 
setting up a SSAS and investing directly in a small, unlisted company. Miss Ms assertion 
that she didnt know Sun Money was unauthorised also rings true because an unsophisticated investor wouldnt usually know the importance of researching this (which 
was one of the issues the Scorpion guidance was trying to address).
It's worth noting here that the investment opportunity, as Miss M says it was presented to 
her, did not involve accessing her pension early. Her representative says it was presented 
as lasting beyond age 55, without offers of loans or cash incentives. So, it would appear that 
Miss Ms motivation in transferring was to achieve better growth for her pension, rather than 
to access it in an unauthorised manner.
Ive next considered whether SWL took appropriate steps when dealing with Miss Ms 
transfer request, in line with what Ive set out above. 
What did SWL do and was it enough?
The Scorpion insert:
For the reasons given above, my view is that personal pension providers should, as a matter 
of course, have sent transferring members the Scorpion insert with their transfer packs. 
However, SWL says it didnt send the Scorpion insert to Miss M because her initial transfer 
enquiries came too soon after the guidance was launched for it to have responded. I find this 
to be reasonable in this case.
I say this because the guidance was published on 14 February 2013 without prior 
consultation, so SWL could only have started thinking about what changes it might need to 
make to its processes after 14 February 2013. Sun Money emailed SWL requesting a 
valuation and transfer forms on 27 February 2013. Theres no record of SWLs response, but 
given Miss M signed the forms on 13 March 2013, its likely SWL sent them to Sun Money by 
8 March 2013 (allowing three working days for them to be received and then passed on to 
Miss M). That means SWL had, at most, about three weeks to respond to the Scorpion 
guidance before it sent Miss M her transfer documents. I think its fair to say that even the 
relatively straightforward task of printing Scorpion inserts and ensuring their inclusion in 
transfer packs would have taken some time to implement. The fact SWL hadnt yet done so 
three weeks after the guidance was first published doesnt strike me as unreasonable in this 
instance.
Due diligence:
In light of the Scorpion guidance, I think firms ought to have been on the look-out for the tell-
tale signs of pension liberation and needed to undertake further due diligence and take 
appropriate action if it was apparent their customer might be at risk. 
SWL says it didnt follow the Scorpion guidance in this case because TPR had given scheme 
administrators until May 2013 to implement any changes. SWL has provided no evidence to 
support this, so Ive proceeded on the basis that no such dispensation was provided. 
SWL received Miss Ms transfer papers on 23 April 2013. This was over nine weeks after the 
launch of the Scorpion guidance, which should have given SWL time to understand the 
warning signs and next steps outlined in the action pack and implement changes to its 
processes. So I think the guidance in the action pack is relevant to Miss Ms case.
Given the information SWL had at the time, there was one immediately apparent feature of 
Miss Ms transfer that was a potential warning sign of liberation activity. This was that 
Miss Ms SSAS had been registered very recently (around two weeks before she sent in her 
transfer request). As this was highlighted by TPR in the Scorpion action pack as a possible 
warning sign, SWL should have followed up on it to find out if other signs of liberation were present  especially as it would have been aware (as her pension provider, but also from 
some of the paperwork sent in by Sun Money) that Miss M was under 55 at the time which 
made her a more likely candidate for pension liberation fraud. Given these warning signs, I 
think it would have been fair and reasonable  and good practice  for SWL to look into the 
proposed transfer and the most reasonable way of going about that would have been to turn 
to the check list in the action pack to structure its due diligence into Miss M's transfer.
The check list provided a series of questions to help transferring schemes assess the 
potential threat by finding out more about the receiving scheme and how the consumer came 
to make the transfer request. Some items on the check list could have been addressed by 
checking online resources such as Companies House and HMRC. Others would have 
required contacting the consumer. The check list is divided into three parts (which Ive 
numbered for ease of reading and not because I think the check list was designed to be 
followed in a particular order):
1. The nature/status of the receiving scheme
Sample questions: Is the receiving scheme newly registered with HMRC, is it 
sponsored by a newly registered employer, is that employer geographically distant 
from the transferring member and is the receiving scheme connected to an 
unregulated investment company?
2. Description/promotion of the scheme
Sample questions: Do descriptions, promotional materials or adverts of the receiving 
scheme include the words loan, savings advance, cash incentive, bonus, 
loophole or preference shares or allude to overseas investments?
3. The scheme member
Sample questions: Has the transferring member been advised by an introducer, 
been advised by a non-regulated adviser or taken no advice? Has the member 
decided to transfer after receiving cold calls, unsolicited emails or text messages 
about their pension? 
Opposite each question, or group of questions, the check list identified actions that should 
help the transferring scheme establish the facts.
I dont think it would always have been necessary to follow the check list in its entirety. And I 
dont think an answer to any one single question on the check list would usually be 
conclusive in itself. A transferring scheme would therefore typically need to conduct 
investigations across several parts of the check list to establish whether liberation was a 
realistic threat. Given the warning sign that should have been apparent to SWL when dealing 
with Miss Ms transfer request, and the relatively limited information it had about the transfer, 
I think in this case SWL should have addressed all three parts of the check list and 
contacted Miss M as part of its due diligence.
Investigations under part 3 of the check list would have revealed Miss Ms interest in 
transferring was prompted by a cold call. I think its also fair to say Miss M would have told 
SWL  had it asked her as it should have done  that she was advised to transfer by Sun 
Money. She has said as much in her submissions to us. Miss Ms recollections havent 
always been consistent, of course, but her recollection about being advised is supported by 
the circumstances (as I have explained above) and I therefore find her to be persuasive on 
this particular point. And theres no evidence to show she was being advised by anyone 
other than Sun Money during the transfer. The check list recommends that in order to establish whether its member has been advised 
by a non-regulated adviser, the ceding firm should check whether advisers are registered 
with the FSA at www.fsa.gov.uk/fsaregister. In other words, they should consult the FSAs 
online register of authorised firms. SWL should have taken that step, which is not difficult, 
and it would quickly have discovered that Miss Ms adviser was indeed unauthorised.  
Being advised by an unauthorised firm to transfer benefits from a personal pension plan and 
reinvest the proceeds in particular shares would have been a breach of the general 
prohibition imposed by FSMA, which states no one can carry out regulated activities unless 
theyre authorised or exempt. Anyone working in this field should have been aware that 
financial advisers need to be authorised to give regulated investment advice in the United 
Kingdom  indeed, the Scorpion insert itself makes this point. 
My view is that SWL should have been concerned by Sun Moneys involvement because it 
pointed to a criminal breach of FSMA. On the balance of probabilities, Im satisfied such a 
breach occurred here.
I think SWLs failure to uncover this risk of illegal advice and then warn Miss M about it 
meant SWL didnt meet its obligations under Principles 2, 6 and 7 and COBS 2.1.1R. With 
those obligations in mind, it would have been appropriate for SWL to have informed Miss M 
that the firm shed been advised by was unregulated and could put her pension at risk. SWL 
should have told her that only authorised financial advisers are allowed to give advice on 
personal pension transfers, so she risked falling victim to illegal activity. 
The cause of Miss Ms loss
Im satisfied any messages along these lines would have changed Miss Ms mind about the 
transfer. The messages would have followed conversations with Miss M so would have 
seemed to her (and indeed would have been) specific to her individual circumstances and 
would have been given to her in the context of SWL raising concerns about the risk of her 
losing her pension monies as a result of untrustworthy advice. This would have made her 
aware that there were serious risks with her using an unregulated adviser even if she was 
not liberating her pension. And her recollections (as outlined earlier) suggest she would have 
changed her mind if given some warning about dealing with an unauthorised business. So, I 
consider that if SWL had acted as it should, Miss M wouldnt have proceeded with the 
transfer out of her personal pension or suffered the investment losses she did.
But for SWLs failings Miss M wouldnt have transferred her pension and lost its value. 
Therefore, Ive gone on to consider whether SWL should compensate Miss M for the loss 
she has suffered (see section 229(2)(a) of FSMA).
I bear in mind that Miss Ms complaint is similar to the type of claim that in legal proceedings 
would be treated as a claim for damages for negligent failure to give her the information or 
advice to which she was entitled. In that kind of case, the court asks itself whether there is a 
sufficient connection between the harm for which the claimant seeks damages as 
compensation and the subject matter of the defendants duty of care. The court looks to see 
what risk the defendants duty was supposed to guard against and whether the claimants 
loss represents that particular risk coming to fruition. 
So, its important I bear in mind that the Scorpion guidance was directed towards protecting 
people from the risk of pension liberation and that doesnt appear to have happened in 
Miss Ms case. Her loss was suffered because she accepted unsuitable investment advice 
from an introducer who wasnt authorised to act as a financial adviser at all, and it wasnt (as 
far as can be established taking into account what Miss M has said) a case of her seeking to 
cash in her pension early in an unauthorised way. Nonetheless, the circumstances that gave rise to this complaint were very similar to those of 
a pension liberation scam: the transfer followed unsolicited contact from an unauthorised 
business and involved the setting up of a new pension scheme to house an investment and 
the involvement of recently established businesses. The Scorpion action pack and insert 
both recommend checking that financial advice comes only from an authorised person by 
checking the FSA/FCA register. And SWLs obligations under the Principles and COBS were 
of general application and went well beyond just protecting its customers from pension 
liberation. In the circumstances, even though this doesnt appear to be a case of pension 
liberation, I do consider it fair and reasonable for SWL to compensate Miss M entirely for her 
losses in line with the approach outlined below.
I have given thought to whether Miss M should herself bear some responsibility for the loss 
she has incurred. I take into account that the courts are able to reduce a defendants liability 
for negligence, where the claimant shares responsibility for the damage theyve suffered.
Its true that Miss M was contacted out of the blue to discuss her pension and that acting on 
unsolicited advice about a pension could be seen as a risky step to take. But my view is that 
Miss M doesnt bear responsibility for the losses she suffered, because I dont think the 
circumstances overall were sufficiently alarming to require her, reasonably, to act differently. 
As outlined previously, SWL didnt provide Miss M with the warnings it should have done; 
indeed, it didnt provide her with any warnings or give her any indication that there were 
steps she could take to protect herself. And I dont think Miss M, acting reasonably, would 
have got a sense from any other sources that there was a particular need to act with caution 
when dealing with unauthorised businesses. In the absence of any such warnings or 
information, my view is that Miss Ms actions were in keeping with those a reasonable 
person would take. I therefore dont intend to reduce Miss Ms compensation.
In my provisional decision, I also outlined what steps I thought SWL should take to put things 
right for Miss M.
Both parties responded to my provisional decision. Both parties agreed with my provisional 
findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the case once again, and having taken on board the acceptance of my 
provisional findings by both parties, I see no reason to reach a different decision on Miss Ms 
complaint. Therefore, for the reasons outlined in the previous section, I uphold the complaint. 
SWL must now put things right for Miss M in line with the approach I outlined in my 
provisional decision, which I repeat below.
Putting things right
My aim is that Miss M should be put as closely as possible into the position she would now 
be in if SWL had treated her fairly. 
The SSAS only seems to have been used in order for Miss M to make an investment that I 
dont think she would have made but for SWLs actions. So I think that Miss M would have 
remained in her pension plan with SWL and wouldnt have transferred to the SSAS.To compensate Miss M fairly, SWL should compare the actual value of Miss Ms SSAS with 
the notional value if her pension had remained with SWL. If the notional value is greater than 
the actual value, there is a loss.
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from Miss Ms SSAS at the date of my final 
decision. 
My aim is to return Miss M to the position she would have been in but for the actions of 
SWL. This is complicated where an investment is illiquid (meaning it cannot be readily sold 
on the open market), as its value cant be determined. That may be the case here. 
Therefore, as part of calculating compensation:
SWL should agree an amount with the SSAS as a commercial value for any illiquid 
investments, then pay the sum agreed to the SSAS plus any costs, and take 
ownership of those investments. The actual value used in the calculations should 
include anything SWL has paid to the SSAS for illiquid investments. 
Alternatively, if SWL is unable to buy those investments from the SSAS it should 
give them a nil value as part of determining the actual value. Its also fair that 
Miss M should not be disadvantaged while she is unable to close down the SSAS 
and move to a potentially cheaper and more strongly regulated arrangement. So to 
provide certainty to all parties I think its fair that SWL also covers five years worth 
of future administration fees at the current tariff for the SSAS as part of the 
compensation, to allow a reasonable period of time for the SSAS to be closed.
Any outstanding administration charges yet to be applied to the SSAS should also be 
deducted from the actual value.
Notional value
This is the value of Miss Ms investment had it remained with SWL at the date of my final 
decision.
Any pension commencement lump sum or gross income payments Miss M received 
directly from the SSAS which would have been permitted under the tax rules, should be 
treated as notional withdrawals from SWL on the date(s) they were paid, so that they cease 
to take part in the calculation of notional value from those point(s) onwards. 
Payment of compensation
There doesnt appear to be any reason why Miss M needed a pension arrangement that 
wasnt privately held, administered by an established insurance company and under FCA 
regulation. So I dont think its appropriate for further compensation to be paid into the SSAS.
SWL should reinstate Miss Ms pension plan as if its value on the date of my final decision 
was equal to the amount of any loss (and it performs thereafter in line with the funds Miss M 
was invested in). SWL shouldnt reinstate Miss Ms plan if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance  but my understanding is that it will be possible for it to reinstate a 
pension it formerly administered in order to rectify an administrative error that led to the 
transfer taking place. If SWL doesnt consider this is possible, it must explain why. 
If SWL is unable to reinstate Miss Ms pension and it is open to new business, it should set 
up a new plan for a value equal to the amount of any loss. The new plan should have features, costs and investment choices that are as close as possible to Miss Ms original 
pension. Its payment into the new plan should allow for the effect of charges and tax relief (if 
applicable). SWL shouldnt set up a new plan if it considers that its payment will be treated 
as a member contribution in excess of Miss Ms annual allowance, and SWL is unable to 
process the amount in excess of the annual allowance. 
If its not possible to set up a new plan either, SWL should pay the amount of any loss direct 
to Miss M. But if this money had been in a pension, it would have provided a taxable income. 
Therefore compensation paid in this way should be reduced to notionally allow for any 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 
To make this reduction, its reasonable to assume that Miss M is likely to be a basic rate 
taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so a 75% portion of her pension would be taxed at 
20% assuming she is entitled to take the remaining 25% portion tax-free. This results in an 
overall reduction of 15%, which should be applied to the compensation amount if its paid 
direct to Miss M.
If illiquid investments are being left in the SSAS, SWL may ask Miss M to provide an 
undertaking in return, to account to it for the net amount of any payment she may receive 
from those investments in future. SWL will need to meet any costs in drawing up the 
undertaking. If SWL asks Miss M to provide this undertaking, payment of the compensation 
awarded may be dependent upon provision of that undertaking.
If payment of compensation is not made within 28 days of SWL receiving Miss Ms 
acceptance of my final decision, interest should be added to the compensation at the rate of 
8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of payment.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If SWL deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Miss M how much has been taken off. SWL should give Miss M a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Miss M asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax 
on interest from HMRC if appropriate. This interest is not required if SWL is reinstating 
Miss Ms plan for the amount of the loss  as the reinstated sum should, by definition, mirror 
the performance after the date of my final decision of the funds in which Miss M was 
invested.
Details of the calculation should be provided to Miss M in a clear, simple format.
My final decision
I uphold Miss Ms complaint. Scottish Widows Limited must now put things right for Miss M in 
line with the approach outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 December 2023. 
Christian Wood
Ombudsman