DRN-3649987
The complaint
Mrs J complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc, trading as first direct, wont refund the money she 
lost when she was the victim of a scam.
What happened
In October 2021, Mrs J received a message through an instant messaging service from 
someone claiming to be her son. The message said they had broken their phone so this was 
their new number, and asked Mrs J to delete their old number. They then said they were 
stressed out as they had bills to pay but they couldnt get back into their internet banking yet. 
As she believed the messages were coming from her son, Mrs J offered to pay the bills 
herself and then made a payment of £6,230.25 to the payment details she was given. 
Unfortunately, we now know the messages were coming from a scammer.
Mrs J says she became suspicious when, after shed made the payment, the messages then 
said they needed a further £3,200. She tried to call the number the messages were coming 
from and asked them to confirm information she thought only her son would know. But she 
didnt get an answer and the messages stopped replying to her. Mrs J then contacted HSBC 
to report the scam and ask for her money to be refunded.
HSBC investigated and said it felt it had sufficient fraud prevention measures in place, but 
that Mrs J could have been more careful and carried out more checks before making the 
payment. So it didnt agree to refund her. HSBC was able to recover 32p from the bank the 
money was sent to though. Mrs J wasnt satisfied with HSBCs response, so referred a 
complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at Mrs Js complaint. They didnt think the warning HSBC 
had shown her before she made the payment was effective, or that HSBC had established 
that she didnt have a reasonable basis for believing the payment was going to her son. So 
they felt HSBC should refund the money Mrs J had lost. HSBC disagreed with our 
investigator, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think HSBC should refund the money Mrs J lost. Ill explain why below.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
consumer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the consumer even though they 
authorised the payment.
HSBC is a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(the CRM code). This code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victim 
of authorised push payment scams, like the one Mrs J fell victim to, in all but a limited 
number of circumstances. And it is for the firm to establish that one of those exceptions to 
reimbursement applies.
Under the CRM code, a firm may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish that:
 The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made
 The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that:
o the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay;
o the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
o the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate
There are further exceptions within the CRM code, but these dont apply here.
Did Mrs J ignore an effective warning in relation to the payment?
The CRM code says that, where firms identify APP scam risks, they should provide effective 
warnings to their customers. It sets out that an effective warning should enable a customer 
to understand what actions they need to take to address a risk and the consequences of not 
doing so. And it says that, as a minimum, an effective warning should be understandable, 
clear, impactful, timely and specific.
As the payment Mrs J made was for a large amount, I think HSBC should have identified a 
scam risk and so should have provided an effective warning to her.
HSBC has sent us a copy of the warning it says Mrs J was shown when making the payment 
on her mobile banking app. But this warning starts off talking about fraudsters asking people 
to move money to a safe account or mislead the bank about the reason for the payment, 
neither of which were relevant to Mrs J. And the warning then talks about fraudsters posing 
as friends or going through social media or dating sites, which also isnt relevant to what was 
happening to Mrs J. So I dont think the warning Mrs J was shown was effective in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC has said that, when reporting the scam, Mrs J accepted she wouldnt have made the 
payment if shed seen the warning. So it says the warning must therefore have been 
effective. But I dont agree Mrs J was referring to the warning when she said this  I think 
she was referring to hearing a voice that didnt sound like her son when she later called his 
old number. So I still dont think the warning HSBC provided was effective.
And so I dont think Ms J ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment she made.
Did Mrs J have a reasonable basis for belief when making the payment?
The types of scams are particularly cruel and play on the trust and emotive nature of the 
relationship between a parent and their child. Mrs J has said she believed the messages 
were coming from her son and that she was concerned he was in trouble and needed her 
help.
Mrs J has sent us copies of previous conversations with her son using the same instant 
messaging service the scammers used, so it wasnt unusual for her son to contact her in this 
way. And the previous genuine messages are all relatively brief and direct, similar to the 
messages from the scammer. So I dont think there was anything about the tone or pattern 
of the messages that should have suggested to Mrs J that they werent coming from her son.The messages said Mrs Js son couldnt get his online banking set up on his new phone until 
the following day, which I think is a plausible explanation for why they couldnt make the 
payment themselves and needed Mrs Js help. And the messages also promised they would 
pay Mrs J back the following day, which I think will have been reassuring to her.
Mrs J did ask what the payment was for and was told it was to buy shares through a work 
scheme, which I think is a plausible explanation for the payment. And she asked who the 
person she was actually sending money to was and if there were any documents she could 
be sent showing the details, and was again given plausible explanations of who the person 
was and why she couldnt be sent documents at the time. Mrs J therefore did make some 
attempts to confirm what was going on and I think its reasonable that the explanations she 
was given will have reassured her it was genuine.
When Mrs J was setting up the payment, she was shown a message saying that the 
payment details she had entered had been successfully matched to those on the account 
the money was going to. And shes suggested that this also helped reassure her the 
payment was genuine, which I also think is reasonable.
HSBC has said that Mrs J hadnt spoken to her son for some time and that any previous 
requests for money hed made had been done over the phone, so she should have been 
concerned that the messages came out of the blue and through a different channel. But 
Mrs J has said that, because they hadnt spoken for some time, she thought her son might 
be feeling ashamed and so asking by text rather than over the phone. And that, as hed said 
he was feeling stressed, she didnt want to stress him out any further by asking too many 
questions. And I dont think these were unreasonable assumptions to make.
I also dont think the warning message Mrs J was shown should have caused her significant 
concern as, for the same reasons Ive explained above, I dont think it will have seemed 
relevant to her circumstances.
I think that there were some things about the situation which should have caused Mrs J 
some concern. But I dont think these concerns were significant enough to overcome her 
initial trust that she was speaking to her son and her concern about his wellbeing. And I dont 
think they were significant enough to say that Mrs J acted unreasonably in still believing that 
she was speaking to her son.
So I think Mrs J did have a reasonable basis for belief when she made the payment.
Overall then, I dont think HSBC has established that Mrs J ignored an effective warning in 
relation to the payment, or made the payment without a reasonable basis for belief. So I 
think HSBC should refund the money Mrs J lost in full, under the terms of the CRM code.
As Mrs J has now been without the money used to make the payment for some time, and so 
has been denied use of it, I also think HSBC should pay her compensatory interest at the 
rate of 8% simple a year, from the date it initially rejected her claim until the date the money 
is refunded.
Mrs J has suggested she should be paid compensation as a result of HSBCs decision to 
decline her claim. But from what Ive seen of the circumstances of this case, I dont think it 
would be fair to require HSBC to pay any further compensation  beyond the interest set out 
above.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and require HSBC UK Bank Plc, 
trading as first direct, to:
Refund the remaining £6,229.93 Mrs J lost as a result of this scam
Pay 8% simple interest on this refund from the date it initially rejected Mrs Js claim 
until the date of settlement
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2022. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman