DRN-2140161
The complaint
Mr K says PDL Finance Limited, trading as Mr Lender, (PDL), irresponsibly lent to him. The 
complaint is brought to this service on Mr Ks behalf by a claims management company. But 
for ease I shall refer below to all actions being taken by Mr K.
What happened
This complaint is about seven short term loans PDL provided to Mr K between 
February 2015 and January 2017. Loans 1, 2 and 6 were repayable by three monthly 
repayments, Loan 4 by five monthly repayments, Loans 3 and 7 by six monthly repayments, 
and Loan 5 by twelve monthly repayments. All the loans have been repaid. Mr Ks borrowing 
history is as follows:
Loan number Date of 
loanRepayment 
dateLoan 
amount 
1. 10/2/15 28/4/15 £350
2. 28/4/15 28/7/15 £350
3. 30/7/15 28/1/16 £750
4. 3/2/16 28/6/16 £400
5. 8/7/16 29/9/16 £1,500
6. 1/11/16 22/12/16 £200
7. 3/1/17 8/8/19 £700
PDL, in its final response letter, said that there wasnt enough information in Mr Ks 
complaint to investigate the loans. So, it was unable to uphold any of the loans.
our adjudicators view
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Ks complaint in part and said Loans 3 to 7 shouldnt have been 
given. He said that by Loan 3 a full review of Mr Ks circumstances was needed. Such 
checks would most likely have shown that Mr K was having problems managing his money 
as he was using a number of other short term lenders at the same time as PDL. In these 
circumstances PDL ought to have realised it was unlikely that Mr K would have been able to 
sustainably repay Loan 3 and any subsequent loans. The adjudicator also said that by   
Loan 7 the overall pattern of borrowing suggested that Mr K was persistently reliant on short 
term loans and the pattern of lending itself showed that the loans from here were 
unsustainable. 
PDL responded to say that it would have been disproportionate to carry out a full financial 
review at Loan 3. At this point of the borrowing relationship, it wouldnt be expected to verify 
to that depth the information that Mr K provided to it. PDL was entitled to rely upon the 
information that Mr K provided given that the previous loans were repaid with no signs of 
financial difficulty. PDL also queried why the adjudicator had upheld Loan 3 when Mr K only 
had two other payday loans. It also said that an income and expenditure assessment had 
been carried out when assessing the suitability and affordability of these loans, which also 
took into account the amount Mr K was paying to other creditors. With regard to the 
adjudicators reasons for upholding Loan 7, PDL said that it didnt believe that the loan 
amount roughly staying the same was a factor as behaviour such as borrowing a lower 
amount would not indicate reliance on the product.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr K 
and to PDL on 30 July 2020.  I summarise my findings:
I noted that when PDL lent to Mr K the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority and 
relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). The 
CONC contained guidance for lenders about responsible lending. 
I said that PDL needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this meant that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr K 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I thought less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that PDL should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors included:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer had been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There might even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrated that the lending was unsustainable.
I thought it was important to say that PDL was required to establish whether Mr K could 
sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation. 
I explained that the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it didnt automatically follow this 
was the case. This was because the CONC defined sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the consumer should be able to make repayments, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it followed that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wouldnt be able to make their repayments sustainably if they were unlikely to be 
able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Id carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all meant for Mr Ks complaint. 
I noted that PDL made some checks before it lent to Mr K. It had asked him for details of his 
income, and his normal expenditure. And it had checked his credit file before agreeing the 
loans. Id seen a brief summary of those checks which showed a credit score, that he hadnt 
been made bankrupt and he wasnt in an individual voluntary arrangement in the previous 
three years. I didnt think that the results of these checks should have caused additional 
concerns to PDL.
Id also seen Mr Ks own credit report.
Id thought that the checks PDL made before agreeing the first two loans were proportionate. 
The amounts that Mr K needed to repay were moderate compared with the disposable 
income hed declared. 
Given these repayment amounts, what was apparent about Mr Ks circumstances at the 
time, and his borrowing history with the lender, I didnt think it wouldve been proportionate 
for PDL to have asked him for the amount of information that would have been needed to 
show the lending was unsustainable before agreeing the first two loans. 
I noted that Mr K had borrowed Loan 3 just two days after repaying Loan 2. This was the 
second time hed taken out a new loan very shortly after repaying his previous loan. I 
thought that this suggested he was most likely unable to repay his previous loan without 
taking out a new one and was borrowing again to fill a gap in his finances. The amount hed 
borrowed was more than double the amount of Loan 2. The repayments were a significant 
part of his declared income and he was also committed to paying them for a far longer 
period than his previous loans, over six months. Given the size of those repayments I didnt 
think it was reasonable for PDL to have relied on the disposable income that Mr K had 
declared. I thought PDL should have taken steps to gain a far more comprehensive 
understanding of Mr Ks financial situation before agreeing Loan 3 than it had for his earlier 
loans. 
Id looked at Mr Ks credit report to see what better checks would have shown PDL. It was 
clear from the report that Mr K had been facing significant problems managing his money for 
some time. He had outstanding short term loans with four other lenders which he would have 
needed to repay at the same time as his new loan from PDL. And hed had a number of 
accounts that had either already been defaulted or were in arrears. I didnt think, having 
seen that information, a responsible lender would have concluded that it was likely Mr K 
could meet the repayments on Loan 3 in a sustainable manner. So, I didnt think PDL should 
have agreed to give Mr K this loan. 
I also thought that PDL needed to do more checks before it agreed Loan 4. By that time     
Mr K had been borrowing from the lender for almost a year with barely any breaks, and   
Loan 4 had served to increase his indebtedness for a further five months. The amount Mr K 
was asking to borrow was larger than each of his first two loans. I thought all this should 
have caused concerns to PDL and it should have realised that it couldnt safely rely on the 
information Mr K was providing about his finances. So, it should have considered it 
necessary to have made more checks than it had made before agreeing Loan 4. Id again looked at Mr Ks credit report to see what better checks would have shown PDL. It 
was clear from the report that Mr K was still facing significant problems managing his money. 
He had outstanding short term loans with three other lenders. Another account had defaulted 
less than three months previously and he had a number of accounts in arrears. I thought 
from that information it was likely that PDL would have understood that Mr K wasnt in a 
position to repay Loan 4 sustainably. So, I didnt think PDL should have agreed this loan. 
Id also looked at the overall pattern of PDLs lending history with Mr K, with a view to seeing 
if there was a point at which PDL should reasonably have seen that further lending was 
unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so, PDL should have realised that it shouldnt have 
provided any further loans. Given the circumstances of Mr Ks case, I thought that this point 
had been reached by Loan 5.
The amount Mr K had asked to borrow on Loan 5 had substantially increased, his monthly 
repayments were his highest yet, and as Mr K was taking this loan over 12 months, he was 
entering into a commitment for a significant period of time. By this time, Mr K had been 
borrowing, with barely any breaks from PDL for almost 17 months. Over that time, he hadnt 
made any inroads into the amount hed owed PDL. If PDL had made better checks it would 
have seen that Mr K had two defaulted accounts in the six weeks prior to Loan 5 as well as 
three outstanding short term loans. 
I thought PDL should have realised that it was likely Mr K was dependent on its lending and 
his indebtedness was increasing unsustainably. I thought that Mr K lost out because PDL 
continued to provide borrowing from Loan 5 onwards because these loans had the effect of 
unfairly prolonging Mr Ks indebtedness by allowing him to continue to take expensive credit 
intended for short-term use over an extended period of time. The cumulative length of time 
hed been borrowing from PDL was likely to have had negative implications on Mr Ks ability 
to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost loans. And the 
fact that most of the loans were repaid by the due date didnt mean that they were repaid 
sustainably, or without causing Mr K undue difficulty. 
Id noted there was a short gap between Loans 5 and 6 and that the amount of Loan 6 was 
his lowest yet. But I didnt think the gap was anywhere near long enough and the loan 
amount was anywhere near low enough to give PDL any confidence that Mr Ks finances 
had stabilised. This was shown when shortly after Loan 6 was repaid, Mr K borrowed Loan 7 
and the loan amount had more than trebled.
Subject to any further representations by Mr K or PDL my provisional decision was that I 
intended to uphold this complaint in part. I intended to order PDL to put things right as 
shown below. 
Putting things right  what PDL needs to do
1. Refund any interest and charges paid by Mr K on Loans 3 to 7
2. Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the date      
they were paid to the date of settlement*. 
3. Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ks credit file in relation to 
    Loans 3 and 4;
4. The length of his borrowing relationship means any information recorded about Loans 5    
to 7 is adverse. So, all entries about Loans 5 to 7 should be removed from Mr Ks credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires PDL to take off tax from this interest. PDL must give Mr K 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
Mr K hasnt provided any further information in response to my provisional decision. PDL responded to say, in summary, that its credit check before Loan 3 showed one payday 
loan and no defaults. This was supported by what Mr K had told it. Hed said that he was 
paying £103 towards other loans and had confirmed that the information hed provided was 
true and complete. PDL said there was no cause for concern which indicated it needed to 
gain further information or decline the application. PDL also said that the loan amount on 
Loan 4 had decreased significantly. In addition, the lender said that none of its credit checks 
showed that Mr K had defaulted accounts and it noted that it can take time for credit files to 
be updated. There was also no reason to request bank statements.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
I have considered carefully what PDL said in response to my provisional decision. 
With regard to Loan 3, I note that PDL said that it had no cause for concern which indicated 
a need to gain further information or decline the application. But I disagree. As Ive said 
above, in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks may be reasonable 
and proportionate. But certain factors may point to the fact that a lender should fairly and 
reasonably do more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include a higher amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income). The highest monthly repayment 
on Loan 3 was a significant proportion of Mr Ks declared monthly income and I think this 
and Mr Ks increasing loan amounts should have caused PDL concerns. In addition, Loan 3 
was also the second time that Mr K had borrowed within two days of his previous loan being 
repaid. I think the need to borrow so soon after a previous loan should have concerned PDL 
and may have indicated that Mr K needed to borrow in order to fill a hole in his finances that 
was made by making a repayment to PDL. This wasnt a sustainable form of borrowing. The 
loan was also to be repaid for a longer period than any of Mr Ks previous loans. So, I think 
that PDLs checks needed to go further and that it should have independently reviewed the 
true state of Mr Ks finances before giving him Loan 3. 
I note that PDL said that its credit checks before Loan 3 had shown one other payday loan 
and no defaults. But they did show that Mr K was using short term loans. I accept this of 
itself may not have concerned PDL. But when the other circumstances of the borrowing were 
taken into account, PDL ought to have looked into Mr Ks financial situation in more detail.
I also note that PDL had said that Mr K had confirmed that hed provided true and complete 
information. I think that PDL was entitled to rely on what it was being told up to a point. But I 
also think that PDL ought to have considered why a person with an apparent high level of 
disposable income was coming back to it for a third loan in nearly six months with only a two 
day break in borrowing. I also think that Mr Ks rapid reborrowing history might have 
suggested to PDL that it could no longer rely on the information Mr K had provided before 
Loan 3. So, I think PDL should have sought more assurances about Mr Ks finances. 
I also note that PDL said that the loan amount for Loan 4 had decreased. But, for the 
reasons set out above, I still think that PDL needed to do more checks before it agreed that 
loan.The regulations arent prescriptive about what checks a lender ought to do. So PDL didnt 
necessarily have to ask Mr K for his bank statements. PDL could have asked Mr K for more 
information about his living costs, other commitments and debts. And it could have asked 
him to see proof of these in another form or used whatever means it thought appropriate to 
satisfy itself that it had an accurate picture of Mr Ks circumstances. 
So, after considering the points made by PDL, Im not persuaded to change my findings from 
those set out in my provisional decision. It follows that I uphold part of the complaint and 
require PDL to pay Mr K some compensation and take the steps set out below.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this complaint 
I order PDL Finance Limited, trading as Mr Lender, to put things right as set out below: -
1. Refund any interest and charges paid by Mr K on Loans 3 to 7
2. Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the date     
they were paid to the date of settlement*. 
3. Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ks credit file in relation to 
    Loans 3 and 4;
4. The length of Mr Ks borrowing relationship means any information recorded about    
Loans  5 to 7 is adverse. So, all entries about Loans 5 to 7 should be removed from 
Mr Ks credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires PDL to take off tax from this interest. PDL must give Mr K 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2020. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman