DRN-3938649
The complaint
Mr H complained about the way Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited 
(Sun Life) handled his query about a proposed increase in his Income Replacement Plan 
payments. He also felt he was misled about the plan benefits and not told that the value of 
his units could be reduced to zero, which meant he wouldnt be able to take a cash payment 
at the end of the plan as hed been led to understand. 
What happened
In 1997, Mr H took out an Income Replacement Plan. In return for a monthly premium, the 
plan gave Mr H the reassurance of being paid a monthly income benefit if he was unable to 
work as a result of disability due to accident or sickness. 
The premiums Mr H paid bought units in his chosen investment fund. Units were then 
cancelled each month to pay the administration charge and the cost of providing the cover 
until the next premium was due. Any remaining units provided the plan with an accrued 
value which was intended to help meet the plan costs later on. 
By 2011, the costs of providing the cover exceeded the premium Mr H was paying and the 
accrued value was used to support the increasing cost of life cover to maintain the 
continuation of the sum assured. This subsidised Mr Hs level of cover up until November 
2021. 
Sun Life wrote to Mr H on 14 October 2021  essentially, he would have to choose whether 
to pay more to continue his existing cover, reduce the level of cover, adjust the deferment 
period to bring the premium down to an amount he wanted to pay or discontinue the plan. 
But the way things were set out in the letter was at odds with other information Sun Life 
provided  and all of this came as a surprise to Mr H. 
This prompted Mr H to contact Sun Life to try to understand what was happening. 
Sun Life has acknowledged that technical issues when IT changes were made impacted 
adversely on service and response times and it admitted there had been delays and poor 
communications when Mr H got in touch about this. It explained why Mr H needed to 
consider future funding of his plan. It agreed that information included in a statement issued 
in November 2021 was at variance with options Sun Life had set out in the letter sent to 
Mr H on 14 October 2021. Sun Life offered Mr H £250 for the trouble and upset this had 
caused and the delay in communications.
Mr H didn't feel this went far enough to resolve things and so he brought the complaint to us 
and one of our investigators looked into what happened.   
Our investigator didnt feel that Sun Life needed to take any further action. She said the offer 
of £250 was fair and reasonable to reflect the impact on Mr H of Sun Lifes delays and poor 
communications and the problem with the options and figures quoted in the 14 October 2021 
letter. 
Mr H disagreed with our investigator. In brief summary, he mainly said:
he was concerned the investigator might not have considered all the paperwork
Sun Lifes representative had clearly told him he would accrue units every year which 
would belong to Mr H and could be redeemed at the end of the policy if he didnt 
make a claim
the surrender value was a major sales feature and one of the reasons he chose this 
plan 
plan paperwork clearly states that the increase in monthly payments and benefit 
would be reviewed annually and be in accordance with the Retail Price Index or 12% 
whichever is the lesser. It did not refer to any other changes.
had Mr H been alerted to problems with the plan earlier he might have discontinued it 
sooner
the letter sent on 14 October 2021 was confusing, contradictory and  was 
horrifying and extremely upsetting to receive.
the compensation offered wasnt enough to cover premiums he continued to pay, 
including premiums taken after he instructed Sun Life to discontinue the plan and he 
disagrees with the investigators suggestion that he needs to bring a separate 
complaint about this when he feels this is all part of the same overall issue. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Id like to reassure Mr H that whilst I have summarised things in my own words, Ive thought 
carefully about everything Ive seen and been told. We provide an informal service as a free 
alternative to the courts and no discourtesy is intended if I do not address every point raised. 
Ive concentrated on what seem to me to be the core issues in deciding the complaint and 
I will deal with everything that affects the outcome.
Its my understanding that the crux of Mr Hs complaint is that he was led to understand that 
the plan would have a cash value at the end if he didnt make a claim on it and the way Sun 
Life communicated with him about this was upsetting and badly handled. 
I sympathise with Mr H  I can understand that whats happened has been upsetting and 
frustrating for him. But what he says isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold his 
complaint. I must look at all the available information and decide what I think is most likely on 
a balance of probabilities. This means making some reasonable assumptions where theres 
only limited information. And I must be impartial. Theres more information on our website 
which explains the Financial Ombudsman Service approach.
Despite what Mr H recalls from his meeting with Sun Lifes representative when he decided 
to take out the plan, the point of sale paperwork included Important Information about the 
projected cash value and what Mr H might get back at the expiry age of his plan. It said: 
These figures are only examples and are not guaranteed. They are not minimum or 
maximum amounts. What you will get back depends on how your investments grow. You 
could get back more or less than this. This point was re-stated elsewhere in the information 
sheet. 
So, on balance, I cant fairly say that Sun Life didnt provide Mr H with accurate information 
about the possibility his plan might not deliver a cash value at the end. And given that the 
main aim of the protection plan was to provide Mr H with a monthly income if an illness or accident stopped him from being able to work, I dont find that the plan was unsuitable for 
Mr Hs needs or circumstances. 
Sun Life reviewed the plan each year to make sure the premium he paid was enough to 
maintain his current cover. When it became evident in 2021 that Mr H wasnt paying enough 
to maintain the level of cover he had under the plan and the accrued value had all been used 
up, Sun Life wrote to him on 14 October to alert him to the situation.
The purpose of the letter was to enable Mr H to decide what to do. Whilst I've taken into 
account what Mr H says about the content of this letter, and I appreciate it was upsetting for 
him to receive, I dont find that the tone or content was inappropriate, unfair or unreasonable. 
But, as Sun Life has admitted, the information Mr H needed to know wasnt well set out and 
I can see why it simply caused confusion. 
Sun Life has explained that around this time, after making changes to its IT systems which 
were intended to lead to improvements for customers, there were technical issues arising 
causing delays and other problems. Its unfortunate this meant Sun Life had a backlog which 
led to it not dealing as promptly with Mr Hs queries and concerns as he was reasonably 
entitled to expect. 
I think Sun Life is right to have acknowledged that it could have handled things better  its 
letter of 14 October 2021 could have been clearer and I have no doubt that the admitted 
delays in communication that followed added to Mr Hs concern and frustration.
I consider the offer of £250 made by Sun Life fairly reflects the impact on Mr H of the 
shortcomings on its part. And although the offer was originally time limited and the deadline 
for acceptance has expired, Mr H may wish to know that Sun Life has nevertheless 
confirmed its willingness to hold this offer open for acceptance, which I think reflects its 
intention throughout to try and reach a fair resolution on Mr Hs complaint. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr H as I understand he was hoping for additional compensation. But 
as Im satisfied that the redress Sun Life has previously offered is fair, Im not telling it to take 
any further action beyond paying the £250 it has offered.
In coming to my decision, I would just mention that if Mr H is still concerned that Sun Life 
took premiums after he said he wanted to discontinue the plan, he first needs to put this new 
complaint to Sun Life as this was not part of his original complaint that I am dealing with 
here. If Mr H is unable to reach an agreed resolution, then he can bring that complaint to this 
service after Sun Life has first had an opportunity to respond. 
I hope that setting things out as I've done explains how I've reached my conclusions and 
even though this isnt the outcome Mr H hoped for, he will at least feel that his complaint has 
been fully considered by the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr H disagrees with what I've said in my provisional decision. I will briefly summarise here 
some particular concerns he has mentioned, as follows:  
I have incorrectly understood Mr Hs main complaint which is that Sun Life was in 
breach of contract.
The adviser provided numerous illustrations referring to and illustrating projected 
cash valuesnowhere does it state or indicate it would be zero.
Sun Life did not provide accurate information to Mr H in 2011 or subsequently when it should have realised there were issues with the plan.
According to the contract any changes were automatic and so Mr H should not have 
had to make any decisions.
Sun Lifes letter of 14 October 2021 lacked any proper explanation, was contradictory 
and gave Mr H no reasonable options. Mr H says changes to IT systems cant be an 
excuse  he puts it this way: a computer does not write such nonsense.
Sun Life failed to handle his complaint properly and  were unable to resolve the 
basic query as to why they were breaching the contract and changing payments and 
benefits. This is not just a major IT issue but a management failure issue. 
£250 compensation doesnt cover the payments and time Mr H has had to spend 
trying to get a reasonable resolution.
Mr H feels that his complaint about Sun Life continuing to take payments after they 
were instructed to stop is all part of the same issue.
Mr H feels strongly that it is not just his complaint that needs to be investigated but 
Sun Life Income Replacement Plans, how they are set up and how they are sold. 
Sun Life has acknowledged my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for all the information that has been provided about this matter 
and Mr H for responding to my provisional decision in such detail. Whilst I have summarised 
the main issues partly in my own words, and sometimes in less detail than Mr H, Id like to 
assure him I've thought about everything hes said and carefully considered the additional 
documentation hes sent me.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address everything Mr H has mentioned on a point by 
point basis as thats not what Im required to do in order to reach a fair decision in this case. 
I appreciate this might be frustrating from Mr Hs point of view. But its part of my role to 
identify and concentrate on the issues I need to address in order to reach a fair outcome. 
I hope Mr H understands I intend no discourtesy when I comment here only on the things 
that affect the outcome of his complaint. 
I am sorry Mr H feels that I have failed to properly understand that his main complaint 
concerns breach of contract. But its not within the remit of this service to decide matters of 
contract law  thats something that only a court can determine. I identified the complaint 
issues that I can address. 
Ive concentrated just on Mr Hs initial complaint. Although I can understand why Mr H wants 
me to widen the scope of my review to include his concerns about Sun Life having continued 
to take direct debit payments until Mr H cancelled these himself, this is not within the remit 
this complaint. If Mr H has further cause for complaint that goes beyond the scope of the 
complaint he brought to us in April 2022, then he needs to first tell Sun Life what his 
concerns are, so it has an opportunity to respond. If he still feels unhappy after that, he may 
be able to bring a new complaint to this service. We cant award redress for any complaint 
where the financial business hasnt first been given a chance to put things right. I note that Mr H brought his complaint to this service shortly after Sun Life said it was yet 
to respond in full to explain what has happened. So I think it's fair to say events were 
overtaken by Mr H bringing his complaint to this service and Sun Life then continued its 
correspondence with us. Its not however in our services jurisdiction to look further into 
complaints about the way Sun Life dealt with Mr Hs complaint. The industry regulator, the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), says our service can only look into complaints about 
regulated activities and complaint handling isnt a regulated activity.  
I can consider the customer service Mr H received  which is what I've done in my decision. 
The way a financial business operates, the products it sells and its internal systems are 
subject to oversight and regulation by the FCA. So although I understand that Mr Hs 
concerns go beyond his own complaint I can only look at his complaint.
Mr H hasnt provided me with any new information that changes what I think about this case. 
Id already considered the main points he has mentioned above when thinking about my 
provisional decision and addressed all the points raised which had a bearing on the 
outcome.
I can tell Sun Life to pay compensation or take other steps to put things right if I am satisfied 
that Sun Life did something wrong or acted unfairly or unreasonably and this led to Mr H 
suffering some detriment and/or financial loss. 
Its not disputed that Sun Lifes letter of 14 October 2021 included incorrect information and 
was unhelpful and confusing. Sun Life admitted, and I have found, there were delays and 
failures of communication. What I have to decide is what Sun Life needs to do to put things 
right.
Sun Life offered to pay £250 for the trouble and upset the matter caused Mr H and for the 
delay in communications. This seems fair to me. If Sun Life hadnt already volunteered this 
payment, I cant fairly say that I have seen enough to make me think it would be fair and 
reasonable to award any more than £250. 
I havent been provided with anything to show that Mr H suffered actual financial loss. 
And whilst hes mentioned his own time spent dealing with his complaint, this isnt a reason 
for me to increase any award of redress.  
I can understand that Mr H is disappointed in the outcome of his complaint but I hope that 
setting things out as Ive done helps explain how Ive come to my view.Putting things right
To put things right, Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited should pay the 
offer it made to settle Mr Hs complaint (if it hasnt already done this). 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited to 
pay Mr H £250 redress.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman