DRN-1239546
The complaint
Mr W complains Santander made mistakes when he wanted to activate his credit card.
What happened
Mr W brought his complaint to us as he was unhappy with the Final Response Letter FRL 
hed received from Santander which didnt uphold his complaint. Santander told Mr W that 
due to his date of birth (DOB) showing incorrectly on their systems he was unable to pass 
full security checks when he phoned. And that due to their internal security policy they 
werent able to discuss with him, at the time he called, the areas in which hed failed the 
security process. Santander told Mr W after listening to the six call recordings they found 
their policy and procedure was explained clearly to him and hed been correctly advised to 
come into the branch to verify his identity  and consequently activate his card - as he was 
unable to pass security on the phone. Santander acknowledged and apologised that the 
incorrect DOB was their error but said theyd made him aware how this could be corrected. 
They thought their call centre had done everything they could within the constraints of their 
policies. 
Our investigator could see from the application form that an incorrect DOB was entered. He 
thought it was reasonable for Santander to want to take steps to confirm they were speaking 
to the correct person. And after listening to the calls he didnt think the staff were poorly 
mannered and thought they were trying to help explain the situation to Mr W. So he didnt 
uphold the complaint.
Mr W didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review his case. He told us an employee 
of Santander filled in his application form on a computer and negligently put in the wrong 
DOB. And Mr W told us he objected to the investigator implying he didnt know his own DOB. 
Mr W told us the call centre didnt express why theyd stopped his credit card and were rude 
and impatient with him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator has given a full summary of the background to this complaint in the letter 
giving his opinion so I shant repeat that here. Im afraid theres not a great deal I can add to 
what the investigators already told Mr W. I think hes covered most points quite clearly. 
The information Santander have sent us satisfies me there was a discrepancy with the DOB, 
so I dont think the actions they took in confirming Mr Ws identity  before activating his card 
- were unreasonable. Theres nothing before me to show the staff were either rude or 
impatient in the calls. And although I dont doubt it was stressful for Mr W not to know the 
reasons for the problem with his card in these calls, I cant say it was unreasonable for 
Santander to decline an explanation until his identity was verified in line with their 
procedures. 
Ive taken into account Mr Ws point that it was Santander who inputted the incorrect DOB 
and their admission to this in the FRL. But Im afraid this doesnt alter my view. Ultimately its 
Mr Ws responsibility to check the information in his application is true and correct. Hes 
signed a declaration to that effect at the end of the application process. So, overall I dont 
think Santander have acted unreasonably here and I cant uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2020.
 
Annabel O'Sullivan
Ombudsman