DRN-1092127
The complaint
Ms S has complained that National Westminster Bank plc (NatWest) improperly shared 
personal information about her with a third party.
What happened
Ms S went to her NatWest branch because she wanted to close an account and withdraw 
the balance in cash.  She couldnt do that because of the time the banks checks for cash 
withdrawals took to complete, and she had to leave for an appointment.  So she went back 
to the branch the following day.
When she arrived, she waited in the banking hall.  While she was waiting, she saw the 
member of staff shed spoken to the day before coming from a back area.  The staff member 
was with someone who wasnt in a bank uniform.  They walked through the banking hall 
having a conversation, stopped on the other side from Ms S and continued talking.
They were then joined by a second member of staff  who was later identified as the branch 
manager.  Ms S says she saw the staff member speak to the manager.  Then all three 
looked across at Ms S.  As the manager crossed the banking hall, Ms S attracted her 
attention and spoke to her. The manager said she understood Ms S had come in the 
previous day to make a cash withdrawal.  She knew the amount Ms S was withdrawing.
Ms S completed her withdrawal and took her cash away.  But she was unhappy because 
she thought the staff member had told the manager why Ms S had come into the branch in 
front of a third party.  She thought this was a breach of GDPR.  And she said it made her feel 
unsafe carrying a large amount of cash away from the branch.
Ms S complained to NatWest about what had happened.  NatWest investigated, but didnt 
uphold her complaint.  They said theyd talked to both members of staff.  And both had said 
that they didnt discuss Ms Ss withdrawal in front of another customer.  So thered been no 
data protection breach.
Ms S wasnt satisfied with NatWests response, so she brought her complaint to us.  She 
said the branch manager had told her the staff member had mentioned Ms S was the 
customer who wanted to withdraw a large sum in cash.  And she said that the branch CCTV 
footage would show the staff werent giving a true account of what happened.
Our investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think that NatWest should have done 
anything differently.  He considered the evidence, including the CCTV footage.  But this 
didnt cover all areas of the branch.  And it didnt have sound.  So he couldnt decide from 
that who had said what.  
Ms S didnt agree with the investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Ms Ss complaint.  Ill explain why.
But first I should say that Ive not looked at the CCTV footage.  Its not been retained on our 
system.  And by the time the complaint was passed to me, NatWest didnt have a copy any 
more.  So Ive had to base my decision on what Ms S and the NatWest staff members said 
about what happened.
The NatWest staff say they didnt discuss details of why Ms S had come to the branch with, 
or in front of, anyone else.  The branch manager confirmed that she did mention to Ms S that 
she knew she was coming in to make a withdrawal  but when she was with Ms S at the 
counter, not in front of another customer.  She says the staff member had told her earlier in 
the day Ms S would be coming in, because Ms S hadnt been happy with the service shed 
had the day before and had asked for the managers name.  Shed intended to reassure    
Ms S that she knew why shed come in.
Ms S hasnt said she could hear what was said between the branch manager, the staff 
member and the third party when they were on the other side of the banking hall.  Her belief 
they were talking about her is based on the fact that all three looked over at her.
I dont doubt that all three did look over.  And I accept that the branch manager did refer to 
Ms S making a withdrawal when she and Ms S were standing together.  But, without 
evidence, I cant decide that the manager got that information from the staff member 
immediately beforehand  and in front of the third party. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding Ms Ss complaint about National Westminster 
Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2020.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman