DRN-3706449
The complaint
Mr A and his mother - Mrs A - are unhappy that Citibank UK Limited has not refunded them 
after Mr A was the victim of a safe account scam.
Whilst this was a joint account, it was Mr A that fell victim to the scam and is acting on behalf 
of both account holders in bringing this complaint  so I have only referred to him throughout 
this decision.
What happened
The details are well known to both parties and were set out in the investigators view of 15 
June 2022 - so I wont repeat them here. The investigator upheld the complaint in part  
upholding from the third transfer of £14,999.99 onwards but she did not uphold the first two 
transfers Mr A made. She also felt it appropriate to reduce the refund by 50% as she felt Mr 
A should share in the responsibility for his losses.
Citibank accepted the investigators conclusion, but Mr A did not agree. He thought the bank 
should have identified the first payment as suspicious as it was a high value payment to a 
new payee. He also said that the second payment took place 11 minutes later and should 
also have flagged as suspicious. In terms of the investigators reasoning for the 50% 
deduction on the refund  Mr A feels the story the scammers gave didnt change  he says it 
all centred around the fact that fraudsters had been able to identify all of his UK bank 
account and were trying to compromise them. His other banks have refunded him.
I issued my provisional decision on 18 November 2022 explaining I was reaching an 
outcome that differed in some respects to the investigator. Both parties responded with 
further comments.
Mr A said he does not believe the 50/50 split is fair in his case. He explained that by the time 
he was speaking to whom he genuinely believed was Citibank, he was doing everything to 
protect his and his mothers money. He explained that all of his late fathers hard-earned 
money and lifetime family savings had been deposited with Citibank for over 10 years. He 
considers it unfair that he should have noticed the phone number was a standard mobile 
number and not the banks official number. He said that the pandemic meant many people 
worked form home and used mobiles and his Citibank Relationship Manager would often 
use a mobile to contact him.
Citibank explained that the third transaction was detected as high risk but the second was 
not picked up by its systems as it was not considered high risk. It has to find the balance 
between detecting fraud and limited disruption to genuine clients. It did send a scam script 
with the third payment but its hard to assume the consumer would be honest with more 
questions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered the responses to my provisional decision.
I appreciate in this case Citibanks fraud detection system didnt identify the second 
payment as having high risk characteristics and I do accept there is a balance to be 
struck between identifying payments that could potentially be fraudulent and minimising 
disruption to legitimate payments. And it doesnt automatically follow that a bank is liable 
for a loss, just because a customer is a victim of fraud. But its important to consider 
what wouldve been visible to Citibank in terms of what it knew about how Mr A uses his 
account. In this case, I think it should have done more to protect Mr A on the second 
payment. 
I have noted Mr As comments regarding the mobile number  but it wasnt this on its own  
but rather a combination and accumulation of red flags that I feel ought to have reasonably 
caused concern. I acknowledge that there could be an explanation behind each of the points 
Ive mentioned, when they are all taken into consideration together and holistically, I think 
there was enough going on to question and check things further.
This is a difficult decision to make; Im sorry Mr A has lost a considerable amount of money 
and I can understand why he would like to be compensated for more of his losses. I do 
accept he has fallen victim to what can only be described as a cruel and callous scam. But 
Im only considering whether the bank, which had no involvement in the scam itself, should 
be held responsible for what happened and whether it is fair to hold it responsible for all of 
Mr As losses when there were signs that things were not quite right.  
So, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision. I have 
concluded that the fair and reasonable outcome, in all the circumstances, would be to uphold 
this complaint. For completeness, I have set this out below.
Mr A has referred to the outcomes on his other banks cases. Whilst I appreciate those 
cases were part of the same scam  each case in considered on its own merits. It is 
important to note there are differences  perhaps most notably that Citibank is not a 
signatory to the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM Code) and Mr As other cases 
were resolved informally. So, the outcomes on those cases are not something I will be 
considering in this case.
It is not in dispute that Mr A authorised the payments in question. He was duped by 
scammers into transferring the funds into a fake safe account. They deceived him over the 
phone into thinking that large fraudulent transactions had been attempted on the account. 
I therefore accept that this was an authorised payment even through Mr A was the victim of 
a sophisticated scam. So, although he did not intend the money to go to the fraudsters, 
under the Payment Services Regulations 2017, and the terms and conditions of his account, 
Mr A is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Citibank should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of 
terrorism, and preventing fraud and scams.Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers 
from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
In this case, I need to consider whether Citibank acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings 
with Mr A when he made the transfers, or whether it could and should have done more 
before processing them. 
Did Citibank act fairly and reasonably in Mr As case?
I appreciate the first transfer was to a new payee, but Mr A had made similar and greater 
value transfers than this in the past. There is a balance to be struck between identifying 
payments that could potentially be fraudulent and minimising disruption to legitimate 
payments.
However, I do feel the second payment ought to have caused Citibank concern and the 
evidence indicates that it shouldve done more to protect Mr A when he was making the 
second payment. I think there were indicators that Mr A was potentially falling victim to a 
scam  meaning Citibank missed an opportunity to step in and question the payment 
before it left Mr As account. Ill explain why.
Although the bank statements indicate a high balance remained after the second payment, 
when looking at the actual timings of the transfers  it seems the second transfer left very 
little in the account  certainly when compared to the usual balances. The balance in the 
account was reduced to around £800  unusually low. In the months prior  the balance 
doesnt drop below £43,000 and is usually around £100,000. It was also the second  quite 
large  payment to a new payee within 11 minutes. I think this activity was unusual.
Safe account scams have very particular characteristics, customers will often quickly
consolidate all of their funds into one account and then quickly transfer the total balance 
out, to a new payee, reducing their account balances to zero or almost zero. The activity 
that took place on Mr As account had the hallmarks of a classic safe account scam and is 
exactly the type of suspicious account activity that Citibank should be on the look-out for.
So, I do think the nature of the transaction that Mr A was requesting was unusual and out of 
character compared to his usual account activity. I therefore think Citibank ought fairly and 
reasonably to have made enquiries about the purpose of the £18,585 payment before it 
processed it.
Citibank did in fact intervene on the third transaction - as it recognised itself that the activity 
was not typical and warranted its intervention. But I am persuaded that this ought reasonably 
to have happened on the second transfer for the reasons explained above.
Ive thought about what would most likely have happened, had Citibank intervened on the 
second payment. In doing so Ive considered the interaction it had with Mr A on the third 
payment. As Citibank accepted the investigators findings, it seems that it accepts it would 
have done more during this interaction - but for completeness  I agree and have explained 
why below.Ive thought about the interaction Citibank had with Mr A. But the caller simply asks if Mr A 
has verified the correct account number in order to avoid it going to the wrong person. The 
caller does go on to ask if Mr A has received any calls from government agencies asking to 
making a payment or if anyone has called out of the blue asking for payments. The caller 
then warns: we see a lot of scam cases so just be aware.
I appreciate Mr A gave a false reason for the transfer but Im also mindful that it is widely 
recognised that fraudsters often provide customers with a convincing reason to make a 
payment and that fraudsters often instruct customers not to discuss what has happened with 
the bank. And in those circumstances, as a matter of good practice, it may be appropriate to 
challenge the customer further. No further questioning around the building work is explored. 
This is a common cover story given in scam cases and I think the purpose of payment 
warranted further exploration. The consumer was making a substantial payment to a new 
payee, and it was the second payment to a new payee within 11 minutes. At this point, there 
are numerous red flags that indicate that this is not typical activity for Mr A. I think there was 
enough going on that Citibank ought fairly and reasonably to have made additional checks at 
this point and to have probed further. 
Whilst I accept there is a balance to be struck and there are limits to the depth of questioning 
a firm can pursue, Citibank could  and in my view ought fairly and reasonably  to have 
asked Mr A extra questions in this case, essentially to challenge the purpose of the payment 
and to ask for more detail. For example, it could have asked questions such as, but not 
limited to; what building work had been done, had they paid the builder before, did they have 
any paperwork?
Having thought carefully about this, had it asked further questions, I think it is more likely 
than not that Mr A would have struggled with some of the details underpinning the alleged 
building work and I dont consider he would have been able to provide plausible answers 
that would have satisfied Citibank that he wasnt at risk of financial harm. And in the 
circumstances of this case, I think it more likely than not Citibank would have become more 
concerned. Im mindful that Citibank may have not known for sure, what scam Mr A may 
have been at risk of falling victim to and given the circumstances I understand why. But I 
also think there was enough going on that Citibank ought to have been alert to other scams 
Mr A may have potentially been falling victim to, such as safe account or impersonation 
scams  where typically, as was the case here, entire account balances are almost cleared 
in transactions that dont appear usual against an accounts normal activity.
Overall, Im not persuaded that in this particular case Citibank took enough steps in its 
questioning to assure itself fraud likely wasnt taking place, and that Mr A wasnt at risk of 
financial harm. Im persuaded that had it probed further its more likely than not it would have 
become clear that Mr A was falling victim to a scam, and I dont think he would have gone 
ahead to make the £18,585 payment or the payments that followed.
Should Mr A bear some responsibility for the overall loss? 
Ive also considered whether Mr A should also bear some responsibility for his overall 
losses. In reaching this conclusion, Ive had regard to the scene that was set by the 
fraudsters and the impact I believe this reasonably had on Mr A when acting in the moment. 
I dont think it was unreasonable for Mr A to have trusted that the calls he received earlier 
that day were genuinely from his other banks given that the calls had been spoofed to look 
like they were coming from the genuine banks fraud department. And I understand in a call 
from one of his other banks, he was played a recording of someone he was told was 
impersonating him trying to access his account. So, I can understand why Mr A would be 
concerned and fell victim to the pressure of acting quickly.I also appreciate Mr A may not have fully understood that banks dont transfer calls onto 
each other or might not be aware that banks wouldnt involve a customer in its internal 
investigations. Especially in the moment of a call like this - where by his own confession  Mr 
A wasnt able to think clearly. I can also understand why he lied to the bank  as he thought 
he was helping them with their investigation.
But by the time the fraudster(s) had moved on to Citibanks fraud department the number 
used to contact Mr A for text messages was a standard mobile number rather than a 
recognised bank number and Mr A had now made transfers to a number of safe accounts. 
It also appears the fraudster did not know much about his Citibank balances and I 
understand the balances on the two earlier banks transfers did not completely clear his 
accounts.
I have thought carefully about what it is realistic to have expected Mr A to do when he was 
transferring the sums bearing in mind the pressure, he would have been under in the 
moment of the call like this. But by the time he had reached the Citibank fraud department I 
think there were enough red flags and time to have reflected and questioned things more.
I therefore do feel it is appropriate to reduce the amount of redress the business has to pay 
the consumer by 50%.
Did Citibank do enough to recover Mr As funds?
Ive also thought about whether Citibank took reasonable steps to recover Mr As funds once 
it was made aware he was the victim of a scam. The first scam payment was made on 23 
May 2021 at 12:34 and the last payment made on the same day at 13:50. Mr A reported the 
scam at 16.21 the same day. Citibank appears to have contacted the beneficiary banks 
around an hour or so later. The receiving banks have confirmed that all the money (except 
£4 which was returned to Citibank) had left the accounts within in an hour or two (the final 
withdrawal having taken place at 14:43). So, although Mr A did not know he was a victim of 
a scam earlier than this  it was too late for Citibank to recover the money by the time Mr A 
reported it.
Putting things right
Its not clear whether Citibank has already refunded the £4 recovered from the beneficiary 
bank  but if it hasnt - it should do so now with interest at the rate of 8% from the date it was 
returned to Citibank (7 June 2021) to the date of settlement.
But for the scam, I see no reason why Mr A would have moved money from his different 
currency accounts and so the sums should be returned to the original currency account 
(without incurring any costs or charges) with interest at the originating account rate.
I therefore require Citibank UK Limited to:
- refund 50% Mr As transfers from the second transfer onwards (so 50% of 
£18,585, £14,999.99 and £16,900)
- money should be returned to the currency account from which it 
originated without any costs or charges - along with interest at the 
originating account rates from the date of transfer to the date of 
settlement*;
*If Citibank deducts tax from the interest element of this award, it should provide Mr A with 
the appropriate tax certificate so he might submit a claim to HMRC if applicable.My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint in part and require Citibank UK Limited to put 
things right for Mr A and Mrs A as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman