DRN-3833001
The complaint
Mr R (through a representative) has complained that Indigo Michael Limited (trading as 
Safety Net Credit (SNC)) didnt complete enough affordability checks before providing him 
with the facility. 
What happened
Mr R approached SNC for a Safety Net facility in September 2019. This was a running credit 
account where a consumer could either request funds up to their credit limit, or funds would 
be deposited into their bank account once their account balance fell below a safety net 
amount of the customers choosing. Mr R was not advanced a payday loan.
 
Mr R was initially given a facility with a £100 credit limit in September 2019. His limit was 
increased on four occasions, with the final increase  taking the credit limit to £240 in 
October 2020. 
Mr Rs facility entered arrears in March 2022 and SNC has told the Financial Ombudsman 
that an outstanding balance remains due. 
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Rs complaint. She thought the checks SNC carried 
out before granting this facility were likely proportionate and these checks (which included 
considering the bank transaction data and a credit search) showed that Mr R would be able 
to afford the repayments he was committed to making. 
Although, she did point out that when Mr R didnt work, he wasnt paid, and in the months 
leading up to the facility being approved, he was using savings to supplement his living 
costs. But overall, she concluded SNC had made a reasonable decision to provide the 
facility as well as the credit limit increases. 
The adjudicator also concluded, that due to the way Mr R used the facility, SNC should have 
stopped allowing him to continue using it from 4 May 2021. At this point in time, the 
adjudicator was concerned at the way Mr R was repaying the facility and then quickly 
returning for new funds. 
Mr Rs representative acknowledged receipt of the adjudicators assessment and said it had 
nothing further to add.  
SNC disagreed with the assessment, and Ive summarised its response below. 
No reasons were given as to why the facility was unaffordable or any justifications 
that suggested the facility was unsustainable. 
SNC disagrees that continued use of the facility, is itself a bad thing. 
Being indebted is of itself is not enough for it to suspend the facility.
SNCs monitoring showed the facility was affordable to Mr R and was repaid within a 
reasonable period of time.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time the facility was provided. 
To start with, Mr R wasnt given a payday loan. Instead, he was provided with a credit facility 
where there was an expectation it would be repaid within a reasonable period of time. 
Interest is charged on any balance at 0.8% per day for the first 40 days following the 
drawdown. After the 40 days, a consumer will pay no further interest on that drawdown. 
Throughout the lifetime of a consumer having the facility SNC maintains read-only access to 
their bank statements, in order to allow it to monitor a consumers finances and to carry out 
additional affordability assessments. 
Finally, Mr Rs expected repayment would be calculated to be 5% of the amount due plus 
any interest, fees or charges. But a minimum amount of £20 would be expected to be paid. 
Therefore, when Mr Rs facility was approved for £100 SNC needed to satisfy itself that Mr R 
would be in a position to make the repayment of £20, by carrying out a proportionate check. 
In this case, SNC had a fairly good idea of Mr Rs income and expenditure because it had 
read only access to his bank statements for the year preceding the facility being granted. It 
then used an algorithm to establish what Mr Rs income and what his expenditure was After 
completing this check, in this case, SNC was satisfied that Mr R could afford the minimum 
repayment towards the facility.
It also carried out a credit search before the facility was granted. Ive considered the 
summary of results SNC has provided, and there doesnt appear to have been anything in 
those results which wouldve led SNC to either decline the application or prompted it to have 
carried out further checks before the facility was approved. 
To begin with, it would appear Mr R has accepted our adjudicators opinion, that SNC wasnt 
wrong to approve his running credit facility or to have increased his credit limit. For the 
avoidance of doubt, I also dont think SNC was wrong to have initially granted the facility or 
to have increased the credit limit  although I do have some reservations about Mr Rs 
earnings at the time the facility was provided. But I havent seen enough, considering the 
relevantly small facility SNC had provided to say it shouldnt have granted the facility or 
increased the credit limit. 
So, this decision will focus on whether SNC did enough to monitor Mr Rs facility whilst he 
held it and whether there was a point which SNC should have halted any further borrowing 
on it.
Although I dont think SNC was wrong to have initially granted the facility, I do think, like the 
adjudicator it was unfair for it to have allowed Mr R to continue drawing down on the account 
from 4 May 2021. This is because I think the way he was using the account indicated he 
wasnt using it in a sustainable manner. Ill explain below why I think this is the case.  
At the time, and during the use of the facility, SNC was regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority. The guidance and rules for credit providers has been laid out by the FCA in its 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). I think it reasonable to see what the FCA has said in 
CONC and how it applies to this case. CONC (6.7.2) states that SNC had to:
[A firm must] monitor a customers repayment record and take appropriate action 
where there are signs of actual or possible repayment difficulties
And CONC 1.3 outlines some examples of what financial difficulties (which, of course, 
would be intrinsically linked to, and at the heart of, any repayment difficulties) may look like 
 but CONC 1.3 makes it clear the list is not exhaustive. 
So CONC sets out that SNC was required to monitor Mr Rs use of the facility and then 
CONC 1.3 provides indications which could suggest that a customer was in financial 
difficulty.
In addition to this, SNC has a good indication of Mr Rs actual financial position, because 
throughout the time of him having the facility it had read-only access to his bank account. By 
this point, SNC had seen read only statements since September 2018 and it had seen how 
Mr R had used and managed the facility since it was granted in September 2019. 
In order to see whether I think it was fair to allow Mr R to continue to drawdown, Ive 
considered the relationship between when repayments were made to SNC, the value of 
those payments and then when Mr R returned for further borrowing. After all, if Mr R was 
drawing down similar within days of SNC taking a payment from his account this ought to 
have indicated that SNC was causing him to once again borrow the funds that SNC had just 
taken. 
By monitoring the facility  as it was required to do, SNC wouldve realised that Mr R would 
repay his facility in full (or at the very least the majority of the balance), and then within a 
short space of time, usually within a day or so, Mr R would start to draw back up towards his 
available credit limit. It does seem given the pattern of usage that Mr R would do this, 
typically at least twice each month, and had done so, since the inception of the facility. 
When considering all of the information SNC had available to it about Mr Rs circumstances 
along with the payments SNC was collecting each month, I think by May 2021, it was clear 
that the facility had become unsustainable - and simply collecting the full outstanding 
balance on the account and then allowing Mr R to once again start to borrow funds that had 
been recently collected was detrimental to his financial situation. But instead of doing this 
SNC allowed Mr R to continue to use the facility. 
Indeed, by April 2021, SNC was aware that Mr Rs income was around £1,500 per month 
and in April 2021 he borrowed almost the full amount available to him from SNC - £236. It is 
also worth saying here, that Mr R appears to have borrowed money from a family member. 
However, his living costs  which are only the payments I can see for rent, travel, utilities 
and subscription services (and not including items such as food) came to around £1,100. So, 
the facility may have looked affordable. 
However, in July 2021, Mr R repaid over £500 SNC  clearly repayments at this level were 
no longer sustainable given, the total of his core living costs and repayment to SNC was 
more than his income, which inevitably meant that in May 2021, he returned and borrowed a 
total of £240 (up to his credit limit). I think this was because of the hole left in his finances by 
repaying the facility. By May 2021, Mr R had demonstrated that he wasnt using the facility as SNC had intended, 
he was borrowing down and repaying the facility in the same month, and therefore was in 
effect taking multiple payday loans because he wasnt always benefiting from or making use 
of the interest free period of time. This patterned continued for the rest of the relationship  
the full balance was repaid and then within a day or so Mr R returned for further borrowing. 
Overall and having thought about everything I think that SNC shouldve proactively 
intervened and contacted Mr R to arrange for him to repay what he owed within a 
reasonable period of time. 
Putting things right
If the debt has been sold to a third party, SNC should, if it wishes, buy the debt back and 
then carry out the redress below. If it isnt able to or doesnt wish to buy the debt back then it 
needs to work with the third party to achieve the same results.
A) Remove all the unpaid interest, fees and charges from the account from 4 May 2021.
B) Treat all payments Mr R has made towards his account since 4 May 2021 as though 
they had been repayments of outstanding principal.
C) If at any point Mr R wouldve been in credit on his account after considering the 
above, SNC will need to refund any overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on these payments, from the date they would have arisen, to the date the 
refund is paid.
D) If there is an outstanding principal balance, then SNC can use any refunds calculated 
as part of C to repay this. If a balance remains after this, then SNC should try to 
agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr R. If SNC has previously written-off any 
principal, then it shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up only of principal it 
has already written-off.
E) SNC should remove any adverse payment information recorded on Mr Rs credit file 
from 4 May 2021.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires SNC to take off tax from this interest. SNC must give 
Mr R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Mr Rs complaint in part.
Indigo Michael Limited should put things right for Mr R as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman