DRN-2139503
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G are unhappy that the mortgage endowment policy they took out in late 1991 
with Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited failed to perform as they were promised at the time of 
the sale. They have said they didnt even break even and had to find over £5,500 to pay off 
the rest of their mortgage.
What happened
In 1991 Mr and Mrs G took out an Aviva mortgage endowment policy alongside their 
mortgage. They were recommended to do so by their mortgage lender and it, not Aviva, is 
responsible for whether the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs G. 
The policy was a traditional with-profits endowment, which means it had a basic sum 
assured of £32,271 that would be paid at maturity, plus any bonuses that were added to the 
policy throughout the term. The policy had a target amount of £99,625 and included life 
cover of the same amount. The monthly premium was £132.71 and in total Mr and Mrs G 
paid a little under £40,000 into the policy over the term. They paid mortgage interest to their 
lender in addition to that amount.
When the policy matured in 2016 it paid out a little under £90,000. Mr and Mrs Gs mortgage 
redemption statement showed that they needed to find just over £5,500 to clear their 
mortgage. 
Mr and Mrs G raised a complaint with Aviva in 2016 about the sale of the policy and what 
theyd been told at the time. Aviva explained that their mortgage lender had given them the 
advice they were unhappy with and directed them to contact it with their complaint. 
In December 2019 Mr and Mrs G contacted Aviva again with concerns about the policy and 
its performance. Aviva responded to the complaint and explained how the policy worked and 
how the maturity value had been calculated. It explained that there had never been a 
guarantee about the maturity value and that the target amount being reached was entirely 
dependent on the performance of the funds the policy invested in. It gave some details of the 
causes for the performance being lower than had been expected when the policy was 
arranged. Aviva didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs G werent happy with Avivas response and referred their complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators considered the complaint, but he didnt recommend it be 
upheld. 
Mr and Mrs G didnt accept the investigators conclusions. They explained that whilst they 
had received regular updates from Aviva about the potential for a shortfall on the policy, they 
hadnt been in a financial position to change their arrangements because the alternatives 
were so much more expensive or involved costs they couldnt fund. They said they were told 
the policy would pay out more than they needed to clear their mortgage when it was taken 
out and highlighted that it wasnt their fault the policy had fallen short, but they were the ones 
who had to suffer the consequences.
Mr and Mrs G thought that at the least Aviva could meet them halfway on the shortfall and 
felt it was disgusting a big corporation making money out of the misfortune of people like 
us. They also said they had paid £238 per month for 25 years, which equated to £71,400 
plus the £5,500 shortfall, which meant the policy had only made £22,000 over the 25-year 
term. They considered this was a very poor return and Aviva had a duty to ensure the 
investment reached its target amount.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To uphold a complaint I must be able to say it is fair to do so. That usually means finding a 
business has got something wrong. The policy sold to Mr and Mrs G required them to pay a 
premium and Aviva to invest that premium, taking costs as and when required from the fund. 
As far as I can see that is exactly what it did. The result is what it is. Growth over 25 years 
turned the premiums paid into a maturity value which unfortunately was less than hoped for. 
If I look across the investment industry I see most businesses, indeed most investment 
classes, have had similar problems. The economic and regulatory situation is very different 
now from what it was in 1991. That is also nothing to do with this business. I do not know 
where Avivas investment returns sit in any table of results, but it will no doubt be more 
successful than some but less successful than others. 
The fund the policy invested in was managed to try and get the best returns possible. It was, 
and is, in no ones interests for the fund to do badly. To put it another way the success of the 
business and the individual managers involved will, to some extent, rely on them investing to 
get the best possible returns.
Being able to say that, looking back, different investment decisions would have been more 
profitable than the ones actually taken is a statement of the obvious. To make judgments like 
that, however, would be to use hindsight in making a decision. I cannot use hindsight in 
making a decision. A very large number of decisions over a 25-year period relating to 
investments, costs and charges have been made by the investment managers involved with 
this policy. Those decisions were made in a regulated environment with layers of 
governance, independent scrutiny (such as by actuaries and the regulator) and oversight. 
Some of the factors influencing returns were outside of Avivas control. During the term of 
Mr and Mrs Gs policy there was a downturn in global economic markets from the end of the 
1990s and a subsequent recession. The simple fact is that, like many other policies with 
many other businesses, performance has been poorer than hoped for and a shortfall has 
resulted. This is not grounds for upholding a complaint.
Mr and Mrs G were warned about the policys progress as required by the regulator. I 
understand that they looked into changing their arrangements but were unable to take up 
any of those options because of the costs. That is understandable and I am sure they 
werent the only consumers in that position. However, I cant hold Aviva responsible for the 
position they found themselves in; that is linked to the fact they had the policy at all, and their 
former mortgage lender is responsible for that; not Aviva.
My final decisionMy decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to accept or reject my decision 
before 30 November 2020.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman