DRN-3028521
The complaint
Mrs C is unhappy with UK Insurance Limiteds decision to decline her claim. 
What happened
Mrs C has buildings insurance with UK Insurance. Following a bout of bad weather, she 
noticed water ingress to her property. Mrs C claimed on her insurance policy for the damage 
caused. She explained her neighbour had been completing renovations to their property and 
said the problems began since then. Mrs C explained cracks appeared in some of her 
plasterwork and that these were caused by heavy vibrations from the neighbours renovation 
work. Mrs C would like UK Insurance to cover the costs associated with repairing her 
property. 
UK Insurance declined her claim. It said the damage was inconsistent with her description of 
the events related to the neighbours renovation. Instead, UK Insurance said the cracks were 
settlement cracks and that the water ingress was caused by missing flashing to her property. 
It said that in the circumstances, there was no insurable event having taken place.
Our investigator agree with UK Insurance and said Mrs C would need to provide evidence to 
the contrary. He acknowledged the list of repair work Mrs C submitted but said that this 
alone wasnt persuasive enough to change his opinion. And so, its now for me to make a 
final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. UK Insurance must not decline a claim unfairly 
and so it must base its decision on evidence. Ive reviewed UK Insurances actions and I 
think its declined Mrs Cs claim fairly. Ill explain why. 
UK Insurance sent a loss adjuster to Mrs Cs home to assess the damage caused and 
investigate her claim. The loss adjusters report, therefore, is a crucial piece of evidence. In 
the report, the adjuster said;
the claim has been declined at this time, the cracks seen do not appear consistent with the 
circumstances provided. The insured is claiming these cracks are new however these cracks 
are consistent with settlement cracks
I acknowledge Mrs Cs arguments about the loss adjuster and her alleged incompetence, but 
Ive not seen any other evidence that persuades me thats the case here. The loss adjuster 
is suitably qualified to make those findings and UK Insurance is entitled to rely on her 
comments in the way it has. Its for these reasons that I say UK Insurance hasnt been unfair 
in declining Mrs Cs claim as its based the decision on the available evidence from a 
specialist. 
Mrs C was advised by UK Insurance to source her own specialist, at her own expense, with 
the intention of challenging the report. But Ive not seen that she did this. And so, in the 
absence of that evidence, theres nothing more that I can reasonably determine in the 
circumstances. 
In terms of the water ingress, I think UK Insurance was also entitled to rely on the loss 
adjusters comments about the missing flashing. This acts as a barrier to water entering the 
property from the roof and without it, the rain water was able to find a way into her home. Im 
satisfied that this is not an insurable event and therefore no cover would be available in the 
circumstances.  
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint because UK Insurance has declined Mrs Cs claim fairly. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2021.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman