DRN-2416105
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that TSB Bank plc wont refund the money hes lost to a fraudster.
What happened?
Mr H has fallen victim to an email interception scam.
In early 2019, he arranged for a builder to carry out home improvements on his property. He 
dealt with the builder in-person and via email.
Shortly after the arrangements were made, Mr H received an email from a fraudster 
pretending to be the builder. The email appeared to come from the same address as the 
builder had used in corresponding with him previously. Unbeknown to Mr H, the builders 
email account had been hacked. The fraudster asked Mr H to pay a 50% deposit for the 
work that was to be done on his property.
On 4 April 2019, Mr H used his online banking facility and the account details the fraudster 
had given him to set up a new payee and pay £4,517.40 by faster payment to an account 
held with Prepay Technologies Ltd.
A few days later, the fraudster sent Mr H another email asking for a further 20% payment. 
The fraudster said the deposit payments would allow all the materials to be bought to start 
work on Mr Hs property on time, and the balance would be payable upon completion. When 
Mr H questioned why a further amount had been requested, the fraudster said that financial 
problems meant that money was needed upfront for materials. Mr H was convinced by this 
explanation  given the nature of the builders business, he understood that cashflow 
problems could occur. And he trusted the builder hed instructed, having used him before.
The fraudster sent a second set of account details and on 8 April 2019, Mr H used his online 
banking facility again to set up another new payee and pay £1,806.96 by faster payment to 
an account held with Wirecard Ltd.
Mr H discovered that hed been the victim of a scam when he paid the builder on completion 
of the work on his property. It came to light that the builder hadnt asked for or received the 
deposit payments Mr H had made on 4 and 8 April 2019. Mr H says he had no idea he 
wasnt paying the genuine builder when he made those payments.
Mr H says TSB knew about this type of scam and hes unhappy that it didnt tell him about it. 
He says he couldve contacted the real builder to check the payment requests were genuine 
but because of the pattern of emailing, and his lack of knowledge of such scams, he 
assumed hed received legitimate requests for payment.
What has TSB said?
TSB has said that Mr H made the payments himself using his own internet banking security 
credentials, and there was nothing concerning about the internet banking activity being 
completed that would trigger additional checks  Mr H used a known device and IP address.
The first payment was made using funds that had already accumulated in Mr Hs account. 
The second payment was made after Mr H transferred £2,000 into his account from his 
savings account, and a reflective transfer out is normal behaviour where customers have 
saved for or reallocated available funds for upcoming expenditure. The payments were in 
line with prior account activity and, on the face of it, they werent unusual. So it wouldnt have 
expected its systems to flag the payments as potentially fraudulent activity requiring further 
investigation. 
Even if the payments had been flagged for additional checks, Mr H wouldve said he was 
making the payments himself for home improvements, and there would be no way for it to 
know he was in contact with a fraudster pretending to be the builder.
Mr H told TSB about the scam on 23 May 2019 and it immediately attempted to retrieve his 
money from the receiving banks. But no funds remained in the beneficiary accounts.
What did our investigator say?
Our investigator found that Mr H authorised the payments. But he thought the first payment 
was sufficiently unusual for TSB to have looked into things further before processing the 
payment and if it had, he thought the scam would have been prevented. So he 
recommended that TSB refund Mr Hs money along with 8% interest. 
TSB didnt agree. It said that: 
Payments dating back to early January 2016 should be taken into account when 
considering Mr Hs banking behaviour, as this is built up over a period of time. And 
the payments werent out of character considering the account activity between 
January 2016 and the dates they were made. 
It is not uncommon for customers to set up new payees and it is usual for customers 
to pay builders using this method.
Even if the payments had flagged for additional checks, it believes Mr H wouldve 
confirmed he was paying a builder for works on his property.
The complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its common ground that Mr H authorised the payments. He received emails from the 
fraudster requesting deposit payments and providing payee account details. The fraudsters 
emails appeared to come from the genuine builders email address. Mr H made the 
payments as requested using online banking. So even though Mr H was the victim of a 
scam, and he didnt intend the payments he made to go to the fraudster, the payments were 
authorised under the Payment Services Regulations 2017. TSB had an obligation to follow 
Mr Hs payment instructions, and Mr H is presumed liable for his loss in the first instance. But thats not the end of the story.
Taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider that TSB should:
Have been monitoring accounts and payments made or received to counter various 
risks, including fraud and scams, money laundering, and the financing of terrorism.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps or made additional checks before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect its customers from the 
possibility of financial harm.
TSB has said that I ought to consider Mr Hs account activity dating back to January 2016 
when I think about whether the relevant payments were unusual or out of character. But 
I dont agree. Spending patterns change over time for various reasons. I think its fair and 
reasonable to look back over a maximum period of 12 months, as this timeframe is more 
likely to be indicative of Mr Hs usual account activity at the time. And considering the value 
of the first payment, the type of payment it was and the payment destination against Mr Hs 
account activity in the 12 months leading up to the scam, I think it stands out as unusual and 
out of character. The payment was the highest value transaction on the account in the year 
leading up to the scam. The other faster payments Mr H made that year were for a much 
smaller amount  the highest being £629.40. There were some transactions of a relatively 
high value - £2,500 being the highest  but these were inter-account transfers and payments 
to a credit card, and I dont think theyre comparable to a faster payment to a new payee that 
holds their account with Prepay Technologies Ltd. Overall, I think its reasonable to expect 
TSB to have asked Mr H some further questions about the payment.
TSB has said that even if it had contacted Mr H about the payment, he wouldve said he was 
paying for building work, and it wouldve had no way of knowing the payment was going to a 
fraudster as opposed to the builder. But scams involving email interceptions were not 
uncommon at the time, and they often involved building work. I think TSB wouldve been 
aware of this. Mr H wasnt being coached by the fraudster, as is often the case with scams, 
so I think he would have spoken freely. Had TSB asked Mr H some questions about the 
payment, I think it would most likely have become apparent that Mr H received the payment 
instructions by email. At this point, in the context of what it would probably have been told 
about the payment, TSB ought to have given Mr H information regarding the prevalence of 
email intercept scams and the risk of receiving payment details in the way he had. If TSB 
had brought this type of scam to Mr Hs attention, he could have taken steps to protect 
himself and called the builder to check the payment details. Hes said he wouldve done this, 
and Im persuaded he would  its reasonable to think that on being warned about the type of 
scam he may be falling victim to, he would have checked with the builder before making the 
payment. Had he contacted the builder, as I think he wouldve, I think the scam wouldve 
quickly unfolded and he wouldnt have gone ahead with the first payment, and consequently 
the second payment.
I appreciate TSB needs to strike a balance in the extent to which it intervenes in payments, 
against the risk of unduly inconveniencing or delaying legitimate payment requests and 
I wouldnt expect it to have interrogated Mr H about the payment. I also acknowledge that 
the main perpetrator here is the fraudster. But overall, I think appropriate questions should reasonably have been asked in this case. If they had been, I think the scam would have 
been prevented and Mr H wouldnt have lost his money.
Considering everything, I think the fair and reasonable outcome is to uphold this complaint.
In the circumstances, I dont need to go on to consider whether TSB acted with care and 
urgency in trying to recover Mr Hs money from the beneficiary accounts.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and instruct 
TSB Bank plc to: 
reimburse the £6,324.36 Mr H lost within 28 days of receiving notification of his 
acceptance of my final decision; plus
pay 8% simple interest per year on that sum, calculated from the date of each 
payment to the date of settlement*.
*If TSB consider its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr H how much its taken off. It should also give him a certificate 
showing this, if he asks for one, so that he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Kyley Hanson
Ombudsman