DRN-2928507
The complaint
Ms R and Mr R are unhappy about AXA Insurance UK Plcs handling of a claim they made 
under their Van insurance policy.
As Mr R was involved in the incident and has been dealing with the matter, for ease I will 
mainly refer to him in this decision. 
What happened
What follows is intended to be a summary of the background behind Mr Rs complaint. It
isnt intended to be a detailed timeline of events and therefore does not include every event
that has happened.
Mr R was involved in an accident with an uninsured driver. He made a claim to AXA initially 
for repairs to the vehicle, but later the vehicle was deemed to be a total loss. As in the costs 
of repair were likely to be near to or exceed the value of the vehicle. 
Mr R complains there were delays in dealing with the claim. He sold the vehicle to mitigate 
storage costs however he did so before the claim was concluded. When AXA accepted the 
claim and looked to make payment, it registered a total loss marker against the vehicle with 
the relevant organisation.  Mr R was unhappy as this meant he could then be subject to legal 
action from the new owner of the vehicle.  
During the course of the claim, AXA discovered the vehicle was under insured for its value. It 
therefore made a proportional offer to Mr R for the value of the vehicle to reflect this. It also 
deducted an amount from that settlement to reflect the salvage cost of the vehicle. AXA 
offered to pay for the recovery and storage costs Mr R incurred but had concerns about the 
invoice that had been received. It said once Mr R had provided further information so it could 
satisfy itself the costs were correctly incurred; it would then release the payment. 
In responding to Mr Rs complaints, AXA recognised the claim journey could have been 
smoother for Mr R. It offered him £750 compensation and a payment for loss of use of the 
vehicle to cover the time it took to review the repair estimate Mr R had provided. Mr R was 
unhappy with AXAs response and brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked at the complaint, she agreed there had been issues with the claim 
but thought the actions AXA had taken to recognise this were sufficient. She explained to 
Mr R that AXA was entitled to reduce the payment for the vehicle as it was under insured, it 
was common practice for a total loss category to be registered against a vehicle and AXA 
was entitled to deduct a salvage amount from the settlement. The investigator also explained 
to Mr R that AXA was entitled to make further enquiries about the recovery and storage 
charges.
Mr R didnt agree with the investigator and asked for the case to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. 
The case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to assure Mr R Ive considered and thought carefully about all of the points he has 
made. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point the parties have raised 
or to answer every question asked. My role is to consider the evidence presented by both 
parties to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable decision.
I recognise Mr R feels very strongly about what has happened and that the claim journey 
hasnt been smooth. AXA changed its position on what it would be paying Mr R which 
understandably wouldve caused frustration. However, in this decision I dont intend to revisit 
everything that has happened, I intend to focus on the issues that remain in dispute and 
decide if AXA has now done enough to put things right.
Under insurance
Mr R updated the details of the vehicle on cover, mid-way through the policy term. AXA has 
said at the point this happened, the value of the vehicle wasnt updated and remained as 
previously insured. Because of this, it says the incorrect premium was charged. To put this 
right, it has proportionally reduced the settlement it has paid to Mr R for the value of the 
vehicle. 
Mr R has said there was only an option to update the vehicle registration plate on the online 
portal and he wouldnt have acted deliberately to under value the vehicle. 
Ive looked at the online journey for updating vehicle details and Im satisfied there was a 
section where the vehicle value could be changed. AXA accepts this wasnt intentional, had 
it thought the action was deliberate it would have been entitled to avoid the claim altogether 
and cancel the policy. 
Im satisfied that proportionally reducing the settlement is a fair action to take in this 
instance. And it is a recognised remedy for the settlement of claims where policies have 
been set up based on the incorrect information. Ive looked at the value AXA would have 
charged for the policy had the correct value been given and Im satisfied it has actually 
reduced the settlement by less that what it technically would have been entitled to do.   
Value of the Vehicle 
AXA and Mr R have now agreed a fair value of the vehicle should be £14,500. 
Our usual approach to complaints about vehicle valuations is to look at motor trade guides 
for valuing second-hand vehicles. We find these persuasive because their valuations are 
based on nationwide research and likely selling prices. The guides refer to advertised and 
auction prices to work out what the likely selling price for the same vehicle would be. This 
takes into account all the specifications of the vehicle as well as any extras and the mileage. 
If a guide price is significantly higher or lower than the others, we may think its reasonable 
to ignore it. This depends on the value of the vehicle.
Having reviewed the values produced by the trade guides Im satisfied the £14,500 offered is 
fair and reasonable. 
Total loss categoryWhere insurers pay a claim for a total loss of the vehicle, that vehicle then becomes the 
property of the insurer, unless a consumer wants to buy back the salvage. Insurers 
negotiate different rates with salvage agents as to how much they will receive for any given 
vehicle based on its category. For example, some vehicles can be repaired and returned to 
the road or their parts are sought after, whereas others may be totally destroyed or can be 
broken for parts, but those parts arent sought after. 
In this case, Mr R sold the vehicle before a category was placed on it, but after he knew the 
insurer was looking to pay a claim for a total loss of the vehicle. He said he did this to cover 
the cost of the recovery and storage charges, but the subsequent categorisation of the 
vehicle left him open to a legal claim from the new owner as it rendered the vehicle 
effectively worthless. 
I accept at the point Mr R sold the vehicle; AXA hadnt told him the charges would be 
covered under the claim. However, Im also mindful that Mr R didnt ask AXA any questions 
about the charges or if there would be any issue with him selling the vehicle. So, in this case, 
I dont think AXA can be held responsible for the position he found himself in later, as AXA 
was required to register the total loss marker against the vehicle. 
Mr R has questioned AXAs actions when it told him about needing to place a marker against 
the vehicle. It explained based on the damage sustained, it could technically be categorised 
in two different ways, but the main difference to Mr R would then be how much would be 
deducted from the settlement for the vehicle. This was based on how much AXA could have 
recovered had it disposed of the vehicle in its usual way through the salvage agent. 
Mr R said he felt this was done to spite him as AXA couldnt profit from the sale of the 
vehicle as it otherwise would have done. I dont agree, as Ive explained AXA was required 
to take this action and I think it was fair that it set out both issues to Mr R. Especially as the 
subsequent categorisation would potentially impact any further action against Mr R by the 
new buyer (which as above, I wouldnt hold AXA responsible for).
In the end AXA and Mr R agreed that £1,500 would be deducted from the settlement of the 
vehicle which reflects the amount Mr R sold the vehicle for. I think was reasonable. The fact 
Mr R later returned this money to the new owner is not something I think AXA needs to 
address. As Ive said above, I dont think AXA should be held responsible for the position 
Mr R later found himself in.
Settlement of recovery and storage costs
Mr R has sent AXA an invoice for the recovery and storage costs he paid. AXA has concerns 
about this invoice as the vehicle registration number is wrong, the total is incorrect, and it 
has concerns about the legitimacy of the business.
AXA has asked further questions of Mr R about the invoice and the business used. It has 
said until Mr R is able to provide satisfactory answers it will withhold the payment of this 
invoice. AXA is entitled to ensure all costs associated with a claim have been correctly 
incurred, so I dont intend to interfere in its decision here. Its concerns dont seem 
unreasonable in this instance. 
I can see Mr R has since managed to get a corrected invoice from the company. So I cant 
see there should be any issue with him providing the further information AXA has requested 
to satisfy itself of the legitimacy of the business and costs incurred.
Service providedAs I mentioned above, I understand there were quite a few issues with this claim and the 
way it was conducted. Especially with the amounts payable to Mr R changing, this wasnt the 
best and caused concern and frustration. Ive taken into account what Mr R has explained 
about each stage of the claim and how this impacted him and his thoughts on AXAs 
motivations behind doing what it did. 
However, my role here is to bring this complaint to a conclusion and therefore I need to 
decide if what AXA has done to recognise the trouble and upset it caused to Mr R is 
sufficient. 
AXA in total offered Mr R £750 compensation and £315 loss of use payment to reflect the 
three weeks it took it to review the repair estimate Mr R had provided.  Overall, having 
considered everything I think this is fair and reasonable and it appropriately reflects the 
impact its poor service had on Mr R.
Having reviewed this complaint, I dont intend to ask AXA to do anything more than it already 
has done. I think it has settled the claim for the vehicle in a fair and reasonable way and the 
compensation it has offered to put matters right is satisfactory.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Ms R and Mr Rs complaint against AXA Insurance 
UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 November 2021.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman