DRN-3202188
The complaint
Mr C complains that a car he acquired via a conditional sale agreement with Santander 
Consumer (UK) Plc wasnt of satisfactory quality and although he had agreed to repairs 
these have taken an unreasonable period of time to complete. He now wishes to reject 
the car and cancel the agreement.
What happened
In December 2020 Mr C acquired a used car via a four-year conditional sale agreement 
with Santander. The car was about 15 months old and its mileage was around 3,000.
On the day the car was delivered to Mr C, he was unhappy to find it in a dirty state with a 
stain on the front passenger seat and that the fuel tank was empty. Mr C took the car to a 
local garage to fill it up but on the return journey the car broke-down. He called out 
roadside assistance who were unable to repair the car and they said it would need to go 
to a manufacturer approved garage for repairs.
The car was collected at the end of December and taken to a manufacturer approved 
garage where it was diagnosed with a wiring loom fault. Mr C says he was advised by the 
garage that it appeared there had been a previous failed repair on the engines wiring. Mr 
C says he was advised that the repair would take a maximum of three weeks.
However, 10 days later Mr C emailed the dealership and said he wanted to now reject the 
car and around one week later he also complained to Santander about the quality of the 
car. Santander upheld his complaint and said it had been informed by the supplying 
dealer that it was providing £200 compensation to cover the costs of cleaning the car and 
filling it with petrol. It said the supplying dealer had also said that if the stain from the seat 
couldnt be removed it would pay for a new seat cover. In regard to the electrics being 
repaired, Santander said that the required part had been ordered and the cost of that 
repair would be covered. Santander told Mr C that he couldnt reject the car because he 
had agreed to the repairs.
Mr C says that from February to April 2021 he had to make numerous calls to find out  what 
was happening. And in May 2021 Mr C was advised that although a new wire harness had 
been fitted other faults had then been found with the car that needed repairing.
Mr C complained to Santander and said he had lost all faith in the car and was now 
rejecting it. Four days later Mr C was told that the car had been fully repaired and was 
ready for collection.
Santander upheld Mr Cs complaint as to the quality of the car but said that while it 
understood Mr Cs wish to reject the car it wasnt able to support this as the car had now 
been repaired. It said that if any further issues arose with the car then it would 
reinvestigate.
Mr C was unhappy at Santanders decision and complained to this service. He said the 
car hadnt been of satisfactory quality and he had only been able to drive it once for a 
distance of around five miles since he had acquired it. He said the repairs had taken too 
long and hed lost confidence in the car which was nearly new when hed acquired it and 
shouldnt be expected to have these faults.
Our investigator recommended that Mr Cs complaint should be upheld and that it was 
fair for him to reject the car and have the agreement unwound. She said that under the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 if repairs are agreed by the consumer then they must give 
the retailer a reasonable time to carry them out, but she didnt think that four months to 
repair was reasonable. Our investigator said that Mr C had waited for an unreasonable 
period of time for the car to be fixed.
Our investigator said that the car should be returned, and the agreement cancelled with 
the deposit being reimbursed together with interest. She also said that Santander should 
refund all payments made under the agreement from May 2021 with interest together with 
£200 compensation. As Mr C had been kept mobile with courtesy cars, our investigator 
didnt think it was fair to reimburse further payments to Mr C.
Mr C agreed with our investigators view as to rejecting the car but said he didnt think 
the compensation was sufficient. He said hed had to pay for insurance and road tax 
since December 2020 for a car he wasnt able to use. He also said that it was the 
manufacturer that had provided the courtesy car, so it wasnt fair that Santander kept 
any of his monthly payments.
Mr C said that he had been significantly inconvenienced by having to wait for the car to 
be repaired and he had been provided with five courtesy cars in total over that time, 
having to make arrangements to collect them each time. He said hed been 
disappointed not to be able to drive the car he had chosen.
Santander disagreed with our investigators view. It said that both it and the supplying 
dealer hadnt had any control over the length of time the repairs had taken. This was due 
to the part having to be ordered directly from the manufacturer as it wasnt a part that was 
available off the shelf. Santander said that the fault had been an electrical one, and it 
didnt think it was proportionate to reject the car based on that.
Santander said that when looking at what was a reasonable period in which the car was to 
be repaired then consideration should be given to the disruption resulting from the 
pandemic and it was unfair not to do so.
As the parties didnt agree then the complaint was passed to me and I issued a provisional 
decision along the following lines.
Looking at this complaint, I needed to have regard to the relevant law and regulations, but 
I was not bound by them when I considered whats fair and reasonable.
As the conditional sale agreement entered into by Mr C was a regulated consumer credit 
agreement this service was able to consider complaints relating to it. Santander was also 
the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for a complaint 
about their quality.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 theres an implied term that when goods are 
supplied the quality of the goods is satisfactory. The relevant law says that the quality of 
the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would 
consider satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, price and all other 
relevant circumstances.
The relevant law also says that the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition, and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, 
freedom from minor defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the 
goods.
Here, although the car wasn't new, it was only around one-year old and had a very low 
mileage. And I didn't think a reasonable person would have expected there to be issues 
for a reasonable period of time after the point of supply. Id seen that the car had broken 
down on the day it had been delivered to Mr C and, that prior to its supply to him, the car 
had required repairs to the engines electrics on two separate occasions. So, while I 
appreciated electrical problems could suddenly arise, I thought it was reasonable to say 
that this car had been faulty from the point of supply and it was likely there had been failed 
repairs in the past. I also thought it was fair to say the car wasnt as durable as would have 
been reasonably expected.
The fault with the car had arisen in the first 30 days and Id seen that Mr C had raised 
rejection of the car in January 2021 after it had been collected. However, as Mr C had 
agreed for the car to be repaired prior to seeking to reject it then I thought he had lost the 
right to exercise the short-term right of rejecting it. I also didnt think that at that point the 
retailer had had a reasonable period of time in which to arrange for the car to be repaired.
It wasnt disputed that the car wasnt finally fixed until May 2021. Santander said that the 
repair to the car was out of its control because it had required a part that only the 
manufacturer could supply and this had taken time, particularly with the impact of the 
pandemic. Id seen that the supplying dealer said they thought the car had been repaired in 
February and werent aware of the delay until Mr Cs complaint in May. They said that had 
they been aware they would have chased up the repairs with the manufacturer.
I appreciated that the supply of goods had been disrupted due to the Covid situation and that 
this wasnt the fault of any of the parties. However, I still needed to consider whether repairs 
that took over four months to complete were carried out in a reasonable time and without 
significant inconvenience to Mr C. I thought it was reasonable, even when taking into 
account the current situation with the difficulties of obtaining certain products, that the repairs 
to this car had taken too long and had caused Mr C significant inconvenience. Mr C had 
originally been advised that the repair would take three weeks.
And even though Mr C was kept mobile throughout this period, hed had to change the 
courtesy car on several different occasions for various reasons. Hed also not been able to 
use the car he had chosen.
So, I thought on the evidence Id seen that the car had been faulty at the point of supply and 
so wasnt of satisfactory quality. Although Mr C had agreed for the car to be repaired these 
werent then carried out in a reasonable period. Mr C had requested for a second time to 
reject the car in May, shortly before the repairs were finally completed and I thought it would 
have been fair for Santander to have agreed to his request. So, even though the car was 
repaired a short time later, I still thought it was fair for Mr C to reject the car and for the 
conditional sale agreement to be cancelled.
It was fair for Santander to now return Mr C back to the position he would have been in had 
he not entered into the agreement as far as was possible. So, it should reimburse him his 
deposit together with interest.
Mr C said that he should receive all the payments he had made under the agreement 
because the courtesy car hadnt been supplied by Santander, but I disagreed with his view. I 
thought, when looking at what was fair to be reimbursed, that I took into account Mr C had 
been provided with a car which was, I understood of a like standard, even though I appreciated this was not by Santander. It wasnt Santanders decision not to supply an 
alternative car and I had to look at the fairness to both sides here as Santander was going to 
incur losses by cancelling the agreement and taking the car back. I thought it was 
reasonable for me to reduce those losses were possible.
Here, Mr C would always have faced travel costs and by reimbursing all his monthly 
payments then he would be actually placed in a better position than he would have been if 
the car hadnt been faulty as he would in effect be provided with free travel. So, I thought it 
was fair for Santander to keep the payments hed made up until May 2021. Id seen that from 
that date no courtesy car was provided as Mr Cs car had been repaired but, for 
understandable reasons, Mr C hadnt collect it. This meant it was fair for any payments 
made by Mr C to be reimbursed with interest from that date.
Mr C has also asked for his car insurance and road tax payments to be reimbursed. I 
thought it would be fair for the same reasons given above for Santander to reimburse these 
costs from May 2021 together with interest once Mr C had provided proof of these 
expenses .
In regard to the issue of compensation, Id seen that Santander considered compensation 
was appropriate. Mr C said that £200 was not sufficient to cover the unnecessary distress 
and inconvenience he had suffered due to the faulty car. I agreed with Mr C that a larger 
amount would be reasonable. Id seen he was put to significant inconvenience swapping the 
courtesy cars and also was disappointed not to be able to drive the car he had chosen. In 
light of the number of times the courtesy car was changed and the length of time the repairs 
went on, I thought compensation of £500 was fair. This amounted to around one months 
payment under the agreement.
For the reasons given above, I intended to uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Mr C has agreed with my provisional decision and Santander hasnt asked me to look at any 
parts of it again.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I wasnt asked to review my provisional decision but either of the parties, I have 
looked again at the evidence and the conclusions that I reached. I havent changed my view.
Im still satisfied that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply and that 
although Mr C agreed to repairs these werent carried out in a reasonable period of time, 
Covid notwithstanding. Mr C was originally advised the car would take around three weeks 
to repair but waited over four months before asking to reject the car for a second time 
because it hadnt been repaired. Although I agree Santander didnt act unfairly when 
declining Mr Cs first request to reject the car, I still think it should have agreed to his request 
in May 2021. It should have considered how long the repairs were taking and whether it was 
reasonable for Mr C to have waited so long by then. 
While I appreciate that the supply of certain goods and parts was taking longer due to the 
pandemic I think four months to repair the car was too long in all the circumstances. That 
length of times wasnt reasonable and had put Mr C to significant inconvenience. It was 
therefore fair for Mr C to reject the car and have the agreement cancelled. Im upholding his 
complaint. Putting things right
As set out above, Im upholding Mr Cs complaint and Im asking Santander to do the 
following:
Collect the car at no cost to Mr C. 
Cancel the agreement with nothing further to pay. 
Remove the agreement from Mr Cs credit file.
Reimburse Mr Cs deposit together with yearly interest at the rate of 8% simple 
from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
Reimburse any payments made by C under the agreement from May 2021 
together with yearly interest at the rate of 8% simple from the date of payment 
until the date of settlement.
Reimburse any payments made by Mr C in respect of car insurance and road 
tax for the car from May 2021 together with yearly interest at the rate of 8% 
simple from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
Pay Mr C £500 compensation for the unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience caused having to deal with the faulty car.
My final decision
As set out above Im upholding Mr Cs complaint. Im asking Santander Consumer (UK) Plc 
to do the following:
Collect the car at no cost to Mr C. 
Cancel the agreement with nothing further to pay. 
Remove the agreement from Mr Cs credit file.
Reimburse Mr Cs deposit together with yearly interest at the rate of 8% simple 
from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
Reimburse any payments made by C under the agreement from May 2021 
together with yearly interest at the rate of 8% simple from the date of payment 
until the date of settlement.
Reimburse any payments made by Mr C in respect of car insurance and road 
tax for the car from May 2021 together with yearly interest at the rate of 8% 
simple from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
Pay Mr C £500 compensation for the unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience caused having to deal with the faulty car.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman