DRN-3518567
The complaint
Mrs C complains, via her attorney, that Prosser Knowles Associates Ltd didnt act on her 
attorneys instruction to end their professional relationship.
What happened
There is no dispute as to the facts here. In summary Mrs Cs attorney wished to end the 
relationship with Prosser Knowles, but Prosser Knowles didnt accept the instruction.
Our investigator considered the matter but didnt find that Prosser Knowles had done 
anything wrong. Mrs Cs attorney appealed on her behalf.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive set out the background to this complaint in far less detail than the parties and 
Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by  
the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focused on what I think 
is the key issue here. Our rules allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal 
nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent 
mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on 
every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
It's clear that Mrs Cs attorney feels very strongly about what happened. I understand he 
feels that his duty to act in what he considered to be Mrs Cs best interests was thwarted for 
a period of time by Prosser Knowles actions. I can imagine that this was frustrating. 
However even if I found that Prosser Knowles was at fault in any way (and Ill go on to 
explain why I dont) I havent seen evidence that any loss was caused to Mrs C. I accept that 
Prosser Knowles would have received fees  but as the intention was to move to a different 
financial adviser there is no evidence that she wouldnt have continued to incur fees. 
Importantly I should make clear that this service does not regulate financial firms, we look to 
resolve individual complaints that fall within our statutory remit. Here I can see that Prosser 
Knowles exercised a degree of caution and I think that was justified. Ill explain why. Im 
satisfied it was acting in what it believed were its clients best interests, as it is required to 
do. I say this because the Enduring Power of Attorney valid at the time shows the name of 
the attorney representing Mrs C in this complaint. But next to the name Mrs C had written my 
solicitor and added the address of a firm of solicitors where the attorney then worked  Ill 
call them T. I havent disregarded the attorneys point that this was a personal appointment 
rather than a professional one, but I cant be sure that this was clear to Prosser Knowles 
who understood they were to act on instruction from T in relation to Mrs Cs portfolio. 
Accordingly I find it was prudent to have regard to what appeared to be the direction on the 
appointment document. I note too that in the attorneys instructing email to Prosser Knowles 
he advised that due to pressure of work at the time the solicitor at T dealing with Mrs Cs 
affairs was not able to action this request. In the circumstances and given that Prosser 
Knowles had a long-standing relationship with T, I dont find it was at fault in not acting on 
the attorneys instruction and requesting instead that the instruction came from T. I can see 
that it informed the attorney of this expediently.
In the light of the above I dont find that Prosser Knowles treated Mrs C unfairly, 
unreasonably or in breach of its regulatory duties towards her. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2022.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman