DRN-3104797
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain about Aviva Insurance Limiteds actions when they approached it 
about a claim on their home insurance.
Both Mr and Mrs L are named policyholders on their Aviva policy, so any claim or complaint 
is brought by them both. But for simplicity, and because most of the information about the 
complaint has been provided by Mrs L, Ill refer mainly to Mrs L from here onward.
Aviva uses a third party company to arrange inspection and repairs. For the avoidance of 
doubt, any reference to Aviva includes its agents, including its building experts and 
contractors.
What happened
Mr and Mrs L had a home insurance policy with Aviva. In February 2021, they discovered 
damage to their garage roof. Mrs L called Aviva to ask whether she could make a claim on 
her policy. Aviva told Mrs L:
There appeared to have been storm conditions in Mrs Ls area the previous month.
This meant it could consider whether the damage was covered by Mrs Ls policy.
Avivas experts would need to inspect the damaged roof to validate this.
The damage would not be covered if it was found to be wear and tear.
Avivas experts called Mrs L later the same day. They said a local contractor would call her 
within 48 hours to arrange an inspection. However, the contractor didnt call Mrs L, so she 
arranged for her roofer to make repairs. Mrs L called Aviva on 1 March 2021 to explain this. 
Mrs L is unhappy that Avivas contractor didnt call her as promised and that Aviva only 
asked her for photos to support any claim when the repair work was almost finished. Mrs L 
said this put her in an impossible situation regarding a potential claim because she couldnt 
provide the evidence Aviva needed. In the end, Mrs L didnt make a claim and paid for the 
repairs herself.
Aviva explained that weather conditions hadnt met the policy definition of a storm so, in the 
absence of any other evidence, it was right to refuse the claim. It apologised for its 
contractors failure to call as promised and offered Mrs L £50. It later increased this offer to 
£100. 
Mrs L didnt accept this and brought her complaint to us. Shes feels extremely insulted by 
Aviva and wants it to pay her £400 to reflect the distress and inconvenience it caused her.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mrs Ls complaint should be upheld. She was 
satisfied that Avivas actions to try to validate the claim were reasonable. She agreed that 
Avivas contractor didnt call Mrs L as promised but thought Avivas offer of £100 to 
apologise for this was fair. 
Mrs L disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Aviva explained, Mrs Ls policy covers her for loss or damage caused by a storm but 
doesnt cover wear and tear. The policy definition of a storm, set out on page 5 of the policy 
booklet, is winds normally exceeding 55mph. 
Ive listened to Mrs Ls initial call to Aviva on 23 February 2021 and Im satisfied that Avivas 
call handler explained this to Mrs L. She also told Mrs L that one of its experts would need to 
assess the damage before it would accept a claim. I think thats reasonable. Insurers want to 
be sure any damage was caused by an insured event. In this case, the most recent storm 
was over a month before Mrs L noticed the damage, so I think an expert opinion was needed 
to confirm the cause of damage.
Mrs L has told us she accepts this but Aviva created the problem themselves by failing to 
send anybody out within the agreed timeframe. I agree that Avivas contractor failed to call 
Mrs L within 48 hours, as promised. Aviva accepted this. I can also understand why Mrs L 
would have wanted repairs to be done as soon as possible. 
However, I think Mrs L might have contacted Aviva when she didnt hear from the contractor. 
Instead, she arranged for repairs to go ahead before Aviva had inspected the damage. This 
was despite Aviva having already explained that it needed an expert inspection for her claim. 
Mrs Ls policy booklet explains that its a policyholders responsibility to prove loss, and that 
Aviva might ask for receipts, valuations, photographs and any other relevant information, 
documents and assistance we may require to help with your claim. Avivas experts hadnt 
inspected the roof, so I think it was reasonable to ask Mrs L to provide this kind of evidence. 
I know Mrs L is unhappy Aviva only asked for this after repairs had started but, in the 
circumstances, I dont think its fair to blame Aviva for this.
Mrs Ls roofer didnt take any photos of the damage or his repairs, or provide a report on the 
cause of damage, as Aviva requested when Mrs L called on 1 March 2021. This meant the 
only evidence of the damage was the roofers invoice which gave a general description of 
the repointing work. In Avivas opinion, this  plus Mrs Ls description of the damage  was 
enough for it to conclude the damage was most likely wear and tear and not covered by the 
policy. In the absence of any other evidence, I dont think this conclusion was unreasonable. 
I understand why Mrs L wanted the repairs done as soon as possible. However, I dont think 
she gave Aviva a reasonable chance to identify the cause of the damage and confirm that 
her policy covered this before she had it repaired. 
Mrs L asked Aviva to pay her £400 to reflect the distress and inconvenience this matter 
caused her. While I agree with her that Avivas contractors failure to call was poor service, 
and doubtless caused her some inconvenience, I think Mrs L is asking too much. Im 
satisfied that Avivas offer of £100 was fair. I wont be asking it to do anything more.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 February 2022.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman