DRN-2876300
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Indigo Michael Limited trading as SafetyNet Credit (SNC) gave 
him an unaffordable credit facility.  
What happened
Mr M approached SNC for a credit facility in February 2019. This was a running credit 
account where a consumer could request funds up to their agreed credit limit.
In its final response letter (FRL), SNC agreed that it shouldnt have granted the facility to 
Mr M. It offered to refund all the interest Mr M paid, along with 8% simple interest. It also 
agreed to remove any unpaid interest from the current outstanding balance. Finally, SNC 
also offered to remove any entries from Mr Ms credit file. After carrying out the above 
redress, SNC told Mr M an outstanding balance would still be due.
 
Mr M was unhappy and asked our service to investigate the matter further. Mr M told us in 
this complaint form that he wanted a refund of interest and then for the debt to be wiped.
  
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Ms complaint. The adjudicator thought SNCs offer 
was fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Ms complaint as the offer to settle the 
complaint would have been in-line with our services recommendations, had this service 
upheld the complaint. He also didnt think that SNC needed to write off the outstanding 
balance. So, he didnt think SNC needed to do any more than what it had already offered.
It appears that SNC agreed with our adjudicators opinion.
Mr M disagreed and asked this service to carry on with the investigation.
 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time the facility was provided. 
In SNCs FRL, it agreed upon review we can see that lending was not affordable. 
Therefore, we are fully upholding your complaint. SNC offered to refund the interest that 
Mr M paid towards his loans, along with 8% simple interest  as a matter of compensation 
for the money being out of his pocket. 
SNC has already agreed that something went wrong when it provided Mr Ms facility. And Im 
satisfied that SNCs offer is in-line with our services recommendations if we were to uphold 
a complaint where we believe a lender shouldnt have approved a credit facility. So, I dont 
think there is a need for me to consider what checks it did or didnt do and what they may 
have shown it. I say this because, as Ive outlined above, SNC has already accepted it 
shouldnt have given Mr M the credit facility. It is also, with the offer that it has made to 
resolve the complaint made the facility interest free. 
I acknowledge that this will leave Mr M with an outstanding principal balance to repay. But 
when our service considers complaints about unaffordable lending, which is what this 
complaint is about, we try and put the consumer back into the position they wouldve been in 
had the error not been made. However, that isnt always possible, as is the case here. 
When putting things right, wed expect the lender to refund any interest and charges that 
have been added, so in effect it gives a consumer an interest free loan or facility. But we 
would expect the consumer to have repaid (or to repay) any capital that they borrowed as 
they will have had had the benefit of the money. 
In this case, the offer that SNC has made does this for Mr M. I appreciate he wants the 
outstanding balance written off, but that is due to him not having repaid the capital borrowing 
that he took, and I dont think in this case, SNC needs to make an adjustment to the capital 
amount outstanding. 
So, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint because I think SNCs offer is fair and reasonable. And 
Im not going to ask the lender to do any more than what it has already offered. I appreciate 
this will be disappointing for Mr M, but I hope that hell understanding why Ive reached the 
findings that I have.
For completeness, Ive outlined below the offer that SNC has already agreed to make to 
settle the complaint. 
If SNC has sold the outstanding debt, it should buy these back if it is able to do so and then 
take the following steps (if it hasnt done so already). If SNC is not able to buy the debts 
back, then it should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
And in line with what SNC has agreed to do;
Refund the interest that Mr M has paid 
Add 8% simple interest to this sum taking into account the tax to be deducted*
Remove accrued interest from the current outstanding balance
Use the refund to offset the outstanding balance
Any entry about this facility will be removed from Mr Ms credit file. 
Based on what SNC has said in the FRL, Mr M as of 20 May 2020 still has a principal 
balance of £230.92 left to repay (after the above refund has been accounted for). And Id 
remind SNC of its obligation to treat Mr M fairly when dealing with him in repaying this sum. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires SNC to deduct tax from this interest. SNC should give 
Mr M a certificate showing how much tax is deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained above, I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint against Indigo 
Michael Limited trading as SafetyNet Credit because it has already made an offer to put 
things right.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman