DRN-2551739
The complaint
Mrs V is unhappy with what AWP P&C SA (AWP) did after she and her late husband (Mr V) 
made a claim on their travel insurance policy. Mrs V is also representing the estate of the 
late Mr V in bringing the complaint. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs V held travel insurance through their packaged bank account. In January 2018
they booked a trip for travel in October. At the end of April following symptoms of pallor and
neck pain Mr V was diagnosed with leukaemia. They made a claim on their travel insurance
policy (which at that point was underwritten by a different insurer) for a trip planned for June
which was accepted.
In August the underwriter of the policy changed to AWP. By October Mr V had been
admitted to hospital and neither he nor Mrs V were able to travel on their pre-booked
holiday. Mr and Mrs V were able to get the money back theyd paid for their hotels but as the
flights were non-refundable they made a claim to AWP for these costs. AWP turned down
the claim. It said Mr and Mrs V hadnt told it about Mr Vs change in health so under the
terms of their policy the claim wasnt covered. Mr V sadly passed away in November 2019.
I let both parties have my initial thoughts on the complaint in December 2020. In summary I 
said:
The terms of the policy say if Mr V had declared his change of health the insurer would have
considered whether it could cover the declared conditions free of charge or for an additional
premium. I thought Mr Vs condition did appear to meet the definition of a significant change
in health given he was diagnosed with leukaemia. So this is something that should have
been declared.
But the position was complicated by the fact the insurer of this policy changed during the
relevant period (with effect from August 2018). And although its clear Mr and Mrs V were in
contact with the previous insurer (because they made a separate claim) its not clear what
information they provided at that time about Mr Vs medical condition. Or what advice they
were given by that insurer about the need to declare information in relation to this.
However, even if Mr V didnt provide information to the previous insurer about his change of 
health I didnt think it would be fair of AWP to turn down this claim. Our normal approach 
where a consumer hasnt told an insurer about a significant change in health is to think about 
what would have happened if the consumer had told them.
If the insurer would have covered the claim but charged an additional premium then it
might be appropriate to settle the claim on a proportionate basis. Alternatively if the insurer
can show us they would have withdrawn cover, wed likely ask them to pay the value of the
cancellation claim at the point the change in health should have been declared.
I asked AWP to consider what action would have been taken if Mr V had provided
information on his change of health and to then settle the claim on the basis of what would 
have happened if that information had been declared at that time.
AWP asked for more information on Mr Vs health which Mrs V provided. It then suggested
the trip they were claiming for had been booked in August 2018 (so after Mr Vs diagnosis). I
provided AWP with evidence to show that wasnt the case and again asked it to consider the
claim on that basis. As AWP didnt respond I issued a provisional decision last month. In 
summary I said: 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say AWP has a responsibility to handle claims
promptly and fairly. And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
The terms of Mr and Mrs Vs policy say AWP needs to be told about:
Any change to an existing or previously declared condition (including medical
conditions that are undiagnosed or awaiting investigation) You must tell the Insurer
about these changes if because of these You:
 have seen a doctor and have seen or been referred to a consultant or specialist.
 have been admitted to hospital for, or are waiting to receive treatment (including
surgery, tests or investigations) or the results of tests and investigations
The Insurer will then tell You if they can cover these medical conditions free of
charge or for an additional premium.
Im satisfied Mr and Mrs Vs trip was booked in January 2018 prior to Mr Vs change in
health. Ive seen a copy of an e-ticket receipt which is dated 11 January 2018 (for travel in
October 2018). I can also see thats consistent with what Mrs V told AWP when making her
claim.
But I think Mr Vs symptoms followed by his diagnosis in April 2018 are ones that he should
have told his insurer about. Im not sure what Mr and Mrs V told the previous insurer when
they claimed for the cancellation of their June trip. But even if they didnt provide it with full
information I dont think that means its fair for AWP to turn down the claim thats been made
to it. I think it should consider what action it would have taken based on Mr Vs medical
situation in April / May 2018 (which Mrs V has provided it with details of).
If AWP would have continued to provide cover but charged more for this then it should settle
the claim thats been made on a proportionate basis. If it wouldnt have provided cover then
it should pay the value of the cancellation claim at the point the change in health should
have been declared. And as I understand the flights were non refundable from the outset
then its that cost which should be paid.
I also think that because AWP didnt pay the claim when it should have done Mrs V will have
been caused unnecessary distress and inconvenience. Im particularly mindful of the fact this
meant she had the ongoing stress of dealing with this matter during the latter stages of
Mr Vs life. In recognition of that I think AWP should also pay her £300.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs V provided some more background to what had happened. AWP didnt respond. So I 
need to reach a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the comments Mrs V has made which do provide more background to what 
happened. But I dont think they affect what I said in my provisional decision. And as AWP 
hasnt responded I dont have any reason to change the findings I set out there.   
Putting things right
AWP will need to consider what action it would have taken based on Mr Vs medical
situation in April / May 2018 (which Mrs V has provided it with details of).
If AWP would have continued to provide cover but charged more for this then it should settle
the claim thats been made on a proportionate basis. If it wouldnt have provided cover then
it should pay the value of the cancellation claim at the point the change in health should
have been declared. And as I understand the flights were non refundable from the outset
its that cost which should be paid.
I also think that because AWP didnt pay the claim when it should have done Mrs V will have
been caused unnecessary distress and inconvenience. Im particularly mindful of the fact this
meant she had the ongoing stress of dealing with this matter during the latter stages of
Mr Vs life. In recognition of that AWP should also pay her £300.
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. AWP P&C SA will need to put things right by doing 
what Ive said in this decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V and the 
estate of Mr V to accept or reject my decision before 10 March 2021.
 
James Park
Ombudsman