DRN-3907088
Complaint
Ms I is unhappy that Capital One (Europe) plc didnt refund a payment she disputed.
Background
Ms I has a credit card account with Capital One. In October 2021, she used that account to 
make a payment on a popular website for booking hotel accommodation. She booked two 
nights in an apartment in London and paid £345.55. 
After she made the booking, she read reviews about the provider of the accommodation that 
suggested they were scamming prospective guests out of money. She contacted the 
intermediary with which shed booked the accommodation and Capital One. She wanted to 
cancel the payment before it was cleared, but unfortunately that wasnt possible. She then 
opted to cancel her booking via the intermediary. 
Unfortunately, there was a very high cancellation charge associated with her booking 
meaning that she was only refunded 5% of the price of the accommodation. She went ahead 
with the cancellation and then later raised a complaint with Capital One. Capital One said 
that it wouldnt raise a chargeback on her behalf. The contract shed agreed to when booking 
this accommodation included a term that set out how cancellations worked and the refund 
that would be payable. As far as Capital One was concerned, the merchant had adhered to 
the terms of the contract it had with Ms I. A chargeback would therefore have no realistic 
chance of success. 
Ms I referred her complaint to this service. It was looked at by an Investigator who came to 
broadly the same view as Capital One. Ms I wasnt happy with the Investigators view and so 
the complaint was passed to me to consider. 
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on 19 December 2022. I wrote:
Ms I paid for the accommodation using a credit card. Section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 sets out that, in certain circumstances, a credit provider that funds a 
payment to a merchant can be jointly and severally liable for any breach of contract 
or misrepresentation by that merchant. A misrepresentation is a false statement of 
fact made by one party to the other that induces or convinces that side to enter into 
the agreement. Im satisfied that those circumstances are applicable to this case. 
I accept that Ms I has received a refund that has been processed in line with the 
terms and conditions of her booking. However, her testimony from the time she 
raised the dispute shows that she wanted to cancel her booking because shed found 
online reviews that suggested that she hadnt booked with a legitimate 
accommodation provider, but a scammer. 
I dont know for sure what information was available online about the provider at the 
time Ms I made the payment. But her explanation is backed up by at least one review 
that can be found online at the time of writing. This review was from a prospective 
guest who found that all contact ceased the moment payment was made and that 
they were never able to stay at the accommodation in question. This is consistent 
with the version of events that Ms I has given. Its noteworthy that the 
accommodation provider is no longer listed on the website of the intermediary that 
processed her booking. 
I think its uncontroversial to say that, for a person to purport to offer accommodation 
for rent that doesnt exist or wont be made available, meets the definition of a 
misrepresentation as described above and so Capital One would be legally 
answerable for it. 
I accept that there may be other valid reasons why the provider no longer has its 
listing on the website in question. Unfortunately, from the evidence Ive seen, Capital 
One hasnt had any contact with the merchant to ascertain the underlying reality of 
the situation. Unless I see evidence that shows Capital One has raised queries with 
the merchant to satisfy itself that Ms I wasnt the victim of a scam, Im minded to 
uphold her complaint for the reasons Ive described above.
Ms I responded to say that she agreed with my provisional decision. Capital One didnt 
agree. In summary, it said:
Theres no evidence that there were multiple negative reviews about this provider. 
Only one review is available today. Its not possible to draw any conclusions about 
the practices of this accommodation provider from the contents of one anonymous 
review.
There are many reasons why this provider might no longer be listed on the website. 
Its speculative to suggest that its removal must be because it was accepting 
bookings with no intention of honouring them.
If the customer had followed through with her booking and the accommodation didnt 
exist, that would be a breach of contract. But since that didnt happen, there was no 
breach of contract by the provider in question.
Ive considered Capital Ones response carefully and Im not persuaded to depart from the 
position I set out in my provisional decision. 
I should be clear that I cant know with certainty what happened here. Where there is such 
uncertainty, I must reach a decision on the balance of probabilities. Ms Is explanation is that 
she found several reviews that suggested this accommodation provider was a scam. It was 
those reviews that motivated her to cancel the booking. 
At the time of writing, I can only find one online review along the same lines. However, since 
this accommodation provider is no longer listed on the website that processed her booking, 
any reviews that were published there have since been deleted. Ms I recalls seeing them 
and that her decision to cancel was motivated by the realisation that she risked being a 
victim of a scam. Her testimony on this point has been consistent and it is backed up by the 
only review that is currently available. In other words, although the evidence supporting her 
complaint is not comprehensive or detailed, Im nonetheless satisfied that the balance of that 
evidence does support it.
It is correct that there are several possible explanations as to why the accommodation provider no longer offers bookings through that intermediary. I cant be sure that it was 
delisted because there were concerns about its activities. Nonetheless, Capital One hasnt 
gathered any evidence from the merchant about this provider that couldve supported its 
position. 
Finally, I accept that there doesnt appear to have been a breach of contract by the provider 
of the accommodation. But s75 gives Ms I a like claim against Capital One for either a 
breach of contract or a misrepresentation. For the reasons Ive set out above, Im persuaded 
that there was a misrepresentation here.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint. If Ms I accepts my decision, Capital 
One (Europe) plc should refund the payment to Ms I, less the refund she received from the 
merchant.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms I to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2023.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman