DRN-3800763
The complaint
Miss D complains that Vanquis Bank Limited lent irresponsibly when it approved her credit 
card and later increased the credit limit. 
What happened
Miss D applied for a credit card with Vanquis in January 2016. Vanquis approved the 
application and gave Miss D a credit card with a  limit of £500. In May 2016 Vanquis 
increased the credit limit to £1000. In November 2016 Vanquis increased the credit limit to 
£2000 and a  further increase was approved in April 2017, taking the credit limit to £3000.
In March 2022 Miss D complained that Vanquis had lent irresponsibly. Vanquis responded 
and said the complaint about the initial borrowing was out of time. It didnt uphold the 
complaint about the first credit limit increase, but upheld the complaint from the point of the 
second credit limit increase and arranged a refund of interest and charges.
Miss D brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator said that this service couldnt 
consider Miss Ds complaint about the original application in 2016 due the complaint being 
raised outside the relevant time limits. Miss D accepted the investigators view on jurisdiction. 
The investigator then looked at the first credit limit increase and said that he didnt think 
Vanquis had lent irresponsibly. 
Miss D didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this decision Im looking at the credit limit increase in May 2016.
Before agreeing to lend, the rules say Vanquis had to complete reasonable and 
proportionate checks to ensure Miss D could afford to repay the debt in a sustainable way. 
These affordability checks need to be focussed on the borrowers circumstances. The nature 
of whats considered reasonable and proportionate will vary depending on various factors 
including the amount of credit, the total sum repayable, the amount of repayments, the cost 
of the credit and the consumers individual circumstances.
Theres no set list of checks a lender must complete. But lenders are required to consider 
the factors Ive mentioned above when deciding whats reasonable and proportionate.
Vanquis says it looked at Miss Ds account history and information it held about her when 
deciding whether to increase her credit limit.
Ive looked at the information Vanquis used when it increased Miss Ds credit limit. It 
reviewed information from credit reference agencies and found no CCJs or recent defaulted 
debt. It looked at how Miss D had handled the account since it was opened. Vanquis already 
held information about Miss Ds income, which was £10,000 per year or £815 per month net.
Ive looked at the credit information and I can see that Miss D had total unsecured debt of 
around £5,456 at the time of the credit limit increase. Looking at the credit limit increase I 
relation to Miss Ds income, I agree with the investigator that it wouldve been proportionate 
for Vanquis to have taken steps to find out more about any changes to Miss Ds income and 
expenditure.
Because I dont think the checks carried out by Vanquis were reasonable and proportionate, 
Ive gone on to consider what a  reasonable and proportionate check wouldve shown. Ive 
looked at Miss Ds bank statements from the time immediately prior to the credit limit 
increase to see what her actual income and expenditure was.
The bank statements show that Miss Ds income was around £1275 and her expenditure 
was £615. Ive also taken account of the sums that Miss D transferred to her mother each 
month for household expenditure, which was around £250.
Based on the information Ive seen, I think the increase to the credit limit appeared 
affordable and Miss D didnt appear to be over indebted. If Vanquis had looked at this 
information, I dont think it wouldve seen anything to make it think that Miss D couldnt afford 
the repayments on the increased credit limit because she appeared to have sufficient 
disposable income to meet all her repayments.
In conclusion, I dont think Vanquis lent to Miss D irresponsibly when it increased the credit 
limit to £1000 in May 2016.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman