DRN-4103243
The complaint
Mr D has complained that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited continued to contact him 
when he asked it not to. Mr D reported an incident but said he didnt want to make a claim 
and had scrapped his car. 
Mrs D is a named driver under the policy and representing Mr D in his complaint. 
What happened
In November 2022 Mr D reported a collision between his car and another vehicle. He said he 
didnt intend to make a claim against his policy and was scrapping his car. 
Although Mr D said the third party didnt intend to make a claim, his insurer Admiral opened 
a file in line with industry approach when notified of an incident involving a third party, and 
due to the circumstances of the incident. After the initial notification call, Admiral contacted 
Mr D to ask about making a claim, even though hed asked it not to. So Mr D raised a 
complaint. 
Mr D lives with a medical condition. The impact of unwanted contact from Admiral had a 
significant impact on Mr D, Mrs D and their daily lives. 
In January 2013 Admiral received confirmation from all parties that there was no intention to 
claim against Mr Ds policy. So it closed the claim. It apologised for the distress it had 
caused by contacting Mr D about making a claim and paid Mr D £300 compensation. It 
explained that it had received a claim on behalf of Mrs D about the incident via the Official 
Injury Claim (OIC). And that it couldnt close the claim until it knew no party intended to claim 
against the policy. 
Mr D hadnt paid the premium which was due later in November 2022. Admiral wrote to Mr D 
to say he owed this premium. Mr D didnt agree he did as he didnt want to make a claim and 
the car had been scrapped. He continued to receive reminders about the premium being 
overdue and the consequences of not paying it. So he raised a second complaint. 
Admiral upheld the second complaint in March 2023 and paid Mr D £175 compensation. £25 
of this was for its delay in responding to his complaint. It apologised to Mr D and said he 
didnt owe a balance under the policy. 
Mr and Mrs D asked us to look at Mr Ds complaint. Mrs D said that she had to give up work 
as a result of the impact of Admirals actions on Mr D as it had made his medical condition 
worse. She didnt think the compensation Admiral had paid was enough to reflect the 
distress and inconvenience its actions had caused Mr D. She said Mr D was worried that 
bailiffs were going to arrive at their home and the worry had caused him sleepless nights. 
Our Investigator thought Admiral had the opportunity to handle things better much sooner as 
it was made aware of Mr Ds circumstances soon after he reported the incident. She didnt 
think Admiral had acted reasonably in its duty to support Mr D as a vulnerable customer. 
And so, the impact on Mr D and his daily life due to Admirals failings had a more significant 
impact than it might have on a customer who wasnt vulnerable. 
So the Investigator recommended Admiral increase the compensation it paid Mr D from 
£475 to £750. 
Admiral agreed with the Investigators findings. Mrs D didnt agree and says it isnt enough. 
Shes provided evidence of being signed off from work which she says is due to the 
deterioration in Mr Ds medical condition, caused by Admirals poor service. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no doubt that the impact of Admirals poor service was significant on Mr D, and on 
his family, in light of the medical condition he lives with. 
I realise that Mrs D doesnt agree that an increase in the compensation award to £750 is 
enough to resolve Mr Ds complaint. And I appreciate that she has provided evidence of 
being signed off work. Mrs D says she isnt able to work due to the impact Admirals poor 
service has had on Mr Ds existing medical condition. Mrs D had intended to provide a 
medical report to support this. But she has since advised that they will not be sending a 
report. 
The compensation award of £750 is I think reasonable - and in line with our approach. 
Examples of our awards can be found on our website. We can make an award up to £750 
where the impact of an insurers errors has caused considerable distress, upset and worry  
and/or significant inconvenience and disruption that needs a lot of extra effort to sort out. 
This amount is toward the top end of what we would award where typically, the impact lasts 
over many weeks or months. But we also think it fair to award up to this amount if a mistake 
has a serious short-term impact. I think the circumstances in this case closely match our 
approach to awards for compensation. So Im not asking Admiral to pay more than this. 
My final decision
I understand Mr and Mrs D will be disappointed with the level of compensation Im awarding. 
I uphold Mr Ds complaint. I require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to pay Mr D a total 
of £750 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its poor service. 
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date 
on which we tell it Mr D accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a 
simple rate of 8% a year.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman