DRN-1851110
The complaint
This complaint is brought by Mr J on behalf of himself and his wife, Mrs J, for whom Mr J 
holds Power of Attorney. Mr Js complaint is that Nationwide Building Society has told him he 
and Mrs J are ineligible to apply for one of its Later Life mortgages, which Mr J considers to 
be unfair.
What happened
Mr and Mrs J own their home free of mortgage. I am sorry to note that two years ago Mrs J 
had to go into a care home. Mr J now has Power of Attorney for Mrs J, who I am told lacks 
capacity to make decisions for herself.
After seeing an advert on TV for Nationwides Later Life mortgage products, Mr J 
approached Nationwide for a mortgage. He needed to raise funds to pay for Mrs Js care. 
But because Mr J has Power of Attorney for Mrs J, they didnt meet Nationwides lending 
criteria and so the application didnt proceed.
Mr J complained to Nationwide, but the Society didnt uphold the complaint. Nationwide 
explained that it couldnt offer mortgages to new customers where one of the applicants was 
subject to a Power of Attorney. Nationwide also said that even for existing customers, there 
were restrictions on what changes it would allow to the account where an account holder 
was subject to a Power of Attorney.
Dissatisfied with Nationwides response, Mr J complained to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. An investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think Nationwide had done 
anything wrong.  He was satisfied Nationwide was entitled to set its own lending criteria.
Mr J disagreed with the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsmans review of the 
complaint. Mr J says he hasnt been given any logical reason why Nationwide refused him a 
mortgage and so can only conclude that it is some sort of discrimination.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J says that Nationwide hasnt given him any reason why it wouldnt allow him to apply for 
a Later Life mortgage. But in its letter dated 14 February 2020 Nationwide explained that it 
cant accept applications from non-members for a mortgage with a Power of Attorney. 
Nationwide have made this decision based on the associated risk with Later Life lending. 
In the circumstances, Im satisfied Nationwide gave Mr J a reason for its decision. It might 
not be a reason Mr J is happy with, but Nationwide provided an explanation, which I consider 
to be satisfactory.
Mr J believes hes been discriminated against, but Im satisfied he has not. The Equality Act 
2010 deals with prohibitions on discrimination. In 2012 the provisions on age discrimination 
were brought into force. but an exception was made for financial services providers, which 
are allowed to use age as a factor in deciding whether to offer services, based on an 
credible assessment of risk. 
In the case of Later Life mortgages for customers who are not already existing mortgage 
account holders, Nationwide has assessed that there is an increased risk in allowing 
someone using a Power of Attorney to apply for this type of mortgage. As a result, 
Nationwide has taken the decision not to provide Later Life mortgages to any customers 
where one of the applicants is subject to a Power of Attorney. This risk assessment applies 
to all applicants, and so Mr and Mrs J have not been treated any differently from any other 
customers in the same situation. 
Nationwide is allowed to set its own lending criteria. Decisions that Nationwide makes in 
respect of what those criteria are, its attitude to risk involved in this particular lending 
assessment, and whether it should lend and if so, on what terms are clearly discretionary 
matters for Nationwides own commercial judgement that I would not interfere with.
Given this, Im sorry to disappoint Mr J, but Im satisfied Mr J has not been discriminated 
against, and so Im unable to uphold this complaint.
There are other mortgage providers who may offer lifetime mortgages to customers where 
one of the applicants is subject to a Power of Attorney. If Mr J still wants to take out an 
equity release mortgage, I would suggest he contacts the Equity Release Council, which can 
provide him with details of a financial advisor in his area who can discuss this with him and 
see if there is another lender who can help him. We can provide Mr J with contact details for 
the Equity Release Council, if he would like us to.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 January 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman