DRN-2677744
The complaint
Mr A, who is represented by his wife, complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK 
Limited (MBFS) delayed supplying a clearance certificate at the end of his hire purchase 
agreement. He also complains that repairs to the car after an accident took too long. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons: 
My remit is limited to regulated financial activities and the delay in the car being repaired is 
not a matter I can consider. That matter is better suited to the Motor Ombudsman. 
MBFS has accepted that its call handler made an error during a call with Mr A when he was 
told that he couldnt pay off his balance by debit card as it was awaiting clearance of his last 
direct debit. It offered him £50 for this error.
However, Mr A believes this delay of a few days caused the value of his car to drop 
significantly. This is based on the two valuations he received from an online company. I will 
call W. He received a valuation of £17,345 on 26 October and £16,395 on 31 October. I 
gather he later part exchanged the car. 
The online valuations were based on limited information and an actual price would only be 
agreed after a visual inspection. I gather that it is not unusual for the price paid by W to be 
lower than the initial valuation and it is reasonable to presume that if Mr A had eventually 
sold the car to W he would have received a different sum than either of the two valuations.  
As such, I dont consider the online valuations to carry much weight.
That is borne out by the fact the value supposedly dropped by £950 in a few days. That does 
not suggest that either figure can be taken to be particularly accurate. A car does not lose 
£950 in value in a few days. I believe the valuations are better described as indicative guide 
prices and not guaranteed sums that W would pay. The figures used by W are probably 
more to do with its marketing strategy rather than the provision of accurate valuations.
As such, I am not persuaded that the few days delay caused the car to lose value. I agree 
that MBFS made an error and it is only right that some compensation be paid. I believe the 
sum of £50 is fair and reasonable. 
In short, I do not consider I can accept that the car lost value due to a few days delay by 
MBFS.
My final decision
Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited has already made an offer to pay £50 to 
settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited should pay £50 if it 
has not already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman