DRN-3675853
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy with the way British Gas Insurance Limited handled a claim she made on 
her home emergency insurance policy.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the main points:
Mrs S got in touch with British Gas to report a blocked drain in her front garden. I 
understand water was overflowing the driveway and heading towards her home.
British Gas sent an engineer. They didnt identify a problem with a drain. They 
thought the problem had been caused by a soakaway under the driveway. That 
wasnt covered by the policy, so they offered to quote for putting the problem right.
Mrs S said she didnt hear further from British Gas, so she got in touch with a builder 
to carry out the work for her. The builder dug up the driveway and found there wasnt 
a soakaway. They found a blocked pipe.
I understand British Gas returned and removed the blockage. Problems persisted 
with the system due to blockages on a nearby section owned by the local water 
company. They restored normal flow soon after.
The original problem was resolved by this stage as the pipe was free flowing again. 
But Mrs S had paid the builder to carry out work which turned out to be unnecessary. 
She thought British Gas was responsible and asked it to reimburse her the cost.
British Gas accepted it may have given bad advice and paid £500 compensation for 
the inconvenience caused. But it didnt think it was responsible for the cost of the 
work. It summary, it said:
oIt had only suggested the soakaway work
oIt hadnt been given a chance to quote for the soakaway work
oIt wasnt responsible for another builders work
oThe builder should have carried out its own investigations before digging up 
the driveway
Mrs S referred her complaint to this Service. During our investigation, British Gas 
also said:
oThe engineer had been unable to clear the blockage initially, so they said they 
would arrange for a supervisor to visit Mrs S. But because she had the work 
carried out soon after, this visit wasnt arranged.
oThe supervisors visit would have been more conclusive, including carrying 
out further investigation.
oThe engineer hadnt advised Mrs S to dig up her driveway. They had agreed 
to pass things to their supervisor to arrange the visit and next steps.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. She found no evidence to 
show British Gas was arranging for a supervisor to visit Mrs S or for further 
investigation to be carried out. It was unclear what investigations British Gas thought 
the builder should have carried out  and why British Gas didnt carry them out if they 
were necessary. British Gas misdiagnosed the problem and then failed to follow up 
promptly. That caused Mrs S to spend money on the driveway unnecessarily. So 
British Gas should put things right by reimbursing her the amount she paid.
Mrs S agreed with our investigator. British Gas didnt. It said the engineer had offered 
to provide a quote to investigate and repair the soakaway but before anything was 
arranged, Mrs S had the builder dig up her driveway.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs S British Gas policy covers unblocking drains to restore flow. Ultimately flow was 
restored, so Im satisfied the policy has been fulfilled.
But the question for me is whether the way British Gas dealt with the claim caused Mrs S a 
financial loss.
The notes from British Gas visit say the engineer attempted to clear the blockage but was 
unable to. They advised further on quote from office for new soakaway.
British Gas accepts the engineer told Mrs S they thought the problem was with a soakaway 
and putting that right wasnt covered by the policy. It also offered to quote for the work. This 
is supported by the notes from the time.
No evidence has been provided by British Gas to indicate it went on to prepare or give the 
quote or made any further contact with Mrs S after the initial visit.
During our investigation British Gas has placed a lot of weight on the role of the supervisor 
and what a visit from them and/or further investigation may have achieved. But it hasnt 
provided any evidence from the time to show these options were suggested to Mrs S or even 
contemplated by British Gas. The engineers notes dont include any mention of a referral to 
a supervisor and/or further investigation. So I dont find this persuasive at all.
Im satisfied Mrs S was entitled to regard British Gas opinion as an expert one she could 
reasonably rely on. As it was prepared to quote for the work, I think she would have been 
given the firm impression British Gas believed the work was an effective and proportionate 
solution. And without any evidence to suggest British Gas had indicated a further visit and/or 
investigation was needed, getting this work done was the only option presented to her.
Mrs S originally got in touch with British Gas under her home emergency policy because 
water was backing up toward her home. She was told the problem wasnt covered by the 
policy and she would receive a quote for putting it right. When it didnt arrive promptly, I think 
it was reasonable for her to find a builder who could swiftly put things right for her. She knew 
British Gas wouldnt be covering the cost under her policy so she would have to pay for the 
work whoever carried it out  the key factor for Mrs S was having it done quickly to avoid 
water getting into her home. I think that was a reasonable approach to take.If British Gas had wanted to quote for the work, it could have done so  or at least let Mrs S 
know how long it might take to provide one. I have seen no evidence it did either.
British Gas says the builder took drastic action by digging up the driveway and not carrying 
out any further investigation. Its unclear what investigations it thinks should have done  and 
if they were important to do, why British Gas didnt do them or recommend Mrs S have them 
done if they werent covered by the policy. Its also unclear how British Gas would have 
resolved the soakaway problem without digging up the driveway.
Im not persuaded British Gas would have done anything materially different to the builder if 
it had carried out the work. So Im not satisfied its at a disadvantage because Mrs S turned 
to a builder instead of waiting for the British Gas quote.
Overall, British Gas gave Mrs S poor advice. Rather than checking the full range of likely 
possibilities, it made an assumption and guided Mrs S to spend money following it. Even if 
she had spent her money with British Gas, its likely a similar position would have been 
reached. Im not satisfied this chain of events has treated Mrs S fairly. Had British Gas 
thoroughly investigated the cause of the leak as I would expect it to, Im satisfied Mrs S 
wouldnt have spent money on the builder  or on a British Gas quote. Instead, British Gas 
would likely have found and resolved the blockage, with the cost met by the policy.
It follows that to put things right, Im satisfied British Gas should reimburse the amount Mrs S 
paid to the builder. Its entitled to the invoice and evidence of Mrs S payment if it wishes.
British Gas has accepted it caused Mrs S unnecessary distress in the way it handled things 
and paid her £500 compensation. Im satisfied thats a reasonable amount in the 
circumstances, so I wont be telling British Gas to pay any further compensation.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require British Gas Insurance Limited to reimburse the amount Mrs S paid to the builder.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman