DRN-4456212
The complaint
Mr G complains about the time West Bay Insurance Plc (West Bay) took to repair his car
after an accident he was involved in, under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr G contacted West Bay to make a claim after his car was damaged in an accident in
January 2023. Hes a driving instructor and relies on his car to earn an income. His car was
undriveable after the accident. Mr G was provided with a dual control hire car for a period of
two weeks. This was arranged through a separate insurance policy shortly after the accident.
After the hire period ended, Mr G says it took two weeks to find a replacement vehicle. This
has cost him £158 per week up until his car was repaired. He says no replacement vehicle
was offered by West Bay. Mr G says he couldnt work without access to a dual-control car.
Mr G says his car wasnt repaired and retuned to him by West Bay until 12 October 2023. He
says it should pay his hire car costs and his loss of earnings. Mr G also complains about the
poor communication he received throughout the claim.
In its final complaint response, West Bay says Mr Gs car was deemed to be repairable, but
he was told at the outset that there would be an extremely long wait for the parts needed. It
says this is due to supply chain issues globally. Other garages were considered, but West
Bay says they would face the same issue.
West Bay says Mr Gs policy provides for a courtesy car for the duration of a repair, subject
to availability. It says there is no obligation for this to be anything other than a small
hatchback. West Bay asked its repairer to provide a car if, and when this was required. But
in its response it says Mr G had hired a dual-control car to assist with his work. This isnt
something provided by his policy.
Mr G didnt accept West Bays response and referred his complaint to our service. Our
investigator upheld his complaint. He says West Bay should pay the cost of Mr Gs hire car.
In addition, it should pay his loss of earnings for the two weeks he was without a dual-control
car. Because of the delays Mr G had experienced in West Bay repairing his car our
investigator thought it should pay him £300 compensation.
West Bay disagreed. It says it cant be held responsible for the shortage of spare parts. Mr
Gs hire car had to be returned less than three weeks after the accident. West Bay says
even without the spare part shortage this wouldnt have been enough time to complete the
repairs. It doesnt think it should have to pay for lost earnings in light of this.
West Bay doesnt think its responsible for paying the hire car costs Mr G incurred, under his
policy terms and conditions. Or that it should pay compensation. It says it provided accurate
information throughout the claim.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the matter has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in October 2023 explaining that I was intending to uphold Mr 
Gs complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so my intention is to uphold Mr Gs complaint in part. Let me explain.
West Bay issued its final complaint response in May 2023. However, Mr G has raised
concerns with its handling of his claim up to October when his car was finally repaired and
returned to him. The Financial Conduct Authority dispute resolution or DISP rules, say that
we cant look at a complaint unless its first been referred to the business. So ordinarily I cant
consider beyond the date of its final response. However, in this case West Bay has
authorised our service to consider the complaint up to the point Mr Gs car was returned. So,
I will consider the concerns raised in my decision up to this date.
Mr Gs policy terms say hes insured to drive for the purposes of social, domestic and
pleasure. His policy also provides cover for his occupation as a driving instructor. I can see
that he has separate cover that provides a guaranteed hire vehicle. This cover is
underwritten by a different insurer and is separate to the motor insurance cover provided by
West Bay. Mr G was provided with a dual-controlled hire car for a period of two weeks using
this separate cover.
Ive looked at what Mr Gs policy terms and conditions say about the provision of a
replacement vehicle. The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) says:
What is insured?
Courtesy car for duration of repairs authorised by us and completed by an approved
repairer.
Although West Bays terms say it will provide a car whilst repairs are underway, I cant see
that this specifies the type of car that must be provided. Courtesy cars are commonly
supplied by the approved repairer appointed by the insurer. This will usually be limited to a
small hatchback, as opposed to a like-for-like replacement of the customers car. The
intention behind this is to keep the customer mobile whilst the repairs are completed. We
dont think this approach to providing a replacement car is unfair.
Im mindful that Mr Gs policy with West Bay is essentially a private policy which allows
business use. Its not a policy designed to provide a dual controlled car so that he can carry
on providing driving lessons in the event of an accident claim. Mr G had separate hire car
cover through his broker to facilitate this. But this was for two weeks only. So, although Mr G
had arranged for some cover to ensure he was able to continue working  he didnt have
cover in the event his car took longer than two weeks to repair.
Having carefully considered this point, I dont think Mr G had adequate cover in place. It
wasnt a requirement of West Bays policy to provide him with a dual control vehicle.
I acknowledge Mr Gs comments that he wasnt offered a courtesy car. But I can see that he
was supplied with a dual control car shortly after the accident, under his separate policy. I
can see from the claim records that he made West Bay aware of this. This means there was
no need for a courtesy car from West Bay. After the two-week hire period ended, Mr G still
needed a dual control car to be able to work. This isnt something West Bays repairer hadavailable, and it isnt something West Bay was expected to provide under its policy.
That said Mr G was without a car for two weeks. This was before he was able to hire another
dual controlled vehicle. His policy with West Bay provides for a courtesy car. I cant see from
the claim records that Mr G was offered one when the dual-controlled car had to be returned.
The records refer to him being advised to contact his other insurer to see if he could extend
the hire. But I cant see that West Bay offered a courtesy car at this time.
I think West Bay shouldve offered Mr G a courtesy car for the two weeks he was without
transport. Although this wasnt required to be a dual controlled vehicle, it will have meant that
he remained mobile. To put this right West Bay should pay Mr G compensation for his loss
of use of his vehicle for this two-week period. Our service considers £10 per day fair
compensation for this loss of use. So, West Bay should pay Mr G £140.
Ive thought about the two weeks loss of earnings Mr G has requested from West Bay. This
was because he didnt have a dual controlled car to carry on providing driving lessons. But
as discussed, his policy with West Bay doesnt provide a dual controlled vehicle. It wasnt for
West Bay to ensure Mr G could carry on providing driving lessons. So, I dont reasonably
think its responsible for paying Mr Gs lost earnings.
Having said that Mr Gs car was damaged in January 2023. It wasnt repaired until October.
This is a very long time to wait for repairs to be completed. I acknowledge what West Bay
says about the ongoing supply issues the industry is facing. I note its comments that this
isnt something it could influence. I also acknowledge that West Bay offered Mr G a cash in
lieu payment, so he could arrange for the repairs himself at his own choice of repairer.
Ive thought about whether West Bay couldve done anything more to try and expedite the
repairs given the very long delays waiting for parts. I can see that Mr G agreed for a
reconditioned part to be used in the repairs to avoid some of the delay. He says this was
only mentioned to him in September 2023. He queries whether this couldve been
considered earlier. I think this is a fair point.
From the claim records I cant see that reconditioned parts were considered by West Bays
garage any earlier than September 2023. I think this wouldve been a sensible option to
consider earlier. It was known from the very start of the claim that extensive delays were
expected. I think this shows that more couldve been done to try and reduce the overall
repair time.
As it is Mr G waited around nine months for his car to be repaired and returned to him. This
caused him inconvenience, disruption, and some distress over an extended period. In these
circumstances I think West Bay should pay Mr G compensation. I think £750 is fair, and in
line with our services approach to awarding compensation in these circumstances.
I said I was intending to uphold this complaint and West Bay should:
pay Mr G £140 for the loss of use of his vehicle; and
pay Mr G £750 compensation for the inconvenience, disruption, and distress it 
caused him.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
West Bay responded to say it had no further comments or information to provide. 
Mr G responded to say he was shocked at my provisional findings as West Bay had agreed to contribute towards his hire car costs. He says he wasnt told from the outset that it would 
be an extremely long wait until the repairs on his car would be completed. He says this was 
only mentioned in West Bays final response letter in May 2023. He says that had this been 
made clear he wouldve considered alternatives such as buying a cheap car to allow him to 
continue working. 
Mr G says he paid £167 per week for a hire car. He says the cheapest small car from a 
national provider cost £197 per week. He wasnt provided with a courtesy car by West Bay 
and says it should reimburse this cost, as it didnt have to provide this service. 
In his further submissions Mr G says he was told the drive shaft would arrive on 18 May 
2023 and a sensor on 10 August. He was later told the drive shaft hadnt arrived and there 
was no estimated delivery date. He says it took the repairer four months to inform him this 
part hadnt arrived and to suggest an alternative solution. He says the suggestion to use a 
reconditioned part couldve been made much earlier, which I acknowledged as a fair point 
in my provisional decision. Mr G says this caused further delay until 11 October when he 
finally collected his car. He says hes expected to pay the additional expense this caused in 
hire car fees. 
Mr G says he would like the loss of use payment I set out in my provisional decision to be 
extended up to 11 October 2023. This should be paid along with £750 compensation. Mr G 
says hes also concerned with how I referred to his policy. He says his certificate of 
insurance stipulates various limitations related specifically to his profession and business. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not persuaded that a change to my provisional decision is warranted. 
I acknowledge what Mr G says about West Bay contributing towards his hire car costs. 
However, in its response to his complaint, it declined to reimburse these costs. It also 
disagreed with our investigators findings that it should be responsible for paying the hire 
charges. I note that on receipt of our investigators findings West Bay said it was prepared to 
reimburse some of the hire car costs. However, I cant see that a specific offer was made.  
As West Bay disagreed with our investigators findings the complaint was passed to me to 
decide. I set out what I thought was fair and reasonable in my provisional decision. I didnt 
think this meant West Bay should have to pay toward the dual control hire car costs Mr G 
incurred. My opinion hasnt changed as a result of his further comments. 
If West Bay wants to pay some of Mr Gs hire costs this is a matter between it and Mr G. 
However, based on the circumstances and evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied that my 
provisional findings represent a fair outcome to this dispute. This doesnt require it to 
contribute to these costs.
It took a long time for Mr Gs car to be repaired. In my provisional decision I acknowledged 
more could have been done to explore the use of reconditioned parts earlier. I note what Mr 
G says about not knowing quite how long a wait it would be for the parts to be obtained. But I 
do think from the records provided that it was explained there would be delays and these 
could be lengthy. 
Mr G says he couldve considered buying a cheap car to use for work if hed known the 
delay would be so long. But this is something he was free to consider at any time during the repairs. I agree this couldve been an effective way to mitigate the loss of his dual-control car 
and allow him to continue working. As Mr G only had cover in place to provide a dual-
controlled car for two weeks, and given the cost of hiring a replacement, I think this couldve 
been a reasonable option for him to consider.   
I acknowledge Mr Gs comments that his policy certificate stipulates various limitations 
relating to his profession and business. In my provisional decision I made the point that Mr 
Gs policy wasnt designed so that he could continue his business in the event of an accident 
claim. I said theres no requirement under his policy for West Bay to provide a dual 
controlled car so that he could carry on providing driving lessons. So, although Ive 
considered Mr Gs comments, this doesnt warrant a change to my decision.
Im sorry it took a long time for Mr Gs car to be repaired and I can understand that this 
caused him disruption, inconvenience, and distress. But I think the compensation payment 
and loss of use payment set out in my provisional findings is fair. This will now become my 
final decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that West Bay Insurance Plc should:
pay Mr G £140 for the loss of use of his vehicle; and
pay Mr G £750 compensation for the inconvenience, disruption, and distress it
caused him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman