DRN-4202215
The complaint
Ms B complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank lent to her 
irresponsibly.
What happened
In November 2015 Ms B applied for a loan with Tesco. Tesco approved the application and 
gave Ms B a loan for £15,000 with monthly repayments of £230.29 over a term of 86 
months.
Ms B complained that Tesco lent to her irresponsibly.
Tesco didnt uphold the complaint, so Ms B brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that Tesco had carried out reasonable 
and proportionate checks before lending to Ms B and that the lending decision was fair.
Ms B didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We.ve set out our approach to complaint about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering Ms Bs complaint,
Before agreeing to lend, Tesco needed to complete reasonable and proportionate checks to 
ensure that Ms B could sustainably repay what was being lent to her. Theres no set list of 
checks that a lender has to complete. But lenders must have regard to things like the 
amount being lent, the total amount repayable, the monthly repayments and the consumers 
individual circumstances when deciding whats reasonable and proportionate.
Ms B declared that she was working full time with an income of £5,250 per month when she 
applied for the loan. She also declared that she received £1000 per month child 
maintenance. Ms B declared that she was a homeowner and a joint mortgage holder. Tesco 
took into account the outgoings declared by Ms B and carried out an affordability 
assessment, which showed that Ms B had sufficient monthly disposable income to afford the 
loan repayments.
Tesco also carried out a credit check to see what other unsecured debt Ms B had, and how 
this was being managed. The credit check showed that all of Ms Bs other consumer credit 
accounts were up to date and there were no defaults or CCJs.
Based on what Ive seen, I think the checks carried out by Tesco were reasonable and 
proportionate. Theres nothing in the information gathered which wouldve caused Tesco any 
concern, or which wouldve meant that further checks shouldve been carried out.
Ive gone on to consider whether the lending decision was fair. Looking at the information 
gathered from the checks, I think the loan appeared affordable for Ms B. There was nothing 
in the information gathered to suggest that Ms B was struggling to repay debt or that she 
was overly reliant on credit. In the circumstances I think the lending decision was fair.
I appreciate that Ms Bs circumstances changed sometime after she took out the loan. I dont 
think Tesco could reasonable have foreseen this at the time of the loan application, so Im 
unable to say that the lending was irresponsible.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman