DRN-2534516
The complaint
Miss A is complaining that a car Santander Consumer (UK) Plc supplied her under a 
conditional sale agreement was of unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
In November 2018 Miss A entered into a conditional sale agreement through Santander to 
acquire a car. The cash price of the car was around £7,000, it was around three years old 
and it had travelled around 33,600 miles when Miss A first acquired it. In February 2019 she 
complained to the supplying dealership that the following faults had developed on the car:
Loud creaking noises were coming from the car;
Satellite navigation system wasnt working;
The car would struggle to change gear.
The supplying dealership inspected the car and said it couldnt find the fault. So Miss A 
contacted Santander as the finance provider and supplier of the car. Santander arranged for 
an independent engineer to inspect the car. The engineer confirmed the faults were present 
and he thought they would have been present or developing at the point of supply.
Following this, Santander said the supplying dealership would carry out the repairs. Miss A 
took the car to the dealership in May 2019 and the repairs were carried out. The dealership 
says it also refunded two of the monthly payments Miss A made. But Miss A contacted 
Santander again the following month to say the faults had returned and she said she wanted 
to reject the car.
The supplying dealership disputed the new faults were linked to the original repair and it 
thought was down to an accident Miss A had had in the car. 
Miss A later got another garage to carry out an inspection of the car who suspected a clutch 
release bearing had failed. The engineer also said there was an intermittent noise coming 
from the engine and he thought this could be down to a damaged cylinder head.
Following this, Santander arranged for a further independent inspection of the car. The 
engineer confirmed there was a fault with the gearbox. And he similarly thought this was 
down to a failed bearing. However the engineer didnt think this was related to the original 
repair and highlighted Miss A had travelled over 12,000 miles in the car since she first 
acquired it.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He acknowledged the independent engineer had said 
he didnt think the current gearbox fault was linked to the original fault, but he didnt agree. 
He said Miss A had raised the current issue with the gearbox shortly after the original repair. 
He said the original repair consisted of replacing the clutch kit, bearings, shockers and rear 
shoes.
He didnt think it was likely that two entirely separate failures would happen to a gearbox in 
such a relatively short time. So he thought both faults were likely to be linked and he thought 
the subsequent issues were a direct consequence of the earlier repairs having failed. So he 
thought Miss A was now entitled to reject the car and end the finance agreement. He also 
thought Miss A hadnt had the use of the car she was entitled to expect given all the issues 
shed had. So he thought Santander should do the following to put things right:
1. terminate the finance agreement and collect the car at no cost to Miss A;
2. pay Miss A £350 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience shed 
experienced;
3. refund 20% of her monthly finance instalments in respect of lack of use and add 8% 
simple interest from May 2019 to the date of settlement;
4. remove any adverse reports they may have made to the credit reference agencies in 
respect of these issues.
Santander didnt accept the investigators findings. It said an independent engineer had 
concluded the faults werent linked so it queried why the investigator had ignored this. And it 
asked to be allowed to put the investigators comments to the independent engineer. 
As Santander didnt accept the investigators opinion, the complaints been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss A acquired the car under a conditional sale agreement. Legislation  in this case the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA)  implied a term into the hire purchase agreement that the 
car must be of satisfactory quality. As the supplier and finance provider, Santander is 
responsible for the quality of the car its provided under the agreement. Theres no dispute 
that theres a fault with the car, but the issue is whether it was present at the time of sale, 
and whether that fault makes the car of unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied.
In deciding whether this car was of satisfactory quality, I take into account the relevant 
circumstances, such as the cash price, its mileage and age. In this case, Miss A paid around 
£7,000 for the car. The car was around three years old and had travelled around 33,600 
miles at the point of supply. 
The issue here is whether those problems were likely to have been present or developing at 
the time of sale, as opposed to natural and inevitable wear and tear in a used car. Ive also 
considered whether a reasonable person would expect there to be problems such as Miss A 
has experienced in a car of this price, age and mileage  in short is the car sufficiently 
durable. 
Around three months after acquiring the car, it developed a fault with the gearbox and 
satellite navigation system. Miss A also reported loud creaking noises coming from the 
engine. The independent engineer Santander instructed confirmed the faults and that they 
were present or developing at the point of supply. I dont think a reasonable person would 
expect to see these faults on the car, given its age, price and mileage at the point of supply. 
So I dont think the car was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied.
The CRA sets out the remedies available to Miss A where a car is of unsatisfactory quality. 
And this says, after the first thirty days, Miss A has the right to require the car be repaired. 
Santander arranged for the supplying dealership to carry out the repairs to the car in line 
with its responsibilities under the CRA. I understand the dealership also agreed to refund two 
of the monthly payments Miss A made during that time. However, the CRA further sets out that Miss A may be entitled to reject the car if the fault isnt fixed or a further fault arises with 
it that would also make the car of unsatisfactory quality.
A month after the repairs were carried out, Miss A contacted Santander to say some of the 
faults were still there. She said the car was getting stuck in third gear and she said she could 
still hear the rattling in the engine. She reported these issues to Santander. She also said 
there were faults with the heater and the rear windscreen wiper stopped working, but she got 
these repaired herself.
I can see that Miss A took the car back to the dealership in June 2019 and it acknowledged 
the rattling noise was still present and it replaced the rear shock absorbers and top mounts. 
She said she was looking to hand the car back because she didnt want it any longer. 
Miss A remained unhappy with what was happening, so she referred her complaint to this 
service. 
Miss A later arranged to have the car inspected by an independent garage who concluded 
the fault was likely to be down to a faulty clutch release bearing or clutch assembly. 
Santander later arranged for a further inspection from the same independent company it 
used before. This confirmed the car did display noticeable gearbox chattering and rattling.
The engineer said the gear selection was noted to be very notchy and there was also 
crunching into 2nd gear. There was excessive knocking from the offside front suspension 
ball joint area throughout the 1 mile road test. And the engineer said it was most likely to be 
down to failed bearings that needed replacing.
So theres no dispute there are issues with the car. Santander highlighted the independent 
engineer didnt think the faults were related to the original fault. But Im not aware of how 
much of the cars history the engineer was aware of. However, Ive reviewed the inspection 
report done by the supplying dealership in April 2019, which highlights issues with the 
gearbox and refers to issues with bearings. But it ultimately concluded that it needed to 
replace the cutch kit.
It seems to me that there was a significant issue with the gearbox and clutch which the 
independent engineer initially confirmed was present at the point of supply. Given how soon 
after the initial repair Miss A highlighted the continuing issue with the gearbox and that it had 
the same symptoms as before, it seems to me that its most likely its linked to the original 
fault. 
I note Santander has asked that the independent engineer be given the opportunity to 
comment on the investigators opinion. But I dont think theres anything that could be added 
to whats been said before. Ultimately, Im satisfied from reviewing all the reports provided 
and taken into account what both parties have provided, that the current fault is linked to the 
original fault on the car. So, it follows, that I dont think the car was fixed to a satisfactory 
quality in May 2019. As I said above, under the CRA, I think Miss A is entitled to request to 
reject the car. And I think thats fair in the circumstances too.
However, Im conscious that shes travelled over 12,000 miles since she acquired the car. 
And I also note Miss A has already been offered to have two monthly payments refunded. 
So I think this compensation offer is a fair offer for any loss of use shes had. Miss A doesnt 
think refunding two monthly sufficiently covers the loss of use shes had. But I dont think 
shes had a significant drop in her usage of the car. So I dont think it needs to refund 
anything further.
Santander has also raised concerns that the damage caused by the accident may not have 
been repaired to a satisfactory level, reflecting the cars age and mileage. I think its fair for Santander to have these concerns. It was Miss As responsibility to maintain the car in a 
good condition and to carry out any repairs to the car that arent down to wear and tear. So I 
think Santander can require Miss A to pay for the cost of repairing any damage arising from 
the accident that it can show hasnt been repaired or been repaired to a satisfactory level.
Ive thought about whether I think Santander should compensate Miss A for whats 
happened. I do think Santander could have resolved this matter sooner as I think it should 
have asked for a further independent inspection when in June 2019 Miss A said the issues 
hadnt been resolved. Had it done this, I think it could have identified and resolved the issues 
sooner. I can see Miss A has had a number of issues since then and its clear this matter 
has caused her some distress and inconvenience. So I agree with the investigator that 
Santander should pay £350 in compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and I 
require Santander Consumer (UK) Plc to do the following:
1. Allow Miss A to reject the car and arrange to collect it at no cost to her;
2. Cancel the agreement with nothing further to pay - and arrange for any adverse markers 
to be removed from Miss As credit file;
3. Refund two monthly payments if Miss A hasnt already received this; and
4. Pay £350 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused 
Miss A.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 March 2021. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman