DRN-3889322
The complaint
Mr B complains that Digital Moneybox Limited (Moneybox) failed to open a Lifetime ISA 
(LISA), even though he completed his LISA application several days before his 40th 
birthday deadline date.
To put things right, Mr B wants to be able to pay into his LISA and benefit from the features it 
offers plus financial redress for the money he feels hes missed out on as a result of what 
happened.
What happened
Just before noon on Wednesday 5 June 2019, Mr B completed an application for the LISA 
via Moneyboxs app after downloading this from its website. 
To open a LISA, applicants had to be aged 18 or over but under 40 and Mr B knew that he 
had to have his LISA set up by his 40th birthday or he would lose the chance to open a LISA 
and take advantage of the benefits it offered. As his 40th birthday was just a few days after 
he completed the LISA application, he was keen to submit his application before his birthday 
deadline. 
 
Mr B said Moneybox didnt make it clear during the sign-up process that his LISA wouldnt 
be opened until the first direct debit payment was taken and that this couldnt happen until 
the Wednesday of the following week, which would be after his 40th birthday. 
When Mr B complained to Moneybox, it said it was unable to uphold his complaint. 
Moneybox said that on the same day Mr B submitted his LISA application, one of its 
customer support representatives explained to him via its chat function that, in line with its 
collection timings, payment wouldnt be made to the LISA in time. This was because the first 
contribution was set to be collected around midday the following Wednesday, which was 
after his 40th birthday. Moneybox had confirmed to Mr B at that point that he still had time to 
open a LISA with another provider.
Mr B referred the complaint to this service. He said hed chosen Moneybox as it seemed 
straightforward to apply online and open an account instantly, which he did successfully 
around midday on 5 June 2019. He was adamant that at no point during the sign up process 
did Moneybox say that his account would not be considered open until the following 
Wednesday when the first direct debit would be taken. He said it only occurred to him that 
this could be an issue later that day when he received confirmation that the direct debit 
payment would be taken the following Wednesday. He said he got back in touch with 
Moneybox to check that the account would still be classed as open despite the funding being 
taken after his 40th birthday and he was told no  and that Moneybox couldnt offer an 
alternative solution, such as him making a one-off payment by card or it lending him £1 to 
fund the account.    
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She mainly said that:
evidence from Moneybox showed that Mr B was clearly informed on the day that due 
to Moneyboxs payment timings he would be over 40 by the time the LISA was 
officially opened, and he was given the option to open a LISA with another provider.
Mr B sent a message on Moneyboxs chat facility on 5 June 2019 asking if Moneybox 
could confirm if the LISA was opened. Moneybox responded on the same day to re-
confirm that the LISA wouldnt be opened before Mr Bs 40th birthday.
Moneybox provided evidence to show that Mr Bs direct debit mandate was set up on 
5 June 2019 but was not active on Moneyboxs system until 7 June 2019.
Moneybox provided evidence to show that Mr B wouldve been informed that 
payment was taken each Wednesday  so the earliest the LISA couldve been 
opened wouldve been 12 June 2019.
the fact that Mr B couldnt find another LISA provider didnt mean Moneybox did 
something wrong.
Although Mr B said he wanted Moneybox to take a one-off payment for the LISA on 
the day he completed his registration that wasnt an option Moneybox could offer and 
we dont have the power to interfere with a businesss internal processes.
Mr B didnt accept this and he has provided detailed representations setting out why he feels 
his complaint should be upheld. In very brief summary, he says:
the app screenshots Moneybox has provided are weak evidence and only a 
picture of a mockup of the app which doesnt prove that he was shown this 
information at the time
important information he needed to know is still not explicit on its website  the 
crux of my complaint is that there was no explicit warning (like the one in the image 
they provided) on their website prior to applying and there still isn't to this day
the information that is shown indicates that the process is inaccurate or misleading 
by omission  for instance, where it says: Download the application and get started 
with £1.there was no opportunity for him to open a LISA elsewhere  Mr B put it this way:  
had I known about the delay from the website then I could have researched and had 
time to look at alternative options like opening a cash LISA elsewhere and 
transferring it to Moneybox at a later date, however I didn't do that in the weeks 
leading up to this because it made no mention of the direct debit delay on the website 
page associated with marketing the Lisa account...and still doesn't to this day. I just 
believed the implied marketing notion that the process was simple and required £1 to 
get started.
So Mr Bs complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate how strongly Mr B feels about this complaint. I want to assure him that Ive 
carried out an independent review and considered everything he has told me. We provide an 
informal complaints handling service and this is reflected in the way Ive approached the 
complaint. Its part of my role to identify and concentrate on the core issues I need to 
address in order to reach a fair outcome. This means I wont necessarily mention everything 
Mr B has brought to my attention and Ive expressed some of his concerns in my own words. 
But I will comment on everything that makes a difference to the outcome of the complaint 
and try and deal with his main points of concern.  
A key part of Mr Bs complaint, as I understand it, is that whilst Moneybox has told us about 
its processes and shown us examples of screenshots, Moneybox hasnt proved that Mr B 
saw the same screenshots - he says he didnt see these and information which explains the 
time lag between completing the LISA registration and the account being opened still isnt 
made clear on Moneyboxs website. 
I must look at all the available information and decide what I think is most likely on a balance 
of probabilities  in other words, what is more likely than not to have happened. This can 
mean making some reasonable assumptions where theres only limited information. And 
I must be impartial. 
Moneybox has sent screenshots showing information displayed on its app screens during 
the LISA application process which it says were live at the time of Mr Bs complaint. It 
shows that applicants would have seen a screen telling them that Your savings are collected 
every Wednesday at midday. Some applicants would also have seen a message that says: 
Due to the Moneybox payment timings, you will be 40 before we officially open your account 
with HMRC. If you would like to open a (LISA) we recommend opening one with another 
provider and then transferring that into Moneybox. Moneybox said that the system triggered 
this screen based on the customer's date of birth  and so Mr B would have seen this when 
he attempted to open a LISA with Moneybox. I recognise that Mr B has said he wasnt presented with these screens and he believes these 
images dont prove that he must have seen the same information in 2019  but thats not a 
good enough reason for me to be able to uphold his complaint. On balance, given that 
Moneybox operates its LISA process and designed its system to work in the way described 
and it has said these are the screenshots Mr B wouldve been shown, I think its more likely 
than not that these screens were displayed. And I find that it was reasonable for MoneyBox 
to provide this information to LISA applicants this way.
But even if for some reason Mr B wasnt presented with these screens as part of the 
application process, it is not in dispute that Moneybox did make Mr B aware on 5 June 2019 
that his direct debit payment wouldnt be taken until after his 40th birthday. So I think it's fair 
to say that Mr B was aware that he could have applied elsewhere for an ISA that same day 
and it was up to him to find another provider. 
The following guidance is on this government website: 
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/managing-lifetime-isa-applications-and-accounts.
It says Investors must be resident in the UK and age 18 or over, but under 40 when they 
apply to open and make their first payment into a Lifetime ISA.
I think this shows that Moneybox is correct in its assertion that a LISA is not officially opened 
until payment is made into the account. 
To sum up, there simply wasnt enough time for this to happen in Mr Bs case when he made 
his LISA application to Moneybox since its direct debit process couldnt take place earlier 
than the following Wednesday, by which time Mr B would have passed his 40th birthday. 
I have found that this information was most likely communicated to Mr B during the sign up 
process. In any event, its not disputed that it was confirmed to him later that same day, 
along with a reminder that he could still try other LISA providers. I cant fairly say that 
Moneyboxs LISA process caused Mr B any particular detriment when, before 6pm, he was 
back in the position hed been in before he applied for his Moneybox LISA. He wasnt out of 
pocket as he hadnt paid anything yet and he still had a few days left to find another LISA 
provider. 
I appreciate that Mr B feels more detailed information should have been included on 
Moneyboxs website warning him that there might potentially be up to a weeks delay before 
his LISA would be opened due to the way MoneyBox took direct debit payments on a set 
day each week  he says hed have done things differently if hed known this. And I can see 
that this would have been frustrating as the direct debit issue isnt mentioned pre-application. 
But, ultimately, I cant fairly say that MoneyBox has done anything wrong. 
The fact that Moneybox had set up its direct debit payments the way it did and its lack of any 
other payment options arent reasons for me to uphold this complaint. How financial 
businesses choose to operate and the services they offer are matters that come under the 
oversight of the regulator - the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). Moneybox was entitled to 
operate its accounts as it wished, provided it made clear how payments were taken, which 
I think it did here. All in all, I dont find that Moneybox acted incorrectly, unfairly or unreasonably when Mr B 
made his LISA application. I recognise that Mr B will be disappointed with my decision but 
I hope that settings things out this way has been helpful. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman