DRN-1915986
The complaint
Mrs R has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold her two packaged 
bank accounts, the first called an Additions account, and the second called an Additions 
Active account. She paid monthly fees for the accounts and received several potential 
benefits in return. She thinks that Barclays should refund her the fees she paid for both 
accounts and add interest. 
What happened
Mrs R has banked with Barclays for quite a long time. Barclays has checked its records for 
her and has told us that:
she first opened a fee-free account in 1986,
Barclays sold her the Additions account in June 1999; this replaced the fee-free 
account and Barclays charged a monthly fee,
in May 2010, Barclays sold her the Additions Active account; this replaced the 
Additions account and Barclays charged a higher monthly fee,
in August 2012, Mrs R switched back to a fee-free account.
I think that Barclays records about this are probably reliable, and I have taken them to be 
correct. 
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Mrs Rs complaint and didnt think that we 
could consider the sale of the Additions Active account as it fell outside our jurisdiction and 
didnt think that Barclays had done anything significantly wrong when it sold her the 
Additions account. The adjudicator didnt recommend that Barclays should give Mrs R any 
money back. 
.
Mrs R didnt agree with the adjudicators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review her
case. So, it has come to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website,
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do about Mrs Rs complaint. Ive
looked into everything that Mrs R and Barclays have told us or sent us about the case. I 
dont think we can look into the way Barclays sold Mrs R the Additions Active account, and I 
am not upholding her complaint about the Additions account. Ill explain why.
With respect to the Additions Active account, the Financial Conduct Authority has set time 
limits on when people can bring complaints to us. These limits take account of both how long 
ago the event which led to complaint took place, and how long ago the person complaining 
knew (or reasonably ought to have known) about the cause of the complaint. It seems to me 
that Mrs R made this part of her complaint outside these time limits. So, I have not 
considered the way Barclays sold the Additions Active account to Mrs R.
Turning to the way Barclays sold the Additions account to Mrs R, it has told us that it did so 
during a discussion at one of its branches on an information-only basis, without giving Mrs R 
any personal advice. This was its usual approach in 1999 and I have no reason to think it 
changed its practice for Mrs R.
In an information-only sale, I would have expected Barclays to tell Mrs R about the accounts 
costs and benefits and to give her a choice to buy it or to keep her fee-free account. 
Mrs R seems have accepted that Barclays sold her the Additions account during a meeting 
but has told us that she only bought it because she trusted Barclays and it told her that the 
Additions account was the best account for her due to its benefits. She now thinks that this 
was wrong and that the benefits were of no use to her. 
In June 1999, one of the main benefits of the Additions account was that Barclays charged 
lower fees and interest rates for overdrafts to customers who held the account than it usually 
applied to customers with fee-free accounts. In some circumstances, depending on how 
customers used an account, they could save almost as much in overdraft costs by having an 
Additions account as they paid in monthly fees. I understand that in 1999 Mrs R overdrew 
her account quite frequently, and this may well have applied to her. She would then receive 
the other benefits for a very low overall cost. 
At the time, the other benefits included a purchase protection scheme, use of a Will-writing 
service, access to a legal helpline and extended warranties on some products bought 
through Barclays. And as Barclays was trying to sell the account to Mrs R, I think its highly 
likely that it told her about these benefits alongside the possible savings on an overdraft.
I accept that Barclays may have described the account, and its benefits, very positively to 
Mrs R and emphasised how the overdraft savings could help her, but I doubt it told her which 
account would be best for her, as this would have been a matter of opinion. I accept that Mrs 
R may not have wanted or needed all the benefits of the Additions account, but I think she 
may well have found some of them attractive and opted to buy the account.
There isnt any dispute that Barclays told Mrs R about the cost of the account, and as she 
had held a free-free account for a long time, I doubt that Barclays denied her the choice to 
keep it. 
In correspondence, Mrs R has told us that over the ten years or so she held the Additions 
account she paid much more in fees than she saved on her overdraft. I fully accept this. But 
during that time Barclays changed the benefits of the Additions account quite significantly. 
For example, during 2002, it introduced a car breakdown service. And it also changed its 
charges and interest rates for overdrafts, for both fee-free and Additions accounts. Barclays 
was allowed to make these changes, providing it told Mrs R what it was doing and allowed 
her reasonable choices, which I believe it did. And of course, the way Mrs R used her 
account may well have changed over that time as well. Furthermore, these were primarily 
things for Mrs R to consider, they dont mean that Barclays mis-sold her the Additions 
account in 1999. 
Mrs R has also told us that she had some difficulties when she first asked Barclays to switch 
her back to a fee-free account. She hasnt told us a great deal about these possible 
difficulties, and I dont know if she has complained to Barclays about them. I have not considered them in this decision and Mrs R is free raise then Barclays if she wishes. 
However, I cannot give her any advice about this or speculate on the possible outcome of 
any complaint. 
So, in summary, I havent considered the sale of the Additions Active account, and I think 
that Barclays behaved reasonably when it sold Mrs R the Additions account. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Mrs Rs complaint about Barclays 
Bank UK PLC. I am not going to tell it to give her any money back. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2021.
 
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman