DRN-4030868
The complaint
Mr G and Mrs M complain that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) poorly handled their home 
insurance renewal and unfairly recorded a claim against them which resulted in a significant 
increase to their premiums. Any reference to AXA in this final decision includes its respective 
agents unless specified otherwise.
What happened
The background of this complaint is known in detail to the parties involved so Ill summarise
the key points.
Mr G and Mrs M made a claim under their AXA home insurance policy for 
subsidence due to cracks that developed on a retaining wall at their property.
AXA found the damage was unlikely the result of subsidence and more likely age 
related and not covered under the policy. It said that even if it was subsidence related 
it still wouldnt be covered unless it was also affecting the main dwelling  which it 
wasnt. So the claim was declined.
On renewal of the policy Mr G and Mrs M noted the new premium being offered by 
AXA had doubled from the previous year and this appeared to be because of the 
subsidence claim.
Mr G and Mrs M complained this was unfair as AXA had declined the claim saying 
there was no subsidence. They also complained AXA sent the renewal paperwork to 
the wrong address and by the time it got to them they had no time to challenge the 
renewal quote before the new premiums were taken and the policy went live.
AXA said that even if a claim is made and declined, costs can still be incurred by the 
insurer in investigating it (a loss) and the claim still needs to be recorded as having 
been made, regardless of the outcome.
It said that any claim made, whether accepted or declined, can affect risk when 
calculating premiums. It also explained that it carries out regular analysis of how its 
home insurance product is performing and as a result, its overall rate and pricing for 
certain perils had significantly increased that year.
With all of that in mind it was satisfied it had fairly handled Mr G and Mrs Ms renewal 
and so it didnt uphold that part of the complaint. But it offered them £25 
compensation for the error of sending the renewal paperwork to the wrong address. 
Unsatisfied with this, Mr G and Mrs M brought a complaint to this Service.
Our investigator considered the complaint and thought AXA had acted fairly so they 
didnt uphold it. Mr G and Mrs M disagreed, so the complaint was passed to me to 
make a decision.
I issued a provisional decision on this case in March 2023. In it, I said:
Ive found the crux of this complaint to be about two key matters  the price of Mr G 
and Mrs Ms home insurance policy at renewal and the service they received from 
AXA during its handling of this. Ill deal with both parts in turn.
When considering complaints about insurance pricing, its important to set out the 
role of this service and the scope of my decision.
Its not for me to tell a business what it should charge when agreeing to provide 
cover, this is a commercial decision that the business is entitled to make. But I can 
check that a customer is treated fairly when a business prices the policy.
Mr G and Mrs M say theyve been treated unfairly as a subsidence claim they made 
to AXA, which was subsequently declined because no subsidence was found, has 
been logged on their claims history and resulted in a significant increase to the 
renewal price of their policy.
From what Ive seen, AXAs contractors observed damage to the property both 
internally and externally. And its not in dispute that subsidence wasnt found to be 
the cause of the this.
But a claim was still made. AXA wouldve incurred a cost in appointing and sending 
out a contractor to inspect the damage and compile a report. And regardless of that 
specific claim not being covered under the policy, damage was still observed, which 
arguably may or may not have an impact on future claims that could arise.
On the back of this, AXA is entitled to re-evaluate the potential and known risks 
associated with insuring the property and to make a record of the claim being made. 
And its not unusual for this to have an impact on premiums  which, alongside an 
overall increase across AXAs charging structure for this policy, is what seems to 
have happened in this case.
Ive reviewed the pricing information provided by AXA. I cant share this with Mr G 
and Mrs M as its commercially sensitive, but I can say that from what Ive seen so 
far, its applied a pricing approach that was applicable to it at the time Mr G and Mrs 
Ms renewal was prepared.
So while I acknowledge that the renewal price offered to Mr G and Mrs M was 
significantly higher than the previous year and so would understandably raise 
questions for them, I cant see that AXA made a mistake in doing this in the specific 
circumstances of this case. So I dont intent to uphold this complaint point.
Im aware that AXA sent the renewal paperwork to an incorrect address. And from 
what Ive seen so far, by the time Mr G and Mrs M were in receipt of it, any challenge 
they made in relation to this wouldnt have been responded to by AXA until the policy 
was live. Mr G and Mrs M say this made it difficult for them to move insurer.
AXA acknowledged this error and offered Mr G and Mrs M £25 to put things right. 
Our investigator thought this was fair as the policy had a 14-day cooling off period  
so they said Mr G and Mrs M couldve arguably changed insurer after the policy went 
live.
Mr G and Mrs M acknowledge the cooling off period, but say they were left in a 
confusing situation about how to answer other insurers subsidence questions as 
AXA had told them they didnt have subsidence when declining their claim, but on the 
renewal form it recorded that they did.
Mr G and Mrs M say that to gain an answer to whether this was correct or not, and 
why, they went through AXAs complaint process which took them past the 
cancellation window  thus leaving them stuck in the policy. So Ive thought about 
both points carefully.
I dont think AXAs actions prevented Mr G and Mrs M from changing insurer. For 
example, they couldve called other insurers and explained the specifics of their circumstances to gain the information they required to accurately answer any 
application questions.
But Mr G and Mrs M were understandably distressed at their personal information in 
the renewal quotation being sent to an incorrect address. Then, when they did 
receive it, they had valid questions for AXA to help them understand why the 
increase had occurred. And I can understand why they wanted a response to these 
questions before deciding to renew or to potentially change insurer.
Industry rules (ICOBS) require AXA to provide certain information in good time 
before the renewal. The renewal notice was dated 24 December 2021 and so given 
the time of the year, it would inevitably take longer to reach Mr G and Mrs M than 
outside the holiday period.
The renewal date was 13 January 2022 so just 20 calendar days away, but of 
course, at that time of year due to bank holidays, they would most likely receive 
much less than 20 days notice. The in good time requirement was also impacted by 
the fact that AXA sent the renewal to an incorrect address thus limiting Mr G and Mrs 
Ms time even further.
Mr G and Mrs M had been customers of AXA previously and its understandable that 
they wanted to explore why the premium had increased. But the time window was 
extremely short, through no fault of theirs. And as previously stated, the renewal 
price was significantly higher, so its understandable it came as a shock to Mr G and 
Mrs M. And I dont doubt that receiving this with a very limited window to challenge 
before the policy went live wouldve been very distressing for them.
With all of that in mind, Im satisfied theres been notable service failings in this case. 
And I dont think the amount already offered by AXA is enough to fairly recognise the 
impact this had on Mr G and Mrs M. Im therefore minded to direct AXA to pay an 
additional £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr G 
and Mrs M in this case.
Ive considered all of Mr G and Mrs Ms points, including the fact they think 
subsidence has been incorrectly recorded against their home on their AXA renewal 
documents.
The question that Mr G and Mrs M refer to asks whether in the last ten years the 
property has suffered any structural movement of settlement, subsidence, landslip or 
heave? The answer to this has been recorded as YES.
While its not in dispute that Mr G and Mrs Ms property wasnt found to be suffering 
from subsidence, there was found to be structural movement. So on balance of what 
Ive seen so far, Im not persuaded the answer to this question has been recorded 
incorrectly by AXA. So these points dont change my overall conclusion in this case.
Its also important to note that whether or not this impacts future insurance policies 
isnt something I can comment on in this decision as I simply cannot know. This is 
something Mr G and Mrs M would need to discuss with any potential insurers they 
may choose going forward.
I gave both parties a chance to respond to what Id said before issuing my final decision. 
Mr G and Mrs M never replied. AXA accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Neither party provided me with anything further to consider and AXA accepted my 
provisional decision. Therefore, my decision on this case is unchanged. 
It follows, for the reasons already set out in my provisional findings above, I uphold this 
complaint in part and AXA must take the steps set out below to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. 
AXA Insurance UK Plc must; 
Pay Mr G and Mrs M the original offer of £25 if it hasnt done so already.
Pay Mr G and Mrs M an additional amount of £150 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 April 2023.
 
Rosie Osuji
Ombudsman