DRN-1083523
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited haven't handled her 
claim correctly. She is unhappy they never paid for repairs, or settled the claim for her car 
which was a total loss. And she has recently discovered that she has been held liable for the 
accident which she wasn't aware of; she's unhappy as this meant she might have 
misrepresented her position when taking out insurance since. 
What happened
Mrs A was involved in a road traffic accident with several vehicles in 2013. She initially had 
solicitors dealing with her claim, but asked LV to get involved in 2015. Following this LV 
settled Mrs A's passenger claims and a third party claim. 
She brought a complaint to our service about the claim and non-settlement for her car. We 
investigated but found LV hadn't done anything wrong. In January, Mrs A made another 
complaint to LV as she had discovered it had paid claims and held her liable for the accident. 
She complained as she hadn't been made aware of this and believes she may have 
misrepresented her position when taking out other insurances. 
LV didn't uphold her complaint. Our investigator didn't either. He explained we wouldn't 
look at matters previously considered. Although he acknowledged LV hadn't told her how the 
claim had been recorded no evidence had been provided to show she had suffered 
detriment as a result. And he wasn't persuaded she suffered distress and inconvenience as 
she had only found out about it recently. 
Mrs A has asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. She remains unhappy with 
how this whole claim had been handled. And she says she was shocked to discover how the 
claim had been recorded which has caused her stress.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms of Mrs A's policy with LV entitle it to settle claims in her name. So I don't think it 
was wrong for it to do so, if it felt she was liable for what happened. I'm surprised Mrs A 
didn't know about this before she complained in 2019, given part of the claims paid related to 
passengers she was carrying at the time. Nevertheless, I think it a matter of good customer 
service for LV to notify of her of the outcome of its claim investigations. 
I understand it might have been unsettling for Mrs A to find this out, many years after the 
event. I can also understand why she might be concerned about the other insurances taken 
out. But in my experience insurers generally ask if a customer has been in accident (claim or 
not), or had a claim, which she would have been able to answer honestly.  I'm not aware that 
insurers generally go further than this at the application stage. But even if they did, I think if 
Mrs A had misrepresented herself it would have come to light far sooner. I say this because 
insurers have access to a database where claims and how they are settled are recorded. 
This is used by insurers to check details and decide cover. Mrs A has provided no evidence, and she hasn't sought to argue, that concerns had been raised with her about her 
declaration of the claim. 
Mrs A is also concerned that not declaring a fault claim might have affected her premiums. I 
would explain that just being involved in an accident will affect the cost of premiums - 
whether at fault or not. That's because, statistically, someone who is involved in an accident 
is more likely to be involved in another and so the risk to the insurer is higher. Mrs A has 
provided no persuasive evidence that she has actually been financially impacted by not 
knowing how the claim was settled. As there hasn't been a financial loss as a result of this, 
I'm not making an award against LV.
I do accept finding this out later would have been concerning for Mrs A. And I accept that 
this has caused her worry. But overall, and taking into account this hasn't caused her a 
financial loss nor has she had concerns raised by other insurers,  I don't find this warrants an 
award of compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2020.
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman