DRN-4233357
The complaint
Mr D complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc havent taken into account that electrical testing 
and repairs are required when they completed the scope of works following water damage to 
his kitchen.
  
What happened
Mr D held a buildings and contents insurance policy with AXA.
In October 2022 Mr D had a leak from his bath waste which leaked through to the kitchen 
ceiling underneath causing damage. He notified AXA straightaway.  
In December 2022 Mr D contacted AXA again as no assessor had been sent. 
AXAs loss assessors visited the property and completed a scope of works in January, and a 
cash offer was made to Mr D on the basis of that report. 
Mr D wasnt happy with the scope of works that AXAs contractors prepared as he said it 
hadnt included assessing damage to the electrical installation  and that if electrical work 
was required - which he says it was - there would be additional costs which hadnt been 
covered in the scope. 
Following his complaint, AXA explained that there was an amount in the scope for electrical 
testing, and if work was required following the testing, they would consider it. Mr D was 
offered  £200 compensation for distress and inconvenience caused, including delay. 
Mr D was unhappy with this response as he said that it highlighted the inadequacy of the 
original scope of works, which also failed to include making good the plaster and wallpaper, 
and so he brought his complaint to us. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ds complaint and he thought that AXA had made a 
fair offer.    
Mr D disagreed with our investigators view, and so the case has come to me to review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In January 2023 AXAs contractors prepared a scope of works which included Full electrical 
test and replacement of light fittings.
On the basis of this scope, a cash settlement of £2814.28 plus VAT and minus the policy 
excess was offered, the offer being to include an electrical inspection. In the alternative, Mr 
D was able to ask AXA to appoint one of their approved contractors to complete the work. 
 
Mr D felt unable to accept the cash settlement offered as he didnt think it would be adequate 
and thought the electrics needed testing and the scope extending to include electrical work 
and any consequent repairs before he could accept it. 
In their final response in April 2023, AXA told Mr D that the scope of works and the cash 
settlement offered allowed for electrical testing. If after electrical testing further work was 
necessary, they were happy to consider that. They confirmed that they hadnt declined that 
aspect of the claim and were happy to instruct their own electrical contractor if Mr D 
preferred.  They also offered a further £200 for distress and inconvenience caused and 
arranged for this to be paid. 
Mr D says that the lighting circuit and the mounted power outlet were inoperable due to 
water ingress and he was unhappy with the assessment process because he said that there 
was no point in doing the electrical assessment after the repairs had been done, it was 
logical to complete it beforehand. He also said he had been left for months with open circuits 
in the ceiling space.
He then further commented that he thought that the coving would need to be removed as 
well as the wallpaper, and that was likely damage the plaster, so the scope needed to 
include these items.  
Mr D has told me that he has a background in electrical work, and so I understand why he 
considers that it is important to get the electrics assessed as part of, and before the remedial 
work is completed. I dont disagree with him. However, I dont think that AXA have declined 
to do so. The scope of works includes an allowance for electrical testing, and if Mr D accepts 
this initial offer, he can choose to get the testing completed first, and then submit evidence to 
AXA of the additional electrical work that needs completing. Alternatively he can ask AXA to 
appoint and electrical contractor to do this work as well as the remedial work. AXA have 
already that the lights are faulty and need replacing. 
So, I dont think that AXA have treated Mr D unfairly in their offer  there is no refusal to 
assess and pay for any electrical damage if it is required. I understand Mr Ds point that  
there is no point in doing the electrical testing after the remedial work is completed, as it may 
mean redoing some of the plastering  but I cant see that AXA have suggested that it 
should be done after, and if Mr D chooses to take the settlement, he can choose when to do 
the electrical testing.     
AXA have paid Mr D £200 for the distress and inconvenience, including the delay in sending 
an assessor, and Im satisfied that this is a fair offer given the delay of two months. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint and so AXA Insurance UK Plc 
dont need to do anything further.  
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2023.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman