DRN-3916478
The complaint
Mrs M complains about her home insurer, AXA Insurance UK Plcs delays, lack of 
communication and failure to carry out adequate repairs following her claim.  
What happened
Mrs M made a claim to AXA for damage to her home caused by escapes of water in 
September 2019 and March 2020. She said the second leak was due to poor repairs carried 
out on the first leak. AXA disagreed and responded to Mrs Ms previous complaints in 
January and February 2021. Our service previously considered Mrs Ms complaints 
concerning the period of the claim from February 2021 to January 2022. 
Mrs M is unhappy with the handling of her claim as this meant further repairs were needed. 
She said AXA only accepted responsibility for this in 2021 when she obtained her own 
expert report showing that damage to a wall in her home was due to a leak in September 
2019. She said the repairs were delayed until August 2022, nearly three years after the first 
leak. She said her kitchen ceiling cracked due to poor workmanship after the 2019 claim.
Mrs M said it was unfair for AXA to make her arrange quotes and the repairs. And said AXA 
didnt respond when she sent a quote for the kitchen ceiling repair. She said she received no 
reassurance that upon dismantling the wall any further damage would be re-assessed or 
covered. She would like a copy of the report from a specialist who assessed the wall coating.
AXA said that it addressed Mrs Ms previous complaint and will only deal with matters from 
January 2022. It said its loss adjusters attended Mrs Ms home in February 2022 and it 
confirmed its acceptance of the claim and requested she obtain an estimate for repair of her 
ceiling. AXA said Mrs M provided a quote and payment was made in March 2022. It said 
cash settlement was discussed with her during the visit in February 2022. AXA apologised to 
Mrs M for not paying previously awarded compensation and paid this at £500, as well as a 
further sum of £150. 
Mrs M was unhappy with AXAs response saying it didnt acknowledge the delays in dealing 
with her claim. She referred her complaint to our service in February 2022 and we said our 
involvement is limited to events from 5 January 2022 to 15 August 2022. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She said contrary to what AXA said 
we can consider Mrs Ms complaint of February 2022 as it concerns AXAs decision that 
month to belatedly accept liability for the claim, and so the complaint couldnt be made 
beforehand. She said we hadnt addressed claim liability in our response of August 2022. 
The investigator said AXA accepted, but hadnt explained why it took two years to deal with 
Mrs Ms claim and the lack of investigations. Or why it told her to get a quote for repairs and 
cash settled, when it knew she was vulnerable. She said additional compensation of £150 
was fair and there was no need for an additional report about Mrs Ms wall as it had been 
repaired. But she said AXA should have reassured Mrs M it would deal with further damage 
when removing the wall given the likelihood of this and her anxiety. She said dealing with the 
claim for two years impacted Mrs Ms mental health and AXA should have managed it 
proactively and settled in 2020. She said AXA should pay Mrs M £1,500 compensation.
Mrs M accepted the view, but AXA did not and disputed that we could look at the complaint 
about the delayed claim. It said it isnt possible to separate liability and workmanship issues 
and in order to validate the claim it needed to confirm the cause of the damage, and this led 
to delays. AXA said while these matters were unresolved it had paid compensation for 
previous delays and poor service. AXA requested an ombudsman review the complaint.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because AXA disputes our authority to review Mrs Ms complaint I have looked to see if her 
complaint about the delayed decision by AXA to accept her claim is one that we can 
consider. I note that Mrs M brought a previous complaint about the handling of her claim and 
AXA accepted our recommendation that it pay her compensation for what happened 
between 13 February 2021 and 4 January 2022. 
I can see that AXA dealt with the complaint presented previously by Mrs M and that it has 
explained its actions since January 2022 when it accepted her claim. However, AXA only 
accepted liability for the claim in February 2022 and so this complaint point has only been 
capable of our consideration since that time and so I consider it to have been brought within 
the time limit for the referral of complaints.
Ive looked at Mrs Ms complaint from the time of AXAs last response in January 2022 to 
August 2022 when we responded on the other complaint issues brought by Mrs M. And this 
includes its delayed acceptance of liability for the claim. Im pleased that AXA eventually 
accepted liability but sorry to learn about how long it took to get the damage repaired. I can 
see that progress was largely due to the report Mrs M obtained, though I dont understand 
why this was necessary. Im pleased that Mrs M has said shes not noticed any further 
damage resulting from her claim, following the repairs. 
AXA acknowledged slight delays in its loss adjusters appointing contractors following receipt 
of Mrs Ms report, and in processing the payment of £7,584 on the invoice of contractors and 
the final report. AXA said that no further costs were presented. I think this is a fair 
assessment of the later stages of the claim and AXAs compensation is fair. I also think it 
was fair for AXA to pay Mrs M £150 compensation for the delayed payment of the previous 
compensation. 
For the sake of completeness I have looked at Mrs Ms other complaint points. Mrs M is 
unhappy she had to provide a quote for the repairs. Her policy gives AXA authority to resolve 
a claim in different ways and this includes by means of cash settlement. Given the ongoing 
disputes with the workmanship I think it was reasonable for AXA to take this approach. Im 
pleased Mrs M was able to provide a quote promptly. If this had not been possible, AXA said 
it would have explored other options with her. 
Mrs M was concerned about a lack of reassurance from AXA about covering further damage 
that might emerge during the repairs. I think her policy gave her that reassurance and an 
insurer only has to respond to present damage at the time rather than a hypothetical 
scenario. AXA said it had no record of the specialist report to which Mrs M referred. Mrs Ms 
wall has since been repaired without a specialist coating or further problems, so I think the 
lack of a report about this is not an issue.
In terms of the complaint about why it took AXA until February 2022 to accept liability for the 
claim. There is no proper explanation for why this took so long and the lack of investigation by AXA into the damage. Its also unclear why Mrs M had to obtain her own expert report 
about the damage. 
Putting things right
I agree with the investigator that the delay was unacceptable, particularly given Mrs Ms 
vulnerability and AXAs lack of support. Mrs M has described how she has suffered severe 
anxiety and depression and Ive seen that AXA was aware of her vulnerability. 
Notwithstanding the compensation previously paid by AXA including for delays, I think the 
£1,500 compensation recommended by the investigator is about right for the adverse impact 
this had on Mrs Ms mental wellbeing during this period. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld. I 
require AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay Mrs M compensation of £1,500 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by its delayed acceptance of her claim.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 May 2023.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman