DRN-1933192
 
The complaint
Mr K says PDL Finance Limited, trading as Mr Lender, (PDL), irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about eight short term loans PDL provided to Mr K between June 2014 and 
December 2018. Loan 1 was repayable by one repayment, Loans 2, 3, 5, 7 and 8 by three 
monthly repayments, and Loans 4 and 6 by six monthly repayments. All the loans have been 
repaid. Mr Ks borrowing history is as follows:
Loan number Date of loan Repayment 
dateLoan amount Highest monthly 
repayment amount 
1.  12/6/14 24/10/14 £200  £270
2.  8/9/17 31/10/17 £200  £97.60
3.  31/10/17 28/12/17 £250  £139.33
4.  28/12/17 5/3/18 £1,000  £398.66
5.  4/7/18 29/8/18 £350 £181.06
6.  29/8/18 4/9/18 £650 £264.33
7.  26/9/18 31/10/18 £490 £280.93
8.  6/12/18 19/12/18 £200 £99.53
 
Mr K said that he had been using payday loans from around 20 other companies at the time 
of PDLs loans. 
PDL in its final response letter rejected the complaint but offered Mr K a £100 voucher as a 
gesture of goodwill. 
Mr K rejected this offer. 
Our adjudicator's view
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Ks complaint in part and said Loans 4 to 8 shouldnt have been 
given. She noted that by Loan 4, proportionate checks would most likely have shown Mr K 
was having problems managing his money. She thought that PDL would have become aware that Mr K was relying on other short term lenders as he had multiple outstanding 
loans with other lenders at the time. In these circumstances, she thought that PDL ought to 
have realised it was unlikely Mr K wouldve been able to sustainably repay this loan  and 
any subsequent loan. The adjudicator also said that by Loan 6, Mr Ks overall pattern of 
borrowing suggested he had become persistently reliant on short term loans. 
PDL initially responded by saying it disagreed with the adjudicators assessment in part. But 
it offered to settle Loans 6 to 8 by refunding interest and charges, paying 8% on the refunds 
from the date of payment to the date of settlement and removing any adverse information on 
Mr Ks credit file with regard to those loans. 
Mr K rejected PDLs offer.
PDL then said that Mr K had told it before Loan 4 that he wasnt paying any money to other 
lenders and the reason for the loan was for home improvements. PDL noted that Mr K had 
made two repayments of interest only on the loan but that the loan was then settled early. It 
said that this indicated that Mr K wasnt struggling financially. PDL noted that there was a 
gap of four months after Loan 4 which it said showed that Mr K wasnt reliant on PDLs 
loans. Before Loan 5, PDL had asked Mr K some additional questions. He responded to say 
that he had no other outstanding loans and he described his current financial situation as 
good. PDL also said that it was still willing to honour its previous offer regarding Loans 6    to 
8.
My provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr K 
and to PDL on 18 May 2020. I summarise my findings:
Id noted that PDL had offered to settle Loans 6 to 8. So I said I wouldnt investigate these 
loans but would refer to the redress offered by PDL in my award. 
Id said that when PDL lent to Mr K the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority and 
relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). The 
CONC contained guidance for lenders about responsible lending. 
Id said that PDL needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this meant that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr K 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, Id thought less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that PDL should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors included:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer had been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing might signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 There might even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrated that the lending was unsustainable.
Id thought it was important to say that PDL was required to establish whether Mr K could 
sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation. 
Id explained that the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it didnt automatically follow this 
was the case. This was because the CONC defined sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the consumer should be able to make repayments, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it followed that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wouldnt be able to make their repayments sustainably if they were unlikely to be 
able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Id carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all meant for Mr Ks complaint.
Id said that there were two chains of lending in this complaint. One had started at Loan 1 
and the other had started at Loan 2 because of a significant gap between Loans 1 and 2. So 
I thought it was reasonable for PDL to treat Mr K as a new customer from Loan 2 and I 
would have expected PDL to carry out lower checks at the start of this lending chain.
Before Loans 1 to 8, PDL had made a number of checks before it lent to Mr K. It had asked 
him for details of his income and expenditure. PDL had said that Mr Ks declared monthly 
income was £730 before Loan 1, £1,680 before Loans 2 to 5 and 7 to 8 and £1,723.16 
before Loan 6. Mr K had said that his expenditure was £250 before Loan 1 and between 
£800 and £1,200 for Loans 2 to 8.
PDL had also checked Mr Ks credit file before agreeing to the loans. PDL had provided us 
with a very brief summary of its credit checks which showed a credit score, that he hadnt 
been made bankrupt and wasnt in an individual voluntary arrangement in the previous three 
years. I didnt think that the results of these checks should have caused additional concerns 
to PDL.
Id seen Mr Ks credit report but Id not seen anything in the report that I thought might have 
caused additional concerns to PDL about Mr Ks financial situation.
Id noted that Mr K had said that he had a large number of payday loans from other lenders 
at the time hed borrowed from PDL. But I was aware that when a lender carried out a credit 
search, the information it saw didnt usually provide the same level of detail that a 
consumers credit search would and it wasnt necessarily up to date. A lender might only see 
a small portion of a borrowers credit file, or some data might be missing or anonymised. I 
was also aware that not all payday and short term lenders reported to the same credit 
reference agencies. So Mr Ks other short term loans might not have been identified by 
PDLs credit check. So, this might have explained any differences between the information 
provided by PDLs credit check and Mr Ks actual situation.
Id thought that the checks PDL carried out before agreeing Loans 1 to 3 were proportionate. 
I could see that the repayments that Mr K needed to make were relatively modest compared 
to the income that hed declared to PDL. The highest repayment on these loans was £270 
on Loan 1. But I didnt think the repayment amounts were so large that it was obvious they 
wouldve caused Mr K financial difficulty.So given Mr Ks repayment amounts for Loans 1 to 3 and what was apparent about his 
circumstances at the time, I didnt think it wouldve been proportionate for PDL to have asked 
him for the amount of information that would have been needed to show the lending was 
unsustainable.  
And at this stage there wasnt anything in the information Mr K had provided or the 
information PDL shouldve been aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to 
start verifying what he was saying.  So I didnt think PDL was wrong to give Loans 1 to 3 to 
Mr K.
Id noted that Mr K had repaid Loans 2 and 3 early. I could see that Loan 3 was taken out on 
the same day that Mr K had repaid Loan 2 and Loan 4 was taken out on the same day that 
Mr K had repaid Loan 3. Id thought the early repayment and immediate reborrowing might 
have caused PDL some concerns about Mr Ks finances. Id thought that might be the sort of 
behaviour that would have indicated that someone was facing problems managing their 
money and needing to refinance loans on a regular basis. So Id taken it into account when 
looking at whether PDL should have given Loan 4 to Mr K.
The loan amount had significantly increased to £1,000 and the loan was to be repaid over 
six months with a highest repayment of £398.66. So Mr K was committing to paying 
substantially higher repayments and to repaying the loan for a far longer period than any of 
his previous loans.
Id appreciated that PDL had asked Mr K for his income and expenditure including other 
loans. But as Id said above, Id thought it was likely that Mr K had problems managing his 
money and in view of the substantially increased amount of his borrowing on Loan 4, I didnt 
think it was reasonable for PDL to base its assessment on the information provided by Mr K 
without taking steps to independently check what hed declared. So I thought it might have 
been proportionate at this time for PDL to have independently reviewed the true state          
of Mr Ks finances. As far as I could see PDL didnt do this.
So I needed to think about what PDL wouldve seen if it had carried out proportionate 
checks. Had it made these, it was likely that PDL wouldve learnt that Mr K had at least three 
outstanding other short term loans repayable at the same time as Loan 4. Id seen these on 
the files of other complaints Mr K had raised with this service. The outstanding short term 
loans totalled £1,000. I thought that the number and amount of Mr Ks outstanding short term 
loans showed that Mr K was having serious problems managing his money and that Loan 4 
wasnt likely to be sustainable. So I thought it was wrong for PDL to give Loan 4 to Mr K. 
Mr K hadnt kept to his first two contractual repayments on Loan 4 and had paid the interest 
amount only. And hed then repaid Loan 4 early. Id thought the reduced repayments and 
then the early repayment of the loan might have caused PDL some concerns. But Id also 
noted there was a gap of around four months between the repayment of Loan 4 and Mr K 
taking out Loan 5.
Loan 5 was for £350 and was to be repaid over three monthly repayments with a highest 
repayment of £181.06. Again Id appreciated that PDL had asked Mr K for his income and 
expenditure, information about his other outstanding loans and his current financial situation 
which Mr K told it was good. But Loan 5 was Mr Ks fourth loan in around ten months and the 
amount was somewhat higher than his first three loans. So by the time of Loan 5 I didnt 
think it was reasonable for PDL to base its assessment on the information provided by Mr K 
without taking steps to independently check what hed declared. So again I thought it might 
have been proportionate at this time for PDL to have independently reviewed the true state 
of Mr Ks finances. As far as I could see PDL didnt do this.So I needed to think about what PDL wouldve seen if it had carried out proportionate 
checks. Id asked the adjudicator to obtain Mr Ks bank statements for the month before 
Loan 5 as I couldnt see that these had been received. Mr K provided his bank statements 
which Id read carefully. Id seen one other short term loan for £320 on Mr Ks bank 
statements which was repayable at the same time as Loan 5. As the repayments for the 
other loan appeared to be around £157, I couldnt safely say that if PDL had carried out 
proportionate checks before Loan 5, it wouldve seen that Mr K couldnt sustainably make 
the repayments to Loan 5. So I couldnt say that PDL was wrong to give Loan 5 to Mr K.
So I didnt think PDL should have given Mr K Loan 4, and I thought it needed to pay Mr K 
some compensation relating to this loan along with what it had already offered in relation to 
Loans 6 to 8. 
Subject to any further representations by Mr K or PDL my provisional decision was that I 
intended to uphold this complaint in part. I intended to order PDL to put things right as shown 
below. 
putting things right  what PDL needs to do 
refund all interest and charges Mr K paid on Loans 4, 6, 7 and 8;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on the refunds from the date they were paid to the 
date of settlement*;
remove all adverse entries about Loan 4 from Mr Ks credit file; and
remove all entries about Loans 6 to 8 from Mr Ks credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires PDL to take off tax from this interest. PDL must give Mr K 
a certificate showing how much tax it was taken off if he asks for one. 
Mr K responded to the provisional decision to say that he was happy with the outcome.
PDL responded to say that it disagreed with my provisional decision. It said that Loan 4 was 
the third loan in the chain and it was disproportionate to carry out a full financial assessment 
that early in the borrowing relationship given that Mr K had told it that he wasnt paying 
anything to other lenders. Whilst the loan amount had increased, this loan was taken for a 
period of six months to ensure it could be repaid in an affordable and sustainable manner. 
PDL believed that its offer to refund Loans 6 to 8 was sufficient and the checks it had carried 
out on Loan 4 were proportionate. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
I note that PDL said that Loan 4 was the third loan in the chain and it was disproportionate to 
carry out a full financial assessment that early in the borrowing relationship. But as Id said 
above in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks may be reasonable 
and proportionate. But certain factors may point to the fact that a lender should fairly and 
reasonably do more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include a higher amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income). 
The highest monthly repayment on Loan 4 was a significant proportion of Mr Ks declared 
monthly income of £1,680 and I think this and Mr Ks increasing loan amounts should have caused PDL concerns. In addition Loan 4 was also the second time that Mr K had borrowed 
on the day a previous loan had been repaid. I think the need to borrow so soon after a 
previous loan should have concerned PDL and may have indicated that Mr K needed to 
borrow in order to fill a hole in his finances that was made by making a repayment to PDL. 
This wasnt a sustainable form of borrowing. The loan was also to be repaid for a longer 
period than any of Mr Ks previous loans. So for all these reasons I think that PDLs checks 
needed to go further and that it should have independently reviewed the true state of Mr Ks 
finances before giving him Loan 4. 
I also note PDLs concern that Mr K had told it he had no other loans. I think that PDL was 
entitled to rely on what it was being told up to a point. But I also think that PDL ought to have 
considered why a person with an apparent high level of disposable income was coming back 
to it for a third loan in nearly four months. I also think that Mr Ks rapid reborrowing history 
might have suggested to PDL that it could no longer rely on the information Mr K had 
provided before Loan 4. So I think PDL should have sought more assurances about Mr Ks 
finances. 
The regulations arent prescriptive about what checks a lender ought to do. So PDL didnt 
necessarily have to ask Mr K for his bank statements. PDL could have asked Mr K for more 
information about his living costs, other commitments and debts. And it could have asked 
him to see proof of these in another form or used whatever means it thought appropriate to 
satisfy itself that it had an accurate picture of Mr Ks circumstances.
PDL also said that whilst the loan amount had increased, it was taken for a period of six 
months to ensure it could be repaid in an affordable and sustainable manner. Whilst the 
amounts that Mr K needed to repay each time were smaller than if hed taken a normal 
payday loan, I note that they were almost three times larger than his previous monthly 
repayments. And Mr K was also committing to making those far larger repayments over a far 
longer period which I think should have caused PDL some concerns.
As Ive said above, if PDL had done what I consider to be proportionate checks, I dont think 
PDL would have thought the loan repayments on Loan 4 were sustainable for Mr K. So as a 
responsible lender, I dont think PDL shouldve approved this loan.
I note PDL believes its offer to refund Loans 6 to 8 to be sufficient. But, as I think 
proportionate checks would have shown PDL that Loan 4 wasnt sustainable, I still think it 
should provide redress for Loan 4 as well as Loans 6 to 8.
So, after considering the points made by PDL, Im not persuaded to change my findings from 
those set out in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint, I order PDL Finance Limited, trading as Mr Lender, to:
1. Refund all interest and charges Mr K paid on Loans 4, 6, 7 and 8;
2. Pay interest of 8% simple a year on the refunds from the date they were paid to the 
date of settlement*;
3. Remove all adverse entries about Loan 4 from Mr Ks credit file; and
4. Remove all entries about Loans 6 to 8 from Mr Ks credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires PDL to take off tax from this interest. PDL must give    
 Mr K a certificate showing how much tax it was taken off if he asks for one.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2020.
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman