DRN-2376791
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Ageas Insurance Limited wont consider loss of rent as part of 
their claim on their let property insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs L said their rental property suffered malicious damage from the tenants in 
November 2019. They had a let property insurance policy and Ageas accepted their claim 
for the damage caused by the tenants. Mr and Mrs L took back possession of the property at 
the end of January 2020. And the repairs took place once the tenants had left.
 
Mr and Mrs L asked about loss of rent and were told to submit a claim for consideration once 
the reinstatement work had been completed. Because they didnt feel the property was 
inhabitable Mr and Mrs L submitted a claim for two months lost rent. But they said Ageas 
declined the claim because there was no live tenancy in place. They want Ageas to settle 
the lost rent and compensate them for the time and stress involved in sorting things out. 
Ageas said it didnt think the property was uninhabitable. And it couldnt consider a clam for 
loss of rent while there was no tenancy in place. So it didnt think itd done anything wrong.
Mr and Mrs L werent satisfied with Ageass response. So they contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. She could see Ageas had accepted the claim under the 
malicious damage peril. So she looked at whether Ageas had fairly declined the claim for 
loss of rent. But she agreed with Ageas that the damage caused wouldnt deem the property 
uninhabitable. The damage seemed to be mainly cosmetic. There was no evidence that 
essential services such as water, heating or cooking facilities had been affected.
 
Out investigator said even if the property had been deemed uninhabitable, there was no live 
tenancy in place. And there was no evidence Mr and Mrs L had other tenants ready to go 
into the property which wouldve resulted in them losing rent. As insurance policies werent 
designed to pay for a loss of rent in the gap between tenancies she didnt think Ageas had 
acted unfairly. And she wouldnt be asking Ageas to do anything more.
Mr and Mrs L didnt agree. Theyd been specifically told not to make a claim for loss of rent 
until after the tenant had left and the repair work had completed. But theyd then been told 
they needed to claim when there was an active tenancy. So theyve asked for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs L say Ageas told them to wait before submitting a claim for loss of rent. And now 
Ageas wont accept the claim.  So Ive looked carefully at everything Mr and Mrs L and 
Ageas have said to see if Ageas has acted fairly and in line with the terms of the let property 
insurance policy.
I can see Mr and Mrs L reported the tenants had caused damage to the property at the end 
of November 2019. They said theyd already had to replace the front door. And I think that 
was the right thing to do as the insurance policy says the policyholder must take all 
reasonable steps to prevent accidents, loss or damage and must maintain the property 
insured in good condition.
Ageas emailed Mr and Mrs L at the beginning of December. It said in order to progress the 
claim it needed a list and photos of what was damaged. Ageas said it would review them 
and progress the claim as soon as they were received. 
But Mr and Mrs L werent able to provide a list of the damage or any photographs as the 
tenants were still in the property and they were trying to evict them. So Ageas put the claim 
on hold until the end of January 2020 when Mr and Mrs L took back possession of the 
property and were able to provide the information needed.
The let property insurance policy covered Mr and Mrs L for malicious damage and theft by 
tenants. This aspect of the claim was accepted by Ageas and the repair work completed in 
around two weeks. But Mr and Mrs L are frustrated about the loss of rent they suffered as a 
result of the malicious damage to their property. And theyd like Ageas to cover for a loss of 
rent during February and March.
I can see the policy provides cover for loss of rent and alternative accommodation following 
an insured loss. On page 18 it states if the property is damaged by any cause listed under 
section 1a, and as a result, it cannot be lived in, we will pay for your loss of rent
But its important to understand the insurance policy wasnt provided to cover every 
eventuality. It provides cover for specific insured perils. And certain exclusions apply. The 
policy doesnt provide cover for the period between tenancy agreements.
 
If, for example, the property had suffered damage that caused the tenants to need relocating 
elsewhere Id expect Ageas to consider a claim for loss of rent or providing alternative 
accommodation because it wouldnt be possible to continue living in the property. Ageas has 
explained it would expect there to be a loss of kitchen, bathroom or sleeping facilities for a 
property to become cannot be lived in. And I dont think thats unreasonable. From what Ive 
seen, the damage didnt make it impossible to live in the property. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs L were advised not to let the property while it was being repaired. 
But I understand the front door was repaired quite quickly. And the other repairs were carried 
out during February. However, once the tenants had been evicted the tenancy was no longer 
in operation. And without a tenancy agreement in place there cant have been a loss of rent. 
I realise the chain of events is unfortunate for Mr and Mrs L. They couldnt complete the 
necessary repairs until after the tenants had been evicted. And Ageas couldnt consider any 
claim for damage or lost rent until Mr and Mrs L were able to provide evidence to proceed. 
The eviction of the tenants meant Mr and Mrs L could complete the repairs and submit the 
claim. But the eviction also meant the end of the live tenancy agreement. I appreciate 
Mr and Mrs L feel they couldnt let the property out again while the repairs took place. But 
that meant the property wasnt occupied by a tenant. And there was no loss of rent as there 
was no tenancy agreement in place. 
I realise Mr and Mrs L will be disappointed with this outcome. But based on everything Ive 
seen I dont think Ageas has acted unfairly in declining the claim for lost rent. And I wont be 
asking it to do anything more. My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 February 2021.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman