DRN-4108180
The complaint
Mr C complains about the advice given by PK Financial Planning LLP (PKFP) to transfer 
the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a personal 
pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial 
loss.
What happened
Mr C first became a customer of PKFP in 2006, with it acting as his accountant and assisting 
with financial planning.
Ive been provided a copy of a fact-find that was completed in May 2006, detailing Mr Cs 
circumstances. This noted he was 46, in good health, married with four dependent children 
and employed full time. He and Mrs C owned their own home with a mortgage at the time of 
approximately £490,000 (roughly 22% of the value of their property). Their combined 
disposable income exceeded their outgoings by over £6,000 per month, they held 
approximately £64,000 in savings and stocks and shares and had no other outstanding 
liabilities noted. Mr Cs intended retirement age was recorded as 60. And his attitude to short 
to medium term risk (0-10 years) was said to be a two on a scale of one to five, with his 
attitude to long term risk a four on the same scale.
Mr C says he gave PKFP permission, sometime after initially being in contact with them, to 
obtain information about his pension arrangements.
PKFP says that Mr C contacted it in early 2010 as he wanted to release money from his DB 
scheme pension to pay off his mortgage. 
Mr C says PKFP contacted him to discuss his pension arrangements in early 2010. He said 
it had obtained a new valuation of his DB scheme and emphasised the level of tax-free cash 
(TFC) he could potentially take. He says PKFP explained that there was to be an imminent 
change to legislation, in April 2010, where the normal minimum pension age would be raised 
from 50 to 55, which would impact when Mr C could potentially access his pension. 
I can see that PKFP received a letter from Mr Cs DB scheme on 24 March 2010, noting that 
the cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of his DB scheme benefits was £1,429,612.00. 
On 25 March 2010, a servicing review fact find was completed. This said it updated the 
information recorded in the 2006 fact find. It was comprised of several Yes/No questions 
about whether Mr Cs circumstances, across several broad groupings, had changed. In 
respect of personal details, pension arrangements, protection / health / savings, loans 
& liabilities and capital investments & estates it was recorded there had been no change. 
The answer in respect of income & expenditure also said there was no change, but it was 
handwritten in this section that net disposable income was now £15,000 per month. Mr Cs 
attitude to risk for both short to medium and long-term investment risk was now said to be 
four on a scale of one to five.
The fact find also asked about Mr Cs general financial objectives, which he was asked to 
prioritise on a scale of one to five, with one being high priority and five no priority. 
Maintaining his standard of living in retirement and investment planning were recorded as 
one. Everything else, including repaying his mortgage, was recorded as five.
Also on 25 March 2010, PKFP sent Mr C a letter recommending that he transfer his DB 
scheme pension to a personal pension. It said hed left pensionable employment in respect 
of this DB scheme in 2008 and that he was entitled to access his pension from age 50, with 
no actuarial reduction to his benefits. The letter said Mr C required access to TFC to repay 
his mortgage but didnt need an income. And, as he was 50, he wanted to take this now, 
before legislation changed in April 2010, increasing the earliest retirement age. It said that 
transferring would allow him access to a larger amount of TFC than he could take under the 
DB scheme. It also said Mr C also preferred a situation where, in the event of his death, his 
spouse or dependent children could receive a return of his pension fund, less tax that was 
applicable. The letter recommended a specific pension provider. It noted though that the 
selected fund for illustration purposes was the deposit fund, which did not meet Mr Cs 
stated attitude to risk, but said investment allocation had not yet been discussed in any 
detail.
I understand the transfer went ahead in line with PKFPs recommendation, with 25% TFC 
immediately taken.
Mr C complained to PKFP in 2022 about the suitability of the transfer advice. He also raised 
that the funds had remained on deposit following the transfer rather than being invested in 
line with his attitude to risk.
PKFP didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. It said the advice was suitable as it allowed Mr C to 
meet his objective of accessing TFC without taking a pension income and that Mr C made 
an informed decision at the time. PKFP also said that Mr C was informed the pension was 
invested in cash and the intention was that Mr C would manage the investment himself as he 
was considered highly knowledgeable in this area based on his profession.
Mr C referred his complaint to our service. He said he had no need to access TFC or to 
reduce his mortgage at the time of the advice and repeated that it was PKFP that 
approached him about the possibility of doing so. And he still thought the advice was 
unsuitable and that the impact hadnt been fully explained. He also said he had no 
experience relating to pension investment, he hadnt indicated that he did, that this was an 
incorrect assumption by PKFP and it was never his intention to manage the investment of 
his pension.
One of our Investigators considered the complaint. She thought it should be upheld and that 
PKFP should compensate Mr C for any loss the DB transfer had led to. She didnt think Mr C 
had a need to access his pension at the time and that he was unlikely to improve on the 
benefits that were guaranteed by the DB scheme by transferring. So, she didnt think the 
transfer was suitable.
PKFP disagreed, saying Mr C had been clear he wanted to access his pension to reduce his 
mortgage and that this was a genuine objective. PKFP also felt the returns required to 
provide equivalent benefits to the DB scheme were achievable. So, it still considered that the 
advice was suitable.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, noting that PKFPs role wasnt 
just to put in place what Mr C might have thought he wanted, but was to advise him on what 
was in his best interests. As agreement could not be reached, the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of PKFP's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, PKFP should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Cs 
best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his 
best interests.
Financial viability 
The fact find from 2006 noted Mr C intended to retire at age 60. And the documentation from 
2010 indicated his opinion on this was unchanged at the time of the pension transfer advice. 
Mr C was 50 at the time PKFP provided advice.
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case. The discount rate for nine full years to retirement, which is 
what Mr C expected to have here, was 5.8% per year. In addition, the regulator's upper 
projection rate at the time was 9%, the middle projection rate 7%, and the lower projection 
rate 5%.PKFP was required by the regulator, when giving advice here to carry out a transfer value 
analysis (TVAS) report. This needed to compare the benefits the DB scheme provided with 
those afforded by a personal pension. And this comparison should have regard for the 
benefits the proposed new scheme would provide. The TVAS also should have included a 
calculation of how much Mr Cs pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to 
provide the same benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield).
PKFP hasnt provided a copy of the TVAS produced here or evidence of one being carried 
out when it advised Mr C. So, it appears there was a failing in the advice process and the 
required analysis was potentially not undertaken. PKFP also says how the pension fund was 
to be invested wasnt discussed at the time that it gave advice. Without this discussion 
having happened, PKFP couldnt have estimated potential returns. Nor could it in my view, 
reasonably say that Mr C was likely to be better off as a result of transferring or that doing so 
was in his best interests. 
PKFP has referred, in response to the complaint, to a critical yield referred to in an 
illustration by the pension provider it recommended. And this said the critical yield for retiring 
at age 60 was 5.2%.
However, despite what PKFP has said to the contrary, the information Ive seen doesnt 
support that this was the rate of return required to match the benefits the DB scheme offered 
at retirement. The illustration explains it was an estimate of how much the fund would have 
to grow by each year to purchase an annuity at age 60 equivalent to one that Mr C could 
purchase from the pension provider at the time of the advice, at age 50. And the quotation 
explained that the annuity it was comparing had a level income, rather than an escalating 
income like the DB scheme. And there was no reference to the compared annuity providing 
a spouses pension, which the DB scheme offered. So, this didnt provide the requisite 
comparison that PKFP shouldve included, to the DB scheme benefits. And therefore, while 
the suitability report said the critical yield had been discussed and Mr C understood the 
principle of this, it doesnt appear that the information discussed provided an accurate 
comparison.  
And without the critical yield being correctly calculated and a benefits comparison provided, I 
dont think Mr C was in an informed position. And again, I dont think PKFP could reasonably 
conclude that a transfer was in his interests in respect of improving his retirement benefits.
It isnt clear what the critical yield required to match the DB scheme benefits was. And it 
does appear that the starting income of the annuity used for the comparison was potentially 
higher than that the DB scheme wouldve provided. But the spouses pension and escalation 
of benefits both to retirement and while in payment mean I think it is a reasonable 
assumption that the critical yield of the DB scheme was likely to be greater than that for the 
level term annuity mentioned. 
There would be little point in Mr C giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB 
scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. And taking 
this risk unnecessarily, wouldnt, in my view, have been in his best interests. A pensions 
primary purpose is to provide for the holders income needs in retirement. The information in 
the fact find showed that this pension accounted for the majority of Mr Cs retirement 
provisions and that Mr Cs objective was to maintain his standard of living. And the suitability 
report noted that these funds were Very important as you have no other resources to 
provide for your retirement.
Taking the above into account and considering the discount rate and regulators standard 
projections, the composition of assets in the discount rate and the term to retirement, even 
accounting for Mr Cs recorded balanced to high attitude to risk, I dont think it can reasonably be concluded that it was more likely than not, at the time of the advice, that hed 
achieve returns that would improve on the guaranteed benefits he already had. So, I dont 
think transferring, from a financial viability perspective, could be argued to have been in his 
best interests at the time.
Of course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. There 
might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall 
lower benefits. Ive considered these below.
Access to tax-free cash and flexibility 
PKFP says Mr C wanted access to TFC to repay his mortgage and noted he signed the 
suitability report which recorded this as an objective. It also said he wanted to do this before 
a change in legislation impacted when he could take pension benefits  potentially pushing 
this back by five years. Its also referred to the fact that he made an enquiry a couple of 
years after the advice Im considering, about potentially accessing funds from another 
smaller pension, to support that he was comfortable taking money from his retirement 
provisions.
Mr C says he had no need to access TFC from his pension at the time of the advice or to 
make a lump sum repayment towards his mortgage. And it was PKFP that suggested he 
should do this before legislation changed.
I cant see that PKFP gathered any information in 2010 which indicated that Mr C was 
behind with his mortgage payments or that repayment of the mortgage was necessary. In 
fact, the information recorded indicated he and Mrs C had a significant income surplus. And 
Mr C has provided a mortgage statement from around the time of advice which doesnt 
indicate any arrears or there being any problems with repayment.
I also note that, in the 2010 fact find, when discussing his priorities, repaying his mortgage 
was recorded as not being a priority for Mr C.
In addition, the amount of TFC that could be released by a transfer wasnt sufficient to clear 
the mortgage balance. The information recorded in the fact finds Ive been provided 
indicated PKFP was aware of this. And the mortgage statement Ive seen supports this. So, 
a transfer did not achieve the repayment of the mortgage.
When discussing potential uses for TFC in the event of a transfer, Mr C mightve mentioned 
repaying his mortgage and he might even have been drawn to this during the discussion. But 
PKFPs role was to advise him about what was in his best interests. And the suitability report 
even noted extracting a tax free lump sum from your pension before you require the income 
in retirement, is normally only appropriate as a last resort. But I cant see that Mr C had a 
need to make a lump sum repayment to his mortgage at the time of the advice or that he 
was by any means in a position of needing to use a last resort. And I dont think giving up 
the guaranteed benefits of his DB scheme, which was his main retirement provision, to 
achieve this was in his best interests.
I also cant see that Mr C had a need for a variable income in retirement. He also didnt 
intend to retire until age 60 and again had an income that exceeded his outgoings. So, I 
cant see that accessing pension benefits at age 50 as opposed to at age 55, following a 
change in legislation, was something he needed either.
So overall, I dont think transferring to access TFC or for additional flexibility was something 
that Mr C required, was in his best interests or better helped him achieve his retirement 
objectives.Death benefits
PKFP says Mr C preferred the idea of his dependents receiving a return of the pension fund 
in the event of his death. And death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when 
asked, most people would like their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. But whilst 
I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr C might have thought it was 
a good idea to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, again the 
priority here was to advise Mr C about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension 
is primarily designed to provide income in retirement. 
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr C 
was married and so the spouses pension provided by the DB scheme wouldve been useful 
to his spouse if Mr C predeceased her. I dont think PKFP made the value of this benefit 
clear enough to Mr C. This was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not dependent on 
investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was 
and would also have been impacted by any income Mr C drew which, given his apparent 
good health, couldve significantly reduced the amount the pension would provide as a lump 
sum legacy. 
I also think, if Mr C genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his spouse and children, which 
didnt depend on investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, 
life insurance couldve been explored as an alternative. It appears Mr C already held some 
life insurance to cover the repayment of his mortgage. But there was no reason additional 
cover could not have been discussed. Again, Mr C appears to have had significant surplus 
income with which to pay for such a policy. And, based on his recorded good health, I cant 
see that this wouldve been unaffordable.
Overall, PKFP should not have encouraged Mr C to prioritise the potential for alternative 
death benefits through a personal pension over his security in retirement. I dont think 
different death benefits available through a transfer justified putting his retirement provisions 
at risk here.
Control 
PKFP says Mr C wanted to control his investments and the intention was that hed do so, 
using his experience from his profession. But Mr C has said he had no experience relating to 
managing pensions or their investment and this was an assumption by PKFP.
While Mr Cs profession likely gave him a greater general understanding of risk and 
investments than the average consumer, I havent seen anything in the information from the 
time of sale that supports that he had experience in managing pensions. And overall, I think 
Mr Cs desire for control over his pension benefits was likely overstated. And even if he did 
indicate an interest in this, I dont think this meant a transfer was in his best interests.
Suitability of investments
PKFPs suitability report noted that how the pension would be invested wasnt discussed 
before it recommended a transfer. As Ive already explained, without understanding how the 
pension would be invested, I dont think PKFP could reasonably conclude that a transfer was 
in Mr Cs interests. But as Im upholding the complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of 
the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mr C, it follows that I dont need to consider the suitability 
of the investment. This is because Mr C should have been advised to remain in the DB 
scheme and so the investments, or lack thereof, wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had 
been given.Summary
Accessing TFC at the time before a change in legislation potentially delayed doing so, 
flexibility, control and the alternative death benefits given by a personal pension may well 
have sounded like attractive features to Mr C when they were discussed. But again, PKFP 
wasnt there to just transact what Mr C might have thought he wanted. The advisers role 
was to really understand what Mr C needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr C was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income and, by transferring, placing the pension, which 
made up the majority of his retirement provisions, at additional risk. And I dont think the 
information from the time supports that he was likely to be better off as a result of taking this 
risk. In my view, there were no other particular reasons which would justify a transfer and 
outweigh this. Mr C shouldnt have been advised to transfer out of the scheme just to repay 
debts that were affordable  as the mortgage appears to have been here. 
So, I think PKFP shouldve advised Mr C to remain in his DB scheme.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr C would've gone ahead anyway, against PKFP's 
advice. And Ive considered this carefully. But Im not persuaded that Mr C wouldve insisted 
on transferring out of the DB scheme, against PKFPs advice. 
There is a dispute over who initiated the advice and why. But either way, as Ive explained, I 
dont think Mr C had a genuine need to transfer. And even accounting for Mr Cs balanced 
to high attitude to risk and the general knowledge he had from his profession, if PKFP had 
provided him with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it 
wasnt in his best interests to place the pension which formed the majority of his retirement 
provision at risk to achieve goals that were not urgent, I think that wouldve carried significant 
weight. Im not persuaded that Mr C wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing that a 
professional adviser, whose expertise he had trusted for several years and for which he was 
paying, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. So, I dont think Mr C would 
have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme.
In light of the above, I think PKFP should compensate Mr C for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr C, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr C would have 
most likely remained in the occupational pension scheme if suitable advice had been given. 
PKFP must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
For clarity, compensation should be based on Mr C taking benefits from the normal scheme 
retirement age of 60, as I understand he didnt retire prior to this.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should 
be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of 
notification of Mr Cs acceptance of the decision.If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, PKFP should:
calculate and offer Mr C redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr C before starting the redress calculation that:
- his redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest his redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr C receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr C accepts PKFPs offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr C for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Cs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr C as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, PKFP may 
make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that 
consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss 
could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to Mr 
Cs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 40% here. So, making a notional 
deduction of 30% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require PK Financial Planning 
LLP to pay Mr C the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum 
of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
PK Financial Planning LLP pays Mr C the balance.
If Mr C accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on PK Financial Planning 
LLP.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr C can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr C may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2023.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman