DRN-1697762
 
The complaint
Mr Y says Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
Mr Y took out a credit card in September 1998.
When looking at the very limited information (I have not been able to see any original sales 
documentation or read a detailed recollection of how the PPI was sold), I cant be sure of 
when or how PPI was sold. Lloyds has provided records that go back to January 2000 and 
the PPI is on the account at this stage. So I cannot be sure how or when the PPI was sold to 
Mr Y but I do know it was sold at some point between September 1998 and January 2000.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr Y disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ys case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ys complaint. Ill explain why.
As I have already mentioned neither Mr Y nor Lloyds can give me much information about 
the sale. This is not surprising given the amount of time thats passed. Ive looked at what Mr 
Y has said about how the policy was sold. But in the absence of relevant documentation, a 
more detailed recollection or further information to support what Mr Y has said, I cannot fairly 
conclude on this occasion that the policy was sold as he suggests it was. I would need to 
see more information to support what Mr Y has said to conclude otherwise. 
Lloyds isnt sure how the policy was sold, so to be fair to Mr Y, I will proceed that it likely 
provided a recommendation to him to buy the policy. This placed more responsibility on 
Lloyds and it meant it had to make sure it was right for Mr Y.
Based on what Ive seen of Mr Ys circumstances at the time, I think the PPI seems to have 
been suitable for him. I say this because Mr Y says he would have needed to rely on 
statutory sick pay if he was ill. So I think the benefit provided by the policy would have been 
of use to him. It would have covered 10% of the outstanding credit card balance for up to 
12 months per claim if he was unable to work or if he lost his job.Lloyds also had to provide Mr Y with clear, fair and not misleading information about the PPI 
so that Mr Y could make up his mind as to whether he felt the policy would have been useful 
to him.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr Y about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been, like explaining the cost of the policy. Lloyds hasnt been able to confirm the exact 
cost of the policy. But due to the amount of time thats passed since the sale its not 
surprising Lloyds doesnt have this information. Lloyds say the cost of the policy would have 
been 79p per £100 of the outstanding monthly balance. This is in line with what I know about 
how Lloyds priced other policies at around the same time.
Ive carefully thought about the cost of the policy and taking into account Mr Ys 
circumstances at the time, I still think he would have bought it. I say this because as I 
explained above I still think the policy would have been useful if Mr Y was out of work for a 
lengthy period.
Mr Y also doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main things the policy didnt 
cover. So I dont think better information about this wouldve stopped him buying the policy.
In conclusion, based on the available information I have regarding the sale and Mr Ys 
circumstances, I dont think this PPI policy was mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ys complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2020.
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman