DRN-3375749
The complaint
Mr B complains that the compensation offered by The Prudential Assurance Company 
Limited when it failed to pay his pension benefits in a timely manner is derisory.
What happened
Mr B held pension benefits with Prudential. He reached 55 years of age in May 2021, and 
asked that his pension savings be paid to him in a single payment. Prudential accepts that it 
failed to make that payment on time. After a number of phone calls from Mr B, the payment 
was eventually made nine days late, reaching Mr Bs bank account the following day.
Mr B complains that he needed to make a significant number of phone calls to chase up the 
status of the payment. And, on some of those calls, he was told the payment had been made 
correctly and that he would need to query with his bank why he hadnt received the funds. 
He says it was only when he asked for the matter to be escalated that the delay was 
identified, and the payment eventually made.
When it looked into Mr Bs complaint Prudential accepted it was responsible for the delay in 
the payment being made. It said the delay was as a result of internal oversights and errors. It 
apologised to Mr B and paid him compensation. It paid Mr B £150 for the trouble and upset 
he'd been caused, and an amount of interest for the delayed payment. It calculated the 
interest using a rate of Bank of England base rate plus 1%.
Mr B didnt accept the compensation Prudential had paid. He returned the payment and said 
that making the payment without his agreement had been arrogant. He thought that the time 
Prudential had taken to investigate his complaint suggested that it hadnt been sufficiently 
thorough. So he brought his complaint to us.
Mr Bs complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. She thought that the 
payment Prudential had offered for the trouble and upset caused to Mr B was reasonable. 
But she didnt think the interest it had offered was enough. Our investigator thought that an 
interest rate of 8% should be used in line with our normal approach. So she asked Prudential 
to increase the interest payment it was offering to Mr B.
Mr B said that he didnt think the proposed compensation adequately reflected the 
wrongdoing of Prudential. But, in the interests of drawing a line under the matter, he said he 
would accept our investigators findings. But Prudential didnt agree. It said that the length of 
the delay was too short for Mr B to have missed out on any meaningful return on his money 
 it said 8% was a lot higher than the interest rate that could be achieved in a regular bank 
account. It said the interest rate it had offered was in line with how it treated other 
consumers, and didnt think it would be fair for Mr B to be treated differently. 
So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our process. If Mr B accepts my decision it is 
legally binding on both parties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr B and by Prudential. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
Prudential has accepted that it didnt pay Mr B his pension benefits as quickly as it should 
have. It has said that the benefits should have been paid on his 55th birthday. As that is the 
earliest date the payment could be made, under the current legislation, I dont need to 
explore the length of the delay any further. Prudential has already agreed it is responsible for 
the maximum delay that could have been caused.
Prudential has provided little detail about what caused the delay  simply referring to internal 
oversights and errors as being the reason. But the reason for the delay, given that I am 
satisfied that nothing underhand took place and a genuine error occurred rather than any 
deliberate actions, doesnt affect my consideration of the complaint. As I explained earlier, 
since Prudential has accepted responsibility, my findings simply need to consider how to put 
Mr B back into the position he would have been had the error not occurred. The regulation of 
Prudential, and the consideration of any wider systemic failings, is the responsibility of the 
Financial Conduct Authority.
Mr B has returned the compensation that Prudential paid to him. So I think it fair and 
reasonable that I consider the matter afresh, and make any appropriate recommendations 
for what should be done to put things right. And those are the findings I will now set out in 
the remainder of this decision. I think there are two aspects I should reasonably consider  
whether any direct financial loss was caused by the delayed payment, and whether Mr B has 
suffered any distress or inconvenience as a result of Prudentials mistake.
As our investigator has explained, in matters such as these, where a consumer has been 
deprived of the use of money for a period of time, we would generally consider it reasonable 
for interest to be added at a rate of 8%. Ive thought carefully about the circumstances of this 
complaint and do not consider it is necessary for me to divert from my normal approach.
I would generally think an interest rate of 8% would be appropriate since the consumers who 
use our service rarely have access to large amounts of savings or are debt free. By being 
denied the use of money for a period of time it might be that they need to borrow money to 
cover a loss, or are unable to pay higher interest debts on for example credit cards or 
short-term loans. And at times consumers might go without other things that they needed or 
would have benefited from whilst awaiting a payment to be made.Here, Mr B has explained that he intended to use the money from his pension savings to pay 
for some building work. I havent seen anything that makes me think the cost of that work 
increased, or that it failed to proceed, as a result of the delay. But I dont think it would be 
unreasonable to consider that Mr B might have faced some other financing costs as a result 
of the delay. I think that adding interest here, at the statutory rate of 8% is entirely 
appropriate.
Prudential has said that it thinks paying Mr B interest at 8% would mean that he is treated 
more favourably that other consumers in a similar situation to whom it would offer interest at 
1% above the Bank of England base rate. But I dont agree that it is Mr B that is being 
treated more favourably  I would argue that it is the other consumers who are being treated 
less favourably. Prudential will be aware of its responsibilities under the regulations to 
ensure that lessons learned as a result of determinations by the Ombudsman are effectively 
applied in future complaint handling.
There is no doubt that the payment delays caused inconvenience to Mr B. And I think that 
inconvenience would have been compounded by the incorrect information he was given 
about the payment having been made, when it hadnt in fact been processed. That would 
have caused additional work for Mr B in needing to check with his bank whether it held an 
unreconciled payment, or indeed whether the payment had been credited to an incorrect 
account in error.
But I am mindful that the length of the delay was relatively short. Whilst I in no way 
underestimate the upset Mr B would have felt at the time, the problem wasnt prolonged and 
was resolved in little more than a week. So that is something that I need to take into account 
when considering what level of compensation might be appropriate.
As I explained earlier, Prudential paid Mr B £150 for his trouble and upset, although he later 
returned the payment. Our investigator has explained to Mr B the sorts of things we would 
normally take into account when considering an appropriate level of compensation. Here 
I think it would be reasonable to follow a similar approach to what we have set out. The error 
wasnt prolonged, and was identified and corrected relatively quickly. And I havent seen 
anything that suggests Mr B suffered any ongoing, or longer lasting, problems as a result of 
the delay. So I think the £150 that Prudential has suggested is fair and reasonable 
compensation for the inconvenience caused to Mr B.
Mr B has expressed some concerns over the relative speed in which Prudential answered 
his initial complaint. I dont think the time taken does suggest that Prudential failed to be 
thorough in its investigation. I think it was relatively clear to Prudential from the outset that it 
had delayed the payment. And I am pleased to see it accepted that responsibility early on in 
its investigation. And from that point, there was little more for Prudential to do than decide 
what compensation it would offer to Mr B. I appreciate that Mr B thinks further work should 
have been undertaken to identify and correct the root cause of the delay. But I think that 
work falls outside an answer to his specific complaint, or the findings that this Service should 
provide.
So I think the complaint should be upheld, and Prudential should pay compensation to Mr B 
as set out below.Putting things right
Prudential should recalculate, and then pay, the interest payment it offered to Mr B using an 
interest rate of 8% simple. It should set out the results of that calculation for Mr B in a clear 
and easily understood format.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Prudential to take off tax from this interest. Prudential 
must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Prudential should pay to Mr B a further sum of £150 to reflect the inconvenience he was 
caused by the late payment and incorrect information provided about its status.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint and direct The Prudential Assurance 
Company Limited to put things right as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman