DRN-3969972
The complaint
Mr A complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc closed down two of his credit card 
accounts despite him asking them to remain open.
What happened
Mr A was overseas due to the pandemic from September 2020  February 2022. Mr A 
received an email about one of his credit card accounts, which RBS said they would be 
closing unless he spoke to them before the card expired. Mr A says he spoke to RBS on 16 
August 2021 and it was agreed the account would stay open. But when he returned to the 
UK, two of his credit card accounts had been closed. He also received letters from RBS to 
say one of the credit limits would be reducing. And a letter to say they would be closing 
another one of his credit card accounts unless he contacted them before the card expired. 
But it had already expired as he was overseas in 2021 when they sent him the letter. Mr A 
made a complaint to RBS.
RBS upheld Mr As complaint. They apologised for the service they provided him. They said 
they were unable to reinstate the closed cards because the cards had been closed for over 
six months and were no longer active on their systems. So he would need to complete a new 
application for a new credit card. RBS said the correct process was followed as they did not 
receive notification from Mr A in time to keep the cards active. RBS said they understood he 
felt he was in this position through no fault of his own and as a token of apology for the 
overall service received, they credited his account with £300 of compensation. 
Mr A brought his complaint to our service. He said he wanted the closed accounts reinstated 
and the previous credit limits also reinstated. Our investigator thought the compensation 
RBS paid Mr A was fair for what happened. She said RBS had followed their own process 
and closed the accounts accordingly. Mr A asked for an Ombudsman to review his 
complaint. He made a number of points. In summary, he said he was overseas when he was 
abroad on 16 August 2021 when he spoke with a call handler who assured him his accounts 
would not be closed. He wanted me to listen to the call to demonstrate what was said.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything 
hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be 
focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
Id like to explain to Mr A that it is not within this services remit to tell a business how to run 
their dormancy procedures - such as when they decide an account is dormant or how they 
choose to communicate this information to a customer. It would be the role of the regulator  
the Financial Conduct Authority, who have the power to instruct RBS to make changes to 
their policies and procedures, if necessary. Our service acts as an informal dispute 
resolution service for complaints about financial businesses. We look at the circumstances of 
individual complaints and, on a case by case basis, taking into account relevant law, 
regulations and industry guidance amongst other things, make findings about what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint.
I asked RBS for the call recording that Mr A made on 16 August 2021 as this would prove 
what was discussed on this call. But RBSs systems show no recording of any call from the 
number Mr A dialled on that date. RBS has sent me evidence of this and they confirmed that 
any call recordings are kept for six years. So if there was a call recording available, it would 
have showed here. But Mr A has also provided evidence from his phone bill to show he was 
on the phone to RBS for 22 minutes on 16 August 2021.
RBS say that its possible that Mr A could have called them and have been in a queue for 22 
minutes before hanging up as calls are only recorded from the moment a customer connects 
with an agent. When it comes to complaints where its one word against another (such as 
what was said over the phone where there is no record of this), I have to consider the 
evidence available to me. I then have to weigh the evidence against the balance of 
probabilities, that is, whats more likely to have happened in the circumstances.
Im persuaded that on the balance of probabilities that Mr A did speak to a member of staff at 
RBS and he recorded her name on a printed copy of the email RBS sent him. Given the 
strength of feeling that Mr A has on this matter about his account being closed, Im not 
persuaded he would have spent 22 minutes on hold, to then hang up and not ring them back 
prior to the card expiring. 
So Im persuaded that on this call he would have asked for the credit card account to stay 
open that RBS emailed him about. It is unlikely that Mr A would have been aware of RBS 
writing to him via letter about one of his other credit cards on 2 April 2021 as he was 
overseas and he didnt have access to his post. It is possible that Mr A could have asked if 
this would affect his other credit cards he had with RBS and he should have then been told 
that it affected another account he had with them - and this account was closed when his 
card expired. As the call on 16 August was within six months of that account being closed, 
its also probable that this account could have been reactivated also.
So I am persuaded that RBS let Mr A down here. While they are free to choose how they 
communicate with him, I asked RBS why they sent Mr A a letter for the first credit card 
closure and an email for the second credit card closure, but they were unable to explain this. 
There would be an onus on Mr A to ensure that RBS had his correct details. The terms and 
conditions of his account show that If your contact details change (including any of your 
name, address, telephone number(s) or email address), you must tell us promptly to
ensure you receive all communications. So I would expect Mr A to contact them about his 
temporary address. And while I can understand the reason why Mr A may not have 
contacted them about this  as he would be unaware of when pandemic restrictions may 
end, I cant hold RBS responsible for him not receiving post they sent to his registered 
address.
Ive considered what Mr A wants to resolve his complaint. I know this isnt about 
compensation for him as he wants his credit card accounts restored which have been closed 
and the previous limits to be reinstated. But while I agree with him that RBS let him down by 
closing these accounts, Im not persuaded that asking RBS to re-open his accounts is 
proportionate here. I know this will strongly disappoint Mr A but Ill explain why.
RBS have said that Mr A hadnt used his dormant accounts for 55 and 59 months. So it was 
nearly five years where Mr A had not used these accounts. So the impact of him not being 
able to now not use these accounts is not as much as if he was relying on these credit cards to meet his day to day living expenses. Thats not to say that it wont have an impact on Mr A 
 hes told us that he has spent many years building up these credit limits and now he 
doesnt have access to this credit anymore. But RBSs terms and conditions (section 8a) 
shows that RBS may suspend, restrict or withdraw the use of any card or the account 
and/or reduce the Credit Limit and the Advance Limit at any time.
So even if the accounts remained open, RBS could have at any point reduced the credit limit 
on the accounts which ended up being closed. So even if I asked RBS to reinstate these 
accounts, they could, based on the terms and conditions, instantly withdraw the use of the 
card or the account and reduce the credit limit. RBS have shown that they regularly review 
credit limits and they reduce credit limits when accounts are not used or needed  as 
demonstrated by their letter to Mr A in September 2020, when they wrote to him to say they 
intended to reduce the credit limit from £10,000 to £2,000. They dont have to ask a 
customers permission to do this.
But it also wouldnt be responsible for me to ask RBS to reinstate the credit cards regardless 
of this clause in the terms and conditions. I say this because there are a number of factors 
which could have changed between the accounts being closed and now, including, but not 
limited to Mr As income and expenditure, credit and repayment history, his exposure to 
credit or RBSs business practices (with how much credit they feel comfortable lending). 
RBS has an obligation to ensure any lending is affordable to their customers, so it wouldnt 
be proportionate for me to instruct RBS to reinstate the accounts, which could also go 
against their regulatory obligations. 
RBS have said that Mr A could apply to increase his credit limit on his existing account. He 
would also be able to apply for any credit cards they offer which he would be eligible for. So 
Im satisfied this is a fair alternative to reinstating the closed accounts. I say this as it would 
enable RBS to meet their regulatory obligations in ensuring any lending was affordable to Mr 
A based on his current financial situation  not his situation based in 2021 when his 
accounts were closed. 
Ive considered the amount of compensation that RBS has paid Mr A. I know he would rather 
have his cards reinstated, but Ive explained why this would not be feasible. Im satisfied that 
£300 compensation is fair. Im persuaded this reflects the impact of the distress of the poor 
customer service which they gave him, despite him speaking to RBS on 16 August to keep 
at least one  if not both of these accounts open. This would have been broadly the amount 
of compensation I would have awarded him had RBS not upheld his complaint. But because 
RBS could have removed the credit limits at any time in line with their terms and conditions  
and without Mr As agreement to do so, it follows that I do not intend to ask RBS to do 
anything further.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. RBS said they had nothing to add to the provisional decision. Mr A did not respond 
to the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party have provided me with any further information to consider, then my decision 
and reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision.My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman