DRN-3989734
The complaint
Mr V is unhappy that Klarna Bank AB (publ) (who Ill call Klarna) recorded a hard search 
on his credit file after he exited the application before the lending decision was confirmed.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think it was fair for Klarna to record a hard search on Mr Vs credit file, but I dont think 
there is sufficient information to suggest Mr V experienced the sort of distress and 
inconvenience that merited financial compensation either.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Klarna have explained that Mr V had gone through most of the finance application and had 
abandoned the purchase when he was asked for more details just before the down payment 
was to be taken. They said that by then the hard search had been completed and Mr V had 
in fact been approved for credit.
But Mr V hadnt been notified of the decision at that point and hadnt been told a hard search 
would be recorded. As far as C was aware, he hadnt submitted a completed application
for credit and no searches had been done, and I havent seen anything to suggest
otherwise.
So I dont think it was reasonable for Klarna to have reported the hard search in those 
circumstances and they should remove it from Mr Vs credit file.
I understand Mr V would like some compensation. I havent seen sufficient evidence to 
suggest hes experienced sufficient distress and/or inconvenience to warrant financial 
compensation and Im therefore not asking Klarna to provide any.
Putting things right
Im asking Klarna to put things right in the way Ive set out above.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Klarna Bank AB (publ) to 
remove the hard search they have reported to Mr Vs credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman