DRN-2497302
The complaint
Mr K complains Unum Ltd unfairly terminated his income protection claim. 
What happened
Mr K has an income protection policy with Unum via his employers group scheme. He 
suffers from a specific form of chronic inflammatory arthritis affecting his spine. And Unum 
accepted an incapacity claim in 2010. 
The policy defines incapacity as follows.
If a member is not required by his terms of employment to hold a licence or certificate 
which is issued only when the member meets certain medical standards, and 
(a) Unum is satisfied that the member is unable, by reason of illness or injury, to 
perform the material and substantial duties of his insured occupation, and
(b) the member is not following any occupation, except as provided under paragraph 
5.3, 
then the member is incapacitated. 
In 2017, Unum reviewed and then terminated Mr Ks claim. It said medical records showed 
Mr Ks condition had been well controlled, and hed reported feeling well. It said it thought 
the evidence showed Mr K was not as restricted and limited as hed reported, and thought 
he could begin a return to work. 
Mr K appealed the decision and sent Unum a report from his consultant rheumatologist  Dr 
S. This described Mr Ks symptoms as including spinal pain, exacerbated by periods of 
immobility and when sedentary, including driving, sitting or standing in a fixed position. Dr S 
said Mr K experienced early morning stiffness in his spine which could last for up to four 
hours. And due to complications with another serious condition hed had, his treatment was 
limited to exercise and pain relief medication. She said she hoped her overview would 
highlight the impact that a sedentary occupation has on his chronic inflammatory condition. 
Unum said it would review the report and it wrote to Mr Ks GP for updated medical records. 
It also later obtained further reports from Mr Ks treating consultants. And referred to advice 
about working with adjustments from an arthritis charity. 
In August 2018, Unum maintained its decision to terminate Mr Ks claim. It said Mr K had the 
capacity for work incorporating regular postural breaks and short spells of exercise. It said Dr 
Ss report provided little comment on Mr K attempting a return to work, although she had 
said a desk-based job with driving requirements was not ideal. It said the report didnt 
provide clear and objective evidence supporting Mr K having severe, debilitating symptoms.
Mr K complained to Unum about its decision. He said he thought the report showed he was 
unable to work. And he said a comment hed previously made to his GP about life being 
good, was in relation to having previously suffered with a condition thought to be terminal.
Unum contacted Mr Ks GP for further updated records, and asked Mr K to attend a 
functional capacity assessment. The assessment took place some considerable distance 
from Mr Ks home, so he had to travel and stay overnight to attend. And during this time, 
Unum arranged to carry out surveillance. 
The assessment took place in November 2018 with a physiotherapist  Ms B. She noted the 
effects of Mr Ks spinal condition on his posture and his reduced range of movements. 
Ms B said Mr K reported the following symptoms on a regular basis.
Chronic pain in his lumbar and cervical spine.  in some degree of pain on a daily 
basis and this is worse after inactivity. Stiffness in the whole spine, again worse after 
inactivity. Knees and ankles are also stiff and painful, and he also has some pain in 
his fingers, in particular in the mornings.... Fatigue. 
The report also provided the following details. 
Travel: 
The longest [car] Journey he will make is fifteen minutes, but he feels that 
realistically half an hour would be his limit. He has recently undertaken a drive of 
ninety minutes, stopping twice on the Journey to get out and move around for ten to 
fifteen minutes.
Sitting: 
The longest period of sitting without a change of posture was timed at 22 minutes 
today indicating an occasional ability to sit. 
[Mr K] demonstrated generally high levels of function. It is essentially his reported 
limited sitting tolerance and pain reporting with static postures that is the barrier to 
him returning to his previous sedentary work role.
a severe case with significant impairments evident. Depending on severity and 
symptoms, in some cases a graduated return to work can be achieved with variance 
of postures and ergonomic advice to optimise the workstation (such as a sit to stand 
desk). However, based on today's findings and pain reporting, which was noted to 
have increased significantly with the static postures required to undertake today's 
activities, it appears unrealistic that Mr K could maintain the static postures required 
to perform his described work role.
An alternative work role with light to medium physical demands level would be 
possible if the role did not require him to remain in static postures for more than 
occasional periods of time.
The surveillance Unum arranged observed Mr K eating and drinking whilst sitting for 
extended periods, as well as driving and sitting reading a newspaper. It also showed he test 
drove and purchased a car after attending his functional capacity assessment. 
Unum responded to Mr Ks complaint following the functional capacity assessment and the 
surveillance. It said during the surveillance Mr K demonstrated an ability to hold static 
positions for prolonged periods. It said this showed his symptoms had improved since the 
claim was originally accepted. And it maintained its decision to terminate the claim. Unhappy with Unums response, Mr K brought his complaint to this service. And the case 
has been passed to me. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision and in summary I said: 
Unum originally terminated Mr Ks claim in September 2017. Based on the medical 
information at that time, which showed Mr Ks condition was well controlled and very few 
visits to his GP, I didnt think this decision was unfair. 
Mr K appealed Unums decision and sent a report from his consultant rheumatologist. Unum 
said the report hadnt provided an indication of Mr Ks function, and itd seen no reason why 
he would be unable to return to work with regular postural breaks. 
I thought Unums decision to maintain termination of the claim at that stage was fair. I said 
this because I didnt think the additional medical evidence demonstrated Mr K was unable to 
work. Dr S said a sedentary job was far from ideal for patients who experience an 
exacerbation of symptoms when sedentary. But she didnt confirm Mr K was unable to work 
at all. 
After Mr K complained, Unum referred him for a functional capacity assessment, carried out 
by a physiotherapist  Ms B. She said Mr Ks sitting tolerance and pain caused by static 
postures were the barrier to him returning to work. She said an alternative work role with 
light to medium physical demands would be possible, if it didnt require Mr K to remain in 
static postures for more than occasional periods.
Following a review of surveillance evidence of Mr K, Unum decided to maintain the 
termination of the claim. 
I considered whether I thought it fair for Unum to rely on surveillance carried out on what 
may not have been normal days for Mr K, considering he was travelling to and from his 
assessment. However, Mr K chose to carry out activities unrelated to the assessment while 
he was away, so I thought it reasonable that Unum took the surveillance into account as 
evidence of Mr Ks capabilities and limitations. 
Mr K said he had little choice but to sit down inside while waiting for transport connections 
during wet weather. And said Unum hadnt asked about or considered the effects this 
inactivity would have had on him in the following days. 
I thought about what Mr K had said. The day after his considerable inactivity while travelling 
to his assessment, he was observed test-driving and purchasing a car. As Mr K made a 
choice to do this, I thought it most likely he was not experiencing an exacerbation of his pain 
symptoms following his low levels of activity the previous day. 
The surveillance observed Mr K reading a newspaper for longer than hed confirmed he was 
able to. And it reported Mr K sitting for periods of more than an hour, which was much longer 
than hed reported and demonstrated during the assessment. 
Based on the discrepancies between the limitations Mr K reported to Unum and 
demonstrated in his functional assessment, and those observed when he was under 
surveillance, I didnt think it unreasonable that Unum concluded Mr K had greater tolerances 
for sedentary actives than hed described. And that he would be able to return to work in his 
original role, with adjustments and breaks. Although I didnt dispute that Mr K has a chronic condition, reviewing the evidence in the 
round, I thought this showed his symptoms are no longer as severe as when Unum accepted 
his original incapacity claim. And because of this, I didnt think Unum terminated his claim 
unfairly. 
The response to my provisional decision 
Unum confirmed it had received my provisional decision and had no comments to add. 
Mr K disagreed with the provisional decision, and made a very detailed submission in 
response, as well as providing additional reports. Ive focussed on the key points raised, 
which Ive summarised as follows: 
the policy is an own occupation policy, so an alternative work role is irrelevant. And 
his occupation is largely desk based with little opportunity to take a break from sitting;
the answers given to Unums questions were based on a medium position  not the 
worst day and not the best. At the time of answering the questions, his symptoms 
were more severe than when he attended the functional assessment. After returning 
home from the assessment, his pain increased significantly for a number of days;
the purchase of a larger car was to assist his condition. And cars of the same type 
are more expensive where Mr K lives, than in the city he travelled to for his functional 
capacity assessment. He maximised his pain relief on the day, and put up with pain 
and discomfort for the long-term benefit of the new car;
during the trip for the functional assessment, he reclined his seat to lie flat after 
driving, due to the pain he was in. And he walked as much as possible while he was 
away to help his condition. But this may not have been documented in the 
surveillance report, which Mr K said he hasnt seen; 
his condition is long-term with worse days and better days, so focussing on 
surveillance evidence covering a very short period is unfair; and
the medical reports from Dr S should outweigh the surveillance evidence, as she had 
said a desk-based occupation with driving was not an appropriate occupation for Mr 
K.
I referred Mr Ks key additional points and additional evidence to Unum, and asked it for its 
comments. In summary it said: 
the surveillance demonstrated a greater degree of ability to sit for long periods than 
Mr K had reported / demonstrated. And so it thinks his reporting has not been reliable 
and with reasonable adjustments he could resume his sedentary occupation;
it thought it was possible for Mr K to buy the same type of car at a similar price, 
closer to his home; 
the surveillance reports have already been provided to this service; and
the additional reports Mr K provided havent changed its opinion on the claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered again my provisional findings in light of the responses.
Unum confirmed it has already provided me with the full surveillance reports, which I had 
reviewed. These include references to Mr K walking to some of his destinations during his 
trip for the assessment. Ive considered this, but its not changed my mind that Mr K 
demonstrated greater tolerances for sedentary activities such as sitting, than hed reported 
and demonstrated during the assessment. 
Its clear Mr K suffers with a chronic condition and associated symptoms. However, the 
conflict between Mr Ks tolerance for sedentary activities in the surveillance evidence and his 
reporting and demonstration in the functional capacity assessment, still persuades me it was 
reasonable for Unum to conclude Mr Ks self-reporting might be unreliable. 
I accept Mr Ks reasons for purchasing a car while he was away for his assessment. But, his 
ability to carry this out, following his low levels of activity the previous day, still leads me to 
think it most likely he wasnt experiencing an exacerbation of his pain symptoms. 
Ive considered Mr Ks comments about Dr Ss previous report. However, Im still of the 
opinion that her report didnt confirm Mr K was unable to work in his role at all, or that hed 
be unable to do so with reasonable adjustments in place. 
Ive not considered the new report from Mr Ks consultant rheumatologist, as this is 
contemporary medical evidence issued some time after the claim was terminated. Ive 
reviewed the other reports, but I dont think they make a difference. I say this because the 
majority rely on symptoms self-reported by Mr K, and Im not satisfied they give any greater 
insight into his functional capacity. 
I recognised in my provisional decision that Mr Ks policy is an own occupation policy. And 
Id noted Ms Bs comments about an alternative work role. Ms B had specified that the 
barrier to Mr K returning to work was his sitting tolerance and pain caused by static postures.
However, I thought it was reasonable that Unum placed less weight on her report after itd 
reviewed the surveillance evidence, which, as Ive said, conflicted with the tolerances Mr K 
reported and demonstrated at the assessment. 
Ive thought about what Mr K has said about his symptoms at the time of the assessment, 
and his reporting of a medium position. Hes confirmed the severity of his symptoms varies, 
and that he has some good days and some bad days. And I dont think this supports his 
position that he cannot work in his role at all. 
The points Mr K has raised havent changed my mind, so I see no reason to depart from the 
conclusions set out in my provisional decision and summarised above.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. And I 
make no award against Unum Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2021.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman