DRN-3107316
The complaint
Mr D complains that Revolut Ltd hasnt done enough to help him recover money he paid for 
flight tickets he couldnt use.
What happened
Mr D has a Revolut prepaid Visa card. In April 2020 he used the card to pay an airline (M) 
for flights from New Zealand (where he was at the time) the following month. But a few days 
after Mr D paid for the tickets M contacted him to say it had cancelled the flight for reasons 
connected to the Covid-19 pandemic. It offered an alternative flight date valid until June 
2021, but this wasnt suitable for Mr Ds situation. He sought a refund from M, which it 
declined to provide.
As Mr D paid using his Revolut card, he asked it to assist him with obtaining a refund. 
Revolut raised a chargeback through the Visa card scheme, but this was defended by M with 
supporting documents suggesting a flight voucher was a suitable alternative in the 
circumstances. Revolut told Mr D it wasnt able to progress his claim. He was unhappy with 
the situation and complained to Revolut, and subsequently to us.
Our investigator didnt think Revolut had dealt with Mr D unfairly. It had attempted to recover 
his payment using the chargeback process, and M had provided what appeared to be a valid 
defence under that process. The response M had given was consistent with Covid-19 
guidelines issued by the Visa card scheme. The investigator noted that the circumstances in 
Mr Ds case were such that a voucher would be deemed a suitable alternative under the 
chargeback process, and that the relevant aviation commission to which M belonged took a 
similar stance on whether Ms actions were reasonable.
Mr D didnt accept the investigators conclusions and has asked for this review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Let me say, from the outset, that I have every sympathy with the position Mr D and his family 
found themselves in. He paid a significant amount of money for flights he was unable to take 
through no fault of his own. And his reasons for rejecting alternative flight dates  or a 
voucher  were understandable, given it would have involved departing from a country he 
would no longer have been in (assuming he was able to return to the UK by other means). 
Hes currently out of pocket by a large sum and his strength of feeling is clear.
That said, I cant say that this makes it fair for Revolut to refund him, or that it should be able 
to recover the money on the basis hes out of pocket. It would only be fair to do so if Revolut 
was in some way responsible for Mr Ds loss  perhaps due to the way in which it handled 
his request for assistance, or because of some other liability it has accrued. Although Mr D 
used a Visa-branded card to pay for the flights, it was a prepaid card rather than a credit 
card. So he cant claim against Revolut under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
The only mechanism available to Revolut to recover Mr Ds payment to M was through the 
chargeback process, which enables  in certain circumstances  cardholders to resolve 
disputes they have with suppliers. So thats what Revolut did. It raised a chargeback claim, 
under the appropriate reason code, submitting what Mr D had told it in evidence.
But the rules under which Revolut is able to make a chargeback claim also permit M to 
defend it. And M did so. It submitted supporting evidence that it had cancelled the flights 
following government intervention, and that it had offered an alternative in line with the card 
scheme guidance. Having reviewed that guidance I think Revolut was entitled to take the 
view that pursuing chargeback further was unlikely to lead to a successful outcome.
That doesnt mean Mr D is unable to pursue a claim against M by other means. The aviation 
commissions opinion might have a bearing on the situation, but it isnt the definitive position 
in law. Its not for me to venture an opinion on any prospect of success Mr D might have 
should he seek to progress a legal claim. Id imagine the legal position is complex, given that 
the travel arrangements involved multiple countries and potentially several international 
jurisdictions. I can only suggest Mr D takes independent legal advice in this respect.
My final decision
I sincerely hope Mr D is able to achieve a resolution to his underlying dispute with M. As Ive 
said, I think anyone would sympathise with his predicament. But having reviewed matters I 
dont think theres any basis on which I could say Revolut Ltd has treated him unfairly or 
dealt with his request in a way that might suggest it would be fair for it to refund him, or pay 
him compensation. So I regret to say that I cant uphold his complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman