DRN-2752207
The complaint
Miss J complains that Debt Managers (Services) Limited didnt make it clear to her how she 
was supposed to make a payment, then registered a missed payment on her credit file.
What happened
This complaint is about a catalogue account that was sold to Debt Managers in 2019.
In October 2020, Miss J called Debt Managers to explain that because of an unexpected 
charge, she couldnt make her usual payment of £15, but could pay £5 and then resume her 
normal arrangement afterwards. The advisor accepted this and confirmed her payment 
arrangement would continue, but mentioned that the £5 payment would be a manual one.
By manual, Debt Managers meant that Miss J would need to call them up again on the day 
to make the payment  though they didnt say this on the call. Miss J says she didnt 
understand she had to do that. The payment didnt get made.
Debt Managers sent Miss J a letter about missing the payment. Distressed, she called Debt 
Managers and complained, and made the £5 payment shortly after. 
Debt Managers said theyd told Miss J the payment would be manual, so she shouldve 
known she had to call them up to make it.
Our investigator looked into things independently and upheld the complaint. They said they 
appreciated Debt Managers had said the £5 had to be paid manually, but it wasnt made 
clear to Miss J what exactly that meant. They recommended that Debt Managers remove the 
missed payment marker for that month and pay Miss J £100 compensation.
Debt Managers didnt agree. They said it was Miss Js responsibility to keep up with her 
payments, and said theyd treated her with forbearance in other months. The complaints 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the call in question. While the advisor did mention that the £5 would be a 
manual payment, they didnt explain what that actually meant. For example, they did not 
tell Miss J that that meant she would have to put the payment through manually (as opposed 
to Debt Managers taking the payment manually), nor did they tell Miss J how she could go 
about making this manual payment. In other words, Debt Managers didnt tell Miss J in plain 
terms what she actually had to do.
I agree with Debt Managers that Miss J had a responsibility to make payments. But in this 
particular situation, I think she effectively kept up her responsibility  she proactively called 
Debt Managers to explain her circumstances that month and arrange an affordable payment. 
I think that the main reason the payment didnt go through is because Debt Managers didnt 
explain things properly, rather than because of any error on Miss Js part.
I do understand Debt Managers point of view, and I appreciate that they seem to have 
treated Miss J positively and sympathetically on other occasions. But I dont think that 
necessarily means they got things right on this occasion.
Debt Managers have now agreed to remove the missed payment marker, which Im glad to 
see. I think thats reasonable of them to do.
I also understand that this issue caused Miss J a good deal of stress, not least given the 
tough situation she was already in at the time. And I understand it caused Miss J some real 
inconvenience to sort this out. 
When a business gets things wrong  as I think Debt Managers did here  then we often tell 
them to pay compensation, to acknowledge their mistake and the impact it had. Here, our 
investigator suggested that £100 compensation would be appropriate. Ive thought carefully 
about that, taking into account our guidelines, and I also think thats reasonable. For an 
issue like this, I would be looking at the moderate bracket, which is compensation of up to 
£500. In the circumstances of this case, I dont think £100 is unreasonable or excessive, and 
it seems to me to be a fair way to resolve the case.
Putting things right
I direct Debt Managers (Services) Limited to remove the missed payment marker in question 
(as theyve offered to do), and to pay Miss J £100 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Miss Js complaint, and direct Debt Managers 
(Services) Limited to put things right in the way I set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman