DRN-4175953
The complaint
Mr M complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money wont allow him to exit his 
account without charge after sending him information saying he could.
What happened
Mr M opened a fixed rate bond account with Virgin Money. In September 2022, he received 
an email explaining a change of terms and saying that affected accounts could be closed 
without charge. He contacted Virgin Money about this and didnt receive a response in the 
time he should have. He was then told he couldnt exit his account early. Mr M raised a 
complaint and didnt receive a response within eight weeks.
Virgin Money issued a final response letter in February 2023. It said that it sent an email 
dated 7 September 2022 saying it would no longer accept cryptocurrencies from 21 
November 2022 and if the customer wasnt happy with this change, they could close any 
affected account without charge.
In regard to Mr Ms account, Virgin Money said this is a fixed-rate bond account and the 
account terms set out that early closures or withdrawals are not permitted until after the fixed 
rate period, which for Mr Ms account is in 2024. It said the email sent about closing 
accounts set out that If you have a fixed rate or notice account, you might not be able to 
close it straight away. It said that Mr Ms account couldnt accept any new deposits at the 
time of the email and so the change to not accepting cryptocurrencies didnt affect his 
account. Therefore, it didnt agree that Mr M should be allowed to close his account early.
Virgin Money did accept that it took too long to respond to Mr Ms email about this issue and 
to his complaint. Because of this it credited him with £100 compensation.
Our investigator upheld this complaint. She thought given the terms of Mr Ms account and 
the communication he had received he should be able to exit without penalty.
Virgin Money didnt agree. It reiterated that the email sent said that if you have a fixed rate 
account, which Mr M does, then you might not be able to close this straight away. It said that 
Mr M opened a non-redeemable fixed rate bond, and so he cant access / withdraw his funds 
until the account matures. It said the email was sent to customers with varied product terms 
and so the wording was such that it let customers with different products know about the 
change.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. My conclusions are set out below:
Mr M opened a fixed rate bond issue account. The product information sets out that early 
closure or withdrawals are not permitted until after the fixed rate period as detailed. Given 
this, with no further changes happening to the account, I think it is clear that Mr M wouldnt 
be able to withdraw his money from this account before the fixed period ends (looking at the 
product information provided the maturity date is set as 20 March 2024, although I note 
Virgin Money said the fixed rate period ended in May 2024 in its final response letter).
Mr M received an email from Virgin Money on 7 September 2022 which included information 
about a change to the terms of accounts. I have looked at the content of this email and it 
states that Virgin Money is making a change to the account terms and that if the customer is 
happy with this then there is nothing that needs to be done. It then says if the customer isnt 
happy with the change, they can close any affected account without charge. It then says that 
fixed rate or notice accounts might not be able to be closed straight away. As Mr M had a 
fixed rate account, I think he is covered by the comment that fixed rate accounts may not be 
closed straight away.
I have also considered whether Mr Ms account was affected by the change, as the email 
says, you can close any account(s) affected without charge. The change in terms was that 
Virgin Money would no longer accept deposits made through cryptocurrencies from 21 
November 2022.
As Mr Ms account was a fixed rate bond issue and Virgin Money has said that it was closed 
to deposits before the September email, I cannot see that his account was affected by the 
change. Mr M has a non-payment account. The simple fact that this is not listed in the 
categories ought to have suggested to Mr M that he could not just rely on the assumption 
that he would be able to exit his fixed-term agreement in the way he would have been had 
he held a payment account in the category list. Given the terms make no reference to the 
treatment of fixed-term agreements in respect of such a change, I find the terms setting out 
the impact on listed accounts have little if any bearing on what I believe to be the fair way to 
resolve this complaint.
In conclusion, while I appreciate Mr M wishes to exit his fixed-rate bond issue account early, 
the terms of the account set out that there is no early closure or withdrawals before the fixed 
rate period ends. And I do not find the change in terms notified in the September 2022 email 
changes this in regard to Mr Ms account.
Mr M wasnt provided the service he should have been when he responded to the email 
about the change of terms and when he raised his complaint. Virgin Money paid him £100 
compensation because of this which I find reasonable.
Mr M responded to my provisional decision. He reiterated that the email sent on 7 
September 2022 contained a link to new terms. He said that these included a table which 
said that if the terms were changed for non-payment accounts 'you can close or transfer 
your account anytime, without charge'. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This decision is about whether the change in terms announced in the 7 September 2022 
email meant that Mr M should be allowed to exit his account early without charge. As I set 
out in my provisional decision, Mr M had a fixed rate bond issue account the terms of which 
set out that early closure or withdrawals are not permitted until after the fixed rate period as 
detailed. The email from Virgin Money on 7 September 2022 about the change in the terms 
said that if the customer isnt happy with the change, they can close any affected account 
without charge but that that fixed rate or notice accounts might not be able to be closed 
straight away. In this case, Mr M had a fixed rate account and based on the details of the 
change in terms I cannot say that his account was affected. Therefore, I do not find that Virgin Money was required to allow Mr M to close his account early without charge.
Mr M has referred to the new terms that were provided. I looked at these before issuing my 
provisional decision and have considered them again. Mr M has said that the new terms 
state that if there is a change to the account terms non-payment accounts can be closed or 
transferred without charge. The new terms document includes information for non-payment 
accounts without notice (where the account can be closed or transferred without charge) and 
non-payment accounts with notice where the usual notice period applies unless the change 
results in the customer being disadvantaged. The account Mr M has isnt listed in the new 
terms and so I dont find that he can rely on this to exit his account early. The terms of 
Mr Ms account set out that there is no early closure or withdrawals before the fixed rate 
period ends. And I do not find the change in terms notified in the September 2022 email 
changes this in regard to Mr Ms account.
I understand that this isnt the outcome Mr M wants and I am sorry to hear of the difficult 
situation Mr M is experiencing and I understand why gaining access to his money is now of 
particular importance. But in this case I do not find that I can uphold his complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman