DRN-3031005
complaint
Mr and Mrs K say Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold them a Total Mortgage 
Protection Plan (TMPP) in 2002. 
A TMPP is a type of insurance protection policy which typically includes mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) together with other features, such as life insurance and critical 
illness cover (CIC). The individual elements of the TMPP can be added or taken out as the 
consumer wishes.
To keep things simple, Ill refer mainly to Halifax throughout this decision.
background
One of our adjudicators previously looked into the mis-sale element of the complaint and 
said they didnt think we should uphold it. They also noted that Halifax said it would pay 
some money back concerning the commission (and profit share) element that was paid as 
part of the policy premium. I explain a little more about this later. Overall, the adjudicator 
thought the offer of redress to pay back some of the cost in relation to the commission 
element was fair in the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs Ks representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me 
for a final decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me. When considering what is fair and reasonable, 
I am required to take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance 
and standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been 
good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ks. I havent set out that information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale element of the complaint. However, 
Ive also considered the issue of the non-disclosure of the commission as mentioned above. 
Ive seen that Halifax has made an offer in respect this, and I too think the offer to refund 
some of the cost to compensate for the commission element is fair in the circumstances. Ive 
summarised my reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
Although the mortgage in question was a joint one, it seems only Mr K was protected by the 
PPI and he only chose the accident, sickness and unemployment elements. The cover was 
purchased over the telephone. 
We dont have a copy of the recording, as the call was in 2002, and businesses arent 
required to keep records indefinitely. However, Ive seen quite a few very similar complaints 
to this one and I know broadly what consumers, like Mr and Mrs K, were supposed to be told 
when being offered mortgage PPI like this over the phone. I think the agent would have 
followed a telephone script and I think the PPI elements would only have been added to the 
mortgage after consent had been specifically obtained. I think they would then been sent the 
policy details setting out everything that had been agreed.
I therefore think Halifax probably made it clear enough that Mr and Mrs K didnt have to take 
out the PPI and they chose to take it out in respect of Mr K. I note Mr K didnt choose to take 
out other elements of the TMPP (such as CIC) and that they chose not to include Mrs K in 
the policy at all. To me, this demonstrates that Mr and Mrs K had probably given some 
thought to their financial requirements before making a distinct choice. That the policy was 
set up in favour of only Mr K, he being the higher earner, again is somewhat commensurate 
with their circumstances of the time.
So, although we dont have as much information left from the point of sale as Id like, I think 
the circumstances make it much more likely that they were asked about PPI and they agreed 
to buy it. In the circumstances, they would have needed to also enable the monthly PPI 
premiums to leave their bank account each month by completing a direct debit mandate.
In short, I think its likely Mr and Mrs K consented to the policy.
Halifax says it recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs K as part of an advised sale, so it was 
also responsible for making sure it was suitable for them. Mr and Mrs K dont think it was 
suitable, but I think it was.
Thats because I think Mr K was eligible for the cover and not caught by any main 
exclusions we tend to see in these policies. Whilst I agree he would have had some sickness 
protection through his job, this doesnt necessarily make the PPI of no use. This was a 
mortgage secured against Mr and Mrs Ks home. It would have paid out up to £107 per 
month for up to two years, if successfully claimed on. It cost £6.52 per month, which I think 
was affordable for them. The monthly benefit would have been in addition to any other 
means they already had and lasted much longer than any sick pay Mr K had. 
Their representative also says Mr K had death in service benefits with his job too. However, 
it provided no evidence of this and in any event, this type of protection covers different 
eventualities to the PPI Mr K had purchased. So having PPI wasnt in conflict with having 
other forms of protection he probably had at the time.
I therefore think the PPI was suitable for Mr K and recommending it to him and Mrs K wasnt 
unreasonable. 
Its certainly possible the information Halifax gave to Mr and Mrs K about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it might have been. But the cover wasnt too dissimilar to what they reasonably 
thought they were buying from the information they were most likely given at the point of 
sale. I think its probable the policy in question contained some additional rules about 
claiming for certain back or mental health illnesses and I cant be sure this was discussed. 
Nevertheless, theres no evidence these rules directly affected Mr Ks health at the point of 
sale, and in any event, I dont think hed have expected to make such claims without 
providing at least some evidence. Because of this I dont think Mr and Mrs K would have 
acted differently even if I accept that Halifax could have done a better job at explaining 
things during the sale; I still think theyd have wanted to take this cover out.Mr and Mrs Ks representative raised some points which I dont think apply in this case, such 
as Mrs Ks age, health and eligibility for the cover  but she wasnt named on the policy. The 
representative referred to illnesses Mrs K had which post-date the sale anyway, so Im afraid 
these matters arent relevant.
Mr and Mrs Ks representative raised a number of what I consider to be other, general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant Halifax should have disclosed the poor value 
and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Ks representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ks individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints. I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Ks 
particular case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out 
above I dont uphold the mis-sale element of this complaint. This means Halifax doesnt have 
to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs K.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Halifax has already agreed to pay back an element for the commission, but it looks to me as 
if its described this incorrectly. It says it is making a goodwill offer, but from what Ive seen, 
the commission element was frequently above the 50% the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) deems to be unfair. This doesnt really affect anything as far as Mr and Mrs K are 
concerned because the money Halifax is offering does seem to be correct  its just that it 
has to pay the money, rather than it being a goodwill gesture.
So  to be clear, Ive decided Halifax should have disclosed the commission it received and 
that Halifaxs offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness 
caused is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Halifax didnt tell Mr and Mrs K about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in 
this case until February 2018 when it wrote to them with an offer. So taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipgave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Halifax and Mr and Mrs K was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 
because Halifax didnt tell them about the high levels of commission and profit share in 
this case 
I dont think Halifax acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr and Mrs K because it 
failed to disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Mr and Mrs Ks representative has made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act.
In summary they have said Mr and Mrs K should get back all the money they paid for the 
policy because: Halifax failed to tell Mr and Mrs K about the high commission and profit-
share rates paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because 
they say that meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Mr and Mrs K wouldnt have 
taken out the policy had they known about the level of commission and they should receive a 
refund of all the premiums they paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- A court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a 
consumer would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; 
and
- The FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge 
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance 
about mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for 
Mr and Mrs K in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Halifax not disclosing the high 
level of commission before they purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mr and Mrs Ks representative suggests, driven to conclude that they 
wouldnt have purchased the policy but for Halifaxs failure to disclose the level of 
commission for the reasons Ive given above.
I think it was fair for Halifax to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return some of the money Mr and Mrs K paid for the PPI policy. I consider this fairly removes 
the source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves Mr and Mrs K with the policy Ive 
concluded above they would still have taken out if Halifax had done everything it should 
have done  but with lower commission and profit share levels.
So I consider that Halifaxs offer of payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where 
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
 
my decision
I dont uphold the mis-sale element of the complaint or make any award in favour of Mr and 
Mrs K for this part of the complaint.
However, because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that 
Bank of Scotland Plc should pay Mr and Mrs K an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where 
applicable). The amount was previously set out to them in 2018 and should now be paid, if it 
hasnt been paid already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 November 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman