DRN-2003593
The complaint
Mr Ls complaint is about Barclays Bank UK PLC not honouring a rate on a savings product 
after saying it would be available to him.
What happened
Mr L visited a branch of Barclays on 5 March 2020 to open a three-year fixed rate savings 
account with an interest rate of 1.7%. As there wasnt an appointment slot available at that 
time, he agreed to the next available appointment which was on 12 March. He says he was 
told the savings product would still be available to him at his appointment. 
On 11 March, Mr L was called to say the savings product had been withdrawn. Mr L 
attended the appointment the following day and opened a one-year savings account with an 
interest rate of 1%. Mr L wants the initial product offer to be honoured. 
Barclays said that Mr L wasnt an existing customer and so an appointment was needed to 
carry out its identification and verification process. It apologised for the upset that Mr L was 
caused. It said Mr L was booked for the next available appointment but before this 
happened, the product he was interested in was withdrawn. It didnt accept it needed to 
compensate Mr L for the lost interest but did acknowledge the length of time taken for his 
complaint to be investigated and offered to pay him £250 compensation.  
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He said that the terms of the initial product Mr L 
had been interested in set out that that the offer could be withdrawn at any time. He noted 
that Barclays had apologised for the delay in investigating Mr Ls complaint and offered to 
pay him £250 compensation because to this. He thought this reasonable. 
Mr L didnt agree with our investigators view regarding the withdrawal of the three-year 
savings product. He said he had made it clear this was the product he wanted when he 
visited the branch on 5 March and had the necessary documents with him. He was then told 
it would be available to him when he attended his appointment.
Mr L thought the £250 for the delay in dealing with his complaint was reasonable but didnt 
accept that the compensation was enough to cover the main part of his complaint about the 
withdrawal of the savings product he had been told would be available to him.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
When Mr L visited the branch on 5 March, he made it clear the product he was 
interested in. However, at this time he wasnt a customer of Barclays and so certain 
processes needed to take place. Therefore, while I appreciate the comment Mr L has 
made about having started the process at this time, I do not agree with this. Until 
Mr L had gone through the required identification checks and then started the 
application, I do not find that Barclays was required to hold any product open for him.
I understand that it must have been frustrating for Mr L that he wasnt able to have a 
meeting on 5 March when he had all his documents available, but he was then given 
the first available meeting. As there were steps needed to verify Mr L before the 
product could be provided, I dont find that Barclays did anything wrong by requiring 
this meeting to take place. I understand the delay then had but I find that Barclays 
was treating Mr L fairly by giving him the next available meeting.
Mr L said he was told that the product would still be available when he attended the 
meeting set for 12 March. This hasnt been disputed. He was then contacted before 
the meeting to say the product had been withdrawn. This was clearly upsetting but 
Barclays has explained that the adviser wouldnt have been aware that the product 
was being withdrawn until the day this happened. I think the adviser could have been 
clearer about the fact a product could be withdrawn but I accept they had no reason 
to know this would happen at the time Mr L attended the branch. 
As Mr L had been given the next available meeting and the product was withdrawn 
before this, I do not find that the situation would have changed had Mr L been told of 
the withdrawal before it happened. When he attended the meeting on 12 March, he 
was aware that the product he had initially wanted was no longer available.
Barclays has provided a copy of the terms of the savings product Mr L was interested 
in and these state that the product can be withdrawn. This was a commercial 
decision and as it was no longer available when Mr L attended the meeting, I do not 
find that Barclays was required to do anything further regarding this offer.
Barclays has explained that it took longer to deal with Mr Ls complaint due to it 
wanting for his transfer to complete and delays in its internal systems. Given this it 
offered to pay him £250 compensation. I find this reasonable. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr L £250 compensation, as it 
has offered, for the delay in dealing with his complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2020.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman