DRN-3434318
The complaint
Mr H complains that Nationwide Building Society(Nationwide) didnt tell him it cancelled a 
direct debit and  unfairly applied a late payment marker to his credit file. He would like the 
marker removed and compensation for the distress and inconvenience..
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
Its unfortunate for Mr H that Nationwide removed the direct debit arrangement for his 
account. Nationwide has explained it did this as the  direct debit had been dormant, 
i.e. not used for some time. I have seen its terms and conditions which allow for this 
so I cant say that Nationwides actions were wrong
Nationwide has evidenced that it sent a letter to Mr H telling him his direct debit had 
been cancelled.  I appreciate Mr H says  he didnt get this. And doesnt feel a note on 
his account to say a letter was sent is sufficient evidence. It  would be more helpful   
if Nationwide could give us a copy of the letter it sent. But I see no reason why this 
would have been noted on Mr Hs account if it hadnt been sent, so I am persuaded 
that it was. I dont know why Mr H didnt get the letter. But we dont hold businesses 
responsible for any postal delivery issues.
Ive noted Mr Hs comments about a direct debit taken in December 2017 but then 
reversed. Nationwide has explained that this was reversed due to insufficient funds in 
the account. I appreciate Mr Hs point that this shows that the direct debit facility was 
active on his account at that point. As Nationwide didnt withdraw the direct debit 
facility until  January 2018  that doesnt surprise me. However, as I understand it, Mr 
H usually made his payments manually and thats confirmed by the statements I 
have seen. The direct debit attempt seems to me to have been unusual.  So, as the 
direct debit facility wasnt really used, I dont think it was unreasonable of Nationwide 
to withdraw it in line with its terms and conditions.
I cant accept Mr H was unaware a payment was due. I ve seen his statements 
which show  the minimum payment due in December 2017 and that the following 
month this payment hadnt been made. In a phone call to Nationwide Mr H said he 
didnt look at his statements . Thats unfortunate but its his responsibility to keep his 
account up to date. Its important that credit files are accurate and as Mr H missed a 
payment, I cant reasonably ask Nationwide to remove the late payment marker.
I appreciate Mr Hs comments about the time he has taken to deal with this issue. 
When problems arise, it can be time consuming for both  parties but that doesnt 
necessarily mean its always appropriate to pay compensation. I have no evidence of 
any issue here that leads me to feel compensation is appropriate for the time taken to 
deal with the complainant. I do appreciate the distress  to Mr H of the late payment 
marker on his credit file I cant reasonably ask Nationwide to pay any compensation 
in respect of this as I dont believe it was wrong to apply it.
.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2022.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman