DRN-4087262
The complaint
Mrs G complains about Redmayne-Bentley LLP, referred to as the business. 
Shes unhappy about the performance of her investment portfolio, managed under the 
Managed Portfolio Service (MPS). She believes her investment has been mismanaged by 
the business resulting in significant financial loss. She also believes that the advice to make 
the change was unsuitable. 
What happened
In August 2019, Mrs G invested £30,831 in the MPS for capital growth. She was in her late 
60s, married and retired. She had previous investment experience, including investments 
managed on a discretionary basis. Her attitude to risk (ATR) was recorded as moderate risk 
and her investment goal was recorded as being over a term of 10 years. 
In September 2019, her investment was worth £30,982. In March 2020, it dipped to £27,830. 
In December 2020, she contributed a further £15,444 and in March 2021 another £46,015. 
Her portfolio has grown by £681 to £92,971. 
Mrs G that says that since the dip in the stock market in 2020 the major indices have 
recovered, but the performance of the MPS has been poor. She feels the business hasnt 
managed her investment as expected and as a result shes lost out financially. She says the 
business couldve been more proactive and taken advantage of the dip.
The business didnt uphold the complaint. In summary, it said that whilst it acknowledged 
that the portfolio underperformed against the benchmark used to compare recent account 
performance, there was an inherent risk with investing in the stock market. There were also 
no guarantees, and some investments might perform less well than others. Also, although 
the UK companies may have performed strongly in the last 12 months, the MPS portfolio is 
invested in a range of global equities, resulting in lower exposure to UK companies. 
Whilst Mrs G is unhappy about the performance, the portfolio is extremely diverse, and 
despite the short-term volatility it continues to invest with focus on the longer-term, in line 
with a 10-year horizon.  
Unhappy with the businesss response, Mrs G referred her complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
Complaints about investment performance alone are not something that our service 
would consider. Without the benefit of hindsight, its difficult to know whether, or not, 
the stock market wouldve produced better returns, and its not something that the 
business couldve predicted at the outset. 
The client agreement confirmed that Mrs G was aware that she was taking a long-
term approach to investing and of the risks involved. 
Her moderate ATR/risk appetite was in line with her objectives and broadly how the 
investment performed. 
Although Mrs G contributed over £60,000 post pandemic  when the stock market 
had recovered significantly  the war in Ukraine caused a subsequent dip in the 
market. 
The MPSs objectives was to provide investors with growth and income  with the 
aim of providing a total return designed to achieve a target of the Bank of England 
base rate +3.5%. Although Mrs G made a small return, this was broadly in line with 
the ARC Sterling Balanced Asset Index. The decline has been in line with the 
tolerance, but the growth has been higher. 
The business also notified Mrs G when her investment started to drop by more than 
10% in March 2020 (during the pandemic) and in February 2022, at the start of the 
Ukraine war. 
Despite what Mrs G said about how the business ought to have behaved regarding 
taking advantage of the undervalued equities, the business hasnt acted 
unreasonably by not doing so. If it did, it wouldve been a significant shift from the 
portfolio Mrs G agreed in 2019. In other words, more exposure to equities. 
Despite what Mrs G says, in the circumstances the business hasnt done anything 
wrong by not asking if shed like to change her portfolio after a drop in the stock 
market. Mrs G was also asked to notify the business if she wanted to change 
anything. 
Mrs G disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. She 
made a number of points relating to management and performance, as well as the suitability 
of the advice. In summary, she made the following key points:
 
She was unaware that her account had been changed and that shes consequently 
suffered a significant financial loss in terms of its value going down compared to the 
markets. 
The practice employed by the business to change accounts needs to be investigated. 
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind. In summary, he said:
Mrs Gs main complaint was about the management and performance of her 
investment. Having considered all the evidence, hes still not persuaded that the 
investment wasnt managed by the business within the agreed mandate, as 
suggested by Mrs G.
Mrs G also raised issues about the suitability of the change in her investment which 
shes held for years. Having given the business an opportunity to consider this issue 
he cant say that the advice was unsuitable. 
Mrs G was given options, so didnt have to move to the MPS and she was given 
information in relation to the general risks involved.  
Mrs G disagreed with the investigators latest view. Shes provided numerous submissions 
that Ive addressed below. I dont think its necessary to repeat them here.   
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the parties say, I cant safely say 
that the business behaved unreasonably or that its to blame for the MPS not performing 
better. 
Before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to recognise the strength 
of feeling Mrs G has about this matter. She has provided submissions to support the 
complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope she wont take the 
fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much 
detail, as a discourtesy.
  
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised under a separate 
subject heading, or undertake a forensic analysis of the evidence, its not what Im required 
to do in order to reach a decision in this case. I appreciate this can be frustrating, but it 
doesnt mean Im not considering the pertinent points in this case.
 
My role is to consider the evidence presented by Mrs G, and the business, and reach 
what I think is an independent, fair, and reasonable decision based on the facts of the 
case  Im not here to take sides.  
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation, and best 
industry practice, but perhaps unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for me to 
decide, based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have 
happened.
In short, I dont uphold this complaint for the following reasons:
Our service doesnt consider complaints in isolation about the performance of an 
investment. This is because performance is dependent on the financial markets and 
not something that a business can control or predict. So, on the face of the evidence, 
and on balance, despite what Mrs G says, I cant safely say that the business 
behaved unreasonably just because her investment didnt perform better compared 
to the stockmarket. 
Im aware that prior to the switch to MPS, Mrs Gs portfolio was managed under The 
Collectives Portfolio (TCP) service and that in May 2019 the business took the 
decision to cease providing this service to clients with assets under £100,000, which 
affected Mrs G. This is a decision that the business was entitled to make in the 
reasonable exercise of its legitimate commercial judgement and not something that 
our service would get involved in. In other words, I cant say the business has done 
anything wrong by incorporating this change which it was entitled to make.  
The above proposed change notwithstanding, Im aware that the business wrote to 
Mrs G giving her three options  meet the £20,000 entry requirement and apply for 
the new MPS, change to execution only service or stop using the businesss service. 
I note she didnt respond initially and was sent a follow up letter with the Change of 
Service Option Form  which she responded to on 15 July 2019, electing the new 
MPS. 
I note Mrs G also signed a Client Agreement Form which included questions around 
her investment objective and risk assessment that helped the business determine 
which strategy to take.  
In August 2019, an email was sent to Mrs G outlining the businesss assessment and 
recommendation of a moderate investment strategy. Later that same day Mrs G 
confirmed that she wished to proceed. Despite what she now says, Im satisfied that 
she made an informed decision to go along with the recommendation and did so of 
her own volition. Im mindful that she had several options available but chose the new MPS. In other words, and on balance, Im persuaded that she  more likely than not 
 knew what was happening regarding the change and had a reasonable opportunity 
to decide what she wanted to do going forward. 
Despite what Mrs G says, if she was unsure about something or wanted more 
information about how things would work, she couldve contacted the business 
and/or sought advice but she didnt, which suggests that she was content with her 
decision and the information provided. 
The above notwithstanding, there was simply no guarantee that the change itself 
would produce greater results, and certainly no guarantee that it would provide a 
positive return. But I understand that it did, albeit a small return. I note between 
September 2019 and February 2022, Mrs Gs investment grew by £681.  
Im also aware that Mrs G contributed a total of around £61,459  post the pandemic 
 but its likely that the war in Ukraine had an impact on the growth of her investment. 
I understand that additional funds were placed most likely in the hope that the global 
financial markets would improve much in the same way that the UK markets had 
been improving, and there was nothing to suggest that it wouldnt. Thats generally 
how investing in risk-based investments works. 
In the circumstances, and on balance, I cant say that making additional contributions 
to the investment, with a 10-year horizon in place is unreasonable. Despite what Mrs 
G says, I dont think that the business has done anything wrong by not investing in 
undervalued equities. I agree with the investigator that it probably wouldve resulted 
in a shift in the portfolio makeup previously agreed by Mrs G in 2019  therefore 
resulting in a higher risk than agreed. 
Im mindful that Mrs G was an experienced investor  I note she says she has over 
40 years of experience of the stockmarket, and shes been investing with the 
business for over 20 years  so she is well aware that investments can go up as well 
as down. 
Based on the evidence, I cant safely say that her moderate ATR was any more or 
less risk than she was willing to take, nor that it was contrary to her long-term plans. 
Given description of what a moderate risk means, I cant say that its contrary to her 
objectives either: 
oAs a medium risk investor, your investment strategy will seek over time to 
generate returns above the rate of inflation and should reflect a good share of 
the fluctuation in value of equity markets. 
Your investment strategy is likely to differ from a low-medium risk investment 
strategy through lower diversification by asset class and/or having greater 
exposure to equities, including possible exposure to shares in smaller and 
medium-sized companies. A medium risk investment strategy is appropriate if 
you have a medium to long-term timescale for investing and capacity to 
tolerate a temporary or (albeit unlikely) permanent loss to your capital.
I also cant say that this was at odds with the level of volatility that she was willing to 
accept, which I understand was 17.5% plus or minus, which was in hindsight broadly 
in line with how the investment performed. 
I dont think its necessary to list all the volatility, but I understand that the highest 
monthly decline in one month was -12.45% and the maximum monthly increase in 
another was 15.67% which would suggest that the investment was being managed in 
line with Mrs Gs investment strategy and mandate.  
In the circumstances, I dont think the business has done anything wrong by not 
checking to see if Mrs G wanted to change her portfolio after a dip in the market 
within a year or so of investing, and then another year or so after the additional 
contributions. Im mindful she was looking for a long-term investment with a moderate 
risk, and there was nothing to suggest that she wanted to change this. 
I note that the business contacted Mrs G regularly (annually), and as well as 
providing her with information on her investment, asked her for information on any changes in her circumstances. So, she couldve informed the business if she thought 
she was ready and willing to take greater risk. 
In the circumstances, and on balance, I dont think the business has done anything 
wrong by not acting of its own volition during a dip in the market, resulting in greater 
risk to the investment. Without the benefit of hindsight, its impossible to know 
whether, or not, this wouldve been beneficial to Mrs G.  
I dont think Mrs G wouldve appreciated the business acting unilaterally and without 
her authority or pushing her to follow a particular course of action.  
Despite what Mrs G says about putting her trust in the business and expecting it to 
do its best for her, I cant say that it didnt act in her best interests. And just because 
Mrs G mightve sustained losses or not made as much profit, doesnt mean that the 
business didnt manage her investments properly. Im mindful she was perfectly 
happy with her account with the business that shed held for over 20 years up until 
this change - that she agreed to. 
I appreciate Mrs G will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator, and I realise my decision isnt what she wants to hear. 
I note she believes that the business should pay her compensation, but I dont agree, 
because I dont think the business is responsible for any losses. Whilst I appreciate her deep 
frustration and anguish, Im not going to ask the business to do anything.   
On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, despite what Mrs G says, Im unable 
to uphold this complaint and give her what she wants.   
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2023.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman