DRN-3867795
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the decision Aviva Insurance Limited reached on a claim he made on 
his motor insurance policy. He believes there are accident-related issues with his vehicle 
which Aviva has refused to repair as part of the claim settlement.
What happened
Mr Hs initial concerns were that Avivas approved repairer was a body shop, rather than a 
mechanic, and so they werent sufficiently qualified to inspect or repair damage to the 
mechanical elements of his car. He felt his car remained unsafe to drive following the initial 
repairs, so Aviva arranged for an engineer to inspect the car.
Mr H set out the issues he believed remained unresolved. These were based on a quote he 
obtained from the car manufacturer, and are summarised on Avivas engineers report as:
1. Air conditioning intermittent fault 
2. Right hand front window rattles 
3. Right hand rear wheel wobbles and tracking fault 
4. Clutch is damaged
5. Left hand rear tail lamp poorly aligned
These issues were considered by the engineer during his inspection of Mr Hs car. The 
engineers findings were set out in his report, which has been seen by all parties. But to 
broadly summarise, the engineer concluded that the only issue which was accident related, 
and therefore covered under the claim, was the alignment of the tail lamp. He estimated a 
reasonable cost for this repair to be £30 inc VAT.
Aviva confirmed it would be prepared to consider the settlement amount further should Mr H 
provide his own engineers report. But in the absence of that, and based on the conclusions 
of its engineer, Aviva said it was only prepared to offer Mr H the £30. It also said it was 
prepared to consider the costs for the estimate he obtained from the manufacturer, subject 
to Mr H providing the invoice he was charged for the estimate. 
Mr H disagrees with the conclusions reached by Avivas engineers. He says the quote for 
repairs completed by the car manufacturer confirms the above issues are present. Mr H is 
also unhappy that the rear wheel issue isnt being covered, when an agent of Aviva 
confirmed via live chat that this was accident related and so would be covered.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Hs complaint should be upheld. She said the most 
persuasive evidence, as to which issues were accident related, was the engineers report. 
So, in the absence of a conflicting report from Mr H, she felt Aviva had acted fairly and 
reasonably by settling the damage which was deemed accident related.
Mr H didnt agree with our investigator. So, because no agreement has been reached, the 
complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator. Ill explain why.
Mr H says the quote from the manufacturer confirms the listed issues are all present. I 
havent seen a copy of this. But in any event, while the quote may well show the above 
issues were present, as far as Im aware, being a quote rather than cause of damage report, 
it would not confirm whether or not the issues were related to the accident  and thats what 
is key here. Only damage which was caused by the accident would be Avivas responsibility 
to cover under this claim.
Aviva has had Mr Hs car inspected and repaired by its approved repairer. I know Mr H has 
concerns about the qualifications of the repairer owing to it being a bodyshop rather than a 
mechanic. But having reviewed the repairers website, it confirms they have over 35 years 
experience handling all types of insurance related repairs, not limited to bodywork.
In addition to the approved repairer, Aviva has had Mr Hs car inspected by a qualified motor 
engineer. The engineer set out his findings and reasoning clearly in his report, including that 
he was unable to duplicate some of the faults, that most faults/damage were inconsistent 
with the accident, and that Mr Hs car had covered over 3,000 miles since the accident which 
suggests some of the damage may have happened after the repairs. 
In the absence of a conflicting report from Mr H, from a sufficiently qualified motor expert, I 
find the conclusions reached by Avivas engineer, supported by the approved repairer, to be 
the most persuasive evidence available.
In terms of Mr Hs concern that an agent of Aviva confirmed the rear wheel issue was 
accident related, and that it would be repaired, it seems the agent accepted this information 
from Mr H at face value and passed it onto the approved repairers. But, as explained above, 
both the approved repairer and the engineer have concluded this issue isnt related to the 
accident. Comments from a member of Avivas online claims team, which were based on 
information provided by Mr H and unsupported by an expert report, do not change my 
conclusions.
Ultimately, the expert evidence in this case suggests that Aviva has fulfilled its liability 
regarding the accident-related damage to Mr Hs car. Aviva has offered to reconsider its 
position should Mr H provide his own expert report. I think Avivas position here is fair and 
reasonable. So, Ill not be making any direction against Aviva as part of this complaint.
Should Mr H decide to provide his own report, and remain unhappy with Avivas position 
following that, he may be able to refer a new complaint to our service  subject to our normal 
rules.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2023.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman