DRN-2652445
The complaint
Mrs K has complained about Zurich Assurance Limited. Shes unhappy that her life 
assurance policy was cancelled.
Mrs K is represented in this complaint by her husband Mr K. 
What happened
Mrs K started a Personal Life Plan with her personal pension in October 1993. This was a 
term assurance policy set up to run until her selected retirement age, 60. The term of the 
policy was then extended to age 65.
In February 2019, Zurich wrote to Mrs K telling her that as she was approaching 65 there 
were some options for her to consider. A reply slip and a prepaid envelope was enclosed 
which asked whether she wanted to continue with the life cover or not. The letter said that if 
there was no response, the life cover would be cancelled when she reached 65 (in July 
2019).
There was no response to this letter.
Zurich says that it sent a further letter on 24 June 2019 saying that as it had heard nothing 
the plan would lapse with no value in July 2019.
Mr K contacted Zurich in March 2020. He said that Mrs K wasnt aware until recently that the 
policy had ended. Substantial premiums had been paid and they wouldnt have stopped 
contributions without informing Zurich. He asked if the policy could be reinstated even if back 
payments were required. He spoke with Zurichs servicing team who said there was nothing 
it could do. 
Mr K complained. He said that he and his wife were in the process of going away when the 
second letter (June 2019) was sent and they hadnt noticed it. They had been good 
customers, paying the premiums on time throughout. Mrs K was still only 65 when the policy 
was cancelled.
Zurich didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had sent letters in February and June 2019 but 
received no response. The plan had been administered in line with the terms and conditions. 
It explained that its letters had been sent by first class post. Recorded delivery wasnt used 
so that administrative charges were kept to a minimum.
Mrs K didnt agree, and the complaint was referred to this service.
The complaint was considered by an investigator, but she didnt think that it should be 
upheld. She explained that there was no dispute that Mrs K received the letter from February 
2019. She noted that Mr K said that it had been received but there were some months left 
and the intention was that it would be dealt with later, but they didnt get around to it. And 
that they wouldve acted straight away if they had received the reminder letter, but they 
hadnt. 
The investigator said that Zurich held a copy of the letter from June 2019 which was 
correctly addressed. She didnt think it would be fair to hold Zurich responsible for any failure 
in delivery by another company.
The investigator noted Mr Ks view that the reminder shouldve been sent by recorded 
delivery to ensure it was received, but she explained that there was no requirement that 
Zurich should do that, and it would increase its costs. She also explained that it was clear 
from the policy terms that the policy would end when Mrs K reached the selected retirement 
age.
Mr K didnt agree and restated that the June 2019 letter shouldve been sent by recorded 
delivery. The letter wasnt received and there was no evidence that it was received. Zurich 
cant prove delivery. He and Mrs K had been good customers for many years.
The investigator didnt change her view and so the case has been referred to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive summarised above what has been said so far in this complaint, but Ive read everything. 
Having done that, Ive decided that I agree with the investigator and with her reasoning. I 
dont uphold this complaint.
I appreciate that this will disappoint Mr and Mrs K but in order to uphold a complaint, I need 
to be satisfied that a business has got something wrong and that it would be fair and 
reasonable for it to put things right. I can understand Mrs Ks upset but having considered 
the evidence Im not satisfied that Zurich has got things wrong in this case.
There is no dispute that Mrs K received the letter in February 2019 that warned that the 
policy would end in July 2019 when she reached 65. Mrs K knew, or ought to have known, 
from that letter that some action was necessary if she wanted to continue with the life cover. 
There was some time in hand, and I can understand why this may not have been considered 
a priority at that time. However, Zurich wasnt responsible for that decision, and in my view 
its letter was clear about the potential consequences of not responding.
Zurich says that it sent a reminder in June 2019. Mr K says this wasnt received and there is 
no evidence of delivery. He says the letter shouldve been sent recorded delivery given its 
significance.
Zurich has a copy of the reminder letter which is correctly addressed. Im satisfied, on 
balance, that Zurich did send the reminder letter. The copy letter is, in my opinion, evidence 
of that. And whilst it cant prove absolutely that the letter was received, the fact is that the 
vast majority of post that is correctly addressed is delivered correctly. Therefore, I conclude 
that the reminder letter was sent and that it was most likely delivered to the correct address. 
If it did go astray in the post, Zurich isnt responsible for that. And I think I must also consider 
that even if the reminder letter wasnt received, Mrs K was already on notice that the policy 
would end in July 2019.
Mr K says that the reminder shouldve been sent by recorded delivery. Zurich has explained 
that it isnt its policy. There is no obligation on Zurich to use recorded delivery. In my 
experience, its not widespread industry practice to do so in situations like this. Therefore, Im not satisfied that Zurich shouldve done more to ensure the reminder letter was received, 
such as using recorded delivery. 
Mrs K was warned that the policy would end when she reached 65 and that some action by 
her was necessary if she didnt want that to happen. Zurich didnt hear from her until it was 
too late. Im satisfied that Zurich cancelled the policy in line with the policy terms. As things 
stood, it had no authority to continue collecting premiums after July 2019.
Im sorry that Mrs K has not been able to continue with this policy as she wished to. But as 
Ive said, I can only uphold a complaint when a business has got things wrong. In this case 
Im not satisfied that Zurich did get things wrong. I dont think it could reasonably be 
expected to do more in these particular circumstances.
 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 May 2021.
 
Keith Taylor
Ombudsman