DRN-1718927
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that funds he was expecting werent credited to his account with Lloyds 
Bank Plc. He thinks there might have been a bank error or fraud which has caused him a 
loss. 
What happened
Mr B says that he had an arrangement with his late wife, whereby dividends from an 
investment would be paid into her bank account. She would then pay 50% of the dividend 
into Mr Bs bank account by way of cheque, using his paying-in book. 
Mr Bs account is with Lloyds Bank, while his late wifes account is with a bank I will refer to 
as Bank A in this decision. In 2019, Mr B complained to Lloyds Bank saying that 13 
payments from the above arrangement were not credited to his account. He said he could 
see from his late wifes Bank A statements that these funds left her account; however, they 
didnt reach his account with Lloyds Bank.
Lloyds Bank investigated Mr Bs complaint. In short, they explained that they were unable to 
trace incoming payments, as this would be the responsibility of the sending bank, Bank A, 
who they advised Mr B to contact. Unhappy with Lloyds Banks decision, Mr B referred his 
complaint to our service. However, he later confirmed to us and Lloyds Bank that there were 
eight missing payments, as opposed to the 13 hed initially said. Lloyds Bank considered 
this; however, they maintained their position. 
One of our investigators didnt uphold the complaint. In broad summary, she was satisfied 
that Lloyds Bank did all they could based on the limited information they had to trace the 
disputed amounts. Mr B didnt agree with the investigators findings, so he asked for an 
ombudsman to consider his case. 
He accepted that if Lloyds Bank didnt receive the amounts disputed, then they couldnt be 
blamed. However, if they did, he would like to know what happened to the funds.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it, for broadly the same reasons as the investigator. Ill 
explain why. I accept that Mr B had an arrangement with his late wife, in that she would 
credit his Lloyds Bank account with 50% of the dividends paid into her Bank A account. 
Lloyds Bank have said that they are keen to assist Mr B in this matter. However, they require 
further information from him to be able to do so. They have asked for the exact amounts of 
each of the disputed transactions, and where and when they were credited. Lloyds Bank 
have said that deposit slips would be helpful to attempt to trace the amounts disputed, or 
similarly if the payments were sent electronically  further evidence of the time, date and 
amount. This is why they referred Mr B to Bank A to obtain this information.Taking all the above points together  I dont think Lloyds Bank have done anything wrong in 
the circumstances of this complaint. Theyve explained why they cant look into this further 
for Mr B on the basis of the information hes provided so far. But if he gets more information 
from Bank A theyd be happy to look into it again for him. This is what Id expect them to do. 
And I think its reasonable for them to say that they need more information to help them to try 
to identify any missing payments. 
Im aware Mr B has also raised a complaint with Bank A on behalf of his late wifes estate in 
part to try to get the additional information he needs. That isnt something I can comment on 
here. But as Ive covered above, when Mr B does provide further information Id expect 
Lloyds Bank to consider it, conduct a further investigation and clearly communicate their 
outcome to him. But this complaint is about what Lloyds Bank have done so far, and in that 
context I dont think theyve done anything wrong and so I dont think they need to do more 
to resolve it. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint against Lloyds Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 July 2020.
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman