DRN-3994700
The complaint
Mr G complains about Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax).
He says that Bank of Scotland didnt do enough to protect him when he became the victim of 
a scam and wants Bank of Scotland to refund him the money he has lost. 
What happened
Mr G was contacted via WhatsApp by someone offering a job in e-commerce. Mr G was 
persuaded to take up the opportunity as a way to earn extra cash and was eventually 
persuaded to deposit money by purchasing cryptocurrency and then moving this into the 
platform. 
Mr G says that he researched the company and was persuaded it was genuine by what he 
had found online.
However, Mr G then began to feel pressured into depositing more money and told the 
scammer he wanted to stop and withdraw his commission he had made so far. He was 
further persuaded to deposit more money in order to get back what he had invested. In total, 
Mr G paid £5,979 to the scam.
When Mr G still didnt receive his money, he realised he had been scammed  and 
complained to Bank of Scotland. 
Bank of Scotland didnt uphold his complaint  so Mr G complained to this Service.
Our Investigator considered the complaint but didnt think that it should be upheld. Mr G 
didnt accept this, so the complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Gs complaint for materially the same reasons 
as our Investigator. I know that this will be disappointing for him, so Ill explain why.
Was Mr G the victim of a scam?
I dont think that it is in dispute here that Mr G has been the victim of a scam  he was 
persuaded that he was applying for a role for which he needed to invest his own money on 
the promise of investment returns that didnt materialise and was further persuaded to invest 
more funds in order to access his earnings.
Did Mr G authorise the payments?
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), Mr G isnt liable for payments 
he didnt authorise, unless he failed with gross negligence or intent to comply with the terms 
of the account or keep his personalised security details safe. Accordingly, Ive considered 
whether Mr G authorised the payments in question here.
Having done so, Im satisfied that Mr G did authorise the payments in question here. They 
were made by him using his debit card. I understand that Mr G had been tricked by the 
scammer into instructing Bank of Scotland to make the payments  but while Mr G never 
intended the payments to go to the scammers, this doesnt change the fact that he 
authorised them and is therefore presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
Recovery of the payments Mr G made
After the payments were made, I wouldnt reasonably expect Bank of Scotland to do 
anything further until it had been notified there was a scam. Mr G made a total of 14 
payments as part of the scam, all by debit card.
The only recourse for potential recovery of the funds for the payments made by debit card 
would be via the chargeback scheme. Chargeback is a process by which disputes are 
resolved between card issuers (here, Bank of Scotland) and the merchant (here, B).
However, a chargeback in these circumstances would never have been successful. This is 
because B is a legitimate business and provided the services that Mr G had requested of it  
the purchase of crypto. The subsequent transfer of the crypto to a different wallet (which 
Mr G opened as a result of the scam he fell victim to) is therefore a separate matter  and so 
a successful chargeback would never have been possible  and so I dont think that these 
payments were recoverable once they had been made.
Should Bank of Scotland have reasonably prevented the payments in the first place?
I can only uphold this complaint if I think that Bank of Scotland reasonably ought to have 
prevented some or all of the payments Mr G made in the first place  therefore preventing 
the loss before it happened.
Mr G authorised the scam payments in question here  so as Ive explained above, he is 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
That said, as a matter of good industry practice, Bank of Scotland should have taken 
proactive steps to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or 
uncharacteristic transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. However, 
there is a balance to be struck: banks had (and have) obligations to be alert to fraud and 
scams and to act in their customers best interests, but they cant reasonably be involved in 
every transaction.
Taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of
practice and what I consider having been good industry practice at the time, I consider
Bank of Scotland should fairly and reasonably:
Been monitoring accounts  including payments made and received  to counter 
various risks including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism 
and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; andIn some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
So, Ive carefully considered what this means for Mr G and the payments in question here.
Mr G opened his Bank of Scotland Account in February 2022. He made his first payment to 
B on 1 March 2022 for £15 (although he hasnt disputed this payment as part of this 
complaint). He then didnt make a further payment from the account until 27 July 2022  
again to B. The account activity following this was a pattern of Mr G applying funds to the 
account, and subsequently making payments to B. 
I understand that Mr G and his representative say that Mr G then went on to make 11 
payments to B in one day, totalling over £5000  and that this shouldve triggered Bank of 
Scotland into investigating what was happening. But Im afraid I dont agree. As Mr Gs 
account appears to have been opened with the sole purpose of making payments to B, it is 
difficult to conclude what an unusual payment would have been for Mr G  as there were no 
other transactions taking place for Bank of Scotland to compare them to. It is also true that 
while there are a lot of scams involving crypto, not every transaction involving crypto is a 
scam.
So, I cant say that Bank of Scotland shouldve been obliged to have gotten in touch with 
Mr G about the payments  and Im satisfied that it didnt miss an opportunity to prevent the 
payments from being made.
I do have sympathy for the situation that Mr G has found himself in  he has been cruelly 
scammed out of money. However, the loss that he has suffered is ultimately caused by the 
scammers themselves  not Bank of Scotland. And I cant ask Bank of Scotland to refund 
this loss to Mr G when I dont think that it has done anything wrong.
I understand that Bank of Scotland has offered Mr G £100 in respect of its handling of his 
complaint, I know that this will not be a satisfactory resolution for him, but as Ive set out 
above, I wont be asking Bank of Scotland to do anymore. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2023.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman