DRN-2627556
The complaint
Ms Cs complaint is about a lifetime mortgage she has with Manchester Building Society 
(MBS) for her home in Spain. She complains it was mis-sold.
What happened
In 2008, Ms C took out a lifetime mortgage with MBS for her home in Spain. 
In 2020, she complained to MBS the mortgage had been mis-sold. Ms C said shed recently 
discovered it didnt comply with Spanish law which required applicants for this type of 
mortgage to be aged 65 years or over, and she was 63 years old at the time. She also 
complained about the financial and legal advice she received as well as the valuation carried 
out at the time.
MBS disagreed and said the age criteria was in relation to whether stamp duty was payable. 
It said Ms C met the criteria and the mortgage was valid and enforceable under Spanish law. 
MBS also said Ms C received independent financial and legal advice, so it wasnt 
responsible. It also said an independent company undertook the valuation of the property. 
Our investigator looked into Ms Cs concerns and was satisfied MBS didnt provide any form 
of advice with regards to the suitability of the mortgage. She explained it wasnt for our 
service to decide whether the mortgage complied with Spanish law  only the Spanish courts 
could. But as MBSs lending decision was made in the UK, we could consider whether it had 
acted fairly and reasonably in deciding whether to lend. 
The investigator thought MBS processed Ms Cs application correctly based on its lending 
criteria at the time, and the minimum age to apply was 60 years. She also thought it was 
reasonable for MBS to rely on the valuation carried out at the time. 
Ms C disagreed with the investigators findings, so the matter has been referred to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Ms C feels very strongly about her complaint. Although Ive only summarised 
the background and arguments above, so not everything that happened is detailed, Id like to 
reassure her and MBS Ive read and considered everything in its entirety. 
My role isnt to comment on every point made; rather I will concentrate on the crux of the 
issue. This isnt meant as a discourtesy but reflects the quick and informal service we 
provide. 
The issue at the heart of this dispute is whether Ms Cs mortgage complies with the law that 
governs it. Ms C says it doesnt whereas MBS says it does. Its not my role to comment on 
whether a mortgage contract is legally valid or enforceable as a matter of law  thats for the 
courts. And this would be just as true if the property was in the UK and the mortgage was 
governed by English or Scottish law. 
Ms C has complained about the sale of the mortgage and the circumstances in which it was 
taken out. The application form completed at the time shows an independent financial 
adviser based in Spain recommended the mortgage to her. This is confirmed in the 
mortgage offer letter which also states MBS didnt provide any advice. So, Im satisfied MBS 
isnt responsible for any form of advice Ms C received at the time.
I know Ms C has raised concerns about the independent financial adviser. But I cant look at 
their actions as they werent regulated by the UK financial services regulator at the time the 
advice was given. Its not relevant they were regulated in the UK before. In any case, the 
advice being complained of was provided in Spain, so its outside our territorial remit. 
Much for the same reasons, I cant consider Ms Cs concerns about acts or omissions of 
other Spanish parties involved such as the legal advisers, the notary and the surveyor who 
valued her property. Their actions are independent of MBS and took place in Spain. 
I understand Ms C is unhappy about this and feels MBS should bear responsibility for the 
intermediaries actions. But they were carrying out their roles in their own right and were 
independent of MBS. The financial and the legal advisers were authorised to give advice by 
the Spanish authorities. 
Our powers to consider complaints are set out in the Dispute Resolution (DISP) section of 
the regulators handbook of rules and guidance. They can be found in DISP 2. These rules 
set out who can bring a complaint, what businesses we can consider complaints about, what 
time and territorial limits apply and what activities we can cover. Im required to apply these 
rules. If I didnt, I would be acting outside of my powers and any decision I reached wouldnt 
be legally enforceable.
I am able to consider whether MBSs decision to lend to Ms C was fair and reasonable. 
MBS has said it sought legal opinion and satisfied itself it could lawfully enter into the 
mortgage contract. From what Ive seen, Im satisfied MBS took the information Ms C 
provided into account when assessing her application against its lending criteria. It also 
obtained confirmation she had received independent financial advice as well as independent 
legal advice before it approved the mortgage. 
I can also see the valuation MBS relied on was carried out by an independent surveyor that 
was registered with the Spanish regulator. Given the surveyor was appropriately qualified to 
make such a determination, I dont think MBS had any reason to doubt their assessment. 
So, I consider MBS acted reasonably in relying on the valuation when making its decision 
about Ms Cs mortgage application. 
Having considered the available information, I dont think MBSs decision to lend to Ms C 
was unreasonable or unfair. Accordingly, I dont uphold this complaint.
I know Ms C disputes MBSs stance it lawfully entered into the mortgage contract. But as Ive 
explained, its not for me to decide whether the mortgage contract is legally valid. This is 
something Ms C will need to pursue through the Spanish courts. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2021.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman