DRN-4344930
The complaint
A charity, which I will refer to as S, complains that The Co-Operative Bank Plc is refusing to 
reimburse some unauthorised transactions on their bank account. S also say that these 
transactions were unusual to their normal account activity and as such the bank ought to 
have intervened when the payments took place, and had it done so their loss could have 
been prevented.
What happened
The background to the complaint is known to both parties and so I wont repeat it at length 
here.
Briefly, in June 2020, the person who was authorised to make payments on behalf of the 
charity (who I will refer to as J) fell victim to a fraud, and over two days nearly £60,000 was 
transferred out of the charitys account. 
Alongside this, payments were also made out of another charitys account (which is part of 
the same group), and that is being considered by us under a separate complaint. 
S claimed reimbursement of the payments, but the bank did not agree. One of our 
investigators considered the complaint and concluded that it could not be upheld. They said, 
in summary, that the relevant payments were unauthorised. However, taking into account 
the actions of J, the bank could reasonably rely on the exception of gross negligence to not 
reimburse the unauthorised transactions. The Investigator also did not think that the 
payments were unusual or out of character to the normal account activity. S did not agree. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision upholding the complaint, which forms part of this decision and 
should be read together with this final decision.  In summary, I said:
It is not disputed that the payments were unauthorised or that J didnt fail with intent. So, 
the question for me to decide is essentially whether J acted grossly negligently. 
Taking into account what had happened, I dont think that Js actions on the first day 
demonstrated such a significant degree of carelessness to conclude that she acted 
grossly negligently. In summary, the fraudster first panicked J into believing that 
something had gone wrong. They then established trust with her and assured her that 
they would help. She was also comforted by the fact that she was not asked to reveal the 
code, just to type it on the screen but not log-in. So, she thought the account wasnt at 
risk. In addition, during the time the payments were made, she wasnt presented with 
anything that would have alerted her to the fraud.
However, things were somewhat different when it came to the payments made on the 
second day. By that time J had some time to reflect on what all had happened the 
previous day, without the presence or pressure of the fraudster. Further, the fraudster 
repeated the same story on the second day too, which J could have realised as 
somewhat unusual. In the circumstances, I consider that the bank could reasonably rely 
on the exception of gross negligence when it came to J continuing to follow the 
instructions of the fraudster on the second day.
That said, having reviewed the account activity over the previous twelve months, the 
account activity during those two days were highly unusual. 
I see from the relevant terms and conditions of the account, that the bank may refuse to 
make a payment if it suspects a fraudulent activity or financial crime on the account and 
such a refusal may include blocking access to the account. In this instance, it is my view 
that, given the unusual nature of the transactions, it would be fair to conclude that the 
bank ought to have suspected fraudulent activity and taken steps to contact their 
customer, failing which block the access to the account until the matter was resolved. 
It is difficult to be precise as to when the bank ought to have intervened. However, 
looking through the account activities at that time, I consider it reasonable to conclude 
that the bank ought to have intervened at least by the fourth payment. Had it done so, 
further losses to S could more likely have been prevented. 
For the various reasons explained, Ss complaint should be upheld. In full and final 
settlement of the complaint, the bank should reimburse all the first days payments less 
any recoveries it subsequently made. It should also pay interest on the amount 
reimbursed.   As I have concluded that the bank should refund all the payments that day, 
I do not have to separately consider the impact of the bank failing to intervene.
The bank isnt obliged to refund the second days payments under the provisions of the 
PSRs, as in my view J acted grossly negligently by continuing to follow the instructions of 
the fraudster on the second day. However, the bank too missed an opportunity to help 
prevent these losses to S, and so it is fair that it compensates at least in part the loss 
incurred by S. In the circumstances, I consider it fair that the bank reimburses 50% of the 
loss incurred by S in relation to the payments made on the second day. It should also 
pay interest on the amount reimbursed.  
What happened after my provisional decision?
Both parties accepted my provisional decision and had nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision. I remain of the view 
that the settlement set out in my provisional decision represents a fair and reasonable 
outcome to this complaint.
Putting things right
In full and final settlement of the complaint the bank should do as below:Payments made on the first day
The bank should reimburse all the payments made on the first day less any subsequent 
recoveries it returned to S in relation to these payments. It should also pay 8% p.a. simple 
interest on the amount reimbursed. Interest should be paid from the date of the transactions 
to the date of settlement. 
Payments made on the second day
The bank should reimburse 50% of the loss incurred by S in relation to the payments made 
on the second day (Loss = Payments made on the second day less any subsequent 
recoveries it returned to S in relation to these payments). It should also pay 8% p.a. simple 
interest on the amount reimbursed. Interest should be paid from the date of the transactions 
to the date of settlement. 
My final decision
My final decision is that the complaint should be upheld, and in full and final settlement of the 
complaint The Co-Operative Bank Plc should pay S as explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Raj Varadarajan
Ombudsman