DRN-3614148
The complaint
Mr W complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund money he lost to an investment 
scammer. 
What happened
Mr W was looking to invest some savings. He met with a relationship manager at HSBC 
twice, once in October 2017 and then again in November 2017. He initially advised HSBC 
that he would be purchasing a property and looking to invest some of his remaining funds. 
During the second meeting, Mr W asked questions about Bitcoin investments and the HSBC 
relationship manager explained it wasnt something that HSBC offered. They agreed to meet 
again in the New Year. The relationship manager called Mr W on 17 January 2018, he 
requested that she call back in two weeks. The relationship manager called Mr W again on 
31 January 2018 and a meeting was scheduled to take place a few weeks later. 
Mr W carried out some research and came across Greenfields Capital (GC). They offered 
him an investment opportunity and advised that his capital would be insured but they 
couldnt guarantee any profits would be paid to him. GC said that they dealt with investments 
in Hong Kong and they had offices in Dubai and provided Mr W with evidence of their 
credentials and dealings with large well-established companies. 
Mr W had discussions with GC for months, hed built up a rapport with one of their agents 
and he answered all of his questions and pre-empted some. Mr W decided to invest with GC 
after hed built up trust with them. Mr W was provided with an online GC trading account and 
could track his payments and log into his account independently. 
Between January 2018 and March 2018 Mr W deposited just under £1.4m with GC using his 
HSBC current account. He paid three different beneficiaries which included GC directly using 
his Visa debit card, EVG Trading Limited using electronic bank transfer payments and 
Source Well Payments  using electronic bank transfer payments. He understood all the 
payments were being made towards his GC investment. During the same time period, Mr W 
received a total of just under £60,000 back from them. 
Following Mr Ws final payment in March 2018, GC gave Mr W a schedule of profits he was 
due to receive between May 2018 and June 2018. He was also told hed receive the money 
he paid back by June 2018 and there would be a possibility of receiving around £3.2m for a 
matured property contract investment.   
Mr W grew concerned when he didnt receive the profits hed been promised. He called GC 
and was told his agent had been in an accident. He was told nobody else could process his 
payments. 
Mr W started to carry out some independent research and saw reviews online indicating GC 
were scammers.
In August 2018, Mr W contacted HSBC and asked it to recover his payments. He 
complained that HSBC ought to have known GC were a scam company and should have 
done more to protect him. 
HSBC contacted Mr W in September 2018 to obtain further detail from him about the scam 
and proceeded to contact the beneficiary banks in China and Hong Kong. HSBC said it 
couldnt process chargeback claims for Mr W because he had a relationship with GC. It 
further highlighted that it flagged some transactions and he confirmed that they were 
genuine and hed be making more payments. HSBC concluded the transactions were 
authenticated by Mr W and it wouldnt be accepting liability. 
Mr W referred his complaint to this office. 
One of our Investigators reviewed the complaint and felt HSBC should have asked more 
questions when its fraud team flagged some of his online transfer payments and spoke with 
Mr W. She also felt it ought to have intervened in the earlier card payments. But she didnt 
think a meaningful warning would have made a difference to his decision to pay because Mr 
W was so bought into the scam. 
Mr W didnt agree. He provided a comprehensive response and in summary said HSBC 
could have done a better job at intervening. It was a significant sum of money to pay in a 
short space of time and guidance from the regulator, relevant codes and good practice 
asserts a bank like HSBC should intervene and protect customers from fraud and scams and 
reimburse them when this has failed. He asked for the complaint to be passed to an 
Ombudsman for review. 
The complaint has therefore been passed to me for determination.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint and Ill explain why. 
Not every complaint referred to us as an investment scam is in fact a scam. Some cases 
simply involve high-risk investments that resulted in very disappointing returns or losses. 
Some investment companies may have promoted products  which were not regulated by 
the FCAusing sales methods that were arguably unethical and/or misleading. However, 
whilst customers who lost out may understandably regard such acts or omissions as 
fraudulent, they do not necessarily meet the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud, 
i.e. dishonestly making a false representation and/or failing to disclose information with the 
intention of making a gain for himself or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the 
risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006).
Banks and other Payment Services Providers (PSPs) have duties to protect customers 
against the risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on large 
transactions to guard against money laundering (see below). But when simply executing 
authorised payments, they do not have to protect customers against the risk of bad bargains 
or give investment advice  and the FCA has confirmed that a fraud warning would not 
constitute unauthorised investment advice. So, the first question to resolve is whether GC 
was actually a scam.
Im satisfied they were scammers, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) published a 
warning about them on 18 April 2018. For the avoidance of doubt, I dont think HSBC could reasonably have known GC was a scam investment company prior to its regulator publishing 
a warning about them  there were no other credible warnings about them at the time of Mr 
Ws payments. 
Having concluded that this was a scam rather than just a bad bargain I must now go on to 
consider four more issues in order to determine the outcome of the complaint:
1. Was chargeback an option to recover Mr Ws losses?
2. Were the payments Mr W made out of character and unusual and should HSBC have 
intervened before processing any of them?
3. If so, would HSBCs intervention have made a difference and prevented or reduced 
the loss?
4. And if so, should Mr W bear some responsibility for the loss such that it would be fair 
and reasonable to reduce compensation proportionately.
Chargeback
Chargeback is relevant here because a number of Mr Ws payments to GC were made using 
his Visa debit card.
Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by Visa whereby it will ultimately arbitrate on a 
dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved between them after two 
presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme  so there are limited 
grounds on which a chargeback can succeed. Our role in such cases is not to second-guess 
Visas arbitration decision or scheme rules, but to determine whether the regulated card 
issuer (i.e. HSBC) acted fairly and reasonably when presenting (or choosing not to present) 
a chargeback on behalf of its cardholder (Mr W).
I think HSBCs decision for declining Mr Ws chargeback claim was incorrect. Although Mr W 
had a relationship with GC, it ought to have considered chargeback claims in accordance 
with the relevant dispute reason code. Im satisfied reason code 13.5 was the most 
appropriate reason code in this instance because it covered scenarios relating to investment 
trading merchants refusing to allow cardholders to withdraw their available funds from their 
trading platforms. However, for HSBC to present a chargeback request using this reason 
code Mr W would have been required to produce dated evidence that he had available funds 
in his trading account on the same day he requested to withdraw them. Ive not seen that Mr 
W had this evidence so it follows that I dont think he had any appropriate chargeback 
options and therefore, although HSBC used the wrong reasoning, I dont think it would have 
made a difference if it had tried to present a chargeback request correctly. 
Were the payments unusual or uncharacteristic?
Whilst Mr W has made reference to the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM), this didnt 
take effect until 28 May 2019, i.e. after Mr W made all of his payments. It wasnt 
retrospective and therefore its not applicable to Mr Ws complaint.
It is common ground that Mr W authorised the scam payments in question here. I accept that 
these were authorised payments even though Mr W was the victim of a scam. So, although 
he did not know he was being scammed, under the Payment Services Regulations and the 
terms and conditions of the account, Mr W is presumed liable for the loss in the first 
instance. However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant 
codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I 
consider HSBC should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts  and any payments made or received  to counter various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Its clear there were fraud triggers here because HSBCs fraud department called Mr W on 8 
February 2018 after he initiated electronic bank transfer payments to EVG Trading Limited. 
During the call, the fraud department asked Mr W whether hed authorised the payment. He 
confirmed he had and that further payments would be made to the beneficiary.  
HSBCs relationship manager recalled sometime after the meeting scheduled for February 
2018 (which Mr W failed to attend), whilst reviewing his account, she noticed a number of 
high value payments from it. The relationship manager called Mr W (likely after the majority 
of the payments to GC had been made) and queried the amounts and frequency, cautioning 
it was highly unusual that Mr W hadnt met the person managing his investments. Mr W told 
the relationship manager that hed done his research and was entirely comfortable with his 
investments which he was managing through an online platform.
HSBCs fraud department made a further call to Mr W on 7 March 2018 when he made his 
first electronic transfer payment to Source Well Payments. Mr W confirmed the payment was 
authorised by him and that further payments to the beneficiary would follow.
 
I think HSBC ought to have intervened in some of Mr Ws earlier payments. On 25 January 
2018, he made seven payments to GC totalling just under £60,000. These were significantly 
larger payments out of his account than usual and HSBC ought to have been concerned that 
Mr Ws account was being subjected to unusual and uncharacteristic activity. I am satisfied 
HSBC ought fairly and reasonably to have intervened by calling Mr W to ask some questions 
about the nature and purpose of the payments before agreeing to process them. 
Whilst HSBCs fraud department did have conversations with Mr W when the recipient and 
patterns of his payments changed (as I think it should have),  I dont think it went far enough 
with the questions it asked and simply sought to confirm whether hed authorised the 
payments. They were missed opportunities to appropriately intervene.
Would HSBCs intervention have made a difference and prevented Mr Ws loss?
If HSBC had fulfilled its duties by asking suitably probing questions at the times it did and 
when I consider it ought to have flagged his payments as unusual, there is no reason to 
doubt that Mr W would have explained what he was doing and that the purpose of the 
payments were to invest. Not least because in later calls where HSBC did intervene, Mr W 
explained he was making investment payments and would be making more.
In such circumstances, whilst HSBC had no duty to protect him from a bad bargain or give 
investment advice, it should have asked Mr W some further questions to ascertain whether 
he was likely to be at risk of financial harm from fraud. Ive thought carefully about the sorts 
of questions HSBC shouldve asked, bearing in mind the features of investment scams at 
that time. At the time Mr W fell victim to the scam, investment scams carried common features. For 
example, the promise of unrealistic returns, receiving the opportunity to invest via an 
unsolicited offer and cold call or fake celebrity endorsement, with fraudsters often applying 
pressure to their victims to invest quickly and investors being unable to withdraw their 
available funds. These were also common features of binary options/forex trading scams  
which were common types of investment scams at the time. 
Against this backdrop Id have expected HSBC to ask Mr W some questions to see if there 
were any signs that this was an investment scam (as described above). Had it done so, Im 
persuaded Mr W wouldve explained he had been actively looking to invest sums that had 
credited his account since 2017. He wouldve explained hed shopped around which 
included meeting with HSBCs relationship manager on two occasions.  
I think Mr W wouldve also disclosed that hed had time to think about the investment 
opportunity and had not been placed under any pressure to make a quick decision as he 
was in contact with GC for months before deciding to invest with them. Mr W wouldve 
explained he was investing in property and making overseas payments as his investments 
were overseas. 
Upon receiving this information from Mr W, Im not persuaded HSBC wouldve been 
concerned that Mr W was falling victim to an investment scam as there were no obvious 
indicators of what I consider to be well published investment scam types at the time. I accept 
the potential rate of return was higher than the rates a high street bank wouldve offered, but 
Ive also noted the high returns were not promised and rather Mr W was told they could be 
received and his capital was insured. I accept some of the possible rates of return potentially 
indicated a high risk investment, which might not have been suitable for Mr W, but as Ive 
explained, it would not have been HSBCs role to provide him with financial advice. And Ive 
also noted that Mr W paid around £13,000 to a binary options dealer prior to making 
payments to GC, so he had some history of making large payments to high risk investments. 
Nevertheless, I think HSBC shouldve gone on to ask Mr W what checks hed done to 
establish the legitimacy of the investment. 
Ive thought very carefully about what Mr W wouldve likely said in response. We do have 
testimony from HSBCs relationship manager who explained that shed queried this 
investment with Mr W and he said hed done his research and was entirely comfortable with 
the investment. I think Mr W built such a level of trust with the GC agent that he considered 
them his friend (as advised by Mr W) and had seen documentation and literature about his 
investment. Mr W also told this service that he had full independent access to his trading 
account and could see all the deposits hed made were reflected in his account.  
So had HSBC asked Mr W what checks hed done to verify the legitimacy of GC, taking into 
account Mr Ws submissions and the evidence thats available, I think its more likely than 
not hed have disclosed that hed carried out independent checks and was satisfied with his 
decision to invest with GC. 
I think the more funds Mr W invested, the more bought in he was to the scam, so I dont 
think HSBC could have dissuaded him from investing during the later calls it had with him  
even if it would have asked more probing questions as I think it ought reasonably to have 
done. 
I also have to take into account that following Mr Ws losses, he was cold called by a claims 
management company (CMC) who offered to get his money back. One of our Investigators 
let Mr W know that the FCA had published a warning about the CMC and explained that this could be another scam. Mr W was still happy to continue to liaise with the CMC, despite this 
warning. 
And so I think, even if Mr W did have concerns about investment scams following more 
appropriate conversations with HSBC, which for the avoidance of doubt I dont think he 
would have, I think its more likely than not he would have directed his concerns to the agent 
he considered a friend at GC rather than an independent third party and thats because he 
trusted him. After all, he had discussed investments with an independent third party (the 
HSBC relationship manager) but decided not to discuss his GC investment with her when 
she contacted him, despite meeting her on two occasions to discuss investment 
opportunities. 
Its also notable there were no credible warnings at that time about GC or property 
investment scams. 
So overall, for the reasons Ive explained, Im not persuaded intervention from HSBC 
wouldve made a difference and prevented Mr Ws loss in the particular circumstances of this 
case. 
Given Ive found that its more likely than not a meaningful intervention from HSBC wouldnt 
have made a difference and exposed the scam, it is unnecessary for me to go on to consider 
whether Mr W should share any responsibility for the loss he incurred. 
But I want to be clear that I understand Mr W fell victim to a very sophisticated scam. He is 
not to blame for this; the cruel scammers are to blame. I appreciate how disappointing this 
will be for Mr W and he will understandably feel aggrieved about his loss. But for the reasons 
set out above, I dont consider it fair to hold HSBC liable for this.
HSBC did what Id expect it to do by attempting to recover the electronic transfer payments 
following Mr Ws report. It was unfortunately unable to.
 
My final decision
My final decision is, despite my natural sympathies for Mr Ws loss, I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman