DRN-2818901
The complaint
The estate of Mrs G has complained about the advice given by Aviva Equity Release UK 
Limited to take out a lifetime mortgage.
I understand the lifetime mortgage was originally taken out in joint names with Mr K, but he 
passed away in January 2019 at which time the mortgage reverted to Mrs Gs sole name, 
until she passed away in March 2020. Mr G and Miss G  the children of Mrs G  are acting 
on behalf of their mothers estate.
What happened
In 2005 Mrs G and Mr K took out a lifetime mortgage for £53,300. It was recorded that they 
wanted to carry out home improvements, fund their holidays for the next five years and enjoy 
their retirement together.
The mortgage was on a fixed rate of 6.69%, and the terms of the mortgage provided that no 
monthly repayments are required. The intention is that the mortgage is due to be repaid if 
the last surviving borrower goes into full-time residential nursing care or after their death. It 
can be repaid voluntarily before either of those events have happened, but then an early 
repayment charge is usually payable. 
Interest on the loan is rolled up into the outstanding balance and is compounded until the 
debt is repaid. All of this means that if the loan runs for a number of years, there can be a 
significant balance to be repaid.
In 2019 Mr G and Miss G complained about the sale of the mortgage.
Our investigator didnt think Aviva had done anything wrong and didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mrs G and Miss G didnt agree so its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I trust Mr G and Miss G wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed the complaint in 
the way that I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on 
what I consider to be the crux of the complaint. Although Ive read and considered the whole 
file Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point 
its not because Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in 
order to reach the right outcome. 
I will begin by explaining that the Financial Ombudsman Service is independent and 
impartial. We are not consumer champions, nor do we carry out a consumer protection role, 
and we dont act either for consumers or the financial businesses about which they are 
complaining. We are also not the regulator; thats the Financial Conduct Authority. My role is 
to weigh up the evidence and decide what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances for 
individual complaints.
Under our rules, we can consider a complaint from a consumer. Mrs G and Mr K were 
consumers, and so each met the definition of an eligible complainant set out in our rules. 
Following Mr Ks death, Mrs G became the sole eligible complainant, and upon her death the 
right to complain passed to her estate. Our rules say that a complaint may be brought on 
behalf of an eligible complainant by a person authorised by the eligible complainant or 
authorised by law. In this respect, Mr G and Miss G are bringing the complaint in their 
capacity of being the executors of Mrs Gs estate, rather than as the beneficiaries. 
In this decision Ive looked at the sale of the mortgage (in terms of what was regarded as 
good industry practice at the relevant time) and considered generally whether Aviva did 
anything wrong when the mortgage was taken out. In doing that, I can give no regard to the 
regulatory standards in place now, or to any hindsight that the intervening years might have 
brought.
The starting point here is the point-of-sale documentation from 2005. The value of such 
documents is that theyre contemporaneous; so they should reflect what was said and 
agreed at the relevant time. Theyre not fool-proof, of course; its always possible information 
might be recorded incorrectly. But its typically more reliable than peoples individual 
recollections at a distance of time which, although given in good faith, can sometimes be 
inaccurate or contradictory. They are even more important in cases like this where the 
mortgage holders have died, and the complaint is being made by people that werent present 
when the advice was given. Unless theres a compelling reason to believe the information is 
inaccurate, well generally attach some weight to it.
Mr G and Miss G have said Mrs G and Mr K both left school at 15 years old with no 
qualifications. They say Mrs G was a cleaner (although her death certificate shows she was 
a retired auxiliary nurse) and Mr K was a painter and decorator. They say they would have 
had no idea about how the interest rate would compound and the adviser took advantage of 
their lack of financial knowledge. 
It was recorded that Mrs G and Mr K wanted to carry out some home improvements, fund 
future holidays and enjoy their time together. Those all seem like perfectly valid reasons for 
someone to borrow money secured against an asset worth significantly more than those 
borrowings. Theres nothing to indicate that Mrs G and Mr K lacked the capacity to make 
those decisions themselves at the time so it would be completely wrong of me to now say, 
some sixteen years later, that they shouldnt have been allowed to.
Mr G says Mrs G and Mr K would have wanted to have left a significant property fund to him 
and Miss G. He says this mortgage was to his and Miss Gs detriment, and Mrs G and Mr K 
had worked all their lives to provide financial benefit to him and Miss G.
But thats not what was recorded at the time, and Ive no reason to believe the information 
that was recorded by the adviser wasnt a true record of what Mrs G and Mr K had said and 
what they wanted. Otherwise I would have expected Mrs G and Mr K to have queried that 
mis-information at the time, rather than proceeding with the mortgage. The information that 
was recorded at the time was clear, it said:
You have 2 adult sons and 2 adult daughters who are not financial dependants. You 
said you do not intend to discuss taking a lifetime mortgage with your sons and 
daughters (or with anyone else) because it has nothing to do with them. They will inherit 
whatever is left. Also you said that you have worked hard to purchase your home and 
this is a decision that is to be taken by the 2 of you only.We discussed your attitude to risk and you informed me that you are clear in your 
understanding that a lifetime mortgage can reduce, in part or in full, the value of the 
equity within your home. You are not concerned with protecting the equity in your home 
for your family as they are very much financially independent and would not be relying 
on, or anticipating, any amount of money from your estate.
Mr G said Mrs G and Mr K would never have entered into the mortgage if theyd fully 
understood how much would be paid back. Miss G says that they would have had no idea 
about how much the interest rate would compound. But these arent things they would have 
needed to know already, as they were set out in the paperwork in a manner that met the 
regulators requirements at the time, and in a manner that would have been readily 
understandable.
The illustration and mortgage offer contained broadly the same information, so Ive taken the 
following from the mortgage offer (which is the legal contract Mrs G and Mr K entered into):
A lifetime mortgage is a special type of loan which is usually designed to run for the rest 
of your life, and which means that you borrow money that is secured on your home to 
give you a lump sum and/or a regular income. The amount you owe to the lender is 
usually paid back from the proceeds of the sale of your home after your death. If you are 
borrowing with someone else, this would be after the death of the last borrower. Any 
money left over would be paid to your beneficiaries.
If you decide that you simply don't want the lifetime mortgage any more, you can repay 
the amount you owe to the lender at any time, but the lender may make an early 
repayment charge if you do. Section 13 of this illustration will tell you if any early 
repayment charges apply to this mortgage.
The interest rate on this lifetime mortgage is currently 6.69%. This rate is reviewed 
weekly in line with market conditions. The rate for your lifetime mortgage will be the rate 
which is current on the day the loan is advanced. At that point it is fixed for the life of the 
lifetime mortgage. Interest is calculated as 6.69% of both the loan amount and any 
interest which has already been added.
This lifetime mortgage will provide you with a cash lump sum. You will not make any 
monthly repayments during the life of this lifetime mortgage. The total amount you owe 
including the interest and charges must be repaid when you have left your home 
because you have died or need long-term care.
We have based this offer on an estimated term of 19 years, but remember that the term 
of this lifetime mortgage is not fixed and could be longer or shorter than 19 years. If you 
are still living in your home at the end of 19 years, the lifetime mortgage will continue to 
run.
The FSA [the regulatory body at the time] require that we provide you with an offer 
based on a certain term. The actual term of your lifetime mortgage may be longer or 
shorter than this. If the actual term is longer than shown in the offer, the amount you owe 
will be greater.
In the future, depending on how house prices change and the length of time your 
lifetime mortgage is outstanding, the amount you owe could exceed the value of your 
home. This is what is meant by the expression negative equity.For as long as you are living in your property, negative equity has no effect on your 
lifetime mortgage. The no negative equity guarantee ensures that when your lifetime 
mortgage is repaid you will never have to pay back more than the value of your home, 
even if the amount owed is higher.
Check that this mortgage will meet your needs if you want your family or others 
to inherit your home. If you are in doubt, seek independent legal and financial 
advice.
There was a section entitled What you will owe and when which says:
This shows how the amount paid to you and the interest and any fees that we charge 
mount up over 19 years. It has been calculated using the current interest rate of 6.69%. 
Interest is added to the amount you owe annually. Remember that the mortgage could 
run for a longer or shorter time than 19 years, and if it runs for longer, the amount you 
owe will carry on increasing.
Immediately beneath that is a table setting out how much would be owed at the end of each 
year. I wont list all the figures here, but that showed that:
At the end of year 5 Mrs G and Mr K would owe £73,679
At the end of year 10 Mrs G and Mr K would owe £101,850
At the end of year 15 Mrs G and Mr K would owe £140,793
At the end of year 19 Mrs G and Mr K would owe £182,422
The rate charged was 6.69%, fixed for the duration of the mortgage. The use of fixed rather 
than variable rates have always been normal on equity release mortgages, as they enable a 
lender to forecast the likely growth in the debt over time as the interest rolls up.
Whilst 6.69% sounds very high in the current climate, this rate was set in 2005 when the 
financial landscape was very different from what it is now. For much of the first decade of the 
21st century, the general expectation was that rates generally were already low and more 
likely to rise than fall over the short to medium term. All that changed in late 2007/early 2008, 
when the financial crisis struck, and rates plummeted to record lows from which theyve still 
not moved significantly. That could not possibly have been forecast in 2005.
The section entitled What happens if you do not want this mortgage any more? explained 
that the lifetime mortgage was designed to be repaid when the mortgage holder leaves their 
home because theyd died or needed long-term care. It said if the mortgage was repaid for 
any other reason then there would be an early repayment charge up to a maximum of 
£13,325.
Mrs G and Mr K had some clear aims and this lifetime mortgage achieved those. Theres 
nothing to show Mrs G and Mr K were vulnerable at the time, or unable to understand the 
contract they were entering into. The advice given doesnt seem inappropriate, and in fact 
the documents from the time indicate the adviser recommended Mrs G and Mr K only borrow 
£38,000 as that met their recorded aims, but they wanted to borrow £60,000 instead (which 
was then reduced to £53,300 due to the value of their home) so overrode his 
recommendation.
In the circumstances, the options available to Mr and Mrs L were very limited. They were 
clear that they didnt want to sell their property, and so Im satisfied that equity release was a 
suitable option for them. Mr G and Miss G have said the money wasnt needed and Mrs G still had money in her 
savings account when she died. Whether or not the plans for the money being raised came 
to fruition after the mortgage was arranged doesnt affect the suitability or otherwise of the 
advice given at the time. Its possible that after the mortgage had gone through, Mrs G and 
Mr K subsequently changed their minds about what theyd do with the money, but Avivas 
duty was to give suitable advice, which Im satisfied it did. Aviva couldnt insist Mrs G and 
Mr K follow every aspect of the advice it had given them. Nor was it obliged to monitor its 
customers behaviour after the sale to ensure they did what theyd said they were going to 
do.
Having very carefully considered this matter I dont consider Aviva did anything wrong when 
it gave the advice to Mrs G and Mr K about this lifetime mortgage as Im not persuaded the 
product was unsuitable for them. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask the estate of Mrs G to accept or reject my decision before 29 June 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman