DRN-3109995
The complaint
Ms M complains about the actions of AIB Group (UK) Plc when she lost money to a scam. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
In December 2020 Ms M received a call from a scammer who said she owed £3,986 for an 
outstanding tax bill. After Ms M was threatened with bailiffs and her assets being frozen by 
the scammer, she went into a local branch to make a payment. The scammer remained on 
the phone whilst Ms M went into the branch and told her what to say to branch staff in order 
for the payment to go through. A payment of £3,986 was then sent to a bank Ill refer to as 
A. Later that day Ms M was told to return to the branch by the scammer and make a further 
payment of £3,986. She told the branch she had not set up the previous payment to the 
correct beneficiary, so she wanted to send another payment. But the branch raised concerns 
because it sounded like a scam and the payment wasnt sent. So, Ms M made a £999 
payment through her online mobile banking the same day to a business Ill refer to as B. 
The scammer then asked Ms M to make two further payments of £999 to B over the next two 
days. 
Ms M reported the scam to AIB on 23 December 2020. AIB was able to recover the first 
payment to A but couldnt recover the three other payments to B. AIB said they were told by 
B that some funds were left in Bs account and it would raise an indemnity for that to be 
returned to Ms Ms account. But AIB said it didnt hear anything further from B. So, Ms M 
raised a complaint to AIB. AIB considered the complaint but decided not to uphold it. 
Ms M remained unhappy, so she brought her complaint to this service. She said the 
scammer stayed on the other line with her whilst she was talking to AIB in the branch and 
told her what to say. So, she shouldnt be held liable for the loss of her money. She was 
unhappy that its generally accepted she was scammed but she cant get her money 
refunded. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think AIB couldve 
done more to prevent the scam or to recover the money that was sent to A and B. He said 
he didnt think AIB could reasonably put a block on Ms Ms account even if it did suspect the 
payment she wanted to make to B in branch was probably a scam. He added that AIB had 
tried to raise an indemnity with B for the amount that was left in the account, but B hadnt 
returned this. 
Ms M disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans review. She said she had been the victim 
of a scam and didnt have a choice but to send the money to the scammers. And it wasnt 
fair that AIB hadnt returned some of her money that was sent to Bs account.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. Im sorry to hear that Ms M has been the victim of a cruel scam. I know she 
feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a disappointment to her, so Ill 
explain why. 
It is common ground that Ms M authorised the scam payments totalling £6,983. And I accept 
that these were authorised payments even though Ms M was the victim of a scam. She 
provided valid instructions in branch and through her online banking. So, although it wasnt 
her intention to pay money to the scammers, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 
(PSRs) and the terms of her account, Ms M is presumed liable for the loss in the first 
instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of
practice and good industry practice, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate
for AIB to take additional steps or make additional checks before processing a payment in 
order to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
AIBs first obligation is to follow the instructions that Ms M provides. But if those
instructions are sufficiently unusual or uncharacteristic for the account, Id expect AIB to 
intervene and to ask their customer more about the intended transaction before processing 
it. Id also expect AIB to provide suitable warnings about common scams to help their 
customers make an informed decision as to whether to continue with the payment. There 
might also be cases where its appropriate for AIB to refuse to follow the instruction if there 
are good grounds to believe it is being made as a result of a fraud or scam. 
I note that the scammers threatened Ms M with bailiffs and having her assets frozen if she 
didnt do what they said. The scammers also provided her with a reasonable cover story (car 
purchase) to provide to the branch staff, whilst staying on the phone with her when the 
payment was made to A. Ms M then relayed the scammers cover story instead of explaining 
the real reason for the transfer. This meant that despite the questions from AIBs bank staff, 
the first payment was made to A. And as a result, I dont think AIB couldve done anything 
more to stop that payment being made. 
Thankfully, AIB was able to retrieve the £3,986 sent to A. So, I need to consider whether AIB 
couldve done more to stop the three subsequent £999 transfers Ms M made to B. 
The scammers told Ms M to return to the branch to make another payment, but the branch 
staff questioned this and Ms M left without making the payment. Ms M then used her online 
mobile banking to make three further payments to the scammers. The starting point here is 
whether these three further instructions by Ms M to AIB (either individually or collectively) 
were unusual in relation to her typical account activity. So, Ive reviewed the account 
statements for the six months prior to the scam payments being made. I think this gives a 
sufficient sample size to fairly assess the activity. From Ms Ms bank statements, I can see 
she had made transfers of between four and five figures before. As a result, Im not satisfied 
Ms Ms payments ought to have stood out to AIB as unusual or suspicious because she 
commonly made similar payments. 
Ive considered what AIB and Ms M have said about what happened in the branch that day 
when she attempted to make the second payment. And Ive thought about whether AIB 
telling Ms M the second payment she attempted to make was suspicious means it shouldve 
done more to block the next three transfers she made through her online banking. But I dont 
think it does. AIB told Ms M that it wasnt going to make the second payment to B because it suspected a scam. But even though thats what AIB suspected, I wouldnt expect it to 
completely block Ms M from sending any money from her accounts. 
AIB intervened in the payment instruction Ms M said she wanted to make and said it 
sounded suspicious and that they didnt think Ms M should make it until the original payment 
had been returned. Ms M has said that after the branch told her the payment sounded 
suspicious, she decided not to make the payment and left the branch because the scammer 
was on the phone listening to the conversation. As a result, in the circumstances of this 
complaint, I wouldnt expect AIB to stop Ms M from making any payments at all from her 
account. AIBs branch staff clearly had some concerns, and I acknowledge we cant be 
certain due to the passage of time exactly what was said in the branch. But despite that 
interaction and the concerns held by the bank, I dont think there was enough here where it 
would be reasonable to expect AIB to have blocked the account and to have stopped all 
further payments. 
Ive said above that I dont think the payments to B were unusual enough to warrant 
intervention from AIB. But for completeness, even if I were to conclude that there should 
have been some intervention, I dont think this wouldve made a difference. Ms M had 
already been told about a potential scam in branch. So, even if AIB had stopped the 
payments and spoken to Ms M, I think its more likely she wouldve instructed the payments 
to go through. Ms M has understandably said she was very concerned about the threats 
from the scammer and she was using the cover story that the scammers had provided which 
wouldve seemed plausible to AIB in the circumstances. 
I think its most likely that Ms M wouldve provided a plausible reason for wanting to instruct 
those payments (likely as a result of further coaching from the scammer who wouldve 
overheard the branch telling Ms M the second payment was suspicious). Its clear that Ms M 
was prepared to tell the bank staff what the scammer instructed her to say, rather than the 
true situation. And she was prepared to make the payments despite the warning in branch 
that it was suspicious. Overall, I dont think AIB reasonably could have prevented Ms M 
making the three further payments to B. 
Ive considered whether AIB acted reasonably after it was made aware of the scam. Ms M 
made AIB aware of the fraud in branch early on in the afternoon of 23 December 2020. But 
A and B werent contacted until the following morning. I agree with the investigator that AIB 
shouldve contacted A and B quicker here. 
So, Ive then considered whether this delay made a difference in getting Ms Ms money 
back. AIB was able to retrieve the first payment to A. But it hasnt been able to retrieve any 
money from B. I think its reasonable for AIB to rely on what B has told it in relation to the 
funds that remain in Bs accounts. And when AIB sent an indemnity they didnt receive a 
response and havent had the funds returned. Ive seen that AIB have chased this 
appropriately, and this service has asked AIB to get a further response from B who in turn 
have said no funds remain. So, I dont think there is more AIB can do here. In these 
circumstances, I also cant say the short delay in AIB reporting things to B has made a 
difference to what couldve been recovered. 
So, Im not going to ask AIB to take any further action.  
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2021.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman