DRN-1984498
The complaint
Mr C complains about how The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) dealt with his repayment 
plan after he fell into an unarranged overdraft. Hes unhappy a default was recorded on his 
credit file. 
What happened
Mr C held a select current account and two personal loans with RBS. His current account 
had an arranged overdraft facility of £350.
On 28 June 2019 Mr C contacted RBS to discuss why his overdraft had been withdrawn. It 
informed him that his loan payments had ceased as he had cancelled his direct debit. So, 
arrears began to build. And it said it had temporarily removed his arranged overdraft facility. 
Mr C told RBS that he hadnt cancelled his loan payment direct debit and was unaware that 
payments to his loan werent being made. He also said he wasnt aware he was in arrears. 
He agreed a repayment plan for his borrowing with RBS collections department. His 
overdraft facility was reinstated. But, on 12 August 2019, his account balance exceeded his 
arranged overdraft facility by around £100 and the following day the debit balance increased 
by almost another £60. RBS said Mr Cs balance remained at this level until 28 August 2019 
when his account was brought back to credit.
RBS said, in entering into an unarranged overdraft, Mr C had breached the terms of his 
repayment plan. So, recovery action was resumed. RBS said it informed him of this on 14 
August and also sent a default notice that day. 
Subsequently, Mr Cs accounts were defaulted. A formal demand letter notice was sent to 
him on 17 October 2019. His accounts were transferred to RBS recoveries department. And 
RBS reported how Mr C had been managing his accounts to credit reference agencies 
(CRAs). It also passed his accounts to a debt collection agency (DCA) to collect the 
outstanding debt. 
Mr C was unhappy about the action taken by RBS. He felt it shouldnt have demanded 
repayment of all his borrowings simply because hed exceeded his overdraft limit. He said 
hed kept up with his loan instalment payments and adhered to the terms of his repayment 
plan. So, he complained to RBS about what had happened.
RBS responded to Mr Cs complaint on 29 October 2019. In its final response it explained 
why Mr Cs accounts had been defaulted. It declined to reinstate his overdraft facility or 
restore his accounts functionality. And it said it didnt think it had made an error as it had 
followed its processes correctly. So, it didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Mr C referred his complaint to our service. He wanted RBS to reinstate his overdraft and 
remove the default it recorded from his credit file. He also wanted to continue with the 
repayment plan he had been following. 
Mr Cs complaint was reviewed by an investigator. But they didnt recommend upholding it. 
They thought RBS had dealt with Mr Cs complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. 
Mr C didnt accept our investigators view of his complaint. He said entering into an 
unarranged overdraft shouldnt have impacted on his loan repayment plan as his loan and 
overdraft were two separate agreements. And he said that resuming recovery action when 
hed kept his loan repayment instalments up to date was unfair. As Mr C has asked to 
appeal, Ive been passed his complaint to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank both Mr C and RBS for the level of detail contained within their submissions. 
Mr C has responded to the investigator setting out his concerns over RBS actions. Ive 
considered all the information provided by both parties when reaching my decision. If I 
havent specifically referred to a point that Mr C or RBS have made it isnt because I havent 
considered it. My decision will focus on what I think are the key issues, which is an approach 
that reflects the informal nature of this service.
Mr C has told our service that he kept up loan instalment payments after agreeing the 
repayment plan with RBS on 28 June 2019. Hes unhappy that it resumed recovery action 
when hed kept up his loan repayment instalments and thinks that entering into an 
unarranged overdraft shouldnt have impacted on his loan repayment plan as his loan and 
overdraft were two separate agreements.
I understand the point Mr C is making but the terms and conditions of his account state RBS 
may take immediate action to end an agreement it has with an account holder if theyve 
breached any term of the agreement in a serious way or if it reasonably believes an account 
holder cant afford their arranged overdraft.
I dont think RBS decision to look at Mr Cs accounts an in inclusive way was unreasonable. 
I say this because, based on how he was managing his current account, I can see why RBS 
had concerns he may have been experiencing financial hardship. 
Ive seen evidence that Mr C took his account into an unauthorised overdrawn position after 
he agreed the repayment plan with RBS. Ive seen systems notes relating to the repayment 
plan and what was discussed with Mr C. And, as I mentioned in the background to this 
complaint, he exceeded his agreed overdraft on 12 August 2019 and didnt bring his account 
within the authorised overdraft limit until 28 August 2019. Based on the evidence Ive seen 
Im satisfied that this constituted a breach of the repayment plan he agreed with RBS around 
two months earlier. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr C but I havent seen enough to persuade me that RBS acted 
unfairly, or in breach of the terms and conditions of his account, by taking the action it took 
here. 
Ive thought about whether RBS appropriately communicated with Mr C of what action it 
might take if he didnt adhere to his agreement.
Ive seen a template repayment plan letter RBS said it would have sent to Mr C. This letter 
details the specifics of a repayment arrangement and clearly states that failure to ensure that 
all payments are made will result in the arrangement being broken which may result in 
further action being taken. I know Mr C is unhappy that his accounts were transferred to a DCA. But I think the 
correspondence he was sent gave sufficient notice that RBS may choose to appoint a DCA if 
the agreement was breached. And, as this is permitted by the terms and conditions of his 
account, I cant say RBS acted unfairly in taking that action.
RBSs repayment plan letter also goes on to explain that RBS is obliged to report to CRAs 
and inform them a customer has entered into a repayment arrangement. And it states the 
consequences insofar as this may affect a customers ability to obtain credit. The default and 
formal demand notices Mr C was sent also explain that it was RBS intention to report how 
he was managing his accounts to CRAs. I therefore think it made him reasonably aware of 
how his credit file might be impacted by breaching the repayment plan.
I know that Mr C feels RBS unfairly recorded a default on his credit file. And I appreciate the 
default will remain on his credit file, and most likely impact him, for six years. But, while Ive 
taken what hes said about that into account, Im satisfied RBS reported information about 
how he was managing his account properly. So, its complied with its duty to make sure that 
the information it reports to credit reference agencies is accurate. And the terms and 
conditions of Mr Cs account say RBS is entitled to share information with CRAs.
I cant fairly find that RBS acted unfairly and unreasonably in reporting information about Mr 
Cs account to CRAs. So, I cant ask it to remove or change the information it recorded.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr C but I havent found that RBS made a mistake or treated him 
unfairly. So, Im not telling it to take any further action. I realise Mr C will be disappointed 
with this decision. But it brings to an end what we, in trying to resolve his dispute with RBS 
informally, can do for him. Im sorry we cant help Mr C any further with this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2020.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman