DRN-1457127
 
The complaint
Mr M complains that Nationwide Building Society increased the credit limit on his credit card 
when it should have known that he could not afford it.
 
What happened
Mr M had a credit card with Nationwide. Nationwide increased his credit limit in April 2012 
and again in October 2015. In late 2017 he told Nationwide that he was in financial difficulty 
due to his gambling addiction, and so Nationwide restricted his card. He entered a debt 
management plan with a debt charity, but shortly afterwards he fell behind in his payments 
and his account was defaulted in February 2018. In December 2018 he complained that 
Nationwide shouldnt have increased his limit, as it should have been clear that he couldnt 
afford it.
Nationwide did not agree. It said it had carried out affordability checks which it described as 
robust, and that Mr M had passed them. It pointed out that it had also reduced his credit limit 
three times in 2012 and 2013. Mr M was not satisfied with this answer, and so he brought 
this complaint to our Service.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He said Mr M had asked for both of the limit 
increases. He thought Nationwide had carried out adequate checks, which had included 
viewing his credit file. He said that Mr M hadnt told Nationwide about his financial difficulties 
until 2017, so it wasnt Nationwides fault that it hadnt taken them into account earlier. On 
learning about them, Nationwide had restricted his account, and frozen interest and charges. 
Mr M asked for an ombudsman to review his case. He pointed out hed had a large number 
of payday loans running up to the second limit increase.
 
What Ive decided  and why
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our jurisdiction is set out in rules made by the Financial Conduct Authority. These rules 
include time limits on bringing a complaint to our service. These say we can normally only 
consider a complaint if it was made within six years of the event complained of, or (if later) 
within three years from the date on which the complainant became aware or ought 
reasonably to have become aware that he had cause for complaint. We can still consider a 
late complaint if it was late as a result of exceptional circumstances.
Mr M complained to Nationwide about the limit increases more than six years after the first 
limit increase. I recognise that he first mentioned his financial difficulties less than six years 
after that, but I dont think that amounts to a complaint about the first increase, because after that the limit had been decreased three times, to less than it had been when the account 
was opened. The fact that he did not complain about it earlier does not appear to be the 
result of exceptional circumstances. So I think that the limit increase in 2012 is not a matter I 
have power to consider. I have therefore considered only the second increase, in October 
2015.
I have read the UK Card Associations best practice guidelines on credit card limit increases. 
They say that a solicited credit card limit increase should only be granted after considering a 
credit report from a credit reference history and at least one other check, which may be 
considering how the customer has managed his finances in the past. So I have considered 
Mr Fs management of his credit card account in the period leading up to the October 2015 
increase.
I have seen Mr Fs credit card statements dated August, September, October and November 
2015. In August he incurred a £12 late payment fee, and he exceeded his credit limit by 
£3.04. In September he made the minimum payment, which reduced his balance to 
£3,187.15 (his limit being £3,300). His October statement shows that in late September he 
paid more than the minimum. In late October he also paid more than the minimum, reducing 
his balance to £3,025, just as his credit limit was increased to £4,000. Overall, I dont think 
this shows that Mr M was failing to manage his account adequately.
Mr M has provided us with all three of his credit files. I have noted that he had a large 
number of payday loans from 2012 to September 2015. I think this would have reduced his 
credit score, and so this is a factor which weighs against giving him more credit. That gave 
me some pause for thought. But on the other hand, he paid off these loans on time. Also, 
payday loans have to be repaid all at once, while a credit card balance can be paid in 
instalments, so it should be easier to afford. So I think that by giving Mr M a credit limit 
increase, Nationwide might have actually helped him (or thought it was helping him) by 
enabling him to use his additional credit to pay off his latest payday loan and then repay his 
credit card balance gradually. (The payday loan repayment was £695, and the limit increase 
was £700.) On balance, I think this was a commercial judgement Nationwide was entitled to 
make, having regard to how Mr M had managed his credit card account and his payday 
loans.
I have also reviewed Mr Ms Nationwide current account statements for January to October 
2015. The account was never overdrawn and seems to have been managed well throughout 
that period. There is no indication of gambling debts on the current account, or on the credit 
card statements either, so I wouldnt expect Nationwide to have known about Mr Ms 
gambling until he told it in 2017.
 
My final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2020.
Richard Wood
Ombudsman