DRN-3623156
The complaint
Mr P says Capital One (Europe) plc told him he had been approved for a Balance credit card 
and was guaranteed a £1,250 credit limit. He was then given a £500 limit. 
What happened
Mr P applied for a Capital One Balance credit card through a third party. He wanted to 
transfer in a balance of £1,150. He recalls the website said he was 100% guaranteed to 
receive a limit of £1,250 so he went ahead. He says as he then received a limit of £500 he 
was misled. And the Capital One agent he spoke to agreed with him. The card is no use to 
him with that limit and it has damaged his credit file. He wants all searches removing from 
his credit file, an apology and compensation for the wasted time and misinformation. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ps complaint. She explained it was a two-stage process. 
Mr P had been told by the third party that he was 100% eligible after a soft search on his 
credit file, and that there would be more checks before his account was opened and his 
credit limit confirmed. This was the hard search that Capital One completed. She said from 
the evidence she had seen at no point was a credit limit guaranteed. Screenshots from the 
application process show Mr P would have been told his limit would be between £200 and 
£1,500 when he was told he was 100% eligible. So she did not think Capital One had done 
anything wrong.
Unhappy with this assessment Mr P asked for an ombudsmans review. He said the agent 
he spoke to about the lower limit had outright admitted he was misled. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding Mr Ps complaint. Ill explain why.
I have gone through the screenshots provided by Capital One that show Mr Ps application 
journey. These show that after the soft search he would have been told by the third party 
that he was 100% likely to be approved. After hitting Apply Now he would have gone 
through to the Capital One site that fold him We 100% guarantee youll be accepted for the 
Balance card and one of the features advertised was a £200 to £1,500 credit limit. After the 
hard search, and he was advised further checks had to take place before the account could 
be opened, his opening limit was confirmed at £500. 
So I dont see that Mr P was misled in any way. I appreciate he has a different recollection of 
the process, and I dont doubt this is honest recollection, but I have to decide what is most 
likely based on the available evidence. 
I have also listened to the calls between Capital One and Mr P. He is right that on the first 
call the agent agreed that its indeed misleading, But the context is key here  Mr P had told 
her the website had said that he was 100% guaranteed at £1,250 limit. And it was in those 
circumstances she agreed it was misleading. But as I have set out in the paragraph above I 
have not seen enough evidence to fairly conclude Mr P was ever told that.
It follows I have not found Capital One did anything wrong that it needs to put right. And I 
cannot tell it to remove the hard search as it was completed with his consent and accurately 
reflects his application to open an account.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman