DRN-3439582
The complaint
Mr G complains about the time Schroder & Co Ltd trading as Cazenove Capital 
(Cazenove)  took to advise and arrange on an internal switch of pension product within A J 
Bell so that it could provide discretionary fund management (DFM) services to him. He also 
says that it changed its position on charging a £1,500 fee to make that switch, and failed to 
keep him updated that its portfolio manager would be taking annual leave when the funds 
were received.
What happened
On 10 February 2021 Mr G got in touch with Cazenove and a phone introduction with his 
proposed portfolio manager happened the next day. Mr G was having difficulties at the time 
finding a financial adviser who would be able to arrange the transfer of his defined benefit 
(DB) pension before the guarantee period expired. At that time the understanding was that 
Mr G would be transferring to a Hargreaves Lansdown (HL) SIPP, as he was acting as a 
result of a recommendation to transfer given by HL.
However, by 22 February Mr G updated the Cazenove portfolio manager that he would now 
be transferring to an A J Bell YouInvest SIPP. Cazenove explained to him on 1 March that 
he would need to do a further transfer to an A J Bell InvestCentre SIPP in order for it to be 
able to provide DFM services. A J Bell required a financial adviser to be attached to 
applications to set up InvestCentre SIPPs. And it would only be able to make the transfer 
after one of its wealth planners had first assessed this would be suitable for him.
Cazenove further explained on 5 March that it may take a week of two for the wealth 
planner to contact him because they were busier at the end of the tax year. Mr G did receive 
further contact on 17 March in the form of a letter of authority for A J Bell to release 
information. This was then used on receipt of the signed copy from Mr G on 24 March. The 
transfer of the DB scheme itself to A J Bell wasnt competed until 25 March.
The wealth planner wasnt able to provide their advice report supporting the internal A J Bell 
switch until 16 April, it appears in part as a result of A J Bell only being willing to release 
information directly to Mr G. The sum held at A J Bell was £694,716. He then signed the 
forms to transfer to the A J Bell InvestCentre SIPP three days later, and the pension switch 
was completed with the funds available for Cazenove on 26 April.
Because the portfolio manager was then on annual leave, he let Mr G know by email that a 
colleague would invest the money in his absence. Mr G wasnt happy that he hadnt been 
warned of the annual leave in advance. Owing to the total length of delays incurred up to 
that point, he no longer wanted to invest with Cazenove  and informed them 2 days later 
that he was moving the funds to Tilney.
The £1,500 fee was paid to Cazenove directly from A J Bell on 10 May 2021, in accordance 
with Mr Gs signed A J Bell application form which states the fixed value of this fee. It 
amounted to 0.22% of the transferred funds.
On 16 June Cazenove issued its final response in which it did not uphold Mr Gs complaint. 
Given the complexities caused by the regulation of financial advice, it didnt consider it had 
delayed matters unnecessarily. On 1 March it had emailed him setting out that it would need 
to charge £1,500 for the advice to transfer within A J Bell. And it had issued an investment 
proposal on 2 March which made clear that a whole investment team stood behind the 
portfolio manager. Notwithstanding this, the portfolio manager had also contacted Mr G 
promptly to make alternative arrangements after checking his emails whilst on leave.
Mr G didnt agree with Cazenove and wanted this service to look into whether its actions had 
caused him a financial loss, in the event markets moved against him during the period of 
delay.
Our investigator also didnt think Cazenove needed to do anything further. He explained that 
the involvement of Cazenoves wealth planner wasnt purely transactional, as the regulators 
rules required them to take reasonable steps to ensure that a personal recommendation 
is suitable for its client. In addition, to avoid Cazenove needing to consider the more costly 
aspect of the advice (to transfer out of the DB scheme), that transaction had to be completed 
first - before it could get involved. He thought Cazenove had set out clearly why this was 
necessary and the £1,500 cost involved.
Once the funds arrived in the DB scheme, the investigator didnt think that Cazenoves 
advice process was unreasonably slow, given that it was at the end of the tax year and it 
was reliant on information about the A J Bell SIPP which it appeared Mr G had to retrieve. 
Matters progressed quickly after the report was issued and ultimately, Cazenove was 
prevented by Mr G from investing the funds. The investigator also couldnt take issue with 
the portfolio managers entitlement to take annual leave, particularly as he remained 
contactable.
Mr G didnt agree with the investigator and asked for his complaint to be passed to an 
ombudsman. In summary, he said:
- Overall, he had lost many weeks of time in trying to transfer from his DB scheme into 
DFM, because of the number of firms hed tried to involve each delaying matters.
- This was why he very quickly became frustrated with Cazenove and moved to Tilney 
(who didnt seek to charge him £1,500) before he suffered further losses.
- The portfolio manager not telling him about his annual leave was the final straw.
- Cazenove changed its mind about requiring him to pay £1,500. He already had 
advice from HL to put the funds under discretionary management.
-All Cazenove had to do was give the work a due-diligence nod internally  not 
charge me £1,500 for the privilege of experiencing their gears slowly grinding to an 
answer equal to what was so obviously required.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to comment in this decision on the experience Mr G had with other firms, and 
the frustration he might already have been experiencing which led to him quickly becoming 
dissatisfied with Cazenove. Im aware hes complained to those other firms. Cazenove is 
only responsible for its own actions, and on those Ive reached a very similar view to that of 
the investigator.
Cazenove had an arrangement with A J Bell which permitted it to act as DFM, but only on 
the InvestCentre SIPP. I appreciate Mr G may only have learned this after applying for A J Bells other SIPP (with more limited options), but Im not persuaded the timing of that was 
Cazenoves fault given that the initial understanding was that Mr G would transfer to an HL 
SIPP. And as A J Bell required an adviser to be attached to the InvestCentre SIPP, I dont 
think it was wrong of Cazenove to ensure that it gave Mr G advice that was suitable under 
the regulators rules. 
Its not generally appropriate for one adviser to adopt the advice of another, particularly 
when the other firms advice was to transfer to a different product (and funds) than the one 
being proposed. Cazenove was entitled to follow a standard process even if Mr G felt that it 
was unlikely the new destination would be regarded as any less suitable than the one HL 
had proposed. And its important to point out that this advice was needed because of A J 
Bells conditions for new business. Whilst I dont know the full details of why Tilney was able 
to take Mr G on board as a client without an initial charge, it could well be because Mr G was 
now in the right type of SIPP for Tilney not to have a problem with it. 
Ultimately, having determined that it was expected to advise Mr G, it was for Cazenove and 
Mr G to agree the fee for that advice between them. Fees for pension switches (that do not 
involve a DB transfer) can still amount to 3% of the transferred sum in some cases. I think 
the fact that Cazenove charged Mr G only 0.22% took into account the lower risks posed by 
the more limited advice it was giving in this case. If Cazenove had delivered its advice whilst 
the funds were still in the DB scheme, it would have needed to take that into account and 
charge more. So, it wasnt in Mr Gs interest for it to do this given Mr G had already entered 
into an agreement for HL to provide that advice.
With that in mind, the actual time it took Cazenove to provide its advice should be measured 
from 25 March (when the funds arrived in the first A J Bell SIPP) to 16 April 2021. Cazenove 
couldnt logically prepare a report about where Mr Gs funds currently where and where they 
would need to be moved to, until A J Bell held the funds and could provide that information.  
I would have said the time taken here was not unreasonable even without considering any 
slight further delay caused by it being at the end of the tax year. As the investigator noted, it 
seems some information could only be supplied by A J Bell to Mr G directly, and he then had 
to provide that to Cazenove. 
Ive found no evidence that Cazenove changed its mind on what it would charge Mr G. It 
initially explained this in an email to him on 1 March 2021:
We have spoken to our contacts at AJ Bell about the Investcentre SIPP  they have said 
that they normally insist on having have an advisor attached to the account when it is 
opened, I cant advise you on pensions so it would have to be our team here and the transfer 
letter we discussed. The transfer letter is £1500 flat  including VAT.
Mr G acknowledged this in his email dated 8 March 2021:
If youcan organise the transfer of SIPP wrapper essentially based on what weve already 
said to one-another, and on the information in the pack Ive just mailed, then please proceed, 
and invoice £1,500 accordingly by post (for the advice letter youll be sending to AJ Bell). 
As I noted at the beginning, I can appreciate why  after the issues hed encountered with 
other firms  Mr G would accept nothing other than impeccable service from Cazenove. 
However when looking only at the matters for which Cazenove was responsible, I think it 
acted fairly. I wouldnt expect it to tell him in advance when members of staff are going on 
leave. Instead, I expect it to ensure adequate cover is provided, which might for example 
include staff having access to each others emails. 
In this case, Mr Gs portfolio manager went one step further by continuing to access and then delegating actions to others who were in the office. It may well be that he replied to 
Mr Gs email personally because he knew Mr G was very keen to get matters moving. I cant 
fairly say that was an inadequate level of service which Cazenove would normally expect to 
result in the loss of a client. Obviously its entirely Mr Gs choice if he then felt he couldnt 
work with Cazenove any more, but Im not persuaded that entitles him to a refund of the fee 
it charged.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Gs complaint and make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 April 2023.
 
Gideon Moore
Ombudsman