DRN-3375752
The complaint
Mr H complained that he was given unsuitable advice to transfer his defined benefit (DB) 
British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS), to a type of personal pension plan in 2017.
Roberts Boyt Limited is responsible for answering this complaint and so to keep things 
consistent, Ill refer mainly to RBL.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Hs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with 
members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which included 
transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined benefit 
scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their benefits to 
a personal pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of 
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said 
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new 
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Hs employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were being sent a Time to Choose letter which 
gave them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 
or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices was 
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017). 
Mr H was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security 
of his preserved benefits in the BSPS. He was unsure what to do and was referred to RBL 
which is responsible for providing the pension advice. Information gathered about his 
circumstances and objectives at the time of the recommendation were broadly as follows:
Mr H was 40 years old, married and with two dependent children and expecting a 
third imminently. He was described as being in good health and at the time of the 
advice he had accrued over 23 years of pension benefits with the BSPS.
Mr and Mrs Hs home was valued at around £110,000 with a mortgage outstanding of 
£86,000. 
Mr and Mrs H earned around £35,000 and £16,500 per year respectively. They had 
no other assets but had unsecured lending liabilities of around £14,000.
The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of Mr Hs BSPS was approximately 
£323,158. The normal retirement age (NRA) was 65.
It seems Mr H had his dealings with RBL over the course of a few months in 2017. There 
was an initial fact-find dated 8 August 2017 (although Ive noted this was not actually signed 
by Mr H until 17 November 2017). A pension transfer analysis report was produced on 17 
November 2017 and a risk profile was completed around the same time.
RBL set out its advice in an Executive Summary (a type of suitability report) on 28 
November 2017. In this it advised Mr H to transfer out of the BSPS to a type of personal 
pension plan. RBL said this would allow Mr H to achieve his objectives. Mr H accepted this 
advice and so transferred out. In 2021 Mr H complained to RBL about its advice, saying he 
shouldnt have been advised to transfer out to a personal pension. 
Mr H referred his complaint to our Service. One of our investigators looked into the complaint 
and said it should be upheld. In response, RBL said it hadnt done anything wrong and was 
acting on the financial objectives Mr H had at the time. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, its come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of RBL's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability and the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
I have further considered that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in 
COBS 19.1.6 that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is 
unsuitable. So, RBL should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate 
that the transfer was in Mr Hs best interests. 
Finally, I thought about everything RBL has said in its final response letter to Mr Hs 
complaint and also its responses to our investigators view. Ive not addressed every point 
but have concentrated on the matters Ive considered relevant to the outcome. 
Ive used all the information we have to consider whether transferring away from the BSPS 
to a personal pension was in Mr Hs best interests. 
I dont think it was, so Im upholding his complaint. 
Financial viability RBL referred in its transfer analysis and Executive Summary to critical yield rates. The 
critical yield is essentially the average annual investment return that would be required on 
the transfer value - from the time of advice until retirement - to provide the same annuity 
benefits as the DB scheme. In this case, I think RBL used the existing scheme (BSPS) for 
the critical yield comparisons, rather than the new BSPS2. 
This doesnt fundamentally change the outcome, however, before assessing the critical 
yields in Mr Hs case, I think its important to point out that RBL could have taken time to 
compare the benefits of the BSPS2 with transferring out, rather than just using the current 
BSPS for comparisons. 
I say this because many weeks before this advice, which was dated 17 November 2017, 
BSPS members had been told that if the RAA was approved, they would have a choice  to 
move into a new scheme (BSPS2) or into the PPF with the old scheme. A newsletter had 
also been put on a microsite that had been set up to support BSPS members and more 
details of the BSPS2 had emerged by the time RBL produced its Executive Summary. 
Its true the situation was dynamic in that changes were being proposed at that very point, 
but we know a great deal about the timeline because weve seen many similar complaints to 
this one. And as the existing scheme (BSPS) was no longer an option, using the existing 
scheme rather than the new one, to make comparisons with, wasnt really giving Mr H the 
best opportunity to make an informed decision about what to do. Having said this, I think its 
also fair to say that despite some uncertainty at the time, the BSPS2 critical yields were 
likely to be between the BSPS and PPF yields, but most likely much closer to the existing 
scheme (BSPS).
RBL said the critical yield required to match the benefits at the age of 65 in the BSPS, was 
5.89% if Mr H took a pension without a tax-free lump sum. No critical yield was provided for 
taking a reduced pension together with a tax-free lump sum. In my view, RBL should have 
been aware that this critical yield figure was quite high and more likely than not, not 
achievable.
I say this because the advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final 
Guidance FG17/9 as to how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss 
assessments where a complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to 
October 2017 similar rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our 
website. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on 
pension transfers, they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been 
considered reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017 and 
was 4.6% per year for 24 years to retirement (age 65), which is below the critical yield figure 
Ive referred to above. Ive also kept in mind that the regulator's upper projection rate was 
8%, the middle projection rate was 5%, and the lower projection rate was 2%. 
At the time, RBL assessed Mr Hs attitude to risk (ATR) as Moderately Cautious / Balanced 
/ Moderately Adventurous. In my experience this is a poorly defined ATR, representing as it 
does, a very broad church of different investor types from cautious to adventurous. 
Another way the ATR was described by RBL was at a level 5 out of 7 (with 7 being the 
highest). In fact, I think a more reasonable and accurate assessment of Mr Hs 
circumstances would have placed him in a lower ATR category, especially as he had no 
other financial assets or savings other than a mortgaged home he was selling. At the time I 
also think Mr H faced some challenges and demands commensurate with having a growing family. He was about to become a father for the third time and he was intending to move in 
with a relative pending buying a new home. He also had what I would describe as fairly high 
unsecured lending in place. RBL itself said he had little capacity for loss.
But in a wider sense, there were further reasons clearly demonstrating that Mr H could ill 
afford to take on too much risk. Everything Ive seen shows Mr H had absolutely no 
experience of these types of investments and we know this pension also represented all of 
his retirement savings thus far in his life, other than a state pension hed get in due course. 
RBL says the ATR of 7/10 was arrived at by using a matrix created by a large fund provider. 
But RBLs role here was to interpret the answers Mr H gave to certain hypothetical 
investment questions on the relevant forms and to realistically use these alongside his actual 
circumstances, experience and knowledge. RBL should have factored in that when 
answering questions about investments, he had no experience to draw upon and in any 
event, many of his answers did strongly suggest he was at the more cautious end of the 
scale. I therefore think he was placed in an ATR category which was too high, the definition 
of which was also very wide. I think Mr Hs realistic ATR was somewhere between low - 
medium.
Why this matters, is that I think a growth assumption at the middle-to-lower end of the 
regulators projections, and probably close to the discount rate, was most relevant when 
thinking about whether the critical yield was achievable. This was over a percentage point 
below the critical yield figure for the BSPS which was 5.89%. Ive also noted RBL itself 
assumed a growth rate in the transferred funds of 3.77% after allowing for fees and charges. 
So, I think this too showed that achieving the critical yield, year-on-year, upon transferring 
out certainly wasnt looking likely. And there would be little point in transferring out from a 
financial perspective, only to achieve lower overall returns and therefore lower pension 
benefits in the longer term than the BSPS2. RBL ought also to have been considering the 
starting point assumed by the regulator  that transfers from a DB scheme should first be 
assumed as unsuitable.
In addition to all these things, Ive also noted that RBL said that in order to purchase an 
annuity to provide all the benefits of equal value to the existing scheme at retirement at age 
65, the funds required would be around £1,022,167 if taking a full pension. This was much 
higher than Mr Hs CETV, so I think it provides a revealing window into the value of the 
benefits Mr H was being advised to give up by transferring away.
Elsewhere in its transfer analysis, RBL also made mention of the PPF, which it described as 
a compensation scheme providing a safety net for pension schemes when the sponsoring 
employer becomes insolvent. RBL said the critical yield to match the benefits available 
through the PPF at age 65 were lower. But it was still 3.92% and this yield related to the 
reduced benefits available with the PPF. RBL said Mr H wouldnt have wanted to transfer to 
this scheme and I dont think he wanted this either, given his concerns about the pension 
situation he was in. 
I therefore think its fair to say that from a financial comparison perspective, RBLs own 
figures, shown in its Executive Summary and transfer analysis documents, showed that 
transferring to a personal pension plan would mean Mr H would likely receive lower pension 
benefits in the longer term, when compared against the BSPS. But as Ive said, RBL should 
have waited and recalculated the comparisons for Mr H when the situation with BSPS2 
became clear  we know this was imminent. 
Ive also considered some projections RBL used to help show that if he transferred out to a 
personal plan, the funds could last Mr H well into retirement. Its fair to say these were 
certainly not comparing like-with-like. What RBL was showing Mr H were comparisons with plans which lacked the guarantees and benefits of a DB scheme and they incorporated other 
pensions he would build in the years ahead. 
Of course, according to RBL, its recommendation that he should transfer out to a personal 
pension was not wholly based on the financial comparisons with his current scheme alone. 
Rather, RBL said Mr H also had other reasons to transfer away, so Ive thought about all the 
other considerations which might have meant a transfer was suitable for him, despite 
providing the overall lower benefits mentioned earlier. 
Ive considered these below. 
Other needs and objectives
RBL recommended a transfer to a personal pension plan based on a number of objectives 
and issues. Ive taken these themes from the Executive Summary and some of the other 
documents from the time of the advice, such as the fact-find and the informal notes held by 
RBL. Ive also considered carefully what RBL has said about the advice in its responses to 
our Service, in the time since Mr Hs complaint has been made. I have therefore summarised 
the following themes as supporting the recommendation to transfer away:
Mr H apparently said he wanted to start a business. Ive also seen evidence of his 
desire to retire early, at the age of 60.
Mr H evidently wanted to access a higher tax-free cash element present in the 
personal plan.
RBL said he wanted to have independent and personal control of the pension fund 
if transferring out and have full control over where the funds were invested as per his 
ATR.
It said he wanted a phased flexi-access drawdown to deliver alternative tax efficient 
income.
In relation to death benefits, he wanted his pension to provide tax efficient benefits to 
his spouse and family in the event of his death. The report remarked that Mr H might 
face a reduced life expectancy due what it called his lineage.
So, it seems the supporting reasons that RBL recommended the transfer out to a personal 
pension was for the flexibility and control it offered to Mr H. There was also clearly a loss of 
trust and confidence around what was happening with Mr Hs employer at the time. 
I have considered all these issues in turn. 
Flexibility
Ive noted that there was a mention made at the time of Mr Hs apparent desire to leave the 
steel industry and start a business. Ive looked carefully at the details of this and what was 
said at the time. RBL implies Mr H came to it with certain fixed proposals about a business 
idea; while Mr H himself says this idea was just that, and that RBL exaggerated the extent 
to which this was a mature plan. 
Overall I dont think it was a mature plan. Nor do I think the notion that Mr H was ever 
wanting to transfer to a personal pension for this specific reason, realistic, given what we 
know about the circumstances.I dont think it really matters to the outcome of this complaint who promoted the business 
idea more. Thats because it was RBL which was the regulated financial adviser here. And if 
Mr H was suggesting he needed to transfer his pension for matters related to a business 
plan, then Id have expected to see a far more comprehensive proposal set out on the 
documents from the time. Theres no evidence that I can see showing this was anything 
more than an idea which may or may not happen. What the initial fact-find actually says is 
that he was looking to move away from heavy industry and was considering setting up a 
business in the future. Given the circumstances, I dont think this in any way constitutes a 
reason to transfer from a DB pension scheme.
I say this because I dont think Mr Hs ideas were fixed. And RBL additionally puts a variety 
of other, somewhat conflicting ideas forward, supporting its eventual recommendation to 
transfer out. Ive noted elsewhere, for instance, there was also reference to Mr and Mrs H 
potentially emigrating but like the business idea, I think this was all suggestive of a young 
family considering its future possibilities. They were not fixed intentions which should have 
been used to irreversibly transfer away from Mr Hs only pension
Even if I were to consider the business as more than the mere idea it appears to have been, 
Mr H couldnt normally access his transferred pension funds for around 16 more years 
anyway. So the more obvious route to starting a business, for example, would have been a 
business loan or other lending: transferring his pension to a different scheme just wasnt 
shown as directly relevant to any of this. And at the time, this pension represented all of his 
retirement provision.
Ive considered the possibility of him using a Self-Invested Pension Plan (SIPP) or a Small 
Self-Administered Scheme (SSAS)  a type of bespoke occupational pension scheme used 
by certain employers  to help buy or mortgage a commercial property. But in my view, 
these issues did not play a meaningful or genuine part of the advice at the time and have 
mainly been suggested as reasons to transfer after the complaint had been made. These are 
not straightforward or common issues, and if they were serious proposals at the time Id 
have expected to see much more detail recorded in the notes and documents from the 
advice. 
In fact, RBLs recommendation listed mortality (I explain this later) and an ability to draw 
variable benefits post-minimum retirement age as other reasons justifying the transfer 
advice. These two points, for example, are highlighted as the major transfer rationale at the 
very end of the Executive Summary, directly beside the overall recommendation to transfer 
away. So, if starting a business - and using a complex scheme incorporating his pension to 
do this was the major factor here - then the advice would have been dominated by this 
proposal, rather than the others.
To be clear then, my findings are that transferring out to start a business was not relevant or 
suitable in this case.
early retirement
As far as retiring and / or taking retirement benefit early, at the age of 60, this somewhat 
conflicts with the above. Again, its my view that these thoughts were no more than Mr H 
hypothesising what hed like to do in many years time. In his case I think this needed to be 
treated with caution. I say this because whilst I dont doubt that Mr H might have genuinely 
hoped to retire as early as 60, Ive seen nothing that shows this was anything more than 
something he was aspiring to at that stage. Mr H was only 40 years old at the time and with 
his current financial resources and family circumstances, its simply not credible that he had 
any concrete plans for retirement at that point. Ive seen nothing which shows otherwise.Even if I were to consider the unlikely scenario that Mr Hs retirement plans were more fixed 
- and he really did want to retire or take his benefits early - I think RBL should have 
assessed the possibility of achieving this goal whilst being a member of the BSPS2, for 
example. Early retirement under the BSPS2, or indeed the PPF, would still have been an 
option for Mr H, although this would have meant Mr Hs pension benefits would have been 
somewhat reduced due to him accessing the pension earlier and for longer. But I think this 
was discounted by RBL as Ive seen no evidence it was realistically discussed with a view to 
assessing whether it was more in Mr Hs best interests. The advice negatively portrayed 
BSPS2, describing it as less secure, and it focussed on him transferring away completely.
It was also suggested that Mr H could access more tax-free cash if he transferred to a 
personal pension plan. Its usually the case that more tax-free cash can be accessed from a 
personal plan when compared against a DB scheme; this is because the values and benefits 
of the two schemes are calculated differently. But RBL should have been telling Mr H at the 
time that extra tax-free lump sums being removed from a personal pension, potentially from 
his mid-fifties in his case, also came with consequences in that the amount left for his later 
retirement years would obviously decrease. 
However, as he was so young, I dont think it was really possible to say what Mr Hs financial 
and income needs were likely to be in retirement. This is despite RBL agreeing with Mr Hs 
proposal that hed need a certain amount per month at the age of 60. Im afraid I regard this 
as no more than conjecture; it just wasnt possible to factor in these types of things at Mr Hs 
current age. With a growing family and at least 20 years ahead of him before he reached 60, 
life isnt so predictable and so this could only be guesswork. 
Nevertheless, I havent seen anything to persuade me that Mr H wouldnt have been able to 
meet his likely retirement income needs by accessing his DB pension instead of transferring 
out to a personal pension plan. RBL said that Mr Hs estimated annual pension upon his 
NRA was £23,136 per year at the age of 65. Or, he could have had a reduced pension of 
£15,332 together with a tax-free lump sum of £102,219. Its fair to say the BSPS2 figures 
could have been slightly different to these. But as a DB pension this was guaranteed and 
index linked. 
Also, as well as retirement being a long time away, we know Mr H had already joined his 
employers new defined contribution (DC) scheme and could have been making 
contributions to it for up to 24 years more, until he retired. Mr Hs contributions to this 
second pension were being added to by his employer and I think theres every reason to 
say that by retirement  whenever it came  there would have been a substantial amount in 
this DC pension to complement his deferred DB scheme (in BSPS2). 
I think therefore, that by retirement, Mr H could have been in a good position if hed 
transferred to the BSPS2. On one hand hed have had a long-standing, and in my view very 
satisfactory, DB pension with all the guarantees and benefits this type of scheme brought. 
And on the other hand, hed have built up a substantial DC pension over many years, which, 
if he later found he did require flexibility, this pension could have provided it.
I dont think recommending a transfer-out based on these reasons was suitable because so 
little was known about what his retirement would look like. As far as desiring control over 
his funds RBL provides no evidence that Mr H had either the desire or capacity to exercise 
personal control over his pension. The evidence here is that Mr Hs previous exposure to 
investing was non-existent and he could ill afford risk. So, I think hed have been likely to 
need help with exercising any control over these funds. As a consequence of this, hed incur 
fees and charges in the years ahead. Alternatively, remaining in a DB scheme  such as the 
BSPS2 - run by trustees, was the much more suitable option for Mr H. I cant see that Mr H required flexibility in retirement in the way RBL suggested and as Ive 
said, I think that at his age of only 40, much of what is recorded on the Executive Summary 
relates to aspirational thinking. A good example of this is that transferring to a personal plan 
was cited as being useful for housing costs for children. But Mr and Mrs Hs children were 
very young when these discussions commenced.
I think its fair and reasonable to summarise RBLs response to many of these points by it 
saying Mr H was told about the risks involved in some of these matters and that following 
extended discussions with an adviser, he understood those risks. In my view, this somewhat 
misses the point  RBLs job here wasnt simply to help transact what Mr H thought he 
wanted or understood. Its job was to really understand his circumstances and to provide 
advice that was in his best interests. Mr H paid around £7,000 for advice and so Im sure his 
expectation would have been that the advice was realistic, achievable and cognisant of his 
current situation. And having Mr H sign certain documents saying he understood something 
doesnt in itself abrogate RBL from its responsibilities as an adviser. Its job was to provide 
advice that was in his best interests. 
I therefore think Mr Hs circumstances were much more aligned to him transferring to BSPS2 
and retiring from that when he felt he was ready to do so, and then drawing a DB pension. In 
short, the much more suitable option was for Mr H to access his DB pension in the way it 
was originally intended. 
Death and death benefits 
RBL said Mr Hs father and grandfather died in their 60s and it suggested this means he too 
had a reduced life expectancy. For instance, RBL wrote, this suggests that life expectancy 
is lower than the normal for his lineage who worked at the steelworks.
This is a completely different reasoning for transferring from RBL, to that described above. 
But in my view, the adviser wasnt qualified to make such a judgement. There was no reason 
Im aware of to suggest hereditary illnesses were involved and no account seems to have 
been taken of life expectancy through the generations or indeed, the lifestyles of Mr Hs 
father and grandfather. So, I think this too was another comment to help drive the overall 
rationale for transferring out. The facts from the time clearly show that Mr H was in good 
health and if there was any suggestion his life expectancy was somehow shortened; this 
should have been evidenced. Using a perceived reduction in life expectancy here was 
unwarranted.
RBL says that death benefits were discussed at the time and the personal pension would 
better enable the retention of the value of the funds if Mr H died. 
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was probably made to look like an attractive feature to Mr H. But 
whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr H might have thought 
it was a good idea to transfer the BSPS to a personal pension because of this, the priority 
here was to advise him about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is 
primarily designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think RBL explored to what 
extent Mr H was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death 
benefits.
Mr H was only 40 and was married. So, I think the likely death benefits attached to the DB 
scheme were substantially underplayed. The spouses pension provided by the BSPS2 
would have been very useful to Mrs H if Mr H predeceased her. I dont think RBL made the 
value of this benefit clear enough. This was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal 
pension was. 
I also cant determine the extent to which life insurance was discussed in this case. But at 40 
years old, a modest term life insurance policy may have still been a reasonably affordable 
product if Mr H really did want to leave a legacy for Mrs H or someone else such as their 
children. But more so, it doesnt appear that RBL took into account the fact that Mr H could 
have nominated a beneficiary of any funds remaining in his other DC scheme. So, to this 
end, Mr H already had plenty of options ensuring part of his pension wouldnt die with him.
However, a more obvious drawback with a personal plans death benefits is that the amount 
left to pass on  to anyone  may be substantially reduced as the pensioner starts to 
withdraw his or her retirement income. To this end, if Mr H had lived a long life there could 
be nothing left at all in his personal pension plan. 
Overall, in this case I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a 
personal pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr H. I think this 
objective, listed as it was in the suitability letter, was no more than a generic comment and 
not meaningful to Mr Hs situation. 
Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme 
Its clear that Mr H, like many employees of his company, was concerned about his pension. 
His employer had recently made the announcement about its plans for the scheme and RBL 
said he lacked trust in the company. Hed heard negative things about the PPF and RBL 
said he could have more control over his pension fund. 
So, its quite possible that Mr H was also leaning towards the decision to transfer because of 
the concerns he had about his employer and a negative perception of the PPF. However, it 
was RBLs obligation to give Mr H an objective picture and recommend what was in his best 
interests.
By the point of the advice being delivered details of BSPS2 were known and it seemed likely 
it was going ahead. So, I think this should have alleviated any concerns about the scheme 
moving to the PPF.
However, even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that RBL should 
have reassured Mr H that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he 
thought. The income available to Mr H through the PPF would have still probably provided a 
significant portion of the income he would have needed at retirement, and he was still 
unlikely to be able to exceed this by transferring out, given his ATR and the effect of pension 
charges and fees. And although the increases in payment in the PPF were lower, the income 
was still guaranteed and was not subject to any investment risk. So, I dont think that these 
concerns should have led to RBLs recommendation to Mr H to transfer out of the DB 
scheme altogether.
Summary
I dont think the advice given to Mr H was suitable. 
He was giving up a guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income within the BSPS2. By 
transferring to a personal pension, the evidence shows Mr H was likely to obtain lower 
retirement benefits. And I dont think there were any other particular reasons which would 
justify the transfer and outweigh this. I think RBL ought to have advised him against transferring out of his DB scheme for this reason, particularly as it meant hed be worse off in 
retirement.
So, I dont think it was in Mr Hs best interests for him to transfer his DB scheme to a 
personal pension when he had the opportunity of opting into the BSPS2.
I think it was clear to all parties that the BSPS2 was likely to be going ahead. Mr H still had a 
few more years before he intended to retire. So, I don't think that it would have been in his 
interest to accept the reduction in benefits he would have faced by the scheme entering the 
PPF, as it wouldn't be offset by the more favourable reduction for very early retirement. By 
opting into the BSPS2, Mr H would have retained the ability to transfer out of the scheme 
nearer to his retirement age if he needed to. The annual indexation of his pension when in 
payment was also more advantageous under the BSPS2. 
On this basis, I think RBL should have advised Mr H to opt into the BSPS2.
I have considered, given the circumstances of the time, whether Mr H would have 
transferred to a personal pension in any event. I accept that RBL disclosed some of the risks 
of transferring to Mr H, and provided him with a certain amount of information. But ultimately 
it advised Mr H to transfer out, and I think Mr H relied on that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr H would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme, 
against RBLs advice. I say this because Mr H was an inexperienced investor and this 
pension accounted for most of his retirement provision at the time. So, if RBL had provided 
him with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in 
his best interests, I think he would have accepted that advice.
Im also not persuaded that Mr Hs concerns about the PPF were so great that he would 
have insisted on transferring his pension, knowing that a professional adviser, whose 
expertise he had sought out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his 
best interests. So if RBL had explained Mr H was also unlikely to exceed the benefits 
available to him through the PPF if he transferred out, and that he could meet his income 
needs in retirement without risking his guaranteed pension, I think that would have carried 
significant weight.
In light of the above, I think RBL should compensate Mr H for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr H, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for RBLs unsuitable advice. I consider Mr H would have 
most likely opted to join the BSPS2, rather than transfer to the personal pension if he'd been 
given suitable advice. So, RBL should use the benefits offered by BSPS2 for comparison 
purposes.
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for 
non-compliant pension transfer advice. 
In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve asked Mr H whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now, in line with 
current guidance, or wait for any new guidance/rules to be published. He says he doesnt 
want to wait for the new guidance to come into effect. I am therefore satisfied that a 
calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is identified, will provide fair 
redress for Mr H. 
RBL must undertake a redress calculation in line with the current methodology. In 
accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an 
appropriate provider promptly.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Hs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr H as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr H within 90 days of the date 
any changes to DB transfer redress guidance or new rules come into effect and RBL has 
received notification of Mr Hs acceptance of my decision. 
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If RBL deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr H how much has been taken off. RBL should give Mr H a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr H asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
I have also considered the impact on Mr H of the unsuitable advice and transfer. Our 
investigator recommended that a sum of £250 should be paid to Mr H by RBL for what he 
referred to as the trouble and upset caused by this unsuitable transfer. Ive taken into 
consideration Mr Hs age and circumstances and also that by retirement this DB pension 
would still have been a significant part of his overall pension entitlement, So I think the 
thought of losing benefits would have negatively impacted Mr H. I therefore agree that RBL 
should also pay Mr H £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the unsuitable 
advice which has likely had an impact on his retirement planning
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensationrequires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I am upholding this complaint and I now direct Roberts 
Boyt Limited to pay Mr H the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Roberts Boyt Limited to pay Mr H any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Roberts 
Boyt Limited to pay Mr H any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Roberts Boyt Limited pays Mr H the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest 
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr H.
If Mr H accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on Roberts Boyt 
Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr H can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr H may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2023.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman