DRN-4075125
Complaint
Mr K has complained about personal loans Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday 
Loans) provided to him. He says the loans were unaffordable and were therefore 
irresponsibly lent to him.
Background
Everyday Loans initially provided Mr K with a first loan for £8,000.00 in March 2015. This 
loan had an APR of 35.7% and a term of 36 months. This meant that the total amount to be 
repaid of £12,374.28, including interest, fees and charges of £4,374.28, was due to be 
repaid in 36 monthly instalments of just under £350. This loan was repaid in full with some of 
the proceeds from loan 2.
Everyday Loans provided Mr K with loan 2 for £6,000.00 in May 2019. £3,522.86 of the 
funds went towards settling the outstanding balance on loan 1. This loan had an APR of 
64.6% and a term of 36 months. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of 
£11,928.60, including interest, fees and charges of £5,928.60, was due to be repaid in 36 
monthly instalments of just over £330. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Ks complaint and she thought Everyday Loans ought 
to have realised that it shouldnt have provided Mr K with either of his loans. So she thought 
that Mr Ks complaint should be upheld. 
Everyday Loans didnt respond. So the case was passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ks complaint. Having 
carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Mr Ks complaint. Ill explain why in a 
little more detail.
Everyday Loans needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Everyday Loans needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr K could afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
The information Everyday Loans has provided suggested that it carried out credit checks 
before these loans were provided. The results of which showed that Mr K already had a 
significant amount of existing debt at the time of loan 1 and by the time of loan 2 Mr K was 
borrowing from at least one payday type lender and had defaulted on an existing credit 
commitment. 
Furthermore, Im also particularly concerned that almost 60% of the funds for loan 2 were 
used to consolidate Mr Ks existing Everyday Loans loan at a much higher interest rate. I 
cant see how Everyday Loans increasing Mr Ks costs in this way at a time when he was 
clearly struggling saw it treat Mr K fairly and reasonably. 
Im also persuaded by what Mr K has said about already being in a difficult financial position 
at the time. And while its possible Mr Ks financial position reflected his choices rather than 
financial difficulty, Id add that my experience of these types of cases suggest this is unlikely, 
in the absence of any reasonable or plausible arguments from Everyday Loans, Ive been 
persuaded to accept Mr Ks version of events here. 
As this is the case, I do think that Mr Ks existing financial position meant that he was 
unlikely to be able to afford the payments to these loans, without undue difficulty or 
borrowing further. And Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would more 
like than not have shown Everyday Loans that it shouldnt have provided these loans to            
Mr K. As Everyday Loans provided Mr K with these loans, notwithstanding this, Im satisfied 
it failed to act fairly and reasonably towards him. 
Mr K ended up paying interest, fees and charges on loans he shouldnt have been provided 
with. So Im satisfied that Mr K lost out because of what Everyday Loans did wrong and that 
it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Everyday Loans needs to do to put things right for Mr K
Having thought about everything, Everyday Loans should put things right for Mr K by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges Mr K paid on his loans;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded payments from the date they 
were made by Mr K to the date of settlement;
removing all adverse information it recorded on Mr Ks credit file as a result of these 
loans. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to take off tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans must give Mr K a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he 
asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ks complaint. Everyday Lending Limited 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman