DRN-4256139
The complaint
Mr D complains that Financial & Legal Insurance Company Ltd (F&L) declined his legal 
expenses insurance claim and voided his policy after it discovered that evidence from the 
other party in the dispute contradicted the information Mr D had provided when he took out 
the policy.
What happened
Mr D was involved in litigation over the purchase of timeshare products that he says were 
sold to him as an investment in 2013 and 2015. When he tried to sell the timeshare, he was 
told this wasnt possible. And the timeshare organisation has told him it wasnt sold as an 
investment.
Mr D wanted to take the organisation to court to recover the money hed paid for the 
timeshare. He entered into a conditional fee (no win no fee) agreement with solicitors and 
took out After the Event (ATE) insurance through the solicitors to cover disbursements and 
the risk of having to pay the defendants costs if he lost.
When evidence was received from the defendant it included email correspondence that 
contradicted what Mr D had said about what happened. F&L said Mr D had failed to give 
accurate information when he took out the policy, so it declined funding for his claim and 
voided the policy.
In response, Mr Ds solicitors said his recollection of events may have been inaccurate but a 
long time had passed, hed been consistent with what he recalled and its not unusual for 
someones recollection of events to have faded over the years.
F&L maintained its position so Mr D referred his complaint to this service. Our investigator 
said:
He didnt think Mr D had purposefully omitted information  he had simply forgotten 
exactly what had happened. He didnt think this was a misrepresentation that allowed 
F&L to void the policy.
But once the new information was known, the chances of success fell below 50% so 
it was fair for F&L to say it wouldnt provide any further cover for the claim from that 
point onwards.
The investigator asked F&L to provide a letter for Mr D saying his policy was not void.
Initially, the investigator said Mr D hadnt incurred any loss, so F&L didnt need to make any 
payment. But after considering further comments from Mr Ds solicitor, he thought Mr D 
might have to pay disbursements together with costs claimed by the other side. He 
recommended that F&L pay any disbursements and any defendants costs Mr D was liable 
for, up to the point when cover ended.
F&L didnt accept the investigators findings and requested an ombudsmans decision. It 
provided detailed comments in support. I wont set them out in full but the key points 
included:
This isnt a case of Mr D misremembering things; he is simply being untruthful about 
what happened. He had detailed correspondence with the timeshare organisation 
leading up to him surrendering one timeshare and then taking out another one, but 
didnt mention any of this. Its inconceivable that he wouldnt remember such 
extensive correspondence.
Mr D and his wife signed an agreement in which they waived the right to pursue any 
further claims against the timeshare organisation. If it had been aware theyd agreed 
to surrender their membership and make no further claims, it would never have 
issued the policy.
When Mr D was presented with the correspondence, he didnt say he couldnt recall 
seeing it before or signing an agreement, but changed his story about what had 
happened.
This is not a case where prospects of success had been 65% but fell to below 50% 
on discovery of new information; if Mr D had disclosed the correspondence at the 
time, there would never have been legal advice that he had prospects of success.
It was appropriate to void the policy in circumstances where Mr D had failed to 
disclose the information and failed to present the risk fairly.
I issued a provisional decision saying I intended to uphold the complaint but my reasons for 
doing so were different from the investigators. I set out my reasons as follows:
F&L says there was a misrepresentation by Mr D when he took out the policy; his case never 
had prospects of success and the policy should never have been issued. F&L says that 
entitles it to treat the policy as void. It has relied on a term in the policy that says
6.1 For the avoidance of doubt, if the Appointed Representative and/or the Insured is 
found to have acted dishonestly or adverse findings as to credibility and honesty are 
made by a court, The Insurer reserves the right to void the Policy ab initio.
6.2 The Insurer shall be entitled to void the Policy ab initio where there has been any 
non-disclosure or misrepresentation of material facts or untrue statements made by 
the Insured prior to and after Inception or at any time during the course of the 
Proceedings.
Ive taken this into account but Ive also taken account of the relevant law, which in this case 
is the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) and 
industry rules that say an insurer must deal with a claim promptly and fairly and must not 
unreasonably reject a claim.
There hasnt been any finding that Mr D acted dishonestly or any adverse findings as to his 
credibility and honesty by a court. The policy term would allow F&L to void that policy if there 
has been a non-disclosure or misrepresentation of material facts or Mr D has made untrue 
statements. But CIDRA sets out relevant considerations to be taken into account when 
considering this.
F&L has referred to Mr D failing to present the risk fairly. In commercial insurance contracts 
the policyholder has a duty to make a fair presentation of this risk. But this was a consumer 
contract where CIDRA applies.
A consumer has a duty to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. One of the 
things to consider when deciding whether they failed to do so is how clear and specific the 
insurers questions were.
Its for the insurer to prove that the information was incorrect or incomplete. So F&L would 
need to provide evidence of, amongst other things:what question was asked;
what answer was given and;
the answer given was incorrect
Insurers generally obtain the information they need by asking a customer to complete an 
application or proposal form, answering the questions set out by the insurer. The policy 
document refers to The Insured having made a proposal and signed a declaration. I asked 
for details of this and F&L explained there wasnt a proposal form  what this referred to was 
a statement signed by Mr D and submitted together with legal advice on his case. Mr D 
wasnt asked to complete a proposal form and F&L didnt communicate with him directly. I 
understand the policy was issued by the solicitors on its behalf.
F&L hasnt been able to provide evidence that Mr D was asked any question. So I cant be 
satisfied he was asked a question or, if he was, how clear and specific that question was or 
whether, for example, he was instructed to check any details he wasnt sure of or to check 
and provide copies of any correspondence or other documents relating to the timeshare.
And I cant say what answer was given to the question if no question was asked. It seems 
the policy was issued simply on the basis of a statement from Mr D and a legal opinion that 
his case was likely to be successful. Mr Ds statement was made on the basis of his 
recollection of events at the time, which was some years after the sale of the timeshare.
In these circumstances I dont think F&L has shown a failure to take reasonable care by 
Mr D and so it hasnt demonstrated there was a qualifying misrepresentation by him. So it 
wasnt fair to void the policy.
The policy terms require a claim to have reasonable prospects of success. This is usually 
the case with legal expenses insurance; it wouldnt be reasonable to expect an insurer to 
provide cover if the policyholder is unlikely to win their case. Once the further evidence came 
to light, the legal advice was that Mr D wasnt likely to be successful. So it was reasonable 
for F&L to stop providing cover from that point. But it wasnt reasonable to reject the claim 
entirely and void the policy.
F&L said it was voiding the policy on 12 November 2021. As I think it should have withdrawn 
cover at that point rather than void the policy, it should provide cover for costs incurred up to 
that date.
In addition, to prevent another insurer refusing to offer Mr D insurance on the basis this 
policy was voided, F&L should provide a letter for him confirming his policy wasnt void.
Putting things right
The policy covered Mr D for disbursements and for paying the other sides costs if he was 
unsuccessful. So I agree F&L should:
cover any disbursements that were incurred to 12 November 2021; and
cover any costs being claimed from him by the defendant for the period up to 12 
November 2021; and
provide a letter for Mr D saying his policy was not void.
Replies to the provisional decision
Mr Ds solicitors have replied to confirm they accept the provisional decision. The only additional comments they make are that the costs still have to be negotiated, and it may 
save F&L time if it deals with the costs negotiations directly. 
F&L does not accept the findings in the provisional decision. It has provided a number of 
further comments. I will summarise the key points as follows:
Mr D made a clear and misleading representation to the solicitors and insurers by 
saying he and his wife had threatened to surrender their timeshare with the 
timeshare organisation when in fact they had already surrendered it.
This is caught by ..any non-disclosure or misrepresentation of material facts in 
condition 6.2 of the policy.
It was the solicitors responsibility  not F&Ls  to put questions to Mr D. It presumes 
the solicitors asked for copies of correspondence between Mr and Mrs D and the 
timeshare organisation. If they did request copies and Mr and Mrs D failed to provide 
a copy of the surrender agreement, the ombudsman should be satisfied Mr D failed 
to reply to the questions properly.
F&L delegated the decision to provide the insurance policy to its agents, who in turn 
delegated it to the solicitors. And the solicitors agreed to assess and vet prospective 
claims.
As these matters were dealt with by the solicitors, the ombudsman should have 
asked them what questions were asked of Mr D. 
Before proceeding with the decision I responded to F&Ls comments clarifying that, while the 
policy may have been issued by the solicitors they were acting on F&Ls behalf. So it was 
responsible for the solicitors actions and its for F&L to demonstrate what questions were 
asked and show there was a misrepresentation as set out in CIDRA.
F&L maintains there was a misrepresentation and says:
The misrepresentation was so fundamental it cannot see how its not able to void the 
policy.
It cant see how anyone could have predicted that Mr D had signed the surrender 
agreement and signed away his legal rights to claim. So its not clear how anyone 
could have put this question to Mr D.
The request for the questions put to Mr D which he replied to in a misleading way 
needs to be answered by the solicitors; it doesnt have access to their file and cant 
provide this information.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that F&L is relying on a clause in the policy terms that allows it to void the policy 
if Mr D has made a misrepresentation or failed to disclose material facts. The policy terms 
are the starting point when considering the relationship between Mr D and the insurer. But I 
also have to take account of relevant law.
As I explained in the provisional decision, the relevant law in this case is CIDRA. And that 
sets out clearly what matters to take into account when deciding whether there has been a 
qualifying misrepresentation. The starting point for that is to consider what questions the 
insurer asked and how clear those questions were. 
F&L points out that issuing the policy was delegated to the solicitors. But that means the 
solicitors were effectively acting as its agents. They were appointed by F&L and entered into 
the contract with Mr D with its authority. F&L is responsible for their actions when issuing the 
policy on its behalf.As I mentioned in the provisional decision, F&L didnt deal with Mr D directly. So it didnt, for 
example, ask him to complete an application or a proposal form. It left these matters to the 
solicitors. But since F&L remained responsible for the solicitors actions, the onus is on F&L 
to explain how the decision to issue the policy was made on its behalf. 
The only information I have is that Mr D provided a statement to the solicitors about what 
had happened. That was made some years after the event. Its likely his recollection had 
faded. The statement is undated and not in the form of a witness statement; it doesnt 
include a statement of truth.
Ive seen emails Mr D sent to the solicitors after the exchange of evidence where he says he 
did not tell any lies and as far as he could remember, he didnt recall receiving any 
confirmation of a surrender. The solicitors say he didnt have copies of the correspondence 
that came to light after the exchange of evidence in the case.
Under the terms of agreement between F&L and the solicitors, the solicitors are required to 
carry out an assessment and vetting process before issuing the policy. F&L could have 
provided details to the solicitors of the information it needed, or what questions should be 
asked. I appreciate it wouldnt have been possible to ask specifically about a surrender 
agreement if its existence wasnt known. But this might include, for example, asking specific 
questions about whether the client has signed any documents and if so to provide copies of 
them, or to check what correspondence they have. Theres no evidence that it did so. 
F&L had the opportunity while investigating and responding to Mr Ds complaint to look into 
what happened. It could have sought an explanation from the solicitors of how they had 
carried out the vetting process on its behalf, what questions were asked and how it made the 
decision to offer the policy. It doesnt seem to have done so, instead simply taking the view 
that Mr D must have known the information he provided wasnt accurate.
The solicitors were acting for Mr D. So F&L might not have been entitled to see all the 
information on their file or details of advice given to their client. But it would have been able 
to ask for information about actions the solicitors took when carrying out functions on behalf 
of F&L as its agent.
While F&L says this information should be requested directly from the solicitors, as Ive 
explained its for the insurer to show there was a misrepresentation. 
When relying on a breach of a condition or an exclusion in a policy, the onus is on the 
insurer to show that there has been a breach or that the exclusion applies. Even if it has 
delegated certain actions to the solicitors, F&L remains responsible for them (and Schedule 
2 of CIDRA sets out the circumstances in which an intermediary will be acting as agent for 
the insurer). And bearing in mind the requirements set out in CIDRA, its for the insurer to 
demonstrate what questions were asked, what answer was given and that the answer wasnt 
correct. I dont think F&L has demonstrated any of these things. It cant simply point to the 
solicitors to address these points when they issued the policy on behalf of F&L.
For these reasons, it remains my view that the decision to void the policy wasnt fair. But it 
was fair to stop providing cover once it became clear Mr Ds case didnt have reasonable 
prospects of success, as required by the policy terms. 
Putting things right
F&L should not treat the policy as void and should:
cover any disbursements that were incurred to 12 November 2021; cover any costs being claimed from Mr D by the defendant for the period up to 12 
November 2021; and
provide a letter for Mr D saying his policy was not void.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and direct Financial & Legal Insurance Company Ltd pay 
compensation to Mr D as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 September 2023.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman