DRN-4422230
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain Nationwide Building Society provided them with incorrect information 
and provided a poor service when they were victims of fraud.
What happened
Mr and Mrs Bs Nationwide accounts were accessed by an unauthorised third party, who 
transferred funds out between 3 and 5 June 2023. 
Mr B informed Nationwide of this fraudulent activity on 5 June 2023 and attended a 
Nationwide branch. Mr B says he was informed the funds would be returned in full by the 
end of the next working day. 
Nationwide didnt return the funds to Mr and Mrs B as outlined in branch. Mr and Mrs B 
contacted Nationwide repeatedly, and the funds were eventually returned on 16 June 2023. 
Mr and Mrs B say they received poor service as they were given conflicting information and 
the funds were not returned promptly, as promised. Mr B says they were not provided with 
any support or assistance in safeguarding their accounts. 
Mr and Mrs B raised a formal complaint, and their concerns were looked into by Nationwide. 
In its final response letter Nationwide accepted that Mr and Mrs B had been given incorrect 
information and the service they received was poor. In recognition of this Nationwide paid Mr 
and Mrs B £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Dissatisfied with the response from Nationwide, Mr and Mrs B brought their complaint to our 
service. An investigator reviewed Mr and Mrs Bs concerns and found that Nationwide had 
acknowledged its shortcomings and the £250 amount offered to them was fair. 
Mr and Mrs B remained unhappy with the compensation awarded by Nationwide and asked 
for their complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I am very sorry to see Mr and Mrs B have been victims of fraud. I recognise that this 
has been an extremely stressful and worrying time for them both. The person ultimately 
responsible for this upset is of course the fraudster, and sadly theres little I can do to reduce 
the upset the fraudster has caused. This decision considers Nationwides role in the 
situation. 
Returning funds to Mr and Mrs B
Mr B informed Nationwide of the fraud on 5 June 2023 and attended a Nationwide branch. 
Mr B says this was when he was assured the funds would be returned by the end of the next 
working day. Mr B says the next day the funds hadnt been returned, and on 7 June 2023 he 
accessed his online app and discovered further transactions had gone through his account. I 
understand this wouldve been alarming for Mr B. Nationwide explained these transactions 
were made a few days before, but there was a lag in them showing on the account. This is 
common with online transactions, so whilst I understand the distress caused, I think the 
explanation provided by Nationwide was reasonable. 
I can see Mr and Mrs B made a number of phone calls to Nationwide whilst it was reviewing 
the fraud on their account. They also attended branch multiple times to seek progress 
updates and access funds. Looking at the information provided by Nationwide I do think it 
couldve done better when managing Mr and Mrs Bs expectations around its review of their 
account. Nationwide required time to carry out an investigation into the account activity in 
line with its regulatory obligations. The time frames involved with this shouldve been clearly 
outlined at the outset. I can also see the contact with Mr and Mrs B was predominantly 
reactive and I think clearer information about what steps were being carried out wouldve 
helped alleviate Mr and Mrs Bs concerns. 
Nationwide accepts its shortcomings, and although it initially offered £150, in its final 
response letter it apologised and offered £250. Mr and Mrs B say £250 fails to accurately 
reflect the impact the stress and time this incident had on them. Reaching an award for 
distress and inconvenience is seldom straightforward. The issues involved are subjective by 
their very nature and the impact on the consumer can be difficult to determine. In Mr and Mrs 
Bs case the situation was always going to cause a certain level of inconvenience and upset 
as they had been victims of fraud. Ultimately, the funds were returned to Mr and Mrs B on 16 
June 2023 and given the circumstances I think this was a reasonable timeframe. Its also 
important to note our awards are not intended to be punitive for the business. So, I am 
satisfied £250 is a fair award and in line with our services approach to compensation. 
Support provided by Nationwide 
Mr and Mrs B have raised concerns about the lack of support they received from Nationwide 
following the fraudulent activity.
Mr B informed Nationwide of the fraudulent activity and says he wouldve expected 
Nationwide to pick up on the activity sooner as its website says fraud is monitored 24/7. 
Although the systems in place at businesses such as Nationwide constantly monitor 
accounts, this monitoring isnt able to pick up on all activity. In many cases fraud is detected 
by the account holder, and the key issue is the steps taken once a bank is made aware of 
the fraud. 
Mr and Mrs B also say Nationwide didnt provide any practical support about how to 
safeguard their accounts. In particular Mr B is concerned that Nationwide hasnt followed its 
regulatory obligations and ensured its customers are protected. Businesses such as 
Nationwide deal with high numbers of fraud cases, and the level of support we would expect 
a business to provide will vary depending on the nature of the fraud and the individual 
customer. I also think its important to clarify that although this service takes into account 
regulatory guidance set by the FCA for businesses, we are not the regulator. The FCA is 
ultimately responsible for ensuring Nationwide meets its regulatory obligations. I do 
appreciate this has been an unsettling experience for Mr and Mrs B and they expected more 
action from Nationwide given the information on its website. But my role is to consider their 
individual complaint, and I think the steps taken by Nationwide to recognise its shortcomings 
in Mr and Mrss B specific case are fair.I know this will not be the outcome Mr and Mrs B were hoping for and they will be 
disappointed with the decision Ive reached. But I hope my decision provides some clarity 
around why I wont be asking Nationwide to take any further action. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 December 2023.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman