DRN-3207159
The complaint
Mr H complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc wont refund him money he spent on his 
Barclaycard towards what he says was an online trading scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some of the key events here. 
Mr H became involved with a broker offering to trade cryptocurrency who Ill refer to as S. 
As a result of this he made a number of payments on his Barclaycard. Some payments went 
to a merchant Ill refer to as W and two of note for around £4,000 went to a different 
merchant J. 
Mr H was told that his account was significantly in profit but when he came to make a 
withdrawal, he was told he would have to pay around £12,000 to release his money. He 
realised hed been the victim of a scam and contacted Barclays for help. 
Barclays raised chargebacks with W and J. The chargeback with W was successful but J 
defended the chargeback and provided evidence to support theyd provided the service 
asked of them. J are a cryptocurrency exchange and theyd converted and passed on the 
funds as asked. Ultimately Barclays said they were unable to assist under either chargeback 
or Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). 
Mr H complained and when Barclays maintained their position the matter was referred to our 
service. One of our Investigators didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. As 
he disagreed, Mr H asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. 
In February 2022 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im intending to reach the same outcome as our Investigator. But as my 
reasons are slightly different, Im issuing this provisional decision to give everyone a further 
opportunity to comment. 
The two payments in dispute here were both made around a week apart in June 2019 and 
each one was for around £4,000. The payments were both well within the available credit on 
Mr Hs card. And whilst it was more than Mr H typically spent each month, it isnt unusual for 
consumers to use credit cards to pay for infrequent larger expenses or purchases from time 
to time. I dont think these payments were so unusual that Id have expected Barclays to 
have intervened at the time they were made. There is a balance to be struck between 
allowing a customer free access to the credit their account provides, and being alert to 
instances of fraud and scams, but I dont think there was enough here that it is reasonable to 
have expected Barclays to have done more. 
Due to the passage of time Barclays havent been able to provide detailed evidence. But 
there is some suggestion that they sent text messages (SMS) to Mr H around the time of the 
payments to J. Their system records that All transactions confirmed genuine by SMS. Ive 
taken this into consideration, but I dont think this means Barclays were obliged to do more in 
these circumstances. Im satisfied that Mr H authorised the payment and thats all Barclays 
wanted to ascertain with its SMS. I dont think using SMS to confirm this was inappropriate. 
There is no evidence to support that Barclays had fraud concerns and part of their 
submissions say that from time to time they use SMS to check larger payments.
 
Given I dont think Barclays ought to have done more at the time the payments were made, 
Ive gone on to consider if they did all they could to try to recover Mr Hs money. I think 
Barclays acted fairly by raising a chargeback claim with J. 
J defended this and evidenced that theyd provided the service that was asked of them  that 
is theyd converted Mr Hs funds into cryptocurrency and had passed it on as requested. I 
dont think Barclays deciding there wasnt a reasonable prospect of the chargeback 
succeeding was an unfair or unreasonable exercise of their discretion. 
For similar reasons, I dont think there is a valid claim under Section 75 of the CCA. Section 
75 gives a debtor the right to pursue a like claim for breach of contract and/or 
misrepresentation against a creditor as he would have against the supplier of goods or 
services. But it follows that if J (the supplier) did nothing wrong, as appears to be the case, 
there could not reasonably be a successful like claim against Barclays (the creditor). There 
is no right under the 1974 Act to pursue a like claim against a third party (such as S) who 
was not privy to the debtor-creditor-supplier relationship. So, as with the chargeback issue 
above, I can see no viable grounds under Section 75 for upholding the complaint. 
Im of course sorry to hear Mr H lost money in this way. But I dont think Barclays reasonably 
ought to have prevented this, or that they could have done more to try to recover it. So, Im 
not intending to tell them to do anything further to resolve this complaint.
Both Barclays and Mr H confirmed receipt of my provisional decision. Barclays said they had 
nothing further to add and they accepted what Id said. Mr H didnt provide a response. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party had any further comments or evidence for my consideration, I see no 
reason to deviate from the outcome explained in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Richard AnnandaleOmbudsman