DRN-3684553
Complaint
Mrs G and Mr G has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) treated them unfairly 
during the process of opening and closing Mr Gs savings account as well as returning the 
funds. 
Background
When HSBC investigated Mrs G and Mr Gs complaint it accepted that Mrs G and Mr G may 
not have been provided with the best service. And it offered them £100 in compensation for 
any distress and inconvenience this may have caused. Mrs G and Mr G remained 
dissatisfied and referred their complaint to our service.
Mrs G and Mr Gs complaint was looked at by one of our adjudicators. She thought what 
HSBC had already offered to pay Mrs G and Mr G was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of the case. So she didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs G and Mr G disagreed 
with the adjudicator and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im not upholding Mrs G and Mr Gs 
complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
It isnt in dispute that HSBC didnt provide the best level of service to Mrs G and Mr G. But 
HSBC has already offered to pay Mrs G and Mr G £100 for this. Mrs G and Mr G say that 
this isnt enough and that £150 would be more appropriate.  
I do accept that Mrs G and Mr G have experienced an amount of frustration and annoyance 
as a result of HSBCs actions. I also understand why the number of errors Mrs G has 
referred to would have been upsetting and that the impact on Mrs G and Mr G was more 
than just minimal. However, Ive not been provided with anything persuasive that clearly 
demonstrates to me that a further £50 in compensation is justified here. Indeed the amount 
that HSBC has offered is in line with the type of award I would make, in circumstances 
where I were to have upheld the complaint.
Overall, Im satisfied that the £100 already offered is an adequate amount of compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience Mrs G and Mr G experienced here  although I do 
appreciate that Mrs G and Mr G dont agree that this is the case. So having considered 
everything, Im satisfied that what HSBC has already done to put things right for                  
Mrs G and Mr G is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of their complaint and I leave 
it up to them to decide whether they wish to accept HSBCs offer. 
As this is the case, Im not upholding Mrs G and Mr Gs complaint. I appreciate that this will 
be very disappointing for Mrs G and Mr G. But I hope theyll understand the reasons for my 
decision and that theyll at least feel their concerns have been listened to. 
While I leave it up to Mrs G and Mr G to decide whether they wish to accept HSBCs offer of 
£100 in compensation, HSBC should arrange to send Mrs G and Mr G a cheque for the 
outstanding balance on Mr Gs account, irrespective of whether they accept the offer of 
compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what HSBC has already agreed to do to put 
things right for Mrs G and Mr G is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. So Im not 
upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 November 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman