DRN-2385701
The complaint
Miss S complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (which Ill call VWFS) 
wont allow her to end a hire purchase agreement without charge.
What happened
In May 2017 Miss S took a car under a four-year hire purchase agreement from VWFS. The 
agreement included a provision allowing Mss S to end it by telling VWFS. If she did that, 
VWFS would be entitled to the return of the car and no more than half the total amount 
payable under the agreement  which the agreement said was nearly £17,700. 
In or about December 2019 Miss S was diagnosed with a medical condition which meant 
that she could no longer drive. She revoked her driving licence and explained to VWFS what 
had happened. She asked to end the hire purchase agreement at no further cost to herself. 
VWFS said however that Miss S could only do this if she paid the shortfall due under the hire 
purchase agreement  around £2,400 at the time. That figure was the difference between 
half the amount payable (around £17,700) and the total payments that Miss S had already 
made. 
Miss S thought this was unfair, given the circumstances in which she had had to make the 
decision to hand the car back. She complained to this service, and one of our investigators 
considered her complaint. Having done that, he thought it was unfair that Miss S should 
have to pay the full amount due under the hire purchase agreement; he recommended that 
VWFS reduce the charge by 50%.
VWFS didnt accept the investigators recommendations and asked that an ombudsman 
review the case.
I did that and, because I was minded to reach a different conclusion from that reached by the 
investigator, issued a provisional decision. In that decision, I explained why I was likely to 
reach a different outcome and invited the parties to provide any further comments before I 
issued a final decision. 
I observed that there was no real dispute over the facts here. VWFS appeared to accept 
what Miss S had said about her medical condition; Miss S appeared to accept that the terms 
of the hire purchase agreement allowed VWFS to seek a further payment from Miss S if she 
wanted to end that agreement. The issue was whether, in the particular circumstances here, 
VWFS should agree to accept a reduced payment, or none at all.
I was sympathetic to Miss Ss position, but noted that the hire purchase agreement included 
terms allowing Miss S to end the agreement early. Those terms were in line with the relevant 
provisions of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, which dont take into account the reasons for a 
customer wanting to end a hire purchase agreement before the end of its term. I didnt think 
it would be fair to require VWFS to accept less than it was contractually entitled to.  
Miss S didnt accept my provisional conclusions and so Ive reviewed the case afresh.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent however changed my view of how this case should be resolved. The hire purchase 
agreement allowed Miss S to end the hire period early and explained the terms on which she 
could do so. The relevant parts of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 were intended to ensure 
that the consumer who does end an agreement early is treated fairly  in part because they 
prevent the finance company from seeking full payment of all the money it would have 
received over the period of the agreement.
I understand that Miss S has been put in a difficult position here, and no doubt she feels she 
is paying for something without receiving any benefit. She does have my sympathy, but I 
dont believe that it would be fair to require VWFS to accept less than its entitled to under 
the hire purchase agreement. 
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I dont require Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited to do anything further to resolve Miss Ss complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept or reject my decision 
before 25 December 2020. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman