DRN-2773148
The complaint
 Mr J is unhappy with the way Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) handled his claim under the 
home emergency section of his home insurance policy following the breakdown of his boiler.  
What happened
 On 14 August 2019, Mr J contacted IPA to report that his boiler wasnt working and he was 
without heating or hot water. IPA arranged for an engineer to inspect it on 17 August and 
they said the plate heat exchanger was faulty. The part was ordered and on 19 August an 
engineer arrived to carry out the repair. However they said the heat exchanger was blocked 
due to sludge build up, the combustion chamber was corroded, a rubber tube was blocked 
and the pump was leaking. Given the age of the boiler and how much it would cost to repair, 
IPA determined the boiler was beyond economical repair (BER) and offered £250 towards 
the cost of a new one as per the policy terms. 
Mr J disputed the boiler had corrosion. He said it had been serviced a few months prior and 
there was no suggestion this was an issue. However IPA said the service wouldnt have 
identified this. Mr J asked IPA to send another engineer but they refused to do so. Given he 
had been without water and heating, they offered him three nights accommodation or a fan 
heater as per their terms. 
Mr J arranged for a private engineer to inspect the boiler. They said it needed a new plate 
heat exchanger and pump, but they disagreed the boiler was corroded. The repair was 
carried out but this didnt fix the problem. It was later determined a printed circuit board 
(PCB) was needed. Since this repair was carried out on 25 September, Mr J has said the 
boiler is working as it should. 
In total, Mr J paid around £970 for the boiler to be fixed. He wants IPA to reimburse him for 
this cost and to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience caused. Mr J provided 
his engineers report and invoice to IPA for their consideration however they said it was 
insufficient as it lacked detail and they needed a further report. As one wasnt received, IPA 
maintained the boiler was BER and said they werent willing to reimburse him the repair 
costs. 
Unhappy with IPAs response, Mr J referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
recommended the case was upheld and said IPA should pay the £970 repair cost and £300 
compensation.
In response, IPA said regardless of whether the boiler was blocked due to corrosion, it was 
BER due to the age, condition and the amount of parts needed. They also said the repair 
costs of £970 represented 85% of the value of Mr Js boiler. Based on this information, the 
investigator amended their recommendation. In summary, they said even if the correct repair 
had been carried out by IPA, its likely the boiler wouldve still been considered BER due to 
the high repair costs. However they felt IPA couldve handled the claim and Mr Js 
expectations better and been clearer in their communication. They recommended IPA pay 
the £250 as per the BER terms plus £150 compensation.
Mr J disagreed. In summary he said had IPAs original engineer returned as he requested 
none of this wouldve happened, his boiler didnt have severe corrosion and IPA should 
cover the cost of the repairs.
In April 2021, I issued my provisional decision and said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I intend to uphold Mr Js 
complaint. Let me explain why.
At this point, I want to acknowledge that many issues have been raised, especially by Mr J 
and I thank him for bringing them to my attention. Whilst Ive carefully considered them all, in 
this decision Ive focused on the key issues that I believe are relevant to the overall outcome. 
Based on the policy terms, a complete breakdown of the heating system is an insured event 
in which IPA covers up to £2,000 for the repair of the main heating system or boiler. But the 
cover is subject to exclusions and in this case IPA has applied the BER exclusion. In this 
decision I must decide whether IPA reasonably applied that exclusion. 
The terms define BER as:
When the cost of repairs exceeds the current value of your boiler, taking into 
consideration its age and condition, or where spare parts are not readily available.
This means even if the boiler was considered to be repairable, IPA may decide not to do so 
if the repair costs exceed the value of the boiler.
In this case, initially there was conflicting information about the cause of the boilers 
breakdown. IPAs first engineer said it was the plate heat exchanger, their second engineer 
said a rubber tube was blocked, the pump needed replacing and the boiler had corrosion. 
I know Mr J strongly disagrees the boiler had corrosion as this wasnt identified during the 
boiler service carried out a few months prior. There is insufficient information for me to safely 
conclude whether or not there was corrosion but I dont believe it is necessary to do so 
because this wasnt the main reason the boiler was considered BER.
In determining whether the boiler was BER, I wouldve expect IPA to have obtained an 
estimate of the cost of repairs and an estimate of the current value of Mr Js boiler. IPA gave 
a partial repair estimate stating the parts for the heat exchanger, rubber tube and pump 
amounted to around £387 plus VAT and around four hours worth of labour. The cost of 
labour isnt stated and I wouldve expected IPA to have calculated this to obtain a full total
when deciding whether it was economical to fix Mr Js boiler. Another repair quote said it 
would cost around £460. IPA also didnt provide an estimate of the current value of Mr Js 
boiler. Instead it appears they have relied on the age of the boiler (14 years old), its overall 
condition and it needing multiple parts. However this doesnt meet the BER definition as set 
in the policy terms. 
As there is insufficient evidence that when IPAs engineers attended, the repair costs 
exceeded the value of Mr Js boiler, I dont believe IPA acted fairly in determining it was BER 
and applying that exclusion. 
As a result, Mr J remained without hot water and heating and he had to instruct a private 
engineer to fix it at a cost of around £970 (including VAT). While I note IPAs comments that 
this amount represented 85% of the boilers value, again its not in excess of the current 
value of boiler. So I believe IPA should cover the repair costs as incurred by Mr J as its within the policy cover limit plus pay 8% simple interest per year from the date of the invoice 
up to the date of settlement. 
Compensation 
I appreciate the trouble and upset this situation has caused Mr J and his wife. They were left 
without heating and hot water for some weeks while the boiler was being repaired. I also 
understand Mr Js frustration that it was his own engineer that identified the cause of the 
breakdown when he had insurance to provide such a service.
Despite IPA saying the boiler was BER, which for the reasons outlined above I dont think 
was fair, they requested further evidence of invoices and reports from Mr J. He had a lot of 
back and forth communication with IPA so I can understand why he thought they would 
reimburse him the repair costs and why he was upset when they said they wouldnt do so. 
This caused additional frustration during what was already a difficult time. Taking everything 
into account, I believe its fair IPA pay £250 for the trouble and upset caused.
Response to my provisional decision 
Mr J agreed with the outcome and said the cost of the repair wouldnt have been this amount 
had IPAs engineer correctly diagnosed the problem from the outset. He also said the leak 
from the pump was caused by IPAs engineer who visited on the second occasion. IPA also 
accepted my findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Js complaint for the same reasons as set out in 
my provisional decision.   
My final decision
 For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to uphold Mr Js complaint. 
Inter Partner Assistance SA must:
- Reimburse Mr J for the repair cost of his private engineer (£970) plus pay 8% simple 
interest per year from the date of the invoice up to the date of settlement; and
- Pay £250 to Mr J for the trouble and upset caused.
 
*If Inter Partner Assistance SA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr J how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr J a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2021.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman