DRN-4424692
The complaint
Ms F complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt provide the service it should have when 
she tried to make a payment.
What happened
In December 2022, Ms F called Barclays to make a payment of over £4,000. She says she 
answered all of the agents questions and the agent was aware they were speaking to the 
correct person, but she was told she would need to visit a branch to make her payment. 
Ms F says the agent was curt and discourteous and didnt take into account her disability or 
that her nearest branch was around 30 miles away. Ms F then found that a block had been 
placed on her account.
Barclays issued a final response letter dated 30 December 2022. It said that the payment 
Ms F wanted to make was flagged for further checks to take place before the payment was 
released. It said that when it spoke to Ms F, the agent wasnt confident making the payment 
and so the account was blocked, and Ms F referred to a branch. It noted Ms Fs health 
concerns and that she was a vulnerable customer but said it had to follow its fraud process 
to protect its customers. Barclays said that Ms F visited a branch two days later and the 
payment was made. As it had followed its processes it didnt uphold this complaint.
Our investigator accepted that Barclays had processes in place which were to protect 
customers from fraud and that although Ms F was inconvenienced by having to travel to a 
branch, she didnt think Barclays had done anything wrong by requiring this. She noted 
Ms Fs comment about how the agent had dealt with the issue and awarded £100 
compensation because of this.
Barclays accepted our investigators view. Ms F didnt. She said there was no reason given 
for her account being frozen and the compensation recommended wasnt enough. She said 
her disability hadnt been taken into account nor had the banks obligations under the 
Disability Act.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint the details of which are set out below.
Ms F has made reference to the obligations on the bank under the Disability Act. I 
understand that Ms F doesnt feel her needs were taken into account before her account 
was frozen and she was told to visit a branch. While we take any allegation of discrimination 
seriously, I should first explain that we are an informal dispute resolution service, meaning 
we dont have the power to decide whether or not Barclays is in breach of the Equality Act 
2010, as only a court has the power to do this. What we can do is take relevant law and 
regulation into account when deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of a 
complaint and I have done this in this decision.
I can understand why Ms F was frustrated by her payment not being made and I can see 
from Barclays notes that her telephone banking was suspended as a precaution at that time. 
However, Barclays has shown that the payment was flagged for further investigation before 
release. While I understand this can cause inconvenience banks have fraud detection 
systems in place to protect customers and when a transaction is flagged, I find it reasonable 
that it follows its usual process to establish that it is right for the payment to be made.
Ms F called Barclays about the transaction and while she answered the agents questions, 
the agent was concerned by the conversation. I appreciate Ms F feels she had provided 
enough information for the payment to be released and having looked through the notes of 
the call I can see that Ms F answered the identification questions correctly. However, when 
asked what the payment was for the answer raised concerns and so she was referred to a 
branch.
Barclays has explained that its advisers have the right to refer a customer to the branch if 
they are concerned about the payment being requested and this is what happened in this 
case. While I do not find I can say Barclays did anything wrong in following its procedures in 
response to concerns about Ms Fs transaction, it isnt clear that it assessed how practical it 
would be for Ms F to visit a branch or that it tried other ways of confirming the transaction 
was genuine (given other verification had been successful) before requiring Ms F to make a 
visit to a branch.
Barclays has said there are notes on Ms Fs account about her vulnerability and we have 
asked for more details about these and about how their policies concerning vulnerable 
customers expected them to support Ms F when dealing with the situation she found herself 
in. Unfortunately, we havent received any further information about this. I have therefore 
had to consider that Barclays was aware of Ms Fs vulnerability (which she has explained is 
especially acute in bad weather) but didnt take this into account resulting in Ms F being 
caused potentially unnecessary distress and inconvenience by having to travel to a branch in 
bad weather. So, I can't safely conclude Ms F was treated fairly, or like other customers with 
similar circumstances.
I also note that Ms F has said that she felt the agent was discourteous and rude.
Given the above I do not find that Barclays provided the service it should have and should 
pay Ms F compensation. Ms F feels the £100 compensation recommended by our 
investigator isnt enough. I can understand why she feels this given she was required to 
make a journey to a branch a significant distance away at a time when the weather 
conditions were poor, and I agree that a higher award of compensation is reasonable.
When deciding the amount of compensation, I have also considered that Barclays was 
following its procedures and that it was trying to protect against a potential fraud. I have also 
noted that Ms F was able to visit the branch and make the payment two days later.
Taking the above into account I think Barclays should pay Ms F £250 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience she was caused by being required to visit a branch to make her 
payment.
Barclays accepted the conclusions of my provisional decision. Ms F said that while the need 
to visit a branch in December had been addressed, she had also raised a follow up 
complaint in March about needing to visit a branch again. She said this was because the 
restrictions hadnt been removed from her account as had been promised in December. She 
said she had believed this additional issue had been amalgamated with this complaint and 
she wanted this part of the problem acknowledged.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note the comments that Ms F has made in response to my provisional decision and that 
she is concerned that her complaint about the restrictions not being lifted on her account 
meaning she encountered and issue in March 2023, hasnt been addressed. However, this 
decision relates to the issues that were addressed in Barclays final response letter in 
December 2022 and our investigators view. Our investigator has set up a separate 
complaint in regard to the issue Ms F identified in March 2023.
As I set out in my provisional decision, I do not find that Ms F was provided with the service 
she should have been in December 2022 when Barclays was concerned about her payment 
request. I accept that Barclays has fraud prevention systems in place for the protection of its 
customers but in this case I think, given it was aware of Ms Fs vulnerability, it could have 
done more to assist before requiring her to visit a branch. I have considered the comments 
made since my provisional decision and having done so I still find the £250 compensation I 
recommended for the distress and inconvenience this issue caused Ms F is reasonable.
Putting things right
Barclays Bank should pay Ms F £250 compensation for the upset caused when dealing with 
her requested payment.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC should take the 
action set out above in resolution of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman