DRN-1225401
 
The complaint
 This complaints about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1999. Mr B says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold him the PPI.
What happened
The policy helped protect Mr Bs monthly repayments if he couldnt work due to disability or 
unemployment. It also included life cover.
Our adjudicator looked into the complaint but didnt recommend it should be upheld. As Mr B 
didnt agree with the adjudicator, the case was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Bs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
From a copy of the postal credit card application form Mr B signed, I can see Capital 
One made it clear that Mr B didnt have to take out the PPI and that he chose to take 
it out  although I can understand why he might not remember this now after all this 
time.
I dont believe Capital One recommended the PPI to Mr B, so it didnt have to check if 
it was right for him. But it did have to make sure Mr B got the information he needed 
to decide if it was right for him. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it should have been. But he chose to take out the PPI  so it looks like he wanted this 
type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt 
look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to, or limits on, the PPI cover  so 
it would have been useful for him to have if something went wrong. And while he had 
family and friends he said he could have relied on, that help wasnt guaranteed, 
unlike the PPI benefits. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So, I dont think 
better information about the PPI would have put him off taking out the cover. 
 
Overall, I dont believe Mr Bs lost out because of how Capital One sold him the PPI.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 March 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman