DRN-4060914
The complaint
Mr H complains Haven Insurance Company Limited dealt with his motor insurance claims 
unfairly.  
What happened
In April 2022 Mr H made a claim against his Haven motor insurance policy. Some months 
later he complained about a lack of progress. In August 2022 he made a second claim. 
Following that Haven declared his van to be a total loss. In September 2022 it paid him 
around £4,500 as a settlement. 
Mr H felt that amount didnt fairly reflect the market value of the van. He was also of the 
opinion Havens negligence caused loss and damage to various tools and items in his van. 
So he wanted it to pay him for their loss. In November 2022 Haven responded to Mr Hs 
complaint points. It said it had inadvertently closed his April 2022 claim - and had failed to 
keep him informed properly. 
For the August 2022 claim, it said the settlement was fair. It added it had discovered, from 
photos provided by Mr H, what it considered to be modifications to the van. It felt he had 
made a misrepresentation by failing to declare them when taking the policy out. As a result 
Haven said it shouldnt have settled the claim, so wouldnt be offering anything for the lost 
and damaged items.  
Our investigator considered Haven had acted fairly. He felt Mr H had failed to disclose the 
vans modifications. He was persuaded that if Haven had been made aware of them it 
wouldnt have offered cover. So he was satisfied it would, in line with the relevant legislation, 
been fair for it to avoid the policy and decline the claim. The investigator felt, as Haven didnt 
intend to recover the £4,500, it already had done more for him than it needed to. So he didnt 
think it would be fair to recommend it pay a higher settlement for the van  or reimburse 
Mr H for the loss of any tools. Mr H didnt accept that outcome, so the complaint was passed 
to me to decide. 
Mr H also complained about being pursued for insurance premiums. However, those actions 
seem to be the responsibility of his insurance broker. So I havent considered those points in 
this complaint against his insurer, Haven. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The first and key thing for me to consider is if it would be fair, because of misrepresentation, 
for Haven to avoid Mr Hs policy and to decline any claims.  
Mr H says he didnt use his van for commercial purposes. So, as a consumer, the relevant 
legislation for me to consider is the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). However, Im satisfied that even if there was commercial use, Id come to 
the same outcome through consideration of the Insurance Act 2015. 
An insurer can take certain action, like avoiding a policy, if a qualifying misrepresentation 
has been made in line with (CIDRA). 
Ive first considered if there was a misrepresentation. Haven has provided a question it says 
Mr H was asked when taking out the policy  Has the van been modified, adapted and/or 
fitted with any optional extras such as changes to the bodywork, engine or wheels?. Haven 
says Mr H answered No. It seems likely this information was passed on to Haven by the 
broker. And Mr Hs policy schedule says: Details of any Modifications to the Vehicle. No 
modifications are listed in the relevant box.
Haven says Mr H explained, after the August 2022 claim, that he had added a bed with a 
pully system and electrical system. Photos of Mr Hs van confirm this. Mr H denies these are 
modifications. He states they are only temporary and just pieces of string. But I think they 
are a bit more sophisticated and durable than that. The vehicle looks to have been adapted 
for nonstandard use, such as short-term sleeping and occupation. Its reasonable for Haven 
to consider these modifications or adaptions. As far as Im aware Mr H had made these 
changes before taking out the policy. So its fair for Haven to say there was a 
misrepresentation. 
But for Haven to take any action, like avoid the policy and decline a claim, there would need 
to be a qualifying misrepresentation. For that a few things are required. Firstly there must 
have been a failure to take reasonable care not to make the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out several things to be considered when deciding if a consumer took 
reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. One is how specific and clear the 
questions asked were. Another is any relevant explanatory material. 
The question was clear enough. The guidance provided with it question explained A van has 
been modified if its been changed from the manufacturers standard specification in any 
way. Neither the question nor guidance refer to camper van style modifications. But a 
reasonable consumer would have understood what the alterations would likely be 
considered modifications or adaptations. So I think its fair to say Mr H failed to take 
reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation.
Haven also needs to show that without the misrepresentation it wouldnt have offered cover - 
or would have only done so on different terms. Its provided underwriting criteria to show it 
doesnt offer cover to vans modified as a camper van. So Im satisfied it wouldnt have 
offered cover. That means there was a qualifying misrepresentation. 
So I consider it fair and reasonable for Haven to consider it could avoid (treat it as though it 
never existed) the policy and decline any claims. So its statement that the settlement for the 
August 2022 claim shouldnt have been paid is fair. Despite that Havens said it doesnt 
intend to recover the £4,500 paid for the claim. 
Considering that it wouldnt be reasonable, if I did feel Haven was responsible for the loss 
and damage to the various items, to require it cover that loss. Neither would it be, if I did feel 
that settlement didnt reflect the market value of Mr Hs van, to require it to pay him any 
extra.   
It seems Haven did mistakenly fail to progress the April 2022 claim. But Mr H received a total 
loss payment for the van through the August 2022 claim. As far as Im aware no deduction 
for any April 2022 damage was made from the settlement. So Mr H didnt lose out financially by the earlier claim not being paid. And any inconvenience it caused him is offset by it not 
attempting to recover the £4,500 it paid him.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont require Haven Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr H 
anything extra or do anything differently. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2023.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman