DRN-1709980
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain about the fees that they had to pay Bridgewater Acceptances Limited 
when they applied for a secured loan to pay the trustee in Mr Ls bankruptcy.  
What happened
Mr L had been made bankrupt and was discharged but was still required to pay a sum of 
money to his trustee in bankruptcy. Mr and Mrs L had equity in their property which could be 
used for this purpose. So, Mr L approached a broker who contacted an intermediary, 
Bridgewater, which dealt with a lender which loaned money to Mr and Mrs L secured by a 
second charge on their property. 
Several proposals were processed before the application was successful and Mr L and Mrs 
L were able to drawdown his money. Mr and Mrs L had to pay a number of fees to 
Bridgewater:
A processing fee of £350 to process the application 
A commitment fee of 1 % of the amount of the loan offered at offer stage
A completion fee of £4,150 to be deducted from the completion monies
As they say in their email of 9 March 2020, Mr and Mrs L dont object to the completion fee 
or the fee to the lender. Mr and Mrs L, through their broker, approached Bridgewater in 
February 2018 and got an illustration for a loan amount of £70,000 and submitted an 
application and a processing fee of £350.
In June 2018 Mr and Mrs L got an offer for £110,000. Bridgewater charged a commitment 
fee of £110,000 based on the 1% referred to above which Mr and Mrs L paid. But Mr and 
Mrs L say that this offer was withdrawn, and they then got a mortgage offer for £85,000 on 4 
July 2018. Mr and Mrs L paid at completion a further £4,150 to Bridgwater - the completion 
fee referred to above  which was deducted from the mortgage. Following this complaint, 
Bridgewater agreed that it had overcharged Mr and Mrs L £250 as the commitment fee of 1 
% should have been based on the eventual amount of the mortgage offer,£85,000, not on 
the earlier one that Mr and Mrs L didnt proceed with. Our investigator thought that this was a 
fair outcome to this complaint. 
Mr and Mrs L disagreed saying in summary that the processing fees of £350 paid to 
Bridgewater and the commitment fee of £1,110 should be refunded in full as Bridgewater 
charged these on the basis that it was providing a loan but in fact that loan was provided by 
a different Lender which I shall call, in order to maintain anonymity for a business that isnt a 
party to this complaint, Lender A. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im sorry to hear of Mr and Mrs Ls financial difficulties and Ive given this complaint a 
great deal of consideration and requested further information from Bridgewater. But this 
complaint is about whether fees were fairly charged in 2018 not about their present financial 
situation and that is what I have to consider. 
This application had a level of complication that is absent from most mortgages. Normally 
there would be a borrower and a lender or a borrower, broker and a lender but in this case, 
there was a borrower, broker, an intermediary - Bridgewater - and a lender. I suspect this 
level of complication may have been as a result of the nature of the application. I assume 
there may have been some difficulties for Mr and Mrs L getting finance given that Mr L was a 
recently discharged bankrupt dealing with an issue left over from the bankruptcy. So, Mr and 
Mrs Ls broker contacted an intermediary, Bridgewater, rather than a lender directly. 
Bridgewater provides a service that presumably Mr and Mrs Ls broker thought useful but 
charges fees for that service. 
Mr and Mrs Ls complaint is that they should be refunded the processing fee and the 
commitment fee.  Specifically, that they understood that Bridgwater was a lender and 
charged them a processing fee and a commitment fee which they paid understanding them 
to be a lender but as it didnt lend them money, these fees should be returned. 
Bridgewater says that it packages applications for a lender and is not itself a lender. It 
received an application through Mr and Mrs Ls broker and sent out an agreement in 
principle for £70,000. An application then came through from the broker, a valuation was 
organised, and an offer issued on 13 June for £110,000 from Lender A, later reduced to 
£85,000. So, although there was series of figures, in fact there was only one process with 
Bridgewater as the intermediary and one lender, Lender A.
In Mr and Mrs Ls email to us of 15 September 2020, they say that in February 2018 they got 
a loan offer of £70,000 from Bridgewater for which they paid a processing fee of £350 which 
they believe should be returned. But this isn.t a mortgage offer but whats known as an 
agreement in principle  its headed in principle terms for a non-regulated loan - or an 
indication that a mortgage offer may be possible in the future. The £350 is the fee for the 
next step which is to process the application. That application was processed by Bridgewater 
to Lender A. I say this because it leads to a mortgage offer dated 13 June 2020. That offer 
refers to Lender A who is prepared to finance the loan. The initials of Lender A appear 
throughout that offer and its the same lender from whom Mr and Mrs L agree to borrow 
money. I note that in that offer Lender A refers to a further fee that it will charge. 
As I say the structure of this mortgage has a level of complexity greater than a normal 
mortgage. Bridgewater charged fees but always said it would charge fees and it made it 
clear what these fees were. So, even if the transaction was complex these fees were clear. 
But in any case, Mr and Mrs L had the assistance of a broker who would have been 
providing them with advice on the transaction and would have been available to advise on 
what these fees were for. 
Mr and Mrs L paid a processing fee to process the mortgage application which was 
processed. Mr and Mrs L say that the transaction was cancelled but thats not the case. It 
was processed and a mortgage offer issued and then a revised offer issued, and monies 
were paid to Mr and Mrs L to facilitate the payment to the bankruptcy trustee. So, I consider 
its unfair to require Bridgewater to refund that fee. 
Mr and Mrs L paid a commitment fee that they say wasnt due to Bridgewater because it was 
supposed to lend them the money and didnt. But Bridgewater was never lending the money. 
Even if Mr and Mrs L mistakenly assumed that this was a fee for Bridgewater for lending the 
money, they paid this fee on foot of the mortgage offer of 13 June. It was clear from the offer that Lender A not Bridgewater was lending the money.  Although Mr and Mrs L say that the 
commitment fee should be refunded because the offer was withdrawn, the offer was in fact 
amended with the same lender - Lender A - as the withdrawn offer. It was for a lower amount 
and as the commitment fee was based on a percentage of the offer, there should have been 
a partial refund from when the lower offer issued of £250. But I disagree that the 
commitment fee should be refunded in full.
As the offer from Bridgewater followed our involvement and the money has not yet been 
paid, according to our practice, I will be upholding this complaint and require Bridgewater to 
pay Mr and Mrs L £250. Bridgewater should also pay interest on this sum at a rate of 8 % pa 
from 14 June 2018 when Mr and Mrs L paid the commitment fee until 10 December 2019 
when Bridgewater made the offer of the refund and the offer was communicated to Mr and 
Mrs L. As Mr and Mrs L did not want to accept the refund at that stage, and Ive not decided 
that Bridgewater should pay a higher amount, I believe that this is the fair way to deal with 
the question of interest. Except for not partially refunding the commitment fee, which 
Bridgewater offered to rectify following our involvement, I cant say that it has done anything 
wrong that would require a further award and I believe that this offer represents a fair 
outcome to this complaint. 
Putting things right
Bridgewater Acceptances Limited should pay Mr and Mrs L £250 together with interest on 
that sum at 8% pa from 14 June 2018 until 10 December 2019.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 March 2021.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman