DRN-2555596
The complaint
Mr S has complained about Haven Insurance Company Limited. He isnt happy about the 
amount of time it took to repair his car following a claim under his taxi insurance policy. 
  
What happened
I considered this complaint in full previously and set out my thoughts in my provisional 
decision just over a month ago. In summary I said; 
Mr S was involved in an accident and made a claim under his insurance policy. As the claim 
was his fault he wasnt entitled to a courtesy car. 
But Haven took over three months to repair his car which had a knock-on effect on his 
business. The claim was complicated by the fact that Mr Ss car had a theft marker on it 
which was applied by another insurer which delayed the repair of his car. And then the 
physical repair of his car took a further few months. 
Haven apologised for the time taken but Mr S felt he should be compensated for the delay 
and complained to this service. Our investigator looked into things for him but didnt uphold 
his complaint. Although he acknowledged the delays he was satisfied that Haven hadnt 
done anything wrong.
As Mr S didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I presently think that the
complaint should be upheld in part. Ill explain why and give both parties chance to comment
before I finalise my decision.
Although I can understand why Haven took so long to repair Mr Ss car I feel it couldve done
more to expedite things. I say this as although it couldnt control the theft marker that had
been placed on the car, which understandably delayed things, it couldve done more to
advance the repair of the car as soon as it was clarified that the marker shouldnt have been
against Mr Ss car.
It took a couple of months to clarify that Mr Ss car hadnt been stolen which was
unfortunate. But Haven didnt put the marker on and chased the police and the previous
insurer about this, so I cant say it acted unreasonably here. However, once it became clear
that the theft marker was placed in error I wouldve expected the repairs to have been
prioritised. Haven shouldve ensured that its repairer was ready to get on with things and that
there wasnt any further delay. Ive seen a number of delays in gaining parts and finalising
the repair which meant there was a further delay in the return of Mr Ss car.
Although I dont think that Haven are responsible for all the delays I think it was responsible
for some of the delay. So, I think Haven should compensate Mr S for some of the delays and
pay some loss of use for the time he was without his car. As such, I think Haven should pay
Mr S £700 compensation which includes loss of use for some of the time taken to repair his
vehicle.
Replies
Both Mr S and Haven responded to say that they agreed with the position outlined above 
and that they didnt have any further comment.
   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both sides agree with the position outlined in my provisional decision and didnt provide 
any further comment I see no reason to change my position and I uphold this complaint.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that Im upholding this complaint. I require Haven 
Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr S £700 compensation.    
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2021.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman