DRN-3761808
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Revolut Ltd declined to raise a chargeback in relation to her debit card 
payment for a tour that was not what had been described when she paid for it.
What happened
In December 2021, while Mrs C was on holiday overseas, she paid her hotel for a guided 
tour on a boat for herself and three other adults. She paid $476 with her Revolut debit card. 
It was supposed to be an all day tour and was meant to include snorkelling in shallow water 
for non-swimmers. But on the day of the tour, after she got on the boat, it turned out to be a 
two or three hour tour only, and the snorkelling was in deep and choppy water which was 
unsuitable for non-swimmers.
Mrs C asked Revolut to refund her purchase, as the service she had paid for had not been 
what was described. She also said she had been overcharged by $40, as the advertised 
price had been $109 per adult. But Revolut did not raise a chargeback. It said that the 
chargeback rules only allowed a refund for a service which was not as described if the 
cardholder cancelled the service. Since Mrs C hadnt cancelled the service, Revolut said 
there was nothing it could do under the chargeback scheme.
Mrs C said that was ridiculous, because she hadnt known that the service was not going to 
be what was described until after she had got on the boat, and by then it was too late. She 
pointed out that she could hardly be expected to jump off the boat and swim to shore. And 
she said Revolut had failed to deal with the fact that the tour provider had overcharged her. 
She referred this complaint to our service. (That was quite some time ago, and I would like to 
take this opportunity to apologise to both parties for how long it has taken to conclude this 
case.)
One of our investigators considered this complaint, but decided not to uphold it. She said 
that Mrs C had no remedy under the chargeback rules, because she had not cancelled the 
service. As a chargeback claim would not have succeeded, Revolut did not have to raise 
one. Mrs C was dissatisfied with that answer, and she asked for an ombudsman to review 
this case.
I wrote a provisional decision which read as follows.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Revolut has no discretion to depart from the chargeback rules, which have to be strictly 
followed. Where a dispute is raised on the ground that the service provided was not as 
described, a chargeback can normally only succeed if the cardholder cancelled the service. 
However, there is an exception to this is in footnote 2 in rule 11.10.4.2, which says:
For Disputes related to services that cannot be cancelled, the Cardholder 
must request a credit from the Merchant.1
Mrs C has provided evidence that she did that at the time. This is an incident report dated 14 
December 2021, consisting of handwritten notes on a printed form with the hotels 
letterhead. After setting out what was wrong with the tour, Mrs C wrote that she wanted a full 
refund. She has told me that she sent a copy of this form to Revolut  (but I will enclose a 
copy with this decision for Revoluts ease of reference).
Based on that evidence, I currently think that Revolut should have raised a chargeback 
dispute. I dont think that Mrs C would have got a full refund, because a tour was still 
provided, but as the tour was considerably shorter than was advertised I think that a partial 
refund might have been obtainable. So I am minded to uphold this complaint on that basis.
(There is a separate chargeback reason for overcharging, but it only applies if the service is 
cancelled, and there is no exception. So no chargeback dispute could have been raised for 
that issue.)
So my provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this complaint. Subject to any further 
representations I receive from the parties  I intend to order Revolut Ltd to refund a portion 
of Mrs Cs debit card payment.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs C said that she should get at least 50 per cent of what she had paid. Revolut had 
nothing to add. So there is no reason for me to depart from my provisional findings, and 
I confirm them here.
It just remains for me to decide what proportion of the price should be refunded. I take into 
account the fact that a tour was still provided, but that it was disappointing. Food was still 
provided, albeit that this was a lunch menu served at 10:30. The tour was also shorter than 
advertised, but I think that this shortcoming is mitigated by the fact that this left Mrs Cs party 
with enough time left in the afternoon to do other things. However, snorkelling for 
inexperienced swimmers was advertised as part of the tour, and I think that this would have 
been a key attraction of the advertised experience. This was not provided, and so I think this 
justifies refunding more than half of the price. I think that 60% is fair compensation overall. 
So I will order Revolut to refund 60% of the sterling value of the transaction.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Revolut Ltd to pay Mrs C $285.60 (or the 
sterling equivalent).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman
1 See Visa Core Rules and Visa Product and Service Rules, 17 October 2020, page 724.