DRN-1979432
Complaint
Miss M has complained that Match the Cash Limited (Match the Cash) unfairly provided 
her with unaffordable guarantor loans. She says any checks would have shown that shes 
already defaulted on numerous other credit commitments and that she already had a 
guarantor loan. 
Background
Match the Cash operated the electronic system in relation to lending which led to Miss M 
being provided with a first guarantor loan in March 2015. The loan was for £2,000.00. From 
what I can see Miss M settled this loan early in May 2015, with some of the proceeds from a 
second loan of £2,500.00 which Match the Cash arranged in May 2015. Match the Cash 
arranged a final loan of £4,000.00 in March 2016. All of these loans were due to be repaid in 
36 monthly instalments.
Miss Ms complaint was reviewed by one of our adjudicators. She thought that Match the 
Cash ought to have seen that Miss M wasnt in a position to sustainably repay any of these 
loans at the time it arranged them. So she upheld the complaint. 
Match the Cash disagreed with our adjudicators view. So the complaint was passed to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
The regulatory framework
Regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority (from 1 April 2014)
Match the Cash operated an electronic system in relation to lending which resulted in Miss M 
being provided with these loans when the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was 
responsible for the regulation of credit related regulated activities. Match the Cashs interim 
permission to operate an electronic system in relation to lending and its eventual 
authorisation to do so meant that it was subject to the FCA rules and regulations from 1 April 
2014.
the FCA Principles for Business (PRIN)
The FCAs Principles for Business set out the overarching requirements which all authorised 
firms are required to comply with.
PRIN 1.1.1G, says
The Principles apply in whole or in part to every firm.
The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. And the most relevant principles here 
are PRIN 2.1.1 R (2) which says: 
A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
And PRIN 2.1.1 R (6) which says: 
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
the Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC)
This sets out the rules and guidance which apply to firms which operate an electronic system 
in relation to lending like Match the Cash when doing so. CONC 5 sets out a firms 
obligations in relation to responsible lending. 
Section 5.5.3R(2) of CONC sets out what a firm needs to do before making a P2P 
agreement such as Miss Ms. It says a firm must consider:
(a) the potential for the commitments under the P2P agreement to adversely impact 
the prospective borrowers financial situation, taking into account the information 
of which the firm is aware at the time the P2P agreement is to be made; and
(b) the ability of the prospective borrower to make repayments as they fall due over 
the life of the P2P agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end 
agreement, to make repayments within a reasonable period.
CONC 5.5.4R says:
Where CONC 5.5.3 R applies to a firm, the firm must comply with CONC 5.3.2 R, CONC 
5.3.4 R, CONC 5.3.5 R, CONC 5.3.6 R and CONC 5.3.7 R to the same extent as if it were 
the lender under an agreement to which those rules apply and should take into account 
the guidance in CONC 5.3 to the same extent, and should also take into account CONC 
5.2.3 G and CONC 5.2.4 G treating them as guidance on CONC 5.5.3 R.
CONC 5.2.4G(2) includes guidance on the proportionality of assessments and says:
A firm should consider what is appropriate in any particular circumstances dependent on, for 
example, the type and amount of credit being sought and the potential risks to the customer. 
The risk of credit not being sustainable directly relates to the amount of credit granted and 
the total charge for credit relative to the customers financial situation.
[Note: paragraph 4.11 and part of 4.16 of ILG]
CONC 5.3 contains further guidance on what a lender should bear in mind when thinking 
about affordability. 
CONC 5.3.1G(1) says:
In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R 
(1), a firm should take into account more than assessing the customers ability to repay the 
credit.
[Note: paragraph 4.2 of ILG]CONC 5.3.1G(2) then says:
The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1) should 
include the firm taking reasonable steps to assess the customers ability to meet repayments 
under a regulated credit agreement in a sustainable manner without the customer incurring 
financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences.
[Note: paragraph 4.1 (box) and 4.2 of ILG]
CONC 5.3.1G(6) goes on to say:
 
For the purposes of CONC sustainable means the repayments under the regulated credit 
agreement can be made by the customer:
(a) without undue difficulties, in particular:
(i) the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments; and
(ii) without having to borrow to meet the repayments;
(b) over the life of the agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end 
agreement, within a reasonable period; and
(c)  out of income and savings without having to realise security or assets; and
unsustainable has the opposite meaning.
[Note: paragraph 4.3 and 4.4 of ILG]
In respect of the need to double-check information disclosed by applicants, CONC 5.3.1G(4) 
has a reference to paragraphs 4.13, 4.14, and 4.15 of ILG and states:
(a) it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the  
customers income and expenditure on a statement of those matters made by the 
customer.
And CONC 5.3.7R says that:
A firm must not accept an application for credit under a regulated credit agreement where 
the firm knows or ought reasonably to suspect that the customer has not been truthful in 
completing the application in relation to information supplied by the customer relevant to the 
creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1).
[Note: paragraph 4.31 of ILG]
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Taking into account the relevant rules and guidance, I think there are two overarching 
questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this particular complaint. These two overarching questions are:
Did Match the Cash complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy 
itself that Miss M would be able to meet her obligations under the P2P 
agreements in a sustainable way? 
oIf so, did it make a fair decision?
oIf not, would those checks have shown that Miss M wouldve been able to 
do so?
Did Match the Cash act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
If I determine that Match the Cash didnt act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Miss M 
and that she has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
Did Match the Cash complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that    
Miss M would be able to meet her obligations under the P2P agreements in a sustainable 
way? 
The rules and regulations when Match the Cash made these P2P agreements with Miss M 
required it to carry out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether she could 
afford to repay her loan in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to 
as an affordability assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Match the Cash had to think about whether 
repaying the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Miss M. 
In practice this meant that Match the Cash had to ensure that making the payments to the 
loan wouldnt cause Miss M undue difficulty or adverse consequences. 
In other words, it wasnt enough for Match the Cash to simply think about the likelihood of 
Miss M making payments, it had to consider the impact of loan repayments on Miss M. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the application. In 
general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different 
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an 
extended period); and 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. 
Ive carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.
Were Match the Cashs checks reasonable and proportionate?
Match the Cash has said that it completed an income and expenditure assessment with   
Miss M. Before arranging these loans. It also carried out credit checks to work out what  
Miss Ms existing credit commitments were as well requesting and receiving bank 
statements from her too. Having seen copies of the documentation, Im satisfied that Match 
the Cash did receive this information too.
So bearing in mind Match the Cash obtained a significant amount of information on Miss Ms
circumstances, Im satisfied that it did carry out proportionate checks  at least in terms of
the information requested  before providing these loans to Miss M.
Did Match the Cash make fair lending decisions?
It isnt enough for a lender to simply request information from a consumer before deciding to
lend to them. So even if a lender may have requested a proportionate amount of information,
it may still be the case that it will not have acted fairly and reasonably towards that consumer
if it didnt carry out a fair and reasonable evaluation of the information it obtained.
I say this because a lender is required to carry out an assessment of the borrowers ability to
repay any credit advanced. And any assessment requires an evaluation, judgement,
appraisal and scrutiny of any information obtained. Match the Cash says its assessment of 
the information obtained led it to conclude that Miss Ms loans were affordable for her as 
shed be able to sustainably make her repayments.
Ive carefully considered what Match the Cash has said and when doing so Ive also
scrutinised the supporting information it has provided
Loan 1
Having reviewed the assessment for loan 1, I can see Miss M confirmed that she had a 
monthly income of around £1,200.00 and existing commitments of £955.00, which included 
£400 for rent food and housekeeping costs. Match the Cashs own assessment shows that 
Miss M would be left with £65.22 after all the declared commitments and the payments to 
this loan were met.
Ive thought about what Match the Cash has said. But Im mindful that the expenditure didnt 
include anything payments at all towards the 7 defaulted accounts which appeared on the 
credit check Match the Cash carried out. So Im struggling to see how Match the Cash 
concluded that it was reasonable for Miss M to be provided with even more credit in these 
circumstances. I say this this because Match the Cash was required to establish whether 
Miss M could sustainably make her loan repayments  not just whether the loan payments 
were technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication that a 
consumer could sustainably make the repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. And as a borrower shouldnt have to borrow further in order to make their 
payments, it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, 
that a borrower wont be able to sustainably make their repayments if it is on notice that they 
are unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
In this instance, not only did Miss M have a number of defaults on her credit file but the 
statement Match the Cash obtained also showed that Miss M was regularly in her overdraft. 
Indeed I note that Miss M was also already paying in excess £200 a month to an existing 
guarantor loan. 
In my view, it was clear that Miss M wasnt managing to sustainably repay the debt that she 
already had. So bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that the available information 
demonstrated that wasnt in a position to take on anymore debt and so Match the Cashs 
lending decision which resulted in loan 1 being provided wasnt fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Loans 2 and 3
Match the Cash arranged loan 2 a couple of months after loan 1. And bearing in mind the 
close proximity between the applications for loans 1 and 2 Miss Ms financial position 
understandably wasnt much different. Bearing in mind the reasons why I found it was unfair 
for Match the Cash to have arranged loan 1 and the monthly payments for loan 2 were 
higher than those for loan 1, Im satisfied that Match the Cash also unfairly when bring about 
loan 2 for Miss M.
Loan 3 was arranged some ten months after loan two. By this stage Miss M had defaulted 
on a further credit account which, in my view, further demonstrated her inability to manage 
her existing credit commitments. For much the same reasons as for loans 1 and 2, Im 
satisfied that Match the Case brought about this loan in circumstances where it ought to 
have seen that Miss M would not have been able to make the loan repayment to this loan 
without borrowing further and/or suffering undue difficulty. 
Indeed Miss M was advanced double the amount for her first loan and her monthly payments 
were more than twice the amount, despite her bank statements and credit file indicating that 
her position was worsening. As this is the case, Im satisfied that Match the Cashs lending 
decision which resulted in loan 3 being provided was also unfair. 
Did Match the Cash act unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss M in some other way?
Ive carefully thought about everything provided. Having done so, Ive not seen anything here 
that leads me to conclude Match the Cash acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss M in 
some other way.  
So I find that Match the Cash didnt act unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss M in some 
other way.  
Conclusions
Overall and having carefully thought about the two overarching questions, set out on page 
four of this decision, I find that Match the Cash:
did complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Miss M to satisfy itself that she 
was able to repay her loans; didnt make fair lending decisions as the information gathered demonstrated that 
Miss M was more likely than not unable to sustainably make the repayments for 
these loans;
didnt also act unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss M in some other way.
The above findings leave me concluding that Match the Cash unfairly and unreasonably 
brought about the guarantor loans Miss M was provided with in March 2015, May 2015 and 
March 2016.
Did Miss M lose out as a result of Match the Cash unfairly and unreasonably arranging for 
her to be provided with her guarantor loans?
I think that these loans had the effect of unfairly increasing Miss Ms indebtedness as they 
led to her to being given expensive credit she couldnt afford to repay. These loans werent 
cheap  certainly when compared to the rates typically offered by mainstream lenders - the 
monthly payments, which also included interest and charges, took up a significant proportion 
of Miss Ms income at a time where she was already struggling to make ends meet. 
So I find that Miss M did suffer adverse consequences and as a result lost out because     
Match the Cash unfairly arranged these loans.
  
Fair compensation  what Match the Cash needs to do to put things right for Miss M
Ive carefully thought about what Match the Cash should do to put things right in this case.
Match the Cash says it only received an arrangement fee as a result of operating the
platform and that any interest Mrs T paid was passed directly to the lenders on the platform. 
In its view, this means that the arrangement fee is all Mrs T is entitled to as a result of her 
complaint being upheld.
However, Ive already explained that Mrs T loss as a result of Match the Cash not acting
fairly and reasonably towards her when operating the lending system which brought about
these guarantor loans, is all the interest and charges shes paid. I dont think the fact that the 
interest may have gone to the lenders on the platform, rather than Match the Cash means it 
isnt responsible for these losses, or that its fair and reasonable for Mrs T to bear the cost of 
this.
So having considered everything, including Match the Cashs submissions in relation to what
it considers to be fair compensation in this case, I think it is fair and reasonable for Match the
Cash to put things right for Mrs T in the following way:
refund all the interest, fees and charges Miss M paid on these loans;
add interest at 8% per year simple on any interest, fees and charges paid on loan 
one from the date they were paid by Miss M to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ms credit file as a result of 
these loans.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Match the Cash to take off tax from this interest. Match 
the Cash must give Miss M a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for 
one.
  My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss Ms complaint. Match the Cash Limited 
should put things right for Miss M in the way Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 February 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman