DRN-4007946
The complaint
Mrs C complains about the way Santander UK Plc handled her request for a refund of 
money she paid towards a holiday that went wrong.
What happened
In September 2019 Mrs C used her Santander credit card to pay £1,700 towards a holiday
booked with a travel agent Ill call L. The holiday was a package made up of flights and
accommodation for a party of 12 people over two separate bookings. The total cost of the
holiday was around £7,500. The holiday took place within a few days of the booking for
around a fortnight. The booking information shows Mrs C was not the party that made the 
booking with it but was a part of the travelling party.
Mrs C said she called L to make her payment and the rest of the holiday was paid for by
other parties to the booking.
Mrs C said that when she arrived at her destination the taxi driver could not locate her hotel
(Ill call this hotel A). She said after driving around for a while she was eventually dropped at
another hotel (which Ill call hotel B). Mrs C said the reception staff at hotel B told her she 
was booked to stay there.
Mrs C said she could tell straight away that hotel B was not the hotel that had been booked
with L. She said the facilities were of a much lower standard than those promised, and many
services promised at hotel A were not available. She said most of the party also became
very sick from the food. Mrs C said she eventually located the site of hotel A but it was a
building site and clearly not finished. A few days later a member of Mrs Cs party contacted L
to express their dissatisfaction. L said it would get back to the party, but it appears this did 
not happen.
When she returned from the holiday Mrs C asked L for a refund of the sum shed paid, plus
compensation for loss of enjoyment and the additional expenses she incurred on taxis and
having to eat out at local restaurants. L paid around £70 to Mrs C but its not clear what this
was for.
In July 2020 Mrs C asked Santander to help get her money back. Santander said it had
considered a claim under Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75) but it couldnt 
help Mrs C. It said the necessary criteria for a claim had not been met because Mrs Cs 
transaction with L was not financed by a debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) agreement. 
I issued a provisional decision in February 2023 explaining why I thought the complaint 
should be upheld in part. I explained, in summary:
There were two main ways Santander could have recovered funds Mrs C paid using 
her credit card  via the chargeback process and by considering a claim under 
Section 75. 
A chargeback was unlikely to have succeeded because it didnt meet the necessary 
conditions under the relevant card scheme rules and would likely have been 
defended as a result. The scheme rules set out that one had to be raised within 120 
days of the end of Mrs Cs holiday. By the time Mrs C made Santander aware of her 
dispute she was already outside of this time. 
Santander had treated Mrs C unfairly by declining to meet her claim at all under 
Section 75. 
A DCS agreement  necessary for a valid claim under Section 75  was made out in 
this case. Even though Mrs L wasnt the principal booking party, Ls terms and 
conditions were worded in such a way that they appeared to make Mrs C a party to 
the contract with it. This was because they appeared to include Mrs C within the 
definition of user and the contract included a number of obligations to this category 
of person  such as what it would do if things went wrong. 
Ls terms and conditions said that in the event it was unable to provide an essential 
part of the holiday package it had to provide alternative services to Mrs C. If those 
alternative services were of a lower value than those originally purchased, it had to 
refund the difference. Or if Mrs C rejected the alternative services, L had to fly her 
home and pay her a refund for the part of the package she didnt receive.
The Package Travel and Linked Travel Arrangements Regulations 2018 (PTR) also 
made L liable to Mrs C for the performance of the different travel services in the 
package and implied similar obligations to Ls terms and conditions when a 
significant part of the package could not be performed.  
I was persuaded hotel A did not appear to have been built when Mrs C arrived at it.
It was unlikely L had arranged to put Mrs C in hotel B. It seemed more likely on the 
facts that the owners of hotel A and hotel B (who appeared to be the same company 
or group of companies) had arranged this between them before Mrs C departed and 
without telling her. 
I was persuaded that hotel B was most likely of a lower quality and therefore a lower 
value than hotel A. Mrs C had provided photographs of dirty and poorly maintained 
facilities along with plausible and consistent testimony that the facilities that should 
have been available in hotel A were not available in hotel B.  
When Mrs Cs party contacted L to explain they were unhappy that they had been 
placed in hotel B, L didnt do anything to help them. 
It appeared therefore that L had breached its contract with Mrs C because it had 
failed to provide an essential part of the package and then failed to provide an 
alternative. And even if it could be argued that it did provide an alternative, it failed to 
refund the likely difference in value between the two hotels. 
In assessing Mrs Cs losses, I took account of the fact that Mrs C was not the 
booking party and therefore it appeared unlikely shed have been able to claim sums 
paid to L in excess of the value of her share of the holiday. 
Mrs Cs share in this case was the cost of her accommodation, (shed used the 
flights). In the absence of an itemised breakdown of each service on the booking 
invoice the investigator worked out the likely cost of Mrs Cs share of the 
accommodation by pricing up similar flights, deducting that from the overall cost of 
the package and dividing the remainder into three (the total number of rooms booked 
under Mrs Cs booking). I found that to be a reasonable way of calculating things in 
this case.
As Mrs C had received some benefit from the hotel she stayed in (albeit limited given 
its quality) I thought it was reasonable to attribute some value to this. 
I acknowledged there was no exact science to the calculation but found 50% of the 
cost of Mrs Cs accommodation to represent a fair reflection of this benefit. 
I therefore found that it would be fair and reasonable for Santander to pay Mrs C 
£416.67 in respect of her accommodation costs.
Mrs C had claimed for loss of enjoyment. I explained that courts have been known to 
make awards for things like this in cases involving holiday contracts  albeit modest 
ones. Given everything Mrs C had told us about her and her direct familys experience at hotel B I thought she had suffered a loss of enjoyment. So, I thought it 
was fair that Santander pay Mrs C £200 to reflect this. 
Although Mrs C had claimed the cost of taxis and meals she incurred while she was 
away, I hadnt seen enough evidence that these had been paid personally by Mrs C.  
I therefore planned to tell Santander to pay Mrs C a total of £616.67 plus interest of 
8% simple per annum from the date it turned down her claim until the date of 
settlement. 
Mrs C said she didnt agree with my provisional decision. But she didnt provide any new 
comments or evidence for me to consider.
Santander said it had nothing further to add. 
The complaint has therefore been returned to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mrs C nor Santander made any new comments or provided any additional 
evidence in response to my provisional decision, I see no reason to change the conclusion I 
reached therein. 
So, for the reasons I gave in my provisional decision, as summarised above, I find 
Santander treated Mrs C unfairly by declining to meet her claim for a refund. I find it would 
be fair and reasonable for Santander to treat Mrs C as if it had met her claim to the extent I 
have set out in the summary of my provisional decision above and pay her £616.67 plus 
interest. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Cs complaint in part. To put things right Santander UK 
Plc must pay Mrs C £616.67 plus 8% simple interest per year from 10 September 2020 until 
the date of settlement*.
*If Santander UK Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs C how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mrs C a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 
Michael Ball
Ombudsman