DRN-4116115
The complaint
Ms N complains about how U K Insurance Limited trading as NIG (UKI) handled and settled 
her claim on her home insurance policy.
What happened
Ms N is the leaseholder of a property that benefits from a home insurance policy thats 
underwritten by UKI. In February 2022 she made a claim after an escape of water from her 
kitchen sink which caused significant damage to the property. 
UKI accepted the claim and agreed to let Ms N appoint her own builder and UKI would pay 
for the repairs. However it didnt agree to make payment upfront and instead asked Ms N to 
provide invoices as work was completed. Ms N didnt agree to this as she didnt have the 
funds to pay for the work before reimbursement, so UKI agreed to make a part payment of 
around £23,000 so she could start the work. 
However Ms N was unhappy with how UKI had handled other elements of the claim. She 
said the loss adjuster had cut her out of communication with her builder which was 
unprofessional and created a conflict of interest. She also said she had managed to secure a 
discount on the new kitchen she required but this had expired due to the delay in UKI paying 
settlement which meant it was now more expensive. She also said that it took too long for 
UKI to make a decision about whether the flooring would be covered. And she was unhappy 
with the delays and poor service it had provided overall. 
She made a complaint which UKI upheld. It agreed it had provided poor service at times, 
however it didnt offer any compensation or redress. It responded separately to address Ms 
Ns points about the floor and the kitchen. It thought the settlement it had offered for the 
kitchen was fair and didnt agree to increase this based on the lost discount. And it agreed to 
cover the cost of the flooring as part of the buildings cover. 
Unhappy with this, Ms N brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered the issues and recommended Ms Ns complaint be upheld. He 
thought it should pay the full cost owed for the kitchen at the non-discounted rate. He also 
thought it should pay £300 compensation for the poor service and delays. And it should pay 
the remaining settlement amount on receipt of the required evidence from Ms N.
However he didnt think UKI had acted unreasonably by paying the settlement on receipt of 
invoices, as it explained this is a requirement from the council who arranges the insurance 
policy. 
Ms N didnt agree with our investigators outcome. She responded and raised a number of 
issues, in summary she said:
UKI should pay the full settlement upfront as the policy doesnt say this will only be 
released when invoices are received. She said UKI had changed its reasons for why 
it was unable to do this on numerous occasions and it hadnt been transparent.
UKIs loss adjuster inappropriately interfered with Ms Ns builder, including offering to 
pay him directly rather than making payment through Ms N which she said 
undermined her position with the builder.
UKIs delays to agreeing to settle the flooring has led to the cost of the flooring 
increasing and meant Ms N had to raise a complaint through this service in order to 
get it addressed. 
The compensation offered doesnt recognise the distress the matter has caused Ms 
N. 
UKI responded to say that it didnt agree it had caused unreasonable delays in the 
settlement of the kitchen, so didnt think it should pay the undiscounted cost. 
As agreement hasnt been reached, the complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms N has provided a lot of information in relation to this complaint. As this is an informal 
service, I wont respond to every point she has raised individually. Instead Ive focussed on 
what I consider key to my outcome. However I want to reassure Ms N that Ive read and 
considered everything she has submitted when reaching my decision.
Claim payment
I understand Ms Ns frustration at how UKI has settled her claim. It was her preference to 
have payment upfront so that she could project manage the claim and arrange the work 
directly with her builder. And that isnt unreasonable. 
However the policy that Ms N is a beneficiary for is provided by the freeholder  the council. 
And it is a requirement of the council that work is completed before payment is made. So 
UKI hasnt acted unreasonably by following the requirement of its policyholder. 
Further, following concerns raised by Ms N UKI arranged payment based on a quote for the 
work, rather than an invoice showing it had been completed. And made an interim payment 
to Ms N so that work could commence. Considering the work was going to cost a significant 
amount of money, I agree this was fair in the circumstances. I therefore dont agree UKI has 
acted unreasonably in how it has paid the settlement of the claim. 
Ms N has raised that since the quote for the work was put together, prices are likely to have 
increased. So she thinks costs should be reassessed at new market rates. However UKI 
issued the first claim settlement in May 2022 and it is unclear whether Ms N has had the 
initial work completed that this payment was for. It therefore wouldnt be fair to ask UKI to 
pay increased costs if Ms N has caused a delay by not having the first work carried out. 
Further UKI has not had the opportunity to review any new quotes and validate them. I 
therefore think it reasonable that UKI pay the settlement at the cost of the original quote, on 
receipt of the required evidence from Ms N.
However if Ms N can show that cost of the remaining work has increased due to the delays 
caused by UKI, she should provide this evidence for it to consider. Should she be unhappy 
with UKIs decision on this, then she would be able to bring any further complaint for this service to consider separately.  
Kitchen
Ms N has said that she managed to secure a significant discount on a new kitchen, but 
because it took UKI some time to arrange settlement, she lost out on this as it was time 
limited. 
UKI has said that Ms N didnt give it reasonable time to review, approve and pay the invoice, 
so it shouldnt be penalised for the discount expiring. However I dont agree. Ms N has 
explained the discount was originally available for 14 days after the quote, but this was 
extended to 28 days at her request. So while she may have provided the quote to UKI four 
days after it was obtained, this still allowed UKI ample time to validate it.
Further, I can see from the emails provided that Ms N made UKI aware of the time critical 
nature of the quote. And UKI confirmed to her that it would cover any difference should the 
discount be lost due to any delays. However it then proceeded to settle the claim at the 
discounted rate.
Based on this I dont think UKI has acted fairly in the settlement its offered for the kitchen. 
Its clear that UKI were aware of the time limit on the discount and had previously agreed to 
make up the difference if it was missed. And Ive not seen any reason for the delay to the 
settlement being paid. I therefore agree with our investigator that UKI should pay the total 
amount covered under the policy for the kitchen, at the non-discounted rate, less any 
amount that has already been paid. For avoidance of doubt, this should be 100% of the cost 
of the damaged units plus 50% of those that were undamaged, as previously agreed. 
Flooring
When assessing the claim, UKI has said that it needed to determine whether the flooring 
was fixed in order to conclude if it would be covered under the policy as buildings, rather 
than contents. As the policy that covers Ms Ns property is a buildings only policy, this is a 
necessary consideration.
However I agree this took UKI an unreasonable amount of time to determine. Especially 
considering Ms Ns comments that this was concluded as being covered under buildings by 
its loss adjuster in one of the first visits. So I agree UKI caused a delay that could have been 
avoided here. Ive also considered what Ms N has said about the impact this has had on her 
 shes had to continually chase UKI and has only received a claim decision since the matter 
came to this service. I agree this will have caused her some distress and inconvenience and 
Ive considered this when deciding appropriate compensation. 
Service
I can see this claim has caused Ms N some considerable distress. UKI has taken a long time 
to make decisions on the claim and both it and its loss adjuster have done a poor job of 
keeping her informed about the progress of the claim. As it was Ms Ns wish that she 
appointed her own builders, so that she could project manage the claim, this would have 
been particularly frustrating and distressing. 
And while I understand why UKIs loss adjuster opted to speak to Ms Ns builder directly, this 
left her uninformed and caused Ms N to feel that her builder was being unduly influenced 
which would have been distressing. 
Further, while UKI has paid part of the claim upfront so that Ms N could start the works, it took a long time for it to reach this decision and make payment. This put additional pressure 
on Ms N and meant that she had to keep chasing UKI for a decision on items such as the 
kitchen and flooring.
Based on this, I agree with our investigators recommendation that UKI pay £300 
compensation to apologise for the distress and inconvenience it caused. As this is in line 
with our approach to complaints of a similar nature.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Ms Ns complaint and direct U K Insurance Limited  
trading as NIG to:
Pay Ms N the cost of the kitchen at the full price of the quote with the discount 
removed. This should be based on 100% of the cost of the damaged units and 50% 
of those that are undamaged, less any amount already paid.
Pay Ms N the remaining part of the settlement, including the cost of replacement 
flooring, on receipt of the required evidence from Ms N.
 Pay Ms N £300 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman