DRN-1540728
The complaint
Mr Y is unhappy with the bank account service he received from Bank of Scotland Plc 
(trading as the Halifax).
What happened
Mr Y experienced a number of problems with his Halifax account. Our investigator set these 
out in detail in her opinion on this complaint and subsequent correspondence. So I don't 
propose to repeat them again here in detail. In summary though, the main issues that Mr Y 
was concerned about included the delays in sending him a new debit card following a 
fraudulent transaction on his account, some duplicated account entries and an unidentified 
credit to his account of £3.
Our investigator looked into Mr Y's complaint in detail but didn't think that it should be 
upheld. Mr Y didn't agree and has said he considers our investigator was biased towards the 
bank and that he should be due some compensation for the trouble and upset he was put to. 
So he requested an ombudsman's decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I'm afraid that Mr Y will be disappointed to hear that I won't be upholding his complaint, and 
for substantially the same reasons as our investigator. I'll explain why.
I appreciate that Mr Y is concerned that the Halifax should have done more to get his new 
debit card to him sooner. It's unfortunate that there was a fraudulent transaction on Mr Y's 
account. And this was made all the worse because it was in the run up to the Christmas 
holiday season. Having reviewed the Halifax's records, it does appear that a new card was 
issued to Mr Y shortly after he reported the fraud. And this was sent out by first class post 
through the Royal Mail. But he didn't receive it.
I know that Mr Y holds the Halifax responsible for this. But mail does get lost in the post. And 
in the run up to Christmas there's of course considerably more mail flowing through the 
system. I can't really speculate about what happened to his card, although things do 
occasionally go missing, particularly at busy times when there are temporary staff working 
for Royal Mail. So the card didn't arrive and when Mr Y told the Halifax this, it was 
subsequently cancelled with no transactions appearing on it.
A new card was issued and again this was sent out by post. It did ultimately arrive but sadly 
not until after Christmas. Again, I can't hold the Halifax responsible for delays in the post -
and there were also intervening public holidays. I appreciate that being without the card was 
inconvenient for Mr Y. But these problems all stemmed from a fraudulent transaction on Mr 
Y's card. That wasn't his fault but it also wasn't the Halifax's. The trouble with the post and 
the loss of the first card was again outside of the Halifax's control. So I don't think that it 
needs to compensate Mr Y for those delays.The other matters that concerned Mr Y included a duplicate pending payment for a fast food 
restaurant - that ultimately didn't debit Mr Y's account - and two payments to a train company 
on the same day. I don't think Halifax did anything wrong here as the payment requests were 
under the control of the relevant merchants and not the Halifax.  I understand why Mr Y was 
worried about this, although it doesn't appear he ended up paying for something he shouldn't 
have done. And so he's not suffered any loss. It also wasn't something for which the Halifax 
was responsible.
Mr Y was concerned about a text that he got from the bank saying he'd gone into an 
unauthorised overdraft. This was a service offered by the bank to help customers avoid  
going overdrawn and being charged. A payment went into Mr Y's account the same day 
which put it back into credit, so he would never have gone overdrawn anyway.
Whilst I know Mr Y doesn't have an agreed overdraft, and so I understand why this worried 
him, I don't think that the Halifax did anything wrong here. The email was automated and it 
was sent out as soon as the payment debited his account. That was intended to give him 
time to put money into the account the same day to avoid going overdrawn. As money came 
into the account anyway later that day, the account was back in credit in any event. But the 
system operated as it was designed to. So I can't say that the Halifax has done anything 
wrong. A lot of customers benefit from these alerts and I don't think there's anything 
inherently wrong with them. But I do sympathise with Mr Y, given he was worried about it.
The other things that Mr Y has complained about were a £3 credit to his account. It turns out 
this was an interest payment . And he had requested it be paid to the account in question. 
So the Halifax hasn't done anything wrong there either. Mr Y was also unhappy that he 
couldn't open some documents on his online banking. But again he ultimately managed to 
open these. Computer errors do occur when trying to open documents and I've seen no 
evidence that the Halifax was at fault here. So again I won't be upholding that element of Mr 
Y's complaint.
I appreciate that Mr Y is concerned that we've been biased towards the bank in reaching an 
outcome on his complaint. I can assure him that's not the case. We're an impartial 
organisation, and we have no bias in favour of any of our customers, whether they be 
consumers or financial institutions. We look at complaints independently, and where we find 
fault, we will often award compensation. There have been a series of unfortunate events 
here that have affected Mr Y's account. But I've not found the Halifax to be at fault with 
respect to any of them. So I'm afraid I won't be awarding Mr Y any compensation.
My final decision
It's my final decision not to uphold Mr Y's complaint against Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as 
the Halifax).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 March 2020.
James Kennard
Ombudsman