DRN-3309421
The complaint
Mr R has complained that the broker Automobile Association Insurance Services Limited 
(AAISL) didnt arrange for a pro rata refund of his cancelled Roadside Assistance policy. 
AAISL as the broker is the administrator of the policy.
What happened
Mr R bought a Roadside Assistance policy through the broker AAISL. Mr Rs car that was 
covered under the policy was written off part way through the term of the policy and this 
meant his Roadside Assistance policy cancelled. Mr R expected a partial refund for the 
remaining term of the policy. But AAISL explained that this wasnt due. 
Mr R complained to AAISL but it didnt uphold his complaint. So Mr R asked us to look at 
things for him. 
Our Investigator explained that the terms of the policy were clear. He also explained our 
approach. Where a policy cancels early and a customer has derived no benefit from it, we 
generally think its reasonable for a business to provide a pro rata refund  even if the policy 
says it wont. As Mr Rs car had been written off, and the policy applied only to that car, he 
couldnt have derived any benefit from it for the remaining term. However, in this case, Mr R 
had made a claim under the policy before it cancelled. So in these circumstances our 
approach doesnt apply. Therefore the Investigator didnt think AAISL needed to do any 
more. 
Mr R remained unhappy. He believes AAISL should have made it clearer in the policy 
documents about the cancellation process. He wants an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our Investigator explained that Mr R hadnt complained about how clear the cancellation 
process was set out under the policy  if Mr R wanted to raise this as a separate complaint 
he would need to do so with AAISL.
Mr Rs policy which AAISL sold to him says it will provide assistance only in connection with 
the vehicle under which it relates. So because the car to which the policy provided cover for 
was written off five months later, the policy was cancelled. 
I appreciate that Mr R didnt specifically raise separately the issue around the cancellation 
wording. But I think I can take this into account within our inquisitorial remit and that it relates 
to his original complaint. Mr R says the wording about the cancellation process should be 
highlighted and not hidden away. 
Ive looked at what the policy says about the insurers cancellation process. It says on page 
four what will happen if Mr R cancels the policy outside of the 14 day cooling off period, 
If You cancel Your (car brand name inserted here) Roadside Assistance Cover after 
the Cooling-Off Period, then subject to any statutory rights You may have, We will not 
be obliged to give a refund for any unexpired period of Your (car brand name 
inserted here) Roadside Assistance Cover.
So I think the policy wording is clear. 
The term of the contract Mr R agreed to was for either one or two years. Where a claim has 
been made under the term of a contract, this means an insurer has met its obligations and 
Mr R benefitted under the policy. So I dont consider AAISLs actions unusual or 
unreasonable in administering the policy in this case. 
Since bringing his complaint to us, AAISL has offered to consider transferring the policy to 
provide cover for Mr Rs replacement car. I appreciate that Mr R finds the gesture hollow  
and he had already arranged alternative cover. But I cant criticise AAISL for its offer as it is 
outside the terms of the policy it sold to Mr R. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr R. But I think the terms of cover and the cancellation process  
were clearly explained in the policy document. So I dont think AAISL needs to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman