DRN-2918108
The complaint
Mrs U complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc charged her interest after she called it to repay 
her account balance in full.
What happened
Mrs U says she called Sainsburys to question the interest applied to her account. She says 
she asked Sainsburys for the settlement figure and repaid the balance, but the following 
month was told she owed £0.01. Mrs U says she would like Sainsburys practices 
investigated and says its actions caused her stress. She would like compensation for what 
took place and says Sainsburys has acted unethically.
Sainsburys says it hasnt made a mistake and interest has been correctly charged. It says to 
avoid interest then a balance must be paid in full, and says it makes clear on the account 
statements that it estimates future interest as that amount changes depending on the 
payment date.
Mrs U brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought that Sainsburys made clear how interest was charged on the account statements 
and that future interest was estimated. The investigator accepted Sainsburys ought to have 
given Mrs U the correct balance to bring the account to zero when she called and thought it 
had made an appropriate compensation offer of £40 for the delay in responding to her. The 
investigator went through the account statements with Mrs U and explained that the interest 
was correct and also explained the trailing interest.
Mrs U doesnt accept that view and maintains Sainsburys has acted unethically and misled 
her.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Sainsburys has dealt fairly with this 
compliant. I appreciate Mrs U will be disappointed by my decision. I also make clear to Mrs 
U that we are not Sainsburys regulator and so its not our role to comment on its business 
practices or to punish it and we cant investigate it as she would like.
I have looked carefully at Mrs Us account statements and terms and conditions. I can also 
see that the investigator has gone through those statements with Mrs U and explained that 
they make clear that to avoid interest then a balance must be repaid in full and that interest 
will continue to be added after the statement date. I think this has led to the confusion here, 
but I cant fairly hold Sainsburys responsible for that and am satisfied it makes that 
information clear in the terms and conditions and on the account statements. I dont think 
Sainsburys has made a mistake by applying the interest.
I accept Mrs U called Sainsburys to repay her balance in full and I would have expected it to 
have told her that there was interest to be applied to the balance on the statement. I have no 
doubt if told that Mrs U would have repaid the full amount. So, Im satisfied that Sainsburys 
ought to have told Mrs U that and I appreciate Mrs Us frustration in those circumstances to 
be told she owed £0.01. I dont think it was a significant amount or caused any real impact 
on Mrs U apart from the inconvenience of paying it. And I dont think that mistake justifies 
any compensation.
Sainsburys accepts it didnt respond to Mrs Us complaint as quickly as it ought to have and 
as offered £40 compensation. It doesnt appear that the payment has been made to Mrs U 
and I make clear that I think it fair and reasonable. I appreciate that isnt Mrs Us complaint 
here and no doubt she can contact Sainsburys if she wishes to accept it.
Overall, Im satisfied that Sainsburys and our investigator has fairly explained how the 
interest was calculated and that a mistake wasnt made. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs U to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman