DRN-2906445
The complaint
Mr D and the estate of Mrs D complain that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has turned down a 
cancellation claim Mr and Mrs D made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D held travel insurance as a benefit of a packaged account with their building 
society. 
In February 2020, Mr and Mrs D booked a package holiday abroad. They were due to travel 
on 1 June 2020. However, on 17 March 2020, the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) 
advised against all but essential travel abroad due to Covid-19. The following day, Mrs Ds 
oncologist, who was treating her for secondary breast cancer, advised her to cancel the trip 
and begin shielding, as a result of the treatment she was undergoing. So Mr and Mrs D 
cancelled their holiday. 
Mr and Mrs Ds package holiday provider ultimately agreed to refund most of Mr and Mrs Ds 
trip costs, aside from their deposit costs of £400. They got in touch with their bank to make a 
section 75 claim under the Consumer Credit Act and they also made a claim on their travel 
insurance policy.
UKI initially agreed to settle Mr and Mrs Ds claim and so Mr D withdrew the section 75 
claim. However, UKI later reconsidered its decision. It turned down the claim on two 
grounds. First, that the policy only covered the FCO advising against all but essential travel 
within 28 days of a policyholders departure. And secondly, that as the claim arose from a 
pre-existing medical condition Mrs D already had which UKI hadnt agreed to cover, it was 
specifically excluded by the policy terms. But it acknowledged itd provided Mr and Mrs D 
with poor service, so it sent them a cheque for £100 compensation.
Mr and Mrs D werent happy with UKIs decision and so Mr D asked us to look into the 
complaint.
Ultimately, our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She noted that Mrs D 
had previously declared that she had cancer to UKI and itd declined to cover her condition. 
As the reason Mr and Mrs D cancelled their trip was directly related to Mrs Ds condition, she 
concluded itd been fair for UKI to turn down the claim. She acknowledged that UKI had 
unfairly raised Mr and Mrs Ds expectations though, so she felt itd been reasonable for it to 
pay Mr and Mrs D £100 compensation.
Mr D disagreed. He said that UKI had provided differing, spurious reasons for turning down 
the claim. He felt the compensation itd offered was derisory. And he felt that UKI was 
responsible for his decision to withdraw his section 75 claim with his bank, after itd wrongly 
told him the claim would be paid. Mr D also let us know that Mrs D had sadly passed away 
since the complaint was brought to us.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im very sorry to disappoint Mr D, I think it was fair for UKI to turn 
down this claim. Ill explain why.
Firstly, Id like to offer my sincere condolences to Mr D for the sad loss of Mrs D. Im sorry to 
hear the sad circumstances surrounding this claim.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn claims down unreasonably. So in making my decision, Ive considered, 
amongst other things, the terms of Mr and Mrs Ds policy and the circumstances of the claim 
to decide whether UKI handled it fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms, as these form the basis of Mr and Mrs Ds contract with 
UKI. As Mr and Mrs D didnt travel as they planned, I think it was appropriate for UKI to 
assess the claim in line with the Cancelling your Trip section of the policy. This section sets 
out the various insured events UKI covers if a policyholder has to cancel their trip. One of 
these reasons is the illness of a person whos insured by the policy. Another is the FCO 
advising against all but essential travel to a policyholders destination in the 28 days before 
theyre due to travel.
The cancellation section of the policy also includes a list of things the policy doesnt cover. 
One of these states that UKI wont pay for any claim due to a medical condition, unless you 
had already told us about the condition and we had agreed to cover it. The contract defines 
what UKI means by a medical condition. It says: 
Any illness or injury for which, at the date you became an insured person or the date when 
you booked your trip, whichever is later you would have answered yes to any of the 
questions in the Medical Screening section on page 8.
So I turned to look at page 8 of the policy. This specifically states that a policyholder needs 
to tell UKI about any medical conditions. It sets out a list of conditions it would want to know 
about. This list includes whether or not, in the previous 12 months, a policyholder has 
suffered from; had treatment for; or is receiving treatment for cancer.
When Mr D brought his complaint to us, he told us that the trip had been cancelled due to 
Mrs Ds oncologist advising her to shield because she was being treated for secondary 
cancer. So it doesnt seem as if the holiday was cancelled due to the FCO advising against 
all but essential travel on 17 March 2020. And it doesnt appear as if Mrs D was suffering 
from a new or unexpected illness, which mayve been covered by the policy.
So it appears the reason for the holiday cancellation was directly linked to Mrs Ds existing 
medical condition  being advised to shield because of the treatment she was receiving to 
control the cancer. UKI hadnt agreed to cover this medical condition. In fact, its provided us 
with evidence to show that in 2016 and 2017, Mrs D did declare that she was suffering from 
metastatic breast cancer and that it had declined to offer any cover for this (or any related) 
condition(s). This means then that I think it was fair and reasonable for UKI to conclude that 
Mr and Mrs D were claiming as the result of a condition it had specifically decided against 
covering. It also appears, from the notes, that Mr and Mrs D knew that UKI had declined to 
offer cancer cover. Therefore, I cant fairly direct UKI to pay a claim which was down to a 
condition itd decided not to cover. And so I find it was fair for UKI to turn down the claim.
However, I think UKI had enough information available to it at the point Mr D claimed to be 
aware that the claim wouldnt be covered. Instead of turning down the claim at the outset though, it told Mr and Mrs D their deposit claim would be paid. This clearly raised Mr and 
Mrs Ds expectations and I dont doubt how upset and frustrated they were when they later 
found out that in fact, the claim wouldnt be met. So I agree its fair and appropriate for UKI to 
pay them compensation to recognise its error. In the circumstances, it appears to me that 
£100 is a fair award to recognise the loss of expectation caused by its actions.
Ive considered what Mr D has told us about withdrawing his section 75 claim as a result of 
UKIs mis-advice. In order for me to direct UKI to pay his claim on this basis though, Id need 
to be satisfied that its most likely Mr Ds section 75 wouldve been paid out. In summary, 
section 75 states that a credit provider is jointly and severally liable for any breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the retailer or seller. As the bank didnt consider the section 
75 claim, I dont have any evidence to show what it wouldve found. Its open to him to get in 
touch with his bank to ask it to reconsider a section 75 claim or for evidence that the claim 
wouldve been successful at the point he withdrew it. If the bank can provide such evidence, 
Mr D can send it on to UKI for it to consider.
In summary though, Ive concluded that it was fair for UKI to turn down Mr and Mrs Ds 
claim. And the £100 its already sent to Mr D is fair compensation for the way it handled the 
claim. Mr D says he hasnt cashed the cheque and its possible it may now have expired. If 
the cheque hasnt been cashed and the original cheque is now out of date, UKI should 
reissue it as soon as possible.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and the 
estate of Mrs D to accept or reject my decision before 8 September 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman