DRN-3652922
The complaint
Mr F complains about advice he was given to transfer the benefits of a defined-benefit (DB) 
occupational pension scheme (OPS) to a personal pension plan. He says the advice was 
unsuitable for him and believes this has caused him a financial loss.
JLT Wealth Management Limited is responsible for answering this complaint. To keep things 
simple Ill refer to JLT. 
What happened
At the time, Mr F was a deferred member of an OPS, having accrued nine years benefits in a 
scheme previously operated through his employer. The OPS had been closed and replaced 
by another scheme. In 2010, Mr Fs OPS had signalled an intention to offer a time-limited 
enhancement to the cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) for deferred members like Mr F 
who opted to leave the DB scheme. Members were also being offered regulated financial 
advice, the cost of which was being met by the scheme. JLT was contracted to provide that 
advice.
Information gathered in 2010 about Mr F was broadly as follows:
Mr F was 33 years old living with his wife and two young children in a mortgaged 
property. He earned approximately £34,000 (gross) a year. 
The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of the OPS was around £21,425. The 
enhancement on top was up to £3,242 (although this was subject to taxation). 
Mr F said he wanted to retire at the age of 60, if possible, but his normal retirement 
age (NRA) for the pension in question here was 65.
Mr F had a number of options which included doing nothing and leaving his deferred pension 
where it was, inside the DB scheme. Or he could transfer out to a personal pension plan. If 
transferring out, Mr F was able to transfer the whole CETV with the enhancement added, or 
he could transfer only the CETV with the enhancement paid to him as cash.
A recommendation letter was issued by JLT, on 24 June 2010. It recommended Mr F should 
transfer his pension out from the OPS to a personal pension. It implied there were several 
reasons supporting this. Mr F accepted this, and he did go ahead and transfer out.
In 2021, Mr F complained to JLT which replied saying it hadnt done anything wrong in terms 
of recommending that he should transfer out. It did, however, acknowledge that Mr Fs 
transferred funds hadnt been properly invested, as per his attitude to risk (ATR). So it made 
an offer specifically in relation to this matter, which hasnt been accepted by Mr F. 
Mr F has referred his complaint to our Service. One of our investigators looked into the 
complaint and said we should uphold it. They thought JLTs recommendation to transfer to a 
personal pension wasnt suitable. JLT responded by saying it still believes it made the 
correct recommendation. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, its come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
I have further considered that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in 
COBS 19.1.16 that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is 
unsuitable. So, JLT should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate 
that the transfer was in Mr Fs best interests. 
Having looked at all the evidence available, Im upholding this complaint.
Financial viability
JLT referred in its transfer analysis and suitability report to critical yield rates. The critical 
yield is essentially the average annual investment return that would be required on the 
transfer value - from the time of advice until retirement - to provide the same annuity benefits 
as the DB scheme.
The transfer analysis commissioned by JLT in this case incorporated the enhancement offer 
and said that the critical yield for a retirement at the NRA (65) was 7.6% if Mr F eventually 
drew a full pension with the scheme. If taking a tax-free lump sum upon retirement and a 
reduced pension, the figure was 7.3%. However, JLT seemed to accept that Mr Fs 
aspirations at the time were for an earlier retirement, so critical yield figures for a retirement 
at the age of 60 were calculated: these were found to be 7.9% and 7.5% respectively.
So, I think its fair to say there should have been an expectation that the future growth that 
Mr Fs transferred funds would need to achieve was at least 7.5% just to make transferring 
compatible with what he already enjoyed in his current OPS. 
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case. 
The relevant discount rate was around 7 to 7.5% per year, depending on whether a 
retirement at 60 or 65 was assumed. For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection 
rate at the time was 9%, the middle projection rate 7%, and the lower projection rate 5% per 
year. So, on this basis alone, the financial viability benefits of JLT recommending a transfer 
to a personal pension plan are unclear. While discount rate tends to imply reaching a growth 
rate of around 7.5% might be possible, the regulators middle projection falls short of this.
I think its also right to consider that there were costs associated with the transfer to a 
personal plan. I accept the advice was being offered free as it was being paid by Mr Fs 
employer, but there are still certain management fees which are normally associated with 
personal pension schemes and which we know applied here. These would have the effect of 
eroding better growth rates which were already questionable, as Ive explained above. Ive also noted that whilst Mr Fs ATR was assessed as balanced-to-adventurous by JLT, he 
eventually self-selected funds at the balanced end of the risk profile when he came to 
invest his transferred funds. So in effect, he reduced his ATR down a notch and I think this 
shows there were some failures in this important area.
In summing all this up, I need to make a judgement on where the advice to transfer away 
from his DB scheme was likely to lead Mr F, from a financial perspective. 
I have looked carefully at the points made by JLT about higher growth being possible and its 
own projections of over 8% not being too inflated at the time. But I think the reasonable 
growth assumptions here were around 7.5%  and in arriving at this Ive taken account of the 
regulators published growth estimates valid at the time of the advice, the discount rates, and 
what I consider to have been Mr Fs actual ATR, which was more around the moderate 
category. And even if I were to accept a slightly higher expected growth rate, the financial 
benefits were by no means clearly evident, due to the effect of the ongoing impact of fees 
and charges.
So, I dont think achieving a growth rate of over 8% could have been fairly viewed at the time 
as likely, especially considering this needed to be consistently achieved until Mr Fs 
retirement, which was decades away. Even small parts of a percentage point can erode 
growth over the long term. And there would be little point in Mr F giving up all the guarantees 
and benefits available to him through his current DB scheme only to achieve, at best, 
broadly the same, or even slightly less, levels of financial benefits at retirement.
I do accept this is a somewhat marginal call. But the stance of the regulator was also clear in 
that the starting point should be assumed as these types of transfer more likely being 
unsuitable. 
Of course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. There 
might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall 
lower benefits. In this case, in addition to the growth assumptions JLT mentioned Mr Fs 
early retirement aspirations. It also set out the following areas as being further reasons to 
transfer. Ive summarised these as: 
Transferring away could generate more tax-free cash.
Transferring away would give him access to the cash enhancement which could be 
£2,874 after tax.
Mr F could achieve more flexibility and control over the transferred funds.
Ive considered these issues below.
Taking a tax-free lump sum and the age Mr F could retire at 
In this case, JLT noted that taking a tax-free lump sum at retirement was evidently important 
to Mr F. It also took what Mr F said about early retirement and factored this into its advice. 
However, Mr F was only 33 years old at the time of the advice, and unsurprisingly, he didnt 
have concrete retirement plans. In fact, given that Mr F was so young, in my view this 
represented a major risk in advising him to transfer away from his OPS and I dont think JLT 
properly considered this aspect. It simply wasnt credible, in 2010, that retiring at the age of 
60 was something that Mr F could say was likely  in his case this would be in 2037 and if he needed to refrain from accessing the benefits until his NRA age of 65 under the OPS, it 
would have been 2042. 
Mr F was married, had a mortgage and had very young children at the time. So all these 
factors had years yet to unfold and I think its fair to say that in terms of his employment, he 
wasnt even yet at the point of mid-career.
On this basis, anything to do with his eventual retirement was no more than guesswork, in 
my view. Ive also noted that whilst Mr F did have two other pensions, these were very 
modest ones, and they were also defined contribution (DC) schemes. This means that 
transferring away from this DB scheme needed to be carefully considered against the overall 
and modest pension provisions he had at the time. And whilst we cant predict what Mr Fs 
income requirements in retirement would yet be, I think its fair to assume that with a young 
family and a mortgage with years left to run, he would have needed his DB scheme to 
complement the more uncertain DC pension provisions he would seek to build upon in the 
coming years. 
To sum this up therefore, I think JLTs comments about Mr Fs likely retirement were highly 
speculative. Whilst Im sure, like many people, Mr F might have aspired to retiring early, 
theres simply no credibility in what JLT said he would likely go on to do, or what his 
retirement needs might be. It should not have based its recommendation on these reasons.
Control over his pension and flexibility
Im not persuaded that Mr F really wanted to manage his own pension affairs more directly 
by transferring out to a personal pension fund. I also cant see that Mr F required flexibility 
in retirement in the way JLT suggested, which in any case, was very poorly defined.  I agree 
with our investigator when he said these reasons seem to have been no more that stock 
objectives used to help justify the overall recommendation to transfer. I dont believe they 
were related to Mr Fs personal circumstances.
For example, Mr F was at the time in an DB scheme managed by trustees and Ive seen no 
evidence he had either a desire or the capacity to personally manage this pension 
investments or strategy going forward, rather than keeping it where it was, and being 
managed for him.
From what Mr F has told us, his understanding of investing was (and still is) limited and Ive 
seen nothing recorded from the time of the advice to persuade me otherwise. Mr F 
eventually transferred his funds but he took the enhancement element as a cash sum, 
paying tax in the process. I think if Mr F really was more experienced or knowledgeable 
about these sorts of investment decisions, hed have at least reinvested the enhanced 
amount in a way that was more tax efficient. I think this is substantiated by some of the 
comments about why he wanted the money at the time, which I think portray a lack of 
understanding of the consequences of giving up his DB scheme and the benefits and 
guarantees that came with it. 
In essence, Mr F had no fixed plans for the enhancement money and was using it to get by. 
And I think if he had needed money in this way then JLT should have advised him that there 
were probably other  and better  ways of him getting it, without compromising his 
retirement income and the benefits attached to this particular scheme.
As far as flexibility is concerned, this wasnt defined or explained by JLT, so I think it was 
used in an attempt to add weight to the otherwise weak reasoning to transfer. Any flexible 
uses of the pension, or the funds from it, were restricted due to Mr Fs age at the time and as Ive said above, theres nothing showing he wanted active involvement in the investment 
strategy going forward. 
The enhancement
We do sometimes see DB schemes offering these types of enhancements to persuade 
deferred members like Mr F to transfer away from the scheme to reduce the future pension 
liabilities. However, this wasnt a particularly attractive offer, in my view. What the offer 
basically consisted of here was an initial reduction to the CETV, before then adding the 
enhancement element on top. It was basically taking money away  and then adding some 
back on. This had the effect of providing around 107% of the overall CETV and certainly at 
the lower end of the various incentives Ive seen elsewhere. If taking the cash, this 
amounted to only £2,874 after taxes.
Ive noted too, that JLTs pre-formatted option / decision form included the option to take the 
enhancement as cash by just ticking a box. In my view, this offered Mr F an easy and quick 
opportunity to release cash which, at his time of life, would no doubt have come in useful. 
However, Ive noted that directly next to this, Mr F also made it clear his preference was for a 
pension that would increase with inflation, so I think these things conflict with each other, 
again implying Mr Fs vulnerability. Overall, the options form and the other documents I was 
sent from the advice reflect a somewhat poor level of attention to detail by the JLT adviser. 
Its possible this reflects the relatively small size of the fund, or the free advice it was being 
contracted to give to others in Mr Fs situation, but this was nonetheless important to Mr F 
and his future overall pension provisions. 
Suitability of investments 
JLT recommended that Mr F invest his funds in a type of personal pension. As Im upholding 
the complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mr F, it 
follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment recommendation. This is 
because he should have been advised to remain in the DB scheme and so the investment in 
the new funds wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been given. 
Summary
In this decision Ive explained why Im upholding Mr Fs complaint.
Mr F was very young by pension standards. He had a growing family and faced all the 
financial challenges this usually brings. He had a mortgage and no savings at the time, so I 
think the chance to access a few thousand pounds would have been very appealing to him 
from a short-term outlook. I think the JLT adviser took insufficient account of this.
Its true that Mr F had two other pensions but these were very modest affairs at the time. So, 
as modest as this DB pension also was, it contained a number of valuable benefits and 
guarantees not found in Mr Fs other pensions, which were DC schemes. And so, I think that 
by retirement, whenever it came, this DB scheme would have complemented any other 
retirement funds Mr F had been able to build up throughout his life. In this context, I think it 
was in Mr Fs best interests to remain within the DB scheme  one which would have 
retained some useful features throughout most of his life such as indexation, spousal 
benefits and potential benefits for his children. By his retirement hed have been able to add 
to, and hopefully grow, his other (DC) pensions. 
What Mr F was being offered here was only a very small enhancement to leave the OPS he 
was a deferred member of. Whilst I accept he was given quite a lot of information, and indeed some warnings about leaving, JLT nevertheless ultimately advised him to transfer 
away. JLT recommended that transferring was suitable whether his retirement was at the 
age of 60, or if hed waited to the NRA of 65. I think this type of recommendation would have 
demonstrated to Mr F that it really was the right thing for him to do. 
However, as Ive explained, JLT should have been aware that, from a financial comparison 
perspective, the chances of exceeding the critical yield rate consistently until retirement was, 
at best, marginal. 
In my view, there were no other viable reasons, for Mr F to transfer. Assessing Mr Fs likely 
retirement needs with any accuracy was not possible, because he had decades until this 
would have likely happened. So, for the reasons above, JLTs recommendation simply 
wasnt a suitable one. 
Finally, I have considered whether, if advised properly to stay in his DB scheme, Mr F would 
have still opted to transfer out anyway. However, I think if hed been given advice that was 
specific and clear  that he shouldnt transfer at all - I think Mr F would most likely have 
followed that advice. I say this because he was inexperienced in this field and there were 
certainly other ways of raising money.
Overall, I dont think JLTs recommendation was in Mr Fs best interests. I am therefore 
upholding his complaint.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr F, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for JLTs unsuitable advice. I consider Mr F would have 
remained in his occupational scheme.
Mr F has not retired. Compensation should be based on his normal retirement age of 65, as 
per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for non-
compliant pension transfer advice. 
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr F whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now, in line 
with current guidance, or wait for any new guidance/rules to be published. He hasnt made a 
choice, so as outlined before to him, weve assumed he wants the calculations done under the current guidelines. I am therefore satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains 
appropriate and, if a loss is identified, will provide fair redress for Mr F. 
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Fs acceptance of the decision. As Ive said above, 
compensation should be based on his normal retirement age of 65.
JLT may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Fs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Fs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Fs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr F as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr F within 90 days of the date JLT receives notification of 
his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes JLT to pay Mr F.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect JLT to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: Ive decided to uphold this complaint and I now direct JLT 
Wealth Management Limited to pay Mr F the compensation amount as set out in the steps 
above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
JLT Wealth Management Limited to pay Mr F any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require JLT 
Wealth Management Limited to pay Mr F any interest as set out above on the sum of 
£160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
JLT Wealth Management Limited pays Mr F the balance. I would additionally recommend 
any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr F.
If Mr F accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on JLT Wealth 
Management Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr F can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr F may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2023.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman