DRN-3949030
The complaint
Mr K complains that Wise Payments Limited trading as Wise wont refund the money he lost 
when he fell victim to a scam.
What happened
Mr K received a text, allegedly from the post office, asking him to pay a small fee to 
rearrange delivery of a parcel. He followed the link to enter his card details, but no payment 
was taken.
A few days later, Mr K received a call from someone claiming to be from the bank who 
provided the card he had used. They said there had been unusual activity on his card, and 
asked if he had used it recently. When Mr K mentioned the text, they said that must be how 
his card details had been compromised.
Unfortunately, this call was from a scammer impersonating Mr Ks bank. They persuaded 
him to send funds to his Wise account. It seems they told him this was needed to clear a 
fraudulent standing order that had been set up, and the money would then be credited back 
to his bank account. 
The scammer directed Mr K to change the password for his Wise account. He paid in the 
funds as instructed. Following this, a payment of £16,650 was sent to a third party. 
When Mr K realised he had been scammed, he reported this to Wise (as well as his bank). 
Wise was able to recall £7,116.18 from the account the funds were sent on to, but held Mr K 
liable for the remaining amount. He complained about this, saying he didnt authorise the 
payment. But Wise maintained its position as it thought he had authorised it.
Unhappy with this response, Mr K referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
didnt uphold it. Although they thought Mr K had been tricked into making the payment, they 
thought he had authorised it. And they thought it was reasonable that Wise processed the 
payment without completing further checks or identifying a fraud concern. 
Mr K has appealed the investigators outcome so the case has been passed to me. He says 
he received notification that a transaction had been cancelled, which he thinks shows Wise 
did have fraud concerns  and so should have done more to protect him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
First, Ive considered whether Mr K authorised the payment. As in broad terms, he would 
generally be liable for a payment he authorised  whereas Wise would generally be liable if 
he didnt.
Under the relevant regulations, the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), 
authorisation comes down to whether the payment was properly authenticated  and 
whether Mr K consented to it. The key issue here is that Mr K says he didnt consent to the 
payment.
However, consent has a particular meaning under the PSRs. It doesnt mean informed 
consent. Its about whether Mr K, or someone acting with his authority, completed the steps 
agreed between Wise and Mr K, under the terms of the account, to make a payment.
Two One Time Passcodes (OTPs) were sent to Mr K by Wise, and used, during the scam. It 
appears he may have disclosed one to the scammer under the guise it was needed to 
change his password. But it seems the other was shared with them (bearing in mind they 
were posing as Mr Ks genuine bank) on the understanding it would be used to make a 
payment. It also sounds as though he may have known/understood the scammer had 
access to his account and was making payments. What he didnt know was that the 
scammers would send the funds to a third party (rather than him) and/or that they wouldnt 
later return the payments. 
Having put this to Mr K, he doesnt seem to dispute this understanding. Hes reiterated that 
he didnt know or agree that the payment would be sent to a third party. While I accept he 
was tricked about the recipient, I think the payment would still be deemed authorised under 
the PSRs. As the steps were likely completed by him and/or someone acting with his 
authority  even though that authority was gained through deception. 
And so the starting position is that Mr K is liable for the outstanding loss stemming from the 
payment. However, I have also considered whether Wise did, or should have, identified the 
payment as presenting a fraud risk. And if so, whether it should therefore have taken further 
fraud prevention measures which would have prevented Mr Ks loss.
In considering this, its important to note that Wise isnt a bank; its an e-money institution 
(EMI). That will affect the type, and value, of payments it generally processes, and the type 
of account activity it expects to see, when compared with a standard retail bank.
Mr K had previously used his account to make high-value payments. While I appreciate his 
point that these were international payments to family, rather than payments to another UK 
account, I still consider it reasonable that this factored into Wises judgment of what level of 
payments to expect on the account. I have also considered that the funds were sent a new 
payee. But I dont think Wise ought to have taken further steps to verify this  bearing in 
mind the use of OTPs to make the payment.
Overall, I dont think it was unreasonable for Wise to simply process the payment in line with 
the request it received. Under the PSRs, it has a duty to promptly execute authorised 
payment instructions. And I dont consider it remiss that Wise didnt identify the payment as 
suspicious enough to warrant additional checks.
Mr K has pointed out that he received an email from Wise at the time saying a transfer had 
been cancelled  which he thinks shows it did have fraud concerns. But, having checked 
Wises records, Ive found the cancellation related to an attempt to move funds into the 
account. It appears an inward transfer was cancelled by Mr K, and another was attempted 
but there werent enough funds in the sending account. So I dont think this was anything to 
do with Wise having fraud concerns about the outgoing payment that was completed.
In saying all of this, Im mindful Mr K has lost out due to being tricked by a scam. Its just that 
Im not persuaded his loss is attributable to failings by Wise. And so I dont consider it fair to 
expect it to accept liability for his loss.My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2023.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman