DRN-3923013
The complaint
Mr F complains that Western Circle Ltd trading as Pay Day Bad Credit (Pay Day) gave him a 
loan while he was struggling financially. Mr F says this loan made his financial situation 
worse and he was forced to take out further loans.
 
What happened
Mr F took one loan from Pay Day for £500 on 11 January 2022. Mr F was due to make four 
monthly repayments with his largest payment being £216.85. Mr F repaid the loan early on 
16 March 2022. 
Pay Day wrote to Mr F with a final response letter in May 2022. Pay Day didnt uphold the 
complaint because it said it was entitled to rely on the income and expenditure Mr F provided 
which showed the loan was affordable. Pay Day also noted Mr F repaid his earlier than 
planned. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr F referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
The complaint was then considered by an adjudicator. He concluded Pay Day made a 
reasonable decision to lend the loan because it carried out a proportionate check which 
showed it Mr F would be able to afford the loan repayments. 
Pay Day responded to say it accepted the adjudicators assessment. 
Mr F didnt agree with the outcome. A summary of his response is below.
He had three bank accounts near the overdraft limits. 
Mr F had taken several payday loans and had a high debt.
Pay Days checks werent sufficient. 
Pay Day ought to have requested copies of Mr Fs bank statements had it done so it 
wouldve realised Mr F had overstated his income and he had outstanding payday 
loans.  
As Mr F had other pay day loans outstanding, he says there was a real risk he would 
need to borrow again in order to repay this loan. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Pay Day had to assess the lending to check if Mr F could afford to pay back the amount hed 
borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to 
the circumstances. Pay Days checks could have taken into account a number of different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Fs income 
and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Pay Day should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr F. These factors include:
Mr F having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr F having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr F coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr F. Mr F took only one loan from 
Pay Day so the adjudicator didnt consider this applied to this complaint. 
Pay Day was required to establish whether Mr F could sustainably repay the loan  not just 
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr F was able to repay his loan 
sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Fs complaint. 
Before the loan was approved, Pay Day took details of Mr Fs income and expenditure, and 
it recorded that Mr F worked full time and received a monthly salary of £2,800. I appreciate 
that Mr F says he had overestimated his income, but Pay Day had no way of knowing that at 
the time because in my view, for a first loan application, it was reasonable of it to rely on 
what Mr F had told it.
Pay Day also made enquiries about his living costs, which Mr F declared to be £510 per 
month. These costs related to travel, food, other credit commitments and utilities. Mr F 
declared his rent / mortgage was £0. Which, usually, isnt a reasonable figure for a lender to 
rely on. However, as part of his application he declared he lived at home with parents, and 
so this low amount of declared living costs wouldnt have seemed unusual or out of place 
give his declared living arrangements. 
Pay Day says Mr Fs application was subjected to a full affordability and creditworthiness 
assessment and the results of this were positive indicating Mr F could afford the 
repayments.  Part of the tests would be to check the validating of Mr Fs self-declared 
income and expenditure information with other third party data. Based solely on the income and expenditure information Mr F declared, it was reasonable 
for Pay Day to believe that Mr F could afford the maximum monthly payment he was due to 
make. 
Before this loan was given, Pay Day also says it also carried out a credit search. It is worth 
saying here that although Pay Day carried out a credit search there isnt a regulatory 
requirement to do one, let alone one to a specific standard. Therefore, its entirely possible 
that the information Pay Day received may not entirely reflect the information Mr F may be 
able to view in the credit report he has sent to us. There could be for a number of reasons 
for this, such as Pay Day only asking for certain pieces of information such as the number of 
active credit accounts. But what Pay Day couldnt do is carry out a credit search and then 
not react to the to the information it received  if necessary.  
So, although Mr F has provided a copy of his full credit report, Im not, in this case going to 
be considering it, because Pay Day did a credit search and has provided the results which it 
saw at the time of Mr Fs application. So, I can see what it considered and was provided with 
before it approved the loan. In my view, Pay Day was also entitled to rely on the results it 
was given as it didnt have anything to suggest the results were in any way inaccurate. 
Having reviewed what Pay Day has provided, it wasnt aware of any adverse credit file data 
such as County Court Judgements, bankruptcies or debt management plans.  Pay Day also 
says Mr Fs application scored very highly on our proprietary credit scorecard algorithm. 
Pay Day used the data it was given to create an internal credit score for Mr F  this was 
sufficient for it to have granted the loan. Given, what Ive seen and been told, I dont think the 
information Pay Day was given indicated Mr F was in financial difficulties. 
There was also nothing else in the information that Ive seen that wouldve led Pay Day to 
believe that it needed to go further with its checks  such as verifying the information 
Mr F had provided. So, I dont think it wouldve been reasonable for Pay Day to have 
reviewed his bank statements before granting this loan.  
Overall, given it was early on in the lending relationship, I think it was reasonable for 
Pay Day to have relied on the information Mr F provided and which showed he had sufficient 
disposable income to afford the repayments he was committed to making. 
So, Im not upholding Mr Fs complaint about the loan.
My final decision
So, for the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Fs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman