DRN-3043621
The complaint
Mr H complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has mis-led him in regard 
to the requirements of a home insurance policy and that this has caused him great 
inconvenience over a number of years.
What happened
In early 2014 Mr H became the executor of the estate of a close relative who had died. One 
of his responsibilities was in relation to a property held by the estate. This was insured 
under a buildings insurance policy sold by and branded as Company A but underwritten by 
RSA. Company A is an appointed representative of RSA.
Mr H said between February and May 2014 he spoke to Company A who informed him 
he would need to stay overnight at the property for at least two days a week for the 
buildings insurance to be valid. And he said he was told the temperature must be kept at 
13 degrees as a minimum under the policy.
Mr H spoke to Company A on a number of occasions after this, and says he was told the 
same information about occupancy in several subsequent calls. He said at a later renewal 
he was told the premium was increasing sharply, but this could be reduced if he would 
increase his time spent at the house. He said he agreed to do this because it saved 
money for the estate, and he was already spending two days per week at the property.
Mr H says this was very disruptive to his work and his life, but he travelled to stay at the 
property to meet these obligations for around four years. And hes said this was because 
he believed the property wouldnt be insured if he didnt.
Mr H says it came to light in 2018, after legal proceedings were issued in relation to the 
administration of the estate, and his advisers were preparing papers for the proceedings, 
that the terms of the insurance did not require him to stay at the property for at least two 
days a week. And instead he or another party, such as an estate agent, wouldve only 
needed to visit (not stay overnight at) the property once a week. He says that he did not 
previously look at the terms of the policy on this point as he relied on what he was told by 
Company A. Hes said if he had known of the actual requirements of the policy, he still 
wouldve spent time at the property, but less so. And this wouldve allowed him to 
delegate visits to others on occasion to give him some respite. Mr H highlighted that 
being in the home allowed him to be present and handle instances of water ingress and 
instances of trespassers trying to gain entry.
Mr H sent an email to Company A, on 2 March 2018, in which he said:
At the time when the house was treated as unoccupied (i.e. I was away more than 60 
days a year) I spoke to [Company A] on the phone and was told that I had to be at the 
house at least two days per week and I complied with this requirement.
However, the policy refers to visiting the house once a week. Please could you clarify why I 
was asked to be at the house two days per week? Are there some other terms or guidance 
I have not found that refer to 2 days.
I was also asked to keep the property at a minimum temperature of 13 degrees. Again I 
complied with this but I cannot see this requirement in the policy. Please could you point 
me to policy terms or advice relating to keeping the property at a minimum temperature.
On 12 March 2018, a Customer Manager from Company A responded stating:
We can confirm the unoccupancy terms that had been applied to your policy do not 
specify either of these factors.
You are correct when stating, when the home is unoccupied for more than 60 
consecutive days we require the home to be visited at least once a week by yourself a 
managing agent and someone else responsible to you.
On 29 March 2018, Mr H sent a further email to Company A, saying:
I would be grateful for clarification as soon as possible of why I was advised on the 
telephone that I needed to spend at least two days a week at the property during periods 
of unoccupancy.
Please could you let me know if there were any other more detailed guidelines that your 
colleagues were working to when they advised me this that may be separate from the short 
form of the policy. I remember seeing a quite thick booklet of the insurance provisions at 
one point, but I cannot locate this.
Additionally, please could you advise me if telephone records of calls are kept so that it 
can be confirmed that I was advised that I needed to be at the property at least two days 
per week.
A Digital Customer Manager from Company A then replied by email on 4 April 2018, saying:
We can now confirm that you were advised incorrectly, we can only assume this was done 
by mistake as there are no terms that require an home insured with us to be visited at least 
2 times a week.
Please accept our apologies for this, you are absolutely correct when stating that when the 
home is unoccupied for more than 60 consecutive days we require the home to be visited 
at least once a week by yourself a managing agent and someone else responsible to you. 
We can also confirm that all telephone calls are recorded, and weve listened to your past 
conversation to confirm the above.
Mr H responded to this email on the same day, saying: I am very grateful for you looking 
into this for me, for checking the provisions and for having the honesty to make an 
apology having checked the phone calls.
However, on 9 April 2018, Mr H sent a further email to the Digital Customer 
Manager, saying:
Further to your email below, I note on a closer look that you refer to "visiting the 
property two times" per week. I would be grateful if you could confirm that in telephone 
calls I was advised that I had "to spend at least two days" per week at the property.
Additionally, if it is possible please could I be provided with a transcript or recording of 
the phone calls in which I was advised this. I was told this in at least two telephone calls 
to [Company A].
A Customer Manager replied to this email on 12 April 2018, saying:
We have sent the call off to be listened to and feedback will be provided to the individual 
you have spoken to. The terms of the policy have always been the same you must visit 
the home 'once a week' when you property is unoccupied for 60 days consecutively. 
Please accept this email as confirmation of this requirement,
Mr H responded by email on the same day, in which he said:
I was advised that I needed to be at the property at least two days a week in more than 
one call to [Company A].It has become very important that I have evidence of this.
Please can [Company A] confirm that this is the case and please can you provide me with 
a transcript or a copy of the recording of the calls.
In [the Digital Customer Managers] message of 4 April he refers to visiting the property 
"two times" per week. I would be grateful if you could confirm that in telephone calls I was 
advised that I had "to spend at least two days" per week at the property. Visiting the 
property twice a week is different to spending two days there.
I understand now what the requirement was during the period of unoccupancy. However 
what I need is evidence that I was misadvised during the phone calls and what was said 
to me.
On 14 April 2018, a Customer Manager replied to Mr Hs email stating:
We sincerley apolgise that the incorrect information has been given on the phone calls 
made. Our technical team have confirmed that if the information was given that you 
needed to either visit and stay in the property twice a week this would have been 
incorrect. They have not confirmed the exact terminology used in any phone calls that 
were made. The email issued was designed to apolgise and confirm the correct terms for 
unoccupuncy that would have applied.
In order to request the transcript of any calls made to [Company A] you will need to 
contact the Data Protection Liasion Officer. Full details of their contact details are located 
in your policy wording booklet [sic].
On 15 April 2018, Mr H wrote to RSAs Data Protection Officer and requested copies of 
the call recordings between him and Company A. In his request, he said that it had 
become important and urgent for him to have evidence of what was said during the calls. 
He also said:
I believe there were several calls in which I was advised that I had to stay in the property 
for two days a week.
The first was between 28 February 2014 (when my [close relative] passed away) and 2 
May 2014 (when you wrote to me to confirm I had contacted you regarding the policy).
Next I will have contacted you with regard to the renewal in September 2014.
I also have a note that I contacted John Lewis on or around 14 August 2015 and was 
advised again that under the terms of unoccupancy I had to be at the property at least 
two days per week, even if it was emptied of furniture and that [Company A] would not 
provide insurance if I was not there two days per week.
RSA was able to provide a number of calls but said some recording files had been 
corrupted and were therefore irretrievable. The missing calls in question are four recordings 
from August and September 2015 and part of a recording from 23 April 2014 (the 
unavailable calls).
RSA says that it provided Mr H with 15 call recordings (the available calls) but that it 
couldnt provide him with the unavailable calls as it was unable to listen to them to 
ascertain that they contained his personal data and not personal data of anyone else. Mr 
H has confirmed that RSA provided him with 15 call recordings.On 18 May 2018, Mr H 
emailed RSA saying:
Unfortunately, neither the paper records nor the CD contain details of the calls in which I 
was missadvised with regard to the terms of unoccupancy. I was wrongly told that I had 
to be at the property two days per week on several occasions.
It is not clear why [Company As Digital Customer Manager] was able to listen to relevant 
recordings very recently and comment on them to me but that these recordings are now 
corrupt and unavailable whereas other recordings not relevant to this issue are not corrupt.
Mr H requested a "deadlock" letter from Company A/RSA to enable him to raise 
his concerns with our service and the Information Commissioners Office (ICO).
Following this, Company A provided RSAs final response to Mr H, within a letter dated 
7 June 2018, which said:
Im sorry to hear that youre unhappy that we have provided you incorrect information 
about our unoccupancy terms. Unfortunately, we have been unable to retrieve the relevant 
telephone recording to establish exactly wat information we provided you [sic].
However, we can confirm that at no point has our unoccupancy terms state that a 
policy holder would have to stay in a property twice a week, and keep the property at a 
temperature of 13 degrees.
You have previously completed a DSAR request, in return we have sent you all the 
calls available to us. Im sorry that we have been unable to trace the telephone call you 
have been seeking.
I can confirm that the correct unoccupancy terms were confirmed within your previous 
policy schedules, which confirm you must visit the insured property once a week.
I appreciate that this may not be the answer you were expecting but I hope you 
understand our position on this matter.
Mr H disagreed and accused RSA of intentionally not providing a copy of the call recording 
to aid its position. He took this matter to the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). 
The ICO issued its view on 19 September 2018, in which it decided that, based on the 
information provided, it was unlikely that RSA had complied with the requirements of the 
Data Protection Act 1998. However, it found that the representative that had apologised 
previously, in fact hadnt listened to the call as they felt it wasnt necessary. And, while it 
understood there was some confusion around communication, it agreed the call recording 
files were corrupted, irretrievable and couldnt be listened to by RSA or Company A for this 
reason.
Mr H disagreed with the ICOs findings, saying RSAs version of events was implausible 
and he brought a complaint to our service.
Mr H has explained to our service that the reason he requested the call recordings  in 
which he says he was misadvised - was because he had been involved in some legal 
proceedings regarding the administration of the estate. He said that, within those 
proceedings, he was being criticised for spending time at the property  and that there was 
a suggestion that he acted in bad faith by doing so. He said he had informed the 
beneficiaries and the professional co-executor of the estate that he was required by the 
insurance policy to stay in the property for at least two days a week. But he said that the 
fact that the policy said otherwise tended to undermine his credibility. He said it was 
therefore crucial that the telephone call recordings be made available to him  as he said 
they would prove that Company A had misadvised him.
Since then, Mr H has informed me that, in the event, occupancy was not an issue in the 
litigation. But that, at the time of bringing his complaint, he thought it could come up, and 
knew there were calls in which he was misadvised. He therefore says that it was a source 
of significant anxiety that RSA didnt provide him with the evidence he thought he might 
need.
Since referring his complaint to our service, Mr H has provided a further email chain from 
Company A, showing two separate members of staff had said there was enough 
evidence from the available calls to confirm it had misadvised him previously and 
apologised for its mistakeMr H has also said that he does not consider that unoccupied was a clear term in the 
policy in question, as insurance contracts can attribute specific meanings to certain words.
He has also highlighted that this policy was originally his late relatives policy and that, upon 
the death of his late relative, he had to deal with a large number of matters. So he said it 
was reasonable, in the circumstances, for him to rely on what hed been told by Company A 
and not to re-research the small print. And he said that Company As statement that hed 
been mis-advised, showed unequivocally that RSA had not told the truth and had withheld 
phone call evidence to aid its position.
The complaint was passed to me for a provisional assessment. I issued my first 
provisional findings on this complaint on 3 March 2021. Ive included an extract of this 
below.
In this case, theres no dispute over the actual requirements or wording of Mr Hs policy in 
relation to unoccupancy. But for completeness, the endorsement in place on the policy said:
When your home is unoccupied if buildings cover is provided, we will 
continue to give the following cover:
Freezing of water in fixed water or heating systems.
Water or oil escaping from washing machines, dishwashers, fixed water or 
fixed heating systems.
Malicious acts or vandalism.
Theft or attempted 
theft. Provided that:
your home is visited at least once a week by you, a managing 
agent or someone else responsible to you: [my emphasis]
So its clear to me there was no requirement for a policyholder to stay overnight in an 
unoccupied property for two days a week, nor have I seen anything about a required 
heating temperature that needed to be maintained.
What is in question in this case, is whether or not Company A mis-led or gave incorrect 
information to Mr H when speaking to him on the phone about the policy. And of course 
the call recordings themselves would clarify this matter but unfortunately not all of them 
are available. So Ive considered Mr Hs main points in turn; 
i) the availability of call recordings and whether they were deliberately withheld;
ii) whether Mr H was given  and reasonably relied on - misleading 
information during those calls.
availability of call recordings
Mr H has accused RSA of intentionally failing to provide the unavailable calls so as to hide 
what its representative has said in these calls.
Mr H says that two emails sent to him by Company A - that include apologies for 
misadvising him - prove this is the case, as he says they prove that representatives of 
Company A were able to listen to these calls. The content of these emails is known to 
both parties. I have quoted the first, from 4 April 2018, above.
I agree with Mr H that on its face this email suggests the representative listened to the 
call as part of their investigation.
However, RSA has also provided me with an internal email from September 2018 where the same representative provided context for their earlier email. Within this, they said:
This was the first I had heard of these requirements [of which Mr H had alleged he was 
told], so I referred to our TCM team to investigate the call and the response received 
(attached) confirmed that the requirements mentioned are incorrect so theres no need to 
listen to the call. I felt that I couldnt outright say that we didnt listen to the call, so in an 
effort to resolve the query I confirmed in my email of 4th April 2018 that we did listen to 
the call and confirmed the correct requirements with an apology.
On this basis Im satisfied the agent didnt listen to the call or calls. And that their reasons 
for suggesting they had, as they have outlined above, were with the intention of trying to 
resolve the complaint.
Mr H has mentioned a second email from May 2019. He says the contents of this email 
show unequivocally that RSA had not told the truth and had withheld phone call evidence to 
aid its position. The email from Company As representative said:
I confirm that we could locate 20 calls dating as far back as 30th April 2014 up to and 
including the 3rd January 2018. However, we cannot guarantee that all calls were 
listened to, however, a full investigation was done and the calls that we did listen to was 
enough evidence to confirm we did misadvise and the complaint was dealt with based on 
this. [my emphasis]
We are aware that we had provided you with incorrect information for 4 years and we 
sincerely apologise for this, however, we did issue a Final Decision Letter from our 
Customer Relations Department back in June 2018 which finalised this complaint and this 
has been dealt at our highest level.
I think its noteworthy that the representative specifically says that not all calls may have 
been listened to. So, I dont see this as an unequivocal statement that undermines 
RSAs position as Mr H suggests. Instead, Im of the view that the general nature of this 
email is in keeping with RSAs internal email above, that the representative was trying to 
resolve the complaint by way of an apology.
There is a clear suggestion in this second email that Company As representative was 
satisfied they had provided incorrect information to Mr H. So I asked RSA for further clarity 
on this point. It said this agent had been instructed by a manager as to what to write. Within 
the managers email to the representative who wrote the second email dated May 2019 
they said:
5 of the 20 calls we were unable to listen to due to the length of time the calls were 
made and they were in an archived file that ourselves and our IT team could not make 
playable. Therefore, we cannot guarantee that all calls were listened to, however, a full 
investigation was done and the calls that we did listen to was enough evidence to confirm 
we did misadvise and the complaint was dealt with based on this.
RSA concluded that this agent was simply relaying information as instructed, without 
having listened to the telephone calls themselves. Therefore they had no insight into the 
telephone calls referred to in their email to Mr H. And RSA said, for the same reasons in 
reference to the earlier agents emails mentioned above, it considered Company A was 
mistaken in stating it had misadvised Mr H given the lack of knowledge of what was said 
on the calls.
RSA has reached a different conclusion to Company A based on the available evidence. 
And within my role Im required to weigh up all the evidence and reach my own conclusion, 
not to be bound by any businesses findings. So I will go on to do this below.
The managers email above to Company As representative clarifies that Company A could 
not listen to 5 of the 20 calls, as they were archived in a file that neither Company A nor 
their IT team could make playable. This accords with RSAs account that the 5 calls that it did not provide to Mr H could not be listened to  either by Company A or by RSA  as it 
says they were corrupted during the archiving process.
RSA has given an explanation for the corruption of the unavailable calls. It said for 
archiving purposes it will package multiple calls into a compressed format. And in turn the 
file was corrupted due to the inherent technical limitations of this particular format. RSA 
has also provided me with an email chain from its telephony team which supports this.
Based on everything Ive been provided with, Im satisfied RSA failed to provide the 
unavailable calls. However, Im persuaded that this failure was because the calls were 
simply not available due to IT corruption, rather than an attempt to hide anything or other 
nefarious reason that Mr H has suggested.
Im also persuaded that the unavailable calls that RSA has failed to provide were the same 
5 calls that Company A could not listen to, as Company A say that the 5 calls it couldnt 
listen to were in an archived file that neither they nor their IT team could make playable.
Is there sufficient evidence that Mr H was misadvised and, if so, did he reasonably rely 
on this advice?
Mr H has said that the emails from Company A to him, detailed above, which say that the 
calls it did listen to contained enough evidence that it misadvised him, prove unequivocally 
that he was misadvised.
I agree that there is clear suggestion within these emails that Company A had provided 
incorrect information. However, as Ive explained above, I dont find them to contain an 
unequivocal statement that undermines RSAs position.
Given my above finding that I dont consider that Company A did listen to the 
unavailable calls, I need to consider whether the calls that are available contain 
evidence of any mis-advice. I have listened to 13 of the available calls and I am satisfied 
that they do not contain any evidence that Company A mis-advised Mr H.
For reasons that I have discussed with Mr H, I have been unable to listen to two of the 
available calls. However, Mr H has confirmed to me that these two calls do not contain 
the alleged mis-advice. I am therefore satisfied that Company A did not misadvise Mr H 
during any of the available calls.
As I have found, above, that I dont consider that Company A listened to the unavailable 
calls, it therefore follows that I do not agree that the calls that Company A has listened to 
contain evidence that Mr H was misadvised. I am therefore unable to agree with Mr H that 
these emails from Company A prove that he was misadvised.
Mr H has also said that, following one of the unavailable calls, he emailed a relative and 
the contents of this, written very shortly after the call, reflects what he was told by 
Company A.
Having looked at the dates and times of these calls, its clear to me that Mr H did speak 
to Company A on 14 August 2015 in the late afternoon. He has provided a copy of this 
email sent shortly after this time that says:
Just to clarify that the requirement that I spend at least two days per week in the 
property is not connected to contents and would apply if the house was completely 
empty. This has always been my understanding and I have just checked with the 
insurers who have confirmed that they would not offer property insurance if I did not 
spend two days a week in the property, even if it had no contents in it.
On its own I agree this email suggests Mr H believed he had been told or reassured within 
the call that he would need to spend two days a week in the property. At the very least, this 
was his impression from the call. But Im not satisfied Mr Hs impression from the call 
proves what was actually said during the call. Mr H has said to us that this was in keeping 
with his understanding at that time based on previous conversations with Company A.Ive considered RSAs contact notes from this call. These indicate Mr H called to discuss 
his unhappiness at the restriction of cover, and asked for a refund related to an 
unsuccessful claim the previous year. So the contents of this note dont appear to be in 
keeping with a discussion about unoccupancy requirements.
Ive also noted that within Mr Hs email to his relative from August 2015 he says the 
following.
In my view it also protects [redacted name] and my best interests that I continue to spend 
a minimum of two days a week at the property to keep an eye on everything, deal with 
everything that needs to be dealt with on site and locally and to show that it is lived in.
[redacted name] would prefer the house to be left abandoned. Please be aware that I am 
not prepared to leave the house unprotected in this way unless we are pursuing an 
immediate sale.
In my view, this suggests Mr H was minded to stay in the property aside from whether or 
not this was an obligation under the policy. Mr H has commented specifically on this point 
that his position on this matter had changed over time  and while he had been able to 
carry out work to the property and prevent several risks to the property, he wouldve spent 
less time than he believed he was required to as a result of what he says he was told.
So Ive thought about the earlier conversations Mr H had with RSA to see what hed been 
told previously leading to this conversation  especially as hes said his understanding 
had always been that he was required to spend two days in the property.
In his own words Mr H said he was told in early 2014 by RSA hed need to stay overnight 
twice a week. The first call is from April 2014 and part of it is available. Its been provided 
to Mr H, and Ive listened to it myself so I wont provide a full transcript. But in summary Mr 
H was asked if the property would be unoccupied, and he responds to say he will be going 
to the property several times and staying there every weekend for the time being.
RSAs representative then responds to say hell update the system with notes about 
whats happened and asks Mr H to let it know if theres any changes to the property, or if 
hes going to sell it, or if theres any period of unoccupancy. At this point the agent put Mr 
H on hold and the call recording ends.
From what Ive heard of the available conversation, this isnt in keeping with Mr Hs 
recollection of events as theres no mention by RSA of a requirement to stay at the 
property overnight. Nor was there mention of any specific temperature requirements. So 
Im not persuaded Mr Hs recollection is reflected in the part of the call that Ive been given.
However, Im mindful that part of this call isnt available. So I accept its possible the 
requirements Mr H has alleged he was told of may have been discussed during the 
unavailable part of this call. Equally though, he has indicated he was told the same 
information several times on different occasions.
I asked RSA to confirm if it sold any other policies with differing terms to the policy in 
question around the time of the sale, and specifically whether any of these included 
requirements on staying overnight for two nights a week, or if they had temperature 
requirements. I asked this to establish if it may be likely the agent in question had become 
confused between different policies that were being sold at this time.
RSA has provided me with emails from underwriting analysts and technical staff which 
confirmed the unoccupancy requirements Mr H says he was told about werent present 
within any of the other policies sold by Company A at this time. So it seems to me less 
likely that Company As agent wouldve included specific requirements about staying 
overnight and temperature, when this simply isnt part of the policy or any other policies that 
were being sold by Company A at the time.
I acknowledge I dont have all the calls between Mr H and RSA. I have to consider what is likely to have happened on the balance of probabilities. And having done so, taking into 
account Mr Hs testimony against the available calls and call notes for the unavailable calls, 
Im not persuaded its more likely than not that RSA did mis-lead Mr H as hes described.
Ive also thought more widely about the information that RSA did provide to Mr H, including 
the schedules, policy terms and the endorsement which Ive outlined above, and which 
clearly set out the specific requirements needed for unoccupied if buildings cover.
From my own view of the paperwork that was sent to Mr H, Im satisfied the information 
about the unoccupancy terms was clear. I understand that Mr H says that he did not read 
this information  and instead relied on what he says he was told by Company A  
however, I have also taken into account that, as an executor of the estate, Mr H would have 
been expected to read this information.
As Ive said above, the four fully missing calls  which Mr H considers contain the 
misinformation  span across 14 August  15 September 2015. Ive listened to the ten 
calls that followed these which are available, and include several renewal calls and a call 
where the policy changed from an unoccupied policy to a standard policy.
Im satisfied none of them contain any mention or discussion of the policy 
requirements Mr H has alleged he was told of or seem in keeping with Mr Hs 
recollection of events.
Mr H has mentioned that it was reasonable to rely on the advice he was given. But in light 
of Mr Hs comments that his view on staying in the property changed over time, its unclear 
to me why this topic wasnt discussed again during any of the subsequent calls given the 
frustration of having to attend the property so regularly that he has described.
Ive considered Mr Hs point that unoccupied may have a specific meaning within an 
insurance policy so shouldnt be considered a clear term. As Ive said above, Im satisfied 
that the information provided to Mr H was clear, in relation to the required attendance at the 
property while it was unoccupied. But in any event, Mr H has told us he didnt read the 
terms, so he cant have been misled by something he didnt read.
For these reasons I said I wasnt persuaded Company As comments to Mr H about being 
mis-advised demonstrate he was actually mis-led as he has alleged. And that I was 
satisfied Mr H wasnt mis-led by RSA in relation to the terms of his policy or how he should 
comply with them. And as a result, I didnt intend to direct it to do anything further.
Mr H disagreed, and he requested we share copies of various documents that I had 
mentioned within the provisional decision. And he asked for an extension of ten weeks to 
provide further information. This information was shared with Mr H and the extension 
granted. Mr H has provided a number of points in response to the decision, which are 
mainly captured within two submission documents he sent through on 20 April 2021 and 23 
June 2021. Ive summarised what I consider to be the crux of his points below.
20 April 2021 response
my decision was biased and where there were gaps in evidence I unfairly 
found or speculated in RSAs favour;
that Id ignored or failed to read some submissions that Mr H provided to 
me by way of attachments to an email on 22 December 2020. Ive listed the 
points raised within this submission that were not already made elsewhere:
oThe policy states: If you are unclear about any endorsement please 
contact us. He did not read the small print of the policy but he did 
contact Company A and relied on what hed been told.
oIt was untrue to say Mr H had moved into the property. He did not want to be spending time away from his home, but did so because he 
believed it was required and was misled by Company A as to the 
degree of that requirement.
oEven if the relevant calls were corrupted as RSA has said, this service 
should recognise RSA is at fault for failing to protect Mr Hs personal 
data and award compensation as a result.
that my interpretation of the ICOs comments suggested it had 
completed technical analysis when it hadnt, and that the ICOs findings 
were based on assumption and not agreement with RSA;
the terms of the insurance policy relating to occupancy were unclear;
my expectations of a lay executor were unrealistic as the 
perusal of documentation was a matter for the professional 
executor;
I hadnt placed significance on the impact of Mr H losing a parent and how 
this had left him subject to trusting RSA while grieving;
Mr H also said he had sought further information in relation to the comments 
made by Company As representatives. And he said the evidence did not 
reflect that staff had tried to placate him and instead had listened to the calls; 
Mr H says there was no need to listen to all the calls to determine that there 
had been mis- advice  he says it was only necessary to hear one call with 
the mis-advice. And he says there were more than 20 calls because 
Company As representative said they could locate 20 calls dating as far 
back as 30 April 2014[] but we know there was an earlier call on 23 April 
2014;
Mr H specified he was misadvised by Company A in April 2014 that he 
would need to spend two days a week at the property and said that I 
should draw adverse inferences from the fact that RSA is unable to 
provide full telephone recordings from April 2014;
Mr H provided a further email to his solicitor, dated 26 October 2014, in which 
he said I am continuing to look after the property at least every weekend as 
required by the insurers at the last insurance renewal. He said this 
demonstrated he was misadvised;
Mr H further specified that he was misadvised again on 14 August 2015 by 
Company A, when he says it told him he needed to spend two days a week at 
the property even if all the contents were removed; and
Mr Hs email to his relative, dated 14 August 2015, was clear 
contemporaneous evidence and I should draw adverse inference from 
RSAs inability to provide related telephone recordings.
Following Mr Hs submission, I requested information from RSA to further clarify how 
the Company A staff members (whose emails Mr H has referred to in his submission) 
had reached their conclusion.
RSA provided various notes and documents in response, including internal call notes and 
internal emails between managers and staff members about Mr Hs complaint. Several of 
which Ive reviewed already and referred to within my provisional decision. These 
documents have all been shared with Mr H so I wont repeat their contents in full for the 
purposes of brevity.
These documents included a further internal email dated 6 March 2018 from the Company 
A staff member who had initially apologised to Mr H who was writing to one of Company As technical customer managers. This took place shortly after Mr H had questioned the 
policy terms:
Wondering if you can help with this.
I'm not sure when we'd ever tell a customer that an unoccupied home needs to visited 
2 days per week, let alone that it needs to be kept at 13 degrees!
Can you search for a call? Although there's no note about discussing the unocc terms!
[email A]
In response the manager said, on 8 March 2018:
Id just correct the PH on the unoccp terms. What we actually offer is better than the 
below which the PH thinks, so not going to listen to call.
Any problems, please let us know.
[email B]
So, RSA said these emails made it clear no members of staff had listened to the calls. And 
it said the manager that emailed Mr H in May 2019 (referenced above) wouldve gone, 
entirely, on what she was told in the email chains. It concluded:
My summary would be that, in the initial stages, no call listening was done because no-
one realised where Mr H was coming from. Their interest was in getting him on the correct 
footing going forward (remembering that the unoccupancy endorsement wording was 
provided on his policy documentation).
After it was realised there was a complaint about the call, all available calls were listened 
to. Having listened to these myself I fail to see where there is sufficient evidence to say 
that he was misinformed.
Following this, Mr H provided another submission which I summarise below.
23 June 2021 response
Mr H says there is a further incidence of missing audio data at a time where there 
is written evidence that occupancy terms were discussed on the phone. The 
recording of a call that took place on 7 September 2015 cuts off after Mr H was 
placed on hold. Mr H says that the call notes show that the outcome of the call of 
7 September 2015 was that the policy was amended and unoccupancy terms 
removed. He says this is consistent with his previous submission that he 
discussed the occupancy terms with the insurers on 14 August 2015 and 
thereafter agreed to increase the number of days he spent at the property to 
reduce the premium, as he was already spending at least two days a week at the 
property due to what he says he had been told; Mr H says that, during calls made 
to RSA and/or Company A, they refer to not sending out documentation to him 
because the calls are recorded  he says this suggests that RSAs call notes are 
not necessarily an accurate reflection of discussions, as their handlers do not 
make a great deal of effort when completing them;
Mr H says there are two incidents of missing audio data after he was put on hold 
when discussing occupancy. However, in other calls when he was put on hold, 
when occupancy was not discussed, the remainder of the calls after he was 
placed on hold are intact. He says this supports his contention that audio data 
was withheld; and
Mr H says the email sent by the manager at Company A to the representative 
who wrote to him in May 2019 contains a specific and compelling statement that 
the calls were listened to by Company A and there is no sense within that email 
of if that was what you were told then it was wrong as suggested by RSA. And 
he says the fact that the representative who emailed him on 4 April 2018 
subsequently said he hadnt listened to the calls does not mean other members of staff hadnt listened to them.
I considered all of these points and issued a second provisional decision on 20 July 
2021. Ive included an extract of this below.
Ive considered all the information from Mr H, Company A and RSA 
independently, and in reaching my conclusions have thought carefully about 
whether that evidence shows its more likely than not Mr H was mis-advised 
on the issues he feels he was. Im mindful that some evidence is missing and 
where thats the case Ive factored in other evidence that may support Mr Hs 
view of what happened, or equally whether its more supportive of an 
alternative view such as held by RSA. In reaching my conclusion Ive 
explained why Ive found the evidence Ive referred to from RSA and 
Company A more persuasive on the issue in dispute rather than what Mr H 
has said and submitted.
Mr H says the policy states: If you are unclear about any endorsement 
please contact us. He says this is what he did, and in turn he relied on what 
Company A told him. As Ive outlined previously, Mr H has said by his own 
admission that he never read the policy terms. The subject of what he was 
told within these calls Ive covered elsewhere within this decision.
Ive taken on board Mr Hs comments about not wanting to spend time away 
from his home. This has been taken into account and considered within my 
decision.
Mr H has said this service should award compensation for failing to protect 
his data. Ive taken this point into account and I agree RSAs loss of data has 
complicated this complaint. However, it is not the role of this service to 
penalise or punish RSA on principle for making mistakes of this nature  we 
instead award compensation where we think a mistake has led to distress 
and inconvenience. And in this case the focus of the complaint is about the 
alleged mis-information, not the lost data. So this doesnt persuade me to 
make an award in this complaint;
Ive taken on board Mr Hs comments about the ICOs findings. And in doing 
so I have taken into account all of the available evidence in determining 
whether, on the balance of probabilities, the call recordings were intentionally 
withheld and I am satisfied that the calls were unavailable due to IT 
corruption, for the reasons I set out in my previous provisional decision;
Ive addressed within my previous provisional decision whether I consider that 
the requirements of the policy were clear in relation to unoccupancy, and I 
remain of the opinion that they were, for the reasons I set out in that decision.
Mr H has suggested that he shouldnt have been expected to read the policy 
as a lay executor and that this was a matter for his professional co-executor. 
However, given that Mr H took on the responsibility for arranging this himself, I 
dont agree he shouldnt have been expected to read the policy that he had 
arranged.
Im sympathetic to Mr Hs situation and Ive taken into account the 
circumstances that sit around this complaint when reaching my decision.
Mr H says it was only necessary to hear one call with the mis-advice, in 
order for Company A to satisfy itself he had been misadvised. And he says 
there were more than 20 calls because Company As representative said 
they could locate 20 calls dating as far back as 30 April 2014 However we know there was an earlier call on 23 April 2014. So, I have to determine 
whether there is an additional call that has been withheld. In doing so Ive 
considered correspondence sent around this time. On 8 May 2018 RSA 
wrote to Mr H outlining it had 15 calls available (that it shared with him via 
CD) and four that were unavailable. This letter predates the email from the 
representative that told Mr H they had listened to the calls (in April 2018) and 
postdates the email hed referenced from May 2019. This doesnt persuade 
me that a call has been withheld in the circumstances.
[Note: as part of my work on this final decision, I have noticed that there is a 
typographical error in the above paragraph. The penultimate sentence 
should read: This letter postdates the email from the representative that told 
Mr H they had listened to the calls (in April 2018) and predates the email 
hed referenced from May 2019. The changes are in bold.]
Ive taken into account the email Mr H sent to his relative within my previous 
provisional decision and explained my findings on that and have nothing to 
add to this.
I agree Mr Hs email to his solicitor of 26 October 2014 suggests he believed 
he had been told or reassured within the call that he would need to spend two 
days a week in the property. However, for the same reasons Ive given 
previously, Im not satisfied Mr Hs impression from the call proves what was 
actually said during the call or that he was mis-led by RSA. So, this email only 
serves to support what he believes he was told, not necessarily what he was 
told. For this reason, it hasnt changed my mind.
Ive considered the further contemporaneous evidence provided by RSA. 
Email A further suggests to me and supports that the handler who spoke to 
Mr H initially on this matter hadnt listened to any calls at all. Email B suggests 
to me that the manager who instructed this member of staff to apologise 
hadnt listened to the call for the reasons they gave  they believed what they 
offered within the policy was better than what Mr H thought. I think this further 
supports, on balance, that no members of staff from either RSA or Company 
A listened to any of the unavailable calls.
Mr H has asked me to draw inference in the absence of the calls in question. 
While I understand his frustration, Im still persuaded this failure was because 
the calls were simply not available due to IT corruption, rather than an attempt 
to hide anything. I dont think it would be reasonable to exclude consideration 
of all the other evidence provided and simply focus on the missing calls. The 
calls are part of the evidential considerations but not exclusive to the issue of 
whether Mr H was mis-led or not. And this is supported by the emails Ive 
referenced above that suggest they were not listened to  and seems to me to 
be the most likely outcome on balance.
Ive taken into account Mr Hs concerns about call notes  and Ive 
considered the potential inaccuracy of these notes when deciding this 
complaint.
I am satisfied, for the reasons above and the reasons set out in my previous provisional 
decision, that the unavailable calls were not listened to by anyone from RSA or Company 
A. I am persuaded by the evidence provided by RSA that the call recordings were corrupted 
when they were archived and, therefore, were not capable of being listened to by RSA or 
Company A.
I accept that Company As representatives did tell Mr H they had listened to a call in which 
Mr H had been mis-advised. However, I have taken into account all of the available 
evidence, including that set out in my previous decision and above, and also including the emails sent to Mr H by representatives of Company A directly following the email to Mr H 
from the first representative on 4 April 2018.
And, for the reasons given above, I am satisfied that the reason the representatives of 
Company A told Mr H they had listened to a call was in order to resolve the complaint 
with an apology  and that they took his email saying that he had been mis-advised at 
face value without having listened to any calls.
I dont think that this was at all helpful and I can see how this has created an enormous 
amount of confusion for Mr H. However, what I need to decide is whether I think that he 
was mis-led and Ive taken everything into account, including the mis- leading evidence 
from Company A. And having done so, I am not satisfied, on the balance of probabilities, 
that Mr H was told by Company A or RSA that he had to stay overnight at the property for at 
least two days per week and keep it at a minimum temperature of 13 degrees.
I accept Mr Hs email to his relative, and his solicitor support that he believed there were 
particular requirements in place. But when balanced against the other available evidence, 
Im not persuaded its more likely that he was given this alleged mis-advice. I say this for the 
reasons Ive given previously, as the call notes, available calls, and policy documents do 
not reflect any such requirements  nor did Company A sell products with such 
requirements around this time.
Further to this when reconsidering the evidence Ive noted Mr Hs call with Company A on 8 
September 2017. Within this Mr H said he remembered when the renewal came through 
last year and it was kind of worked out on the basis the property was vacant or something. 
He then says Last year they were asking me about how many days am I there a week and 
that kind of thing. The adviser says they would ask whether the property would be left 
unoccupied for more than 60 days a year.
Mr H responded to say they seem to think that, whilst it wasnt going to be left 
unoccupied for more than 60 days a year, that I wasnt here during the week or 
something  so is there some other residence aspect? to which the agent confirms they 
would only ask whether the property would be unoccupied during the day and nothing 
else. Mr Hs recollection within the call doesnt include any of the specific requirements 
about days required to stay overnight at the property, nor any temperature requirements. 
And in light of the discussion, I dont think this call supports Mr Hs allegations.
So, for all of these reasons, on the balance, Im not satisfied Mr H was mis-advised by 
RSA or Company A as he has alleged.
However, even if Mr H was mis-advised, I am not persuaded that this would have 
affected his decision to spend the amount of time at the property that he did. Mr H has 
said that, if he had known the minimum obligation was only a weekly visit by himself or 
an agent, then he would not have spent as much time at the house and he would not 
have increased his time spent at the house each week from two days to most of the 
week. However, I am unable to ignore the other available evidence that  to me - 
indicates that Mr H would have spent the amount of time he did at the property, 
regardless of whether he was told he needed to spend two days a week there.
I say this as within Mr Hs first call with Company A (23 April 2014), before he alleged he 
was first mis-advised, he said he would be coming to the property every weekend for the 
time being. And within his email to his relative of 14 August 2015, he said:
In my view it also protects [redacted name] and my best interests that I continue to spend a 
minimum of two days a week at the property to keep an eye on everything, deal with 
everything that needs to be dealt with on site and locally and to show that it is lived in.
[redacted name] would prefer the house to be left abandoned. Please be aware that I 
am not prepared to leave the house unprotected in this way unless we are pursuing 
an immediate sale.Mr H has explained he said this to persuade his relative it was mutually beneficial for them 
to comply with the provision of spending two days a week at the property so there was no 
failure to meet insurance requirements. He says that the professional executor had 
advised him that, if he and his relative couldnt agree on how to manage the property, then 
they would have to put the property up for sale immediately  which they didnt want as 
they wanted to explore the possibility of improving the value. He set out the benefits of him 
spending time in the property in the email, but hes said it was far from his preference to be 
travelling to and from the property, and he wouldnt have done so as regularly if he hadnt 
been mis-advised.
Ive taken his points into account. But it strikes me that it would be mutually beneficial in 
any event for the parties to comply with insurance provisions both to keep the property 
insured, as well as preventing an immediate sale that hes suggested was the mutual 
preference. So, Im not persuaded the most likely logical extension of this statement would 
lead to Mr H saying it was in his and his relatives best interests to spend a minimum of two 
days per week at the property  if this was indeed the requirements that he believed 
needed to be complied with anyway.
I would also note a call between Mr H and Company A on 8 September 2016 in which the 
adviser explained the property was listed, for the period in question, as being unoccupied 
for 12 months. Mr H said initially, after the loss of his parent, he was partly at his flat and 
partly at the house. He described that he mainly resided at the flat to allow him to garden 
and make the property presentable for the purposes of a sale. And at that time, he says he 
was only at his own flat around one day per fortnight. He also said he didnt understand 
why the property had been recorded as unoccupied as hed always explained hes there all 
the time.
[Note: as part of my work on this final decision, I have noticed that there is a 
typographical error in the above paragraph. The third sentence should read: He described 
that he mainly resided at the house to allow him to garden and make the property 
presentable for the purposes of a sale. The change is in bold.]
Mr H also said at first the premium was higher because he was at his own flat more and 
then there was a renewal in which he said he would be spending more time at the 
property. The evidence suggests to me that on balance, Mr Hs time at the property was 
most likely to allow him to do his utmost to look after the house and prepare it for sale  
and not upon the instruction of RSA or Company A.
I initially gave both parties until 3 August 2021 to respond. RSA responded to say said at 
no time did Mr H seek clarification from Company A or RSA in respect of the operation of 
the policy terms and conditions.
Mr H disagreed with my second provisional decision, and Ive summarised what I consider 
to be the key points of his responses below.
I have made no award or recommendation in respect of RSAs failure to provide him with 
all the call recordings
Mr H says that I fail to mention or make any recommendation further to the 
ICOs decision that the insurers likely failed to comply with data protection 
regulations.
He says that I have incorrectly limited his complaint to being misled and suffering 
distress and inconvenience as consequences of mis-advice. However, he says 
that a keystone of his complaint is that RSA failed to provide audio data to him, 
which they had a legal duty to keep safe and make available to him and which he 
says he also knows will demonstrate that they mis-advised him.
He says that, regardless of whether or not he is right in his belief that the calls were withheld intentionally, RSAs failure to provide the data caused him 
distress, inconvenience and significant anxiety  particularly when he 
reasonably believed it may be needed as evidence in legal proceedings. He 
says that the initial complaint that he made to the ICO was about the missing 
data  so it is at the heart of his grievances about RSA.
Evidence that all of the missing calls coincide with points in time where Mr H was misadvised
Mr H says that I have ignored or misrepresented evidence that all 5 of the 
missing calls coincide with points in time where there is evidence that he was 
mis-advised, as follows:
oCall on 23 April 2014 (after being placed on hold)  Mr H says the email to 
his solicitors on 26 October 2014 is unequivocal written evidence that he 
was misadvised in this call.
oCall on 14 August 2015  Mr H says that the email to his relative on the 
same date is unequivocal written evidence that he was misadvised in this 
call.
oCall on 7 September 2015  Mr H says that it was during this call that the 
policy was amended from unoccupancy terms to a standard policy, 
following an increase in the premium. He says that, during this call, there 
was a discussion of the different terms applying to the two alternatives  
which included the number of days he was required to stay at the property in 
each case.
oTwo calls on 14 September 2015 - Mr H says that these two calls were follow 
up calls to the call on 7 September 2015. He says that the revised renewal of 
cover was discussed in these calls  and that the policy requirements will 
have been discussed.
Mr H says that it is no coincidence that these calls are missing and that this 
evidence amounts to a compelling case that the insurers cherry-picked what they 
gave to him and withheld or intentionally corrupted evidence that they had mis-
advised. Mr H also reiterates his belief that there are further missing calls.
Mr Hs role in arranging the cover in question
Mr H says he did not arrange the cover in question  he was asked by his co- 
executor to notify the insurer that his relative had passed away and to pay any 
premium due. The policy was an existing policy of his late relative and its 
administration simply transferred to the name of the executors. Mr H therefore 
says it is not clear why I have said that he should have been more pro-active in 
reading the details of the policy.
Mr H says it is incorrect to describe him as the executor or suggest his 
responsibilities as an executor were his alone, as there was also a 
professional executor appointed under the will.
Mr H says that RSA  in their call notes - failed to accurately record that he told 
them that he was a joint-executor with solicitors. And he reiterated concerns 
about the accuracy of RSAs call recording notes.
RSAs unequivocal admission
Mr H says my conclusion regarding RSAs unequivocal admission  i.e. the 
email from Company As representative to Mr H in May 2019 (detailed above) - is 
unreasonable and illogical. He says that the emails that I have referred to as 
Email A and Email B in my second provisional decision serve to indicate that 
the writer of Email A confuses unoccupancy with vacancy and so is likely to mis-
advise if giving advice to customers about terms they dont understand.Mr H also says it is incomprehensible I would accept as good evidence, RSAs 
assertion that the writer of the unequivocal admission would have relied 
entirely on what she had been told in the email chains.
Mr H says I have failed to accept RSAs admission for what it is and sought to 
make it mean something else. He says that, if the calls were not listened to by 
anyone, the only logical apology in response to his email to Company A dated 29 
March 2018 would have been to apologise for Company As representative 
saying the calls had been listened to - as opposed to an admission that he was 
mis-advised.
Mr Hs call with Company A on 8 September 2017
In response to my comment  in my second provisional decision  that I did not 
consider that the content of this call supported Mr Hs allegation that he had been 
misadvised as to the policy requirements, Mr H has said this call has no relevance 
to his complaint. He says that the discussion in this call was only in relation to the 
standard policy terms, where a policyholder can be away for a maximum of 60 
days a year. He says the call handler didnt touch on the residence provisions for 
when the property is unoccupied or vacant - so this wouldnt have disturbed what 
he had been told about those provisions.
Mr Hs first call with Company A on 23 April 2014 and his email to his relative on 14 
August 2015
Mr H disagrees with my findings  within my second provisional decision - that 
the available part of the recording of his first call with Company A (on 23 April 
2014), and also the wording of the email he sent to his relative on 14 August 
2015, indicate  to me - that he would have spent the amount of time he did at 
the property, regardless of whether he was told he needed to spend two days a 
week there.
In relation to Mr Hs first call with Company A, on 23 April 2014, in which he said 
that he would be coming to the property every weekend for the time being, Mr H 
says that his use of the words time being shows that it was his intention for this 
to be a temporary arrangement. And that, after the call-handler returned from 
putting him on hold, the call-handler told him he needed to be at the property for 
at least two days a week or the property wouldnt be insured.
In relation to his email to his relative on 14 August 2015, Mr H says that his 
relative was proposing they left the house completely vacant - even in the 
knowledge that the insurers had told Mr H that he had to be there at least two 
days a week or there would be no cover. Mr H says that, if the house was left 
vacant and uninsured, they would have had no option but to sell the house 
immediately, which would have diminished the sale price. So Mr H says he had to 
express the benefits of him being in the property at least two days a week in the 
strongest possible terms.
Mr Hs call with Company A on 8 September 2016
In response to my comments  in my second provisional decision  about Mr Hs 
call with Company A on 8 September 2016, Mr H says that he advised RSA that 
he was at the property almost all the time as he had already agreed to spend 
more time at the property and less time at the flat in order to comply with the 
terms of the policy and to keep the premium down. He says that the reason that 
he spent even more time than usual at the property in September 2016 was 
because it had only just gone onto the market around this time, and there was still 
much work to be done during the early weeks of viewings.
Distinction between RSA and Company AMr H says I have overlooked RSAs assertion that there is no distinction 
between RSA and Company A.
ICO decision and request for me to delay finalising my determination of this complaint
Mr H says that I have referred to the ICO decision and wrongly concluded that it 
supports RSAs position. He also says that I set great store by the ICOs 
acceptance that the data was corrupt  but choose not to mention that this 
finding was not made via investigation, but based on the ICO accepting what 
bodies say in absence of evidence to the contrary.
He also says that the ICO did not have all of the evidence available to it that has 
been put before me, so he has submitted additional evidence to the ICO and has 
asked them to review their decision. So he requested that I delay my 
determination of his complaint until the ICO has re-assessed its findings.
In response to Mr Hs request to delay my determination, I said I had been given no date or 
approximate timeframe for the ICOs potential re-assessment  and I didnt deem it 
appropriate to delay the determination for an indefinite period. So, I would continue to 
assess the complaint based on the representations provided. And I granted a final 
extension until 10 September 2021. This date has now passed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill respond to Mr Hs points in turn.
As a preliminary point, I note that Mr H says that I have overlooked RSAs assertion that 
there is no distinction between RSA and Company A. To clarify, when I requested further 
information from RSA, following Mr Hs submissions to my first provisional decision, RSA 
stated, as part of its response, that there should be no distinction between RSA and 
Company A  and that the entire situation has been dealt with by RSA acting on behalf of 
Company A. I would like to clarify that I have taken this point into account - I 
acknowledge that, as an appointed representative of RSA, Company A was acting under 
delegated authority of RSA in its dealings with Mr H and that, for the purposes of this 
complaint, RSA would be responsible for any acts or omissions of Company A.
However, for the purposes of clarity, I have referred to Company A as Company A 
rather than RSA, where specific communications with Mr H have been with Company 
A.
When considering Mr Hs request for a further extension Ive kept in mind the 
principal function of this service under the Financial Services and Markets Act 
2000 (FSMA). This is to resolve disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers quickly and with minimal formality. The ICO is a separate organisation 
and has given its position on the matter of missing calls previously. And while Ive 
referred to its position within my provisional decisions, I havent relied on its 
findings. So, given the separate functions of the ICO, the fact that it has already 
reached findings and our statutory remit Im not satisfied its either necessary or 
proportionate for me to delay my final decision. Im satisfied that the parties have 
been given every reasonable opportunity to make their submissions and provide 
evidence for me to consider.
I take on board Mr Hs comments that he didnt initially arrange the insurance. 
However, I think its fair to say from the conversations he had with RSA that he was arranging this on an ongoing basis. I say this in light of the extent of Mr Hs 
involvement with the policy  as evidenced by the available calls and the fact that 
he was the person that would be taking on the responsibility of staying at the 
property for two days per week. So, in the circumstances, I think it would be 
reasonable to have expected Mr H to have read the policy.
I acknowledge Mr H was not the sole executor for the estate. However, as 
outlined above, for the purposes of this insurance policy Mr H appears to have 
been the only executor that engaged with RSA. Or, at the very least, Mr H has 
taken on a much more active role with RSA regarding the ongoing 
responsibilities around the insurance of the house. So, this doesnt change my 
mind.
Ive taken into account Mr Hs concerns about call notes  and Ive considered 
the potential inaccuracy of these notes when deciding this complaint.
Mr H says that I have ignored or misrepresented evidence that all five of the 
missing calls coincide with points in time where there is evidence that he was 
mis-advised. I assure him Ive considered all of the possibilities of how and why 
information has come to be unavailable. And, for the reasons Ive given in my 
provisional decisions, Im satisfied this was due to unintentional IT corruption, 
rather than any intentional deletion or omission.
Mr H has reiterated his belief there are further missing calls. I considered Mr 
Hs submissions in relation to this point in my second provisional decision  
and explained why I was not persuaded that there were further missing calls. 
Nothing provided to me since then has changed my opinion.
In my provisional decisions I said that I was satisfied that the reason the 
representatives of Company A told Mr H they had listened to a call was in order 
to resolve the complaint with an apology  and that they took his email saying 
that he had been mis-advised at face value without having listened to any calls. 
I also said, in my second provisional decision, that I dont think this was at all 
helpful. Mr H disagrees strongly with my interpretation of the evidence around 
RSAs apologies, and re-iterated his belief that this should be considered an 
unequivocal admission. Ive outlined in detail within my provisional decisions 
why Ive reached this conclusion, having considered all of the evidence in doing 
so. Mr H says I shouldnt rely on RSAs assertion that the manager in question 
from May 2019 relied entirely on the email chain. However in reaching my 
conclusion, I havent relied solely on RSAs assertion. Ive considered all of the 
information and evidence around this, as Ive outlined previously. So, this 
doesnt change my mind.
Mr H feels strongly it isnt logical that RSA would apologise for mis-leading him 
without having listened to the calls. Again, in reaching my decision I have 
considered all of the surrounding evidence and explained these within my 
provisional decisions.
Mr H has reiterated that he considers that this service should award 
compensation for RSAs failure to protect his personal data. I considered Mr Hs 
points on this in my second provisional decision, in which I agreed that RSAs 
loss of Mr Hs data has complicated this complaint. However, I said that it is not 
the role of this service to penalise or punish RSA on principle for making 
mistakes of this nature  we instead award compensation where we think a 
mistake has led to distress and inconvenience. And I said that, as the focus of Mr 
Hs complaint is about the alleged mis-information, rather than the lost data, I 
wasnt persuaded to make an award in this complaint.
Mr H says that I have incorrectly limited his complaint to the alleged mis-advice, rather than the fact that RSA failed to provide audio data to him which he says he 
knows will demonstrate that they mis-advised him. He says that, regardless of 
whether or not he is right in his belief that the calls were withheld intentionally, 
RSAs failure to provide the data caused him distress, inconvenience and 
significant anxiety
 particularly when he reasonably believed it may be needed as evidence in 
legal proceedings.
I have taken on board Mr Hs points and I do not dispute that RSAs failure to 
provide him with the missing calls forms part of Mr Hs complaint. However, the 
focus of Mr Hs complaint in this regard has been that RSA intentionally withheld 
or destroyed these call recordings  in order to conceal the fact that he was mis-
advised. As I said in my provisional decisions, having taken into account all of the 
available evidence in determining whether, on the balance of probabilities, the 
call recordings were intentionally withheld, I am satisfied that they were not  
instead I am persuaded by the evidence provided by RSA that the call recordings 
were corrupted when they were archived.
Mr H says that, even if he is wrong in his belief that the call recordings were 
intentionally withheld, I should award him compensation because RSAs failure to 
provide him with the missing calls has caused him distress and inconvenience. I 
have carefully considered all of Mr Hs submissions. Mr H says that he has 
suffered distress and inconvenience because he knows that the missing calls 
would have demonstrated that he had been mis-advised  and therefore, he 
reasonably believed that the call recordings would have assisted him in court 
proceedings.
However, as I have set out in both of my provisional decisions, having taken into 
account all of the available evidence, I do not consider, on the balance of 
probabilities, that the missing call recordings would have proved that Mr H had 
been mis-advised  as I am not satisfied on the balance of probabilities that Mr 
H was misadvised.
As I said in my second provisional decision, I accept that the corruption of the call 
recordings in question has complicated matters. However, for the reasons set out 
above  and in my provisional decisions - I am not persuaded that this corruption 
has caused Mr H the level of distress and inconvenience that he says it has. RSA, 
in its final response letter to Mr H, apologised for the fact that it could not trace 
some of the audio data in question  it said,
You have previously completed a DSAR request, in return we have sent you all 
the calls available to us. Im sorry that we have been unable to trace the 
telephone call you have been seeking.
Having taken into account all of the circumstances of this complaint  and given 
the fact that I am not satisfied that the missing call records were intentionally 
withheld or corrupted - I am satisfied that RSAs apology for the missing call data 
was a fair and reasonable response in the circumstances of this complaint. I 
remain satisfied that it would not be fair and reasonable, in all the circumstances 
of this complaint, to make an award in respect of the corruption of the call 
recordings.
Call of 8 September 2017  Mr H has given his reasons why he wouldnt have 
asked about residency requirements for when the property is unoccupied or 
vacant within this call. Ive listened back to this call again with Mr Hs points in 
mind. During the conversation Company As representative does confirm details 
about the requirements of the standard policy only. So, on reflection I agree with 
Mr H that this particular call is not relevant for the purposes of assessing whether Company A misled Mr H.
Ive outlined my thoughts on Mr Hs 14 August 2015 email to his relative in my 
provisional decisions. Within this email Mr H had expressed the benefits of him 
spending a minimum of two days a week on the property to keep an eye on 
everything, deal with everything that needs to be dealt with on site and locally and 
to show that it is lived in. Ive taken into account Mr Hs more recent submissions 
on this email. Mr H says that he expressed these benefits in his email to his 
relative because his relative was proposing to leave the house completely vacant 
 even in the knowledge that the insurers had told Mr H that he had to stay at the 
property for at least two days a week or there would be no cover. However, Mr H 
also says that, if the house was left vacant and uninsured  as his relative was 
proposing  then they would have no option but to sell the house immediately, at 
a diminished price. He says that preventing such a sale was a mutual preference 
for both him and his relative. But, if this was the case, Im not satisfied that Mr H 
needed to express any other benefits of spending two days a week at the 
property in order to convince his relative that doing so would be mutually 
beneficial So Mr Hs submissions havent changed my mind that this email 
indicates, to me, that Mr H wouldve spent the amount of time he did at the 
property  for the reasons he set out in this email to his relative - regardless of 
whether he was told he needed to spend two days a week there.
In relation to my findings, within my second provision decision, on Mr Hs initial 
call to Company A on 23 April 2014, Mr H has placed significant weight on his 
use of the phrase time being. But I dont think that his use of this phrase 
outweighs the other available evidence that suggests his intention was to stay at 
the property regularly  particularly taking into account his email to his relative in 
2015, and conversation with Company A in 2016. In the circumstances, Im not 
satisfied Mr Hs use of the phrase time being referred to any finite period of time. 
And Im still satisfied that the time Mr H spent at the property was most likely to 
allow him to look after the house and prepare it for sale  and not upon the 
instruction of RSA or Company A.
Mr H has said he was explicitly told of the requirement to stay at the property at 
least two days a week in the second (missing) part of the call on 23 April 2014. 
As all parties are aware, its clear Im unable to listen to this call to know what 
was discussed for certain. So, Ive had to rely on all the evidence provided 
alongside Mr Hs testimony. And as Ive outlined, its unclear to me why this topic 
wasnt discussed again during any of the subsequent calls given Mr Hs apparent 
frustration of having to attend the property so regularly that he has described. Nor 
is this reflected within the available call notes, available calls, policy documents, 
and Company A did not sell products with such requirements around this time.
In response to my comments about Mr Hs call with Company A on 8 September 
2016, Mr H says that he spent more time at the property at this time as it had only 
just gone onto the market. I acknowledge this may have been his motivation for 
being at the property so often at this time. But this doesnt change any 
conclusions Ive reached more widely, or my belief about his most likely intentions 
based on all the evidence. And, as I said in my second provisional decision 
above, I have taken into

account the fact that Mr H told Company A during this call that hed always 
explained hes at the property all the time.
Mr H has indicated I should draw adverse inferences as RSA hasnt provided 
certain evidence  namely the missing calls. Within my provisional decisions Ive outlined in detail why I believe its most likely the calls in question were corrupted 
and not hidden or destroyed by RSA intentionally. So I consider that RSA has 
been incapable of providing this evidence, rather than willingly withholding it. As a 
result, I dont consider it appropriate or reasonable to draw adverse inference 
from this missing information.
In conclusion, for the above reasons  including those within my provisional findings, 
which are included above and which form part of this decision - Im not upholding this 
complaint.
Im satisfied that Company A did not listen to any of the unavailable calls. Im persuaded 
by RSAs evidence that the recordings of these calls were unintentionally corrupted prior 
to its review and I make no award in respect of the corruption of the data for the reasons 
above. Im also satisfied that Company As apology for mis-leading Mr H was given with 
the intention of resolving a complaint and not based on having listened to a call recording 
of Mr H being given misinformation about the requirements of this property insurance 
policy.
Having taken into account all of the available evidence, including the relevant available 
telephone recordings, emails, and testimony, Im not satisfied, on the balance of 
probabilities, that Mr H was mis-advised as hes alleged. But, even if my decision on this 
were different and I did consider that Mr H had been mis-advised as he alleges, Im not 
satisfied, for the reasons above, that he would not have spent the amount of time he did 
at the property in any event.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 November 2021.
Jack Baldry
 
Ombudsman