DRN-2047077
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that Acromas Insurance Company Limited mishandled a motor 
insurance policy.
What happened
The Financial Ombudsman Service deals with a consumer complaint against one insurance 
company or other regulated financial firm at a time. In our final decision, we name that firm, 
but we dont name any other party.
In October 2019 Mrs J, through an intermediary, renewed her motor insurance policy. Mr J 
was named as a permitted driver. Acromas was the insurer. Disregarding the optional extras 
such as breakdown cover, the motor insurance premium was £285.95 for a year.
About a month later, Mr and Mrs J sold that car and bought a newer but less powerful car. 
The intermediary said the change of vehicle resulted in a £147.69 increase for the remainder 
of the policy year. 
In November 2019, Mr J complained to the intermediary that the increase was unfair. The 
intermediary wrote a final response dated 6 November 2019. It said the premium had been 
calculated fairly, but as a gesture of good will it would refund the administration fee of 
£25.00.
Unhappy with that, Mr and Mrs J brought their complaint to us later in November 2019.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think that 
Acromas had acted unfairly by increasing the premium.
Mr J disagreed with the investigators opinion in part. He asked for an ombudsman to review 
the complaint. He says, in summary, that:
The policy booklet said that if he cancelled beyond the 14-day cooling-off period, no 
refund would be provided. So he would lose all he had paid previously.
He felt captive to continue with the policy and relied on the company to provide a fair 
premium adjustment.
Acromas treated him unfairly. 
Its premiums dont make sense.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate the situation a customer is in when changing a car on an existing policy (a mid-
term adjustment).  A consumer may be reluctant to shop around for insurance and to cancel 
the existing policy. 
Many policies say that there will be no refund on a cancellation after the 14-day cooling-off 
period. But the Financial Ombudsman Service will expect an insurer to justify keeping the 
premium, for example on the grounds that there has been a claim. Otherwise we expect the 
insurer to make a refund proportionate to the time between the cancellation and the date 
when the policy year wouldve expired.
If  instead of cancelling the policy - a consumer keeps the existing policy and changes the 
vehicle, I cant review and revise the insurers adjusted premium.
What I can do is to check that Acromas didnt single out Mrs J and treat her unfairly in 
comparison to any of its other customers in similar circumstances.
From what Ive seen, Acromas has a standard approach to assessing various factors for any 
customers vehicle. Those factors include the newness of the vehicle.
I'm satisfied that Acromas applied its standard approach to Mrs Js new vehicle and didnt 
unfairly single her out.
So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Acromas to refund any of the premium increase 
or to do any more in response to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Acromas Insurance Company Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 January 2021.
 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman