DRN-2499783
The complaint
Mr O complains about the charges applied to his investments by Schroder Unit Trusts 
Limited referred to as Schroders or the business, prior to a change in accumulation class 
of funds in 2018.  
What happened
Mr O has held his investment with Schroders since 1992. In a letter dated July 2019, it 
notified him that itd be transferring his units in the A accumulation class of the fund to the 
Z accumulation class of the fund. 
The letter explained that the reason for the change was continued focus for
improving investor outcomes for our customers. So, 1.5% management charges on the A 
class would be reduced to 0.75% with the Z class. 
A few days later, Mr O called Schroders to request a refund of the difference in fees. In a 
subsequent call with Mr O dated 24 July 2019 Schroders accepted that  in the Annual 
Management Charge (AMC) of 1.5%  he had been charged an annual adviser fee, when he 
didnt have an adviser.  
In a Final Response Letter (FRL) dated July 2019, the business rejected the complaint. In 
summary, it said:
aim of our share class conversions is to facilitate lower costs for our clients. Annual 
Management Charges are regulated by the FCA. Our charges have always been deemed as 
fair by our regulator and reflective of the costs of managing a fund. You agreed to these 
when the account was opened and unfortunately we will not be able to provide a refund. 
Mr O believes that Schroders has breached several business principles by rejecting his 
complaint. In addition, he argues the business deliberately allocated the fund that attracted a 
fee and kept it for itself. In due course he referred his complaint to our service and would like 
a refund of his fees with 8% simple interest. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
Given the passage of time Schroders is only able to provide documentation from 
2002. 
In 2018, the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (the FCA) removed 
the need for an Authorised Fund Manager (AFM) to obtain consent from an investor 
before converting the investments to a cheaper share class. 
Subsequently, the business conducted an extensive review, following which it moved 
Mr Os investments to a different share class. 
In 1992, Mr O wouldnt have had the opportunity to invest in the same investment 
without paying/agreeing to pay the requisite charges.  
On balance, its more likely than not that Mr O agreed to pay the charges at the 
outset, in order to invest, and the business has always been upfront about the fees. 
In the circumstances hes unable to say that the business acted unfairly by charging 
Mr O the 1.5% charges. 
Until the FCA intervention  the business wasnt required to move Mr Os investment 
into a cheaper class without him requesting it. Its also unlikely that any other classes 
wouldve been appropriate. 
The business only made changes to be in line with changes brought in by the FCA. 
This doesnt mean it was doing anything wrong before then when it was only 
complying with the rules as they were at the time. 
Mr O disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
summary, he made the following key points:
The investigator hasnt addressed/considered his concerns as set out in the first 
letter to our service regarding the business compliance with FCA principles which its 
obliged to comply with. In particular, Schroders hasnt acted with integrity. 
The investigator hasnt provided evidence that Mr O was notified of the 1.5% charge 
at the outset, or even with his six-monthly valuations.  
The investigator assumed that Mr Os silence until now is an acceptance of this 
charge. 
There was a time that customers agreed to take out PPI, so even if he agreed to the 
charge  which he doesnt accept  it doesnt mean that its not wrong.  
Can the investigator advise if Schroders had separate classes with separate and 
different charges, for different institutions and charities? Hed be surprised if 
Schroders was charging them the same.   
Schroders failed to issue regular reminders about key elements of the service as part 
of good industry practice. In other words, it elected not to follow industry practice.  
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind.  
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr O says, Im not persuaded 
that Schroders has done anything wrong by changing his accumulation class of funds when 
it did following changes by the FCA, or charging him 1.5% before that change.   
But before I explain why, its important for me to recognise Mr Os strength of feeling about 
this matter. He has provided submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully. However, I hope he wont take the fact my findings focus on what 
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised, its not what Im required 
to do in order to reach a decision in this case. I appreciate this can be frustrating, but my not 
seeking to address every issue doesnt mean Im not considering the pertinent points. My role is to consider the evidence presented by Mr O and the business, and reach what I 
think is an independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case, rather 
than take any sides. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice, but perhaps unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for me to 
decide, based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened. 
Given the passage of time, Im not surprised that Schroders doesnt have more information 
available from the point of sale. Businesses arent required to retain information indefinitely 
so I cant blame the business for not being able to provide more information from 1992.   
Im mindful that the relevant changes came about in 2018, after the FCA removed the need 
to have an AFM to obtain individual consent before converting the investments to a cheaper 
share class from 2019. 
Thats principally why Schroders was able to make relevant changes  and notify Mr O  
without having to consult him or obtain his consent. Im mindful that prior to taking any 
action, the business conducted its own extensive review and took reasonable steps to notify 
him of its plans in good time.   
I note according to Schroders, there have previously been barriers to AFMs converting 
holdings to cheaper share classes where investors consent was required. And the FCA 
action has enabled the business to provide a simple one-off notification to investors  not 
requiring a response  a minimum of 60 days before a mandatory conversion. 
On balance I think this is in line with Schroders objective to act in investors best interests 
and complying with regulatory requirements and standards as they apply and evolve over 
time. Evidently this wasnt action that it could just take of its own free will prior to 2018, so I 
dont think Mr O is entitled to the charges he may have paid prior to this move.  
Despite what Mr O says, Im afraid I dont agree that Schroders hasnt acted with integrity 
just because it decided not to uphold his complaint. Im aware that in accordance with the 
FCAs new Value Assessment regime, Schroders formed a project team to assess the range 
of management fees being charged across its share class. In my opinion this shows it acted 
with due skill, care and diligence in accordance with FCA principles. I note it said: 
The extensive review concluded that Schroders would convert direct investors, such as Mr 
O (name anonymised), in the more expensive share class to the cheaper share class (where 
available) and notify those investors accordingly. Schroders subsequently transferred 26,000 
investors to cheaper share classes. Prior to this, in line with the UK regulations and 
standards in place at that time, Schroders converted investors to cheaper fund share classes 
when requested.
Had Schroders not taken any action following the FCA decision to remove the need to have 
AFM consent, not conducted an extensive internal review and not changed the share class 
on Mr Os investments so that the charges were lowered  I wouldve decided differently.
But in the circumstances, Im satisfied that it took proactive action  following the FCA 
changes  broadly in line with its continued focus for improving investor outcomes for its 
customers. Im satisfied that Schroders acted in good faith, and that it took reasonable care 
to organise its affairs responsibly in respect of Mr O and thousands of other customers in his 
position.  Ive considered Mr Os points, but on balance I think its more likely than not that he was 
made aware of the 1.5% charge. Im not suggesting that his silence on the matter is taken as 
acceptance, Im just not persuaded that this matter wasnt discussed/made clear at the point 
of sale or referred to within the documentation that he wouldve received at the time. So, its 
likely this was something Mr O wouldve agreed to at the time. As the investigator pointed 
out, Mr O is unlikely to have been able to invest without agreeing to the charge.
Im mindful of what Mr O says about PPI clams, but I think thats a separate product and 
separate issue altogether. On balance I think Schroders only did what it was entitled to at the 
time.  
I appreciate Mr O will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator. Furthermore, I realise my decision isn't what he wants to hear. But on the face 
of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give him 
what he wants.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2021.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman