DRN-2806114
The complaint
 Ms B complains that AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her a payment protection
insurance (PPI) policy.
AXA didnt directly sell the policy; it was the insurer. But its taken responsibility for this sale
so I shall refer to it as the seller in this decision. 
What happened
 Ms B took out a store card with AXA in 1997. At the same time she bought a PPI policy
which wouldve helped cover the repayments on her card if she couldnt work. It also offered
purchase and price protection.
I issued a provisional decision about this complaint in February. In that I said I thought Ms B 
had provided enough information to show she most likely hadnt been working when she was 
sold the policy  so she wasnt eligible for it. I couldnt see any evidence that AXA had 
provided Ms B with any information about why being employed was important when buying 
this sort of insurance. I thought that if it had, she wouldnt have bought it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken
this into account when deciding this case. Where the information is incomplete or
contradictory, as some of it is here, Ive reached my provisional conclusions about what I
think most likely happened on the basis of what evidence I have seen and the wider
circumstances at the time. Having done so, Im intending to uphold Ms Bs complaint.
Neither party has provided any comment or new information since I issued my provisional 
decision. So I see no reason to depart from my initial conclusions.  
Putting things right
AXA should put Ms B in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. So 
it should:
Find out how much Ms B would have owed when she closed her account if the policy 
hadnt been added. So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any 
interest charged on those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were 
caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
AXA should then refund the difference between what Ms B owed when she closed 
her account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Ms B made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got
for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B. AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Ms B would have 
owed when she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should be 8% a year. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and require AXA France IARD to compensate Ms 
B as outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman