DRN-3749530
The complaint
Miss S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold her legal expenses 
insurance policy. 
References to Barclays include their agents who administer the policy and handle claims.
This decision only covers Miss Ss complaint against Barclays, who sold her legal expenses 
policy. It doesnt cover an earlier complaint by Miss S to this service about a decline of a 
claim she made under the policy in January 2021. That complaint (against a separate 
business (A), not Barclays) was the subject of a previous decision by this service. 
A summary of that complaint and the previous decision is included below to provide the 
background and context for this decision.
What happened
Y Miss S took out a standalone legal expenses insurance policy (alongside a home 
insurance policy) in September 2017. In January 2021 she made a claim to A under her 
policy as she had a dispute with her landlord (a local authority). She was unhappy that the 
local authority hadnt acted on health and safety concerns shed raised. She was also 
unhappy with the concierge service for her building.
A declined the claim, saying there was evidence of her raising similar issues in 2016. As that 
was prior to her taking out the policy, A said the policy excluded claims where this was the 
case. Miss S challenged As decision, saying the earlier issues shed raised in 2016 had 
been resolved, so the issues shed raised subsequently (after she took out the policy) were 
new. And the concierge issues were also unrelated to the earlier issues. She also raised 
issues about the questions she was asked when she took out the policy.
Miss S complained to this service. We considered the complaint and upheld it part. In a final 
decision issued in June 2002, a different ombudsman concluded A should reconsider the 
claim relating to the concierge against the remaining policy terms, to see whether it met the 
other terms and conditions for cover to be provided. And that A should pay £150 to 
recognise the stress shed been caused. 
But the ombudsman concluded that any concerns Miss S had about the sale of the policy 
(including the questions she was asked at the time) would need to be pursued as a separate 
complaint. 
Following the ombudsmans decision, Miss S raised a complaint against Barclays, as the 
business that sold the policy. She said the questions shed been asked when taking out the 
policy were related to home insurance. She hadnt been asked specific questions relevant to 
the legal expenses policy she took out. Had she been asked questions whether she had any 
historical disputes (with her neighbour) she would have disclosed them. Therefore, she 
thought Barclays had asked irrelevant questions and not ones she thought relevant to the 
policy. She said Barclays had a duty to ask relevant questions, and their failure to do so had 
led to her being put in the position where her claim under the policy had been declined.
But they didnt uphold the complaint. In their final response, they noted Miss S had taken out 
her policy online. As such, they hadnt actively sold her the policy and so hadnt mis-sold it. 
The dispute with her neighbour had started in 2016, before Miss S took out her policy. The 
welcome pack and policy documents sent to Miss S when she took out her policy set out the 
cover provided. The policy booklet stated clearly cover only extended to events after the 
policy was taken out. The questions asked when Miss S took out the policy were all those 
Barclays asked as a business of a customer taking out any home insurance product  legal 
expenses policies fell within the product.
Miss S then complained to this service. She said the legal expenses policy had been 
mis-sold to her, she thought she had a valid policy. She maintained Barclays hadnt 
asked relevant questions when she took out the policy. Nor did she think the policy 
being taken out online meant it wasnt actively sold by Barclays (so couldnt have 
been mis-sold). 
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss Ss complaint, concluding Barclays didnt need to 
take any action. While the questions asked at the time the policy was taken out didnt 
include whether there had been any previous disputes, the welcome pack and policy 
documents sent by Barclays when the policy was taken out included confirmation that 
disputes that arose before the policy started would not be covered. Miss S agreed to 
the terms and conditions before the policy began and she had the opportunity to 
review the documents and cancel the policy if the policy didnt meet her needs. And 
Miss Ss claim was declined under the terms and conditions of the policy, not 
because of any information she provided when she took out the policy.
Miss S disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review 
the complaint. She maintained she had been asked three general questions, not specific 
ones relating to the legal expenses cover (specifically personal injury, property, consumer, 
employment and medical negligence) which she said led to her claim being declined. And 
she was only obligated to answer the questions asked by Barclays  not those they hadnt 
asked.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here to decide whether Barclays has acted fairly towards Miss S.
The key issue in Miss Ss complaint concerns the questions she was asked when she took 
out the policy (which she feels werent relevant to the legal expenses policy she was taking 
out). And that Barclays didnt ask specific questions about the legal expenses cover she was 
taking out. Barclays say the dispute with her neighbour had started in 2016, before she took 
out her policy. The welcome pack and policy documents set out the cover provided. The 
policy booklet stated clearly cover only extended to events after the policy was taken out. 
The questions asked when Miss S took out the policy were all those Barclays asked as a 
business of a customer taking out any home insurance product  legal expenses policies fell 
within the product.
Ive considered both views carefully, together with the information and evidence provided by 
both Miss S and Barclays. Having done so, I dont think Barclays have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards Miss S when she took out her policy, and the policy wasnt mis-sold. I 
know Miss S will be disappointed by this, so Ill set out why Ive come to this conclusion.Ive first considered Miss Ss point that she feels Barclays asked three irrelevant questions 
when she took out her policy. These concerned: whether shed had any previous home 
insurance cancelled or refused; whether shed had any home insurance claims in the past 
five years; and whether she had any previous convictions. I can understand why Miss S 
feels they arent relevant to the legal expenses policy she was taking out. But they are ones 
that insurers typically ask when policies are taken out. And its for Barclays to determine the 
questions they feel are relevant to enable them to determine whether to offer cover (and on 
what terms). While the first two refer to home insurance, they do establish whether theres a 
history of policy cancellation or refusal and of claims history. The answers to which would 
inform Barclays assessment of risk generally relating to Miss S. As would the question 
about criminal convictions. So, its not unreasonable for the questions to be asked.
Miss S also says Barclays didnt ask specific questions relating to five areas of cover. Again, 
its for Barclays to determine what questions they ask of a consumer when taking out a 
policy (including what not to ask). Its not for Miss S (or this service) to determine what 
questions Barclays should ask (or should have asked) when taking out a policy. 
But Ive also considered the point made by Barclays that the terms and conditions of the 
policy were provided to Miss S as part of her taking out the policy. Which would have made it 
clear that claims relating to disputes that occurred (or began) before the policy started 
wouldnt be covered. 
The relevant policy document extract is as follows:
Legal Services Cover Exclusions
The following are excluded from this cover, so we will not be liable for:
d. claims where the initial dispute or series of incidents leading to a claim on this policy 
happen before this cover starts or after it comes to an end as shown on your schedule. 
You can only make one claim for all disputes arising from the same incident.
I think this makes it clear claims relating to a dispute before the policy began wont be 
covered. Miss S would have had the opportunity to review the policy terms and conditions 
when taking out the policy (and to cancel it if she wasnt happy with this (or any other) term 
or condition.
And coming back to Miss Ss point about not being asked about previous disputes (or the 
five areas of the policy shes mentioned) it wouldnt have made any difference to the cover 
provided (or, in this respect, not provided) even had she been asked specific questions. That 
is, the policy terms and conditions would have excluded cover for disputes arising before the 
policy began.  
Taking these points together, I dont think Barclays acted unfairly or unreasonably towards 
Miss S when she took out her policy. The policy terms and conditions were clear (including 
the exclusion for claims in respect of disputes arising before the policy started) to Miss S 
when she took out the policy, so the policy wasnt mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Ss complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 January 2023.
 Paul King
Ombudsman