DRN-3849537
The complaint
Mr S complains about the way Experian Limited handled a Data Subject Access Request 
(DSAR). Mr S also complains that he received a marketing email from Experian. 
What happened
In March 2022 Mr S emailed Experian and asked for either a full credit report or details of the 
items that had changed since his last report was issued. Mr S requested the information be 
provided by email. 
Experian responded to Mr S and gave him details about how to obtain different versions of 
its credit reports. The email included details of how to obtain a free or paid for credit report 
and a one off statutory credit report. It also gave links to its website with information about 
the services and credit reports Experian can provide. 
Mr S went on to raise a complaint and said Experians response breached regulations set 
out by the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). Mr S said hed made a valid DSAR but 
Experian hadnt complied. Mr S also complained that Experian had breached the Privacy 
and Electronic Communications Regulations (PECR) by sending him unsolicited marketing 
information. 
Experian issued a final response but didnt uphold Mr S complaint. It said Mr S had asked 
for a copy of his credit report when he emailed in March 2022 and didnt think the email it 
received was a DSAR.
An investigator at this service looked at Mr S complaint and thought Experian had dealt with 
it fairly. Mr S asked to appeal and said that Experian had failed to act in line with ICO 
guidance and the PECR. Mr S also said he was aware the Financial Ombudsman Service 
makes decisions on a fair and reasonable basis but said when doing so were obliged to be 
satisfied doing so isnt to the detriment to the consumer. As Mr S asked to appeal, his 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Mr S has made other complaints to Experian about the way its handled DSAR 
requests and sent him marketing emails. Id like to explain that we consider complaints on an 
individual basis. And Ive focused on the complaint raised here which relates to Mr S email 
in March 2022 and the follow up responses from Experian. 
Mr S has told us he made a DSAR in his email. The ICO says consumers have the right to 
request a copy of their personal information and other supplementary information under a 
DSAR. The ICO also says consumers can make their request verbally or in writing and that a 
request is valid if its clear that the individual is asking for their own personal data. The 
guidance says the individual doesnt need to use a specific form of words, refer to legislation 
or direct the request to a specific contact. 
Ive looked at Mr S email. I understand Mr S sent it with a genuine expectation that a DSAR 
would be raised. But the email asked for a specific piece of information  Mr S credit report. 
Mr S specifically said he wanted to receive a full report or details of the items that had 
changed since his last report was sent. In my view, Experian reasonably took Mr S email as 
a request for a copy of his credit report, not a DSAR. 
As noted above, Im aware the ICO guidance says theres no specific format a DSAR has to 
take. But I havent been persuaded that Experians interpretation of Mr S email was 
unreasonable in the circumstances.
Mr S has told us he feels the response he received, which contained links to Experians 
website and details of the reports and services it provides, was an unsolicited marketing 
email. Experians email contained details about various options Mr S could use to get his 
credit report. Given Experian was responding to a direct request Mr S made, I havent been 
persuaded its email was unsolicited. And whilst I understand the email contained information 
about the reports and services Experian provides, Im satisfied it was trying to give details of 
how Mr S could obtain an up to date credit report  which appeared to be what he 
requested. 
Ive reviewed ICO guidance on solicited and unsolicited marketing. It says that if a customer 
specifically asks a business to send some information, it can do so without impacting its 
obligations under PECR. As Ive said above, Im satisfied Experian interpreted Mr S email 
as a request for information contained on his credit report. Its response gave information 
about how it can provide a credit report. I havent been persuaded that Experian acted 
unfairly.
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr S as I can see how strongly he feels. But Im satisfied 
Experian fairly interpreted his email in March 2022 as a request for a copy of his credit report 
rather than a DSAR. And Im satisfied its reply gave information about how Mr S could get a 
copy of the report. As Im satisfied Experian dealt with Mr S complaint fairly, Im not telling it 
to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr S complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman