DRN-2588369
The complaint
Mr T feels hes been overcharged for his insurance with Domestic & General Insurance Plc 
(D&G). Hes had cooker insurance for nearly 14 years. But in fact he owns an oven. 
What happened
Mr T has had an insurance plan for a cooker through D&G since 2006. Mr T believes hes 
been paying more than he shouldve for his plan because it was providing cover for a cooker 
and not a double oven, which is the appliance he owns. Hes recently taken out a plan to 
cover the correct appliance at a lower cost. So hed like D&G to pay back the extra amount 
he says hes paid since 2006.      
In February 2020 Mr T reported a fault with his oven. During that call D&Gs agent noticed 
that the plan was providing cover for a cooker, not an oven. D&Gs agent agreed to set up a 
new plan for the oven at a lower cost. He also told Mr T that a request would be made to see 
if a refund was due, because the premium would be lower now. The new plan was set up at 
a cost of £6.60 per month. A repair was also arranged. Mr T logged a complaint because he 
felt he may have been paying more than he shouldve to cover his oven for nearly 14 years. 
D&G didnt uphold the complaint. They told Mr T there was no refund due. They explained 
that they couldnt confirm with any certainty that there wouldve been any difference in 
premium for the past 14 years if hed insured the oven all along.
Mr T wasnt happy with this response. So he complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said he didnt think D&G had treated Mr T fairly 
when they rejected his request for a refund. 
D&G didnt agree with our investigator, so Mr Ts complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this on 29 January 2021. I said:
While Ive come to a different conclusion to our investigator, I hope that my explanation 
provides closure for Mr T.
There are two areas where we need clarity. First, did Mr T get clear information in his 
original cover documents, and then in his renewal documents, about what he was covered 
for? Second, is it true that the premiums for an oven would be lower than those for a cooker? 
I will look at both areas in detail below.
Mr Ts mother originally purchased the oven and took out a 5-year insurance policy for it. At 
the end of that term, D&G sent out a postal offer for cooker cover in Mr Ts name in July 
2006 to provide a continuation of the cover that had been provided for the past 5 years. Mr T 
accepted the offer and arranged this via D&Gs website in October 2006.  That cover has 
renewed on an annual basis until Mr T cancelled it in February 2020.  
When the plan was created in October 2006, documents were sent to confirm the cover was 
in place. To ensure Mr T was happy with the cover, the welcome letter asked him to read the 
accompanying insurance plan and the direct debit information to ensure everything was 
correct. The insurance plan showed the make and type of appliance that was being covered. 
Those documents stated a cooker, not an oven. Mr T didnt contact D&G at this point to tell 
them his plan was covering the wrong appliance type. Renewal notices have been sent 
every year. These detailed that years cost of cover. They also gave details of the appliance 
that was covered. At no point did Mr T query the appliance covered.
D&G note that they rely on the customer to check if the appliance on risk is correct. I can see 
that they provided clear original cover documents and clear renewal documents. So while 
our investigator said that it wasnt fair or reasonable to expect Mr T to be aware of the 
difference in the two types of appliance, Im not persuaded by that argument. I dont think its 
fair or reasonable to expect D&G to know what appliance is in the customers property. If Mr 
T had read his initial policy paperwork this issue couldve been noticed and corrected in 
2006. I dont think D&G could or shouldve done more to highlight what was on cover. I note 
that every claim Mr T has made over the years has been covered under the cooker policy. 
And that every repair couldve been on an oven or a cooker. So I dont think D&G shouldve 
noticed that the wrong appliance was covered. And I dont think D&G are responsible for the 
wrong appliance being covered.
Ill now look at whether premiums for an oven wouldve been lower than those for a cooker. 
In February 2020, when D&Gs agent noticed that Mr T was covered for a cooker, not an 
oven, a new policy was set up. Mr Ts premiums reduced from £16.58 each month to £6.60 
each month. It was this premium reduction that led Mr T to believe hed been overcharged in 
the past. D&G have said that the new monthly premiums were significantly lower because 
the new premium was incorrectly based on a double oven purchased in 2012. Mr Ts oven 
was purchased in 2001. Its clear that cover for a much older appliance would cost more 
than for a new one. So it seems reasonable to say that Mr Ts new policy wasnt priced 
correctly. And that the new price he was given was good for Mr T.
D&G sent us quotes from their website, for a cooker and for an oven with the same purchase 
year. The quotes show that the monthly payments for both appliances are the same. Ive 
independently confirmed these quotes. This shows me that Mr T probably hasnt been 
paying extra for his plan. D&Gs systems arent set up for them to be able to confirm what 
the premiums wouldve been for oven cover over the period from 2006-2020. On balance of 
probability, the cost wouldnt be different, or would only be slightly different.  
In summary, D&G sent clear initial information about Mr Ts policy. They followed up with 
clear renewal information every year.  Even though theyd repaired the oven on several 
occasions, the repairs did nothing to indicate Mr T had the wrong cover. Even if D&G were 
responsible, I dont have any evidence that oven cover wouldve been cheaper than cooker 
cover over the years Mr T has held the policy. So I dont think D&G have treated Mr T 
unfairly. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Neither Mr T or D&G had anything further to add after my provisional decision. So I see no 
reason to change my conclusions.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint, for the reasons outlined above. I understand that this might be 
disappointing to Mr T. But I dont think its fair or reasonable for D&G to do any more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman