DRN-2392556
The complaint
Miss B and Mr P complain that they were given mis-leading information by 
Barclays Bank UK PLC in relation to its permission to let policy for mortgages.
 
What happened
Miss B and Mr P have a residential mortgage with Barclays. It had a fixed interest rate deal 
that was due to expire in January 2020.
Due to a change in their circumstances Miss B and Mr P needed to relocate overseas, 
temporarily. In September 2018 they applied for permission to let (PTL) their property from 
Barclays. The application shows this was to take effect from February 2019.
Miss B and Mr P have explained they then considered selling their property and accepted an 
offer. This sale fell through in July 2019. By that time, they had made arrangements to move 
overseas, leaving in September 2019.
Miss B and Mr P called Barclays in August 2019. Theyve said they did so to check the 
mortgage would be eligible to switch to a new rate, when the existing interest rate deal 
expired in January 2020. Barclays said that a rate switch would be possible, but Miss B and 
Mr P would need to speak to a mortgage adviser nearer to the expiry date of the existing 
rate, to discuss what options were available.
Miss B and Mr P spoke to a mortgage advise in November 2019. They were told the 
mortgage could move to a new interest rate deal while the property was let. But they could 
only choose from rates available specifically to PTL customers.
Miss B and Mr P complained to Barclays. They said that, at no point prior to the discussion 
in November 2019 had Barclays made mention of PTL interest rates being the only new 
interest rate deals available after PTL had been granted. They said that theyd believed they 
were eligible for standard residential rates, which were significantly lower. 
Barclays said it didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said Miss B and Mr P had been 
treated in line with its PTL policy. And it felt the information given in August 2019  that a 
new rate could be applied for but this needed to be done via an adviser  was correct.
Miss B and Mr P asked our service to look into the complaint. One of our investigators 
considered matters but didnt think the complaint should succeed. She said when PTL was 
first discussed and applied for in 2018, applications for new rates were not permitted. Since 
then Barclays had updated its lending criteria, as it was entitled to, allowing new rates to be 
applied for, but only from PTL specific rates. So, she didnt think Barclays had treated Miss B 
and Mr P incorrectly and the information given to them in August 2019 was correct.
Miss B and Mr P did not agree with the investigators opinion. They said they had not been 
informed by Barclays at any stage that applying for PTL would mean they were ineligible for 
a residential mortgage interest rate. And as they were not informed about PTL rates earlier 
and had been told in August 2019 that they could apply to switch, they felt it was reasonable 
for them to assume they were eligible.
As Miss B and Mr P did not agree with the investigators opinion, the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen the application form for permission to let which Miss B and Mr P completed in 
September 2018. This sets outs the terms under which Barclays was willing to grant PTL, at 
that time. This included a term that explained Whilst the property is let, no changes to your 
mortgage (i.e. term, Interest rate) will normally be permitted. I think this is clear that at the 
time Miss B and Mr P applied for PTL in 2018, their mortgage would not be eligible for a new 
interest rate, when the existing deal expired, if the property was still let. This included new 
residential rates. I note Miss B and Mr P signed the application form acknowledging these 
terms. Based on this, I think the information provided by Barclays in September 2018 was 
clear  that their mortgage would not be eligible for new residential interest rates, or any new 
rates for that matter, while the property was let.
Barclays has explained that in May 2019, it changed its lending policy in relation to PTL. I 
would just note that a business is entitled to set its own lending policy, and this is not 
something our service can interfere with. From May 2019, Barclays decided that it would 
allow customers with PTL to apply for new rates when their existing interest rate deal 
expired, where the property was still let. But it placed limitations on this  specifically that the 
rates they could apply for were not the same as residential rates. Barclays says it instead 
introduced specific PTL interest rates, which were more in line with its buy-to-let interest 
rates, to reflect its view of the level of risk associated with these mortgages. So as PTL rates 
did not exist until May 2019, Barclays could not reasonably have informed Miss B and Mr P 
about these prior to that date.
Miss B and Mr P spoke to Barclays in August 2019. This conversation was not with a 
mortgage adviser. Miss B and Mr P have said that they did so to see if theyd be able to 
apply to switch to a new rate when their existing interest rate product expired in 
January 2020.
Up to that point, the information that had been provided to them directly by Barclays  
specifically the application form completed in September 2018  was that they would not be 
eligible for a new rate at all. During the conversation in August 2019 both parties agree that 
Barclays told Miss B and Mr P they would be able to apply for a new rate when their existing 
one expired  but that this needed to be done via an adviser, within 90 days of the existing 
interest rate being due to expire. And due to the change in Barclays policy in May 2019 that 
information was correct. So, I dont think Barclays was wrong to say this.
Miss B and Mr P are unhappy that they werent told then that the rates available would only 
be PTL ones and not residential ones. So, they think it is reasonable that they assumed that 
theyd be eligible for residential interest rates. I dont agree that it was reasonable to assume 
this because the information Barclays had provided prior to this was that they could not 
apply for any new rates.When Miss B and Mr P spoke to a mortgage adviser in November 2019, within the time 
frame to apply for a new rate, they were told they could only apply for PTL interest rates. 
This information was correct.
So, based on this, I cannot reasonably say that Barclays at any stage informed Miss B and 
Mr P that they would be eligible to apply for a new residential interest rate on their mortgage, 
when their existing interest rate deal expired, while the property was let. So, I dont think 
Barclays has provided them incorrect information.
And having reviewed the terms of the PTL they completed in relation to their mortgage as 
well as Barclays updated criteria, I think the only interest rates they are eligible to apply for, 
while the property is let, are PTL ones. So, I dont think Barclays has done anything wrong 
by informing Miss B and Mr P of this or by declining to allow them to apply for a residential 
interest rate. The information Ive seen indicates they are being treated in line with other 
customers in a similar position. So, I dont think I can say Barclays has acted unfairly.
As Ive said, Miss B and Mr P have explained that they are unhappy that PTL interest rates, 
and their existence, was not mentioned to them earlier, particularly when they spoke to 
Barclays in August 2019. I appreciate that the person Miss B and Mr P spoke to in August 
2019 was not an adviser, so were limited in the information they would generally provide. I 
think this reasonably explains them not talking about specific interest rates available to Miss 
B and Mr P, as the rates available could change between the point of the conversation and 
when Miss B and Mr P wouldve been eligible to apply. And as the information provided, that 
a new rate could be applied for but only with an adviser closer to the expiry of the original 
interest rate deal, was technically correct I dont think they were necessarily required to 
provide more. But given the Barclays staff member wouldve had information available to 
them about Miss B and Mr Ps circumstances, I think it wouldve been reasonable for them to 
mention that the rates they could potentially apply for with an adviser would be PTL ones. 
So, I think the information given here couldve been clearer.
But while the information provided by Barclays couldve been clearer, I dont think this is 
enough for me to say that Barclays now has to allow Miss B and Mr P to benefit from a 
residential interest rate, which they wouldnt otherwise have been eligible for.
Miss B and Mr P have said that they mayve acted differently if theyd been told about this 
earlier. But theyve explained that their circumstances drove their move overseas. And 
theyve said they had concrete plans to move in September 2019 when speaking to 
Barclays in August 2019. I also note that the permission to let was already agreed by that 
point. So, I dont think I can say on balance, based on the information available to me, that 
the lack of the information being provided drove their decision, or that it caused them to be in 
a position they otherwise wouldnt have been in.
I know Miss B and Mr P feel strongly about this. And I understand my decision will come as 
a disappointment to them. But I dont think Barclays has provided incorrect information to 
them or acted incorrectly in only making PTL interest rates available to them. And while it 
wouldve been better if theyd been informed about the existence of PTL interest rates 
sooner, I dont think I can reasonably say that this is enough to require Barclays to treat 
them differently.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 March 2021.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman