DRN-2807859
The complaint
Mr A complains about the valuation Aviva Insurance Limited placed on his car following a 
claim made on his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr As car was stolen after hed bought it at auction. Aviva initially offered Mr A £584.24, less 
the policy excess, in settlement of his claim. It later increased its offer to the amount Mr A 
had paid for the car, £834.24. But Mr A thought the car was worth more than £1,860.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He obtained valuations 
for the car from the guides we use and averaged these to £2,791. But he thought the car had 
pre-existing damage that was estimated to cost £2,901.98 to repair. So he deducted half this 
amount and thought Aviva should pay Mr A £505.77 more.
Aviva replied that the car had broken down shortly after Mr A had bought it. It asked for an 
ombudsmans review, so the complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From what I can understand, Mr A bought his car at auction and was driving it home when it 
broke down. He left his car in a safe place but, due to the lockdown restrictions at the time, 
he was unable to recover it immediately. When he returned to collect his car, he found that it 
had been stolen. I can understand that Mr A wants a fair settlement for the loss of his car. 
Mr A had bought his car at auction and presumably thought hed got a good price. Mr As 
policy provides for the cars market value at the time of its loss. Our investigator thought 
Avivas settlement offer wasnt fair and reasonable. So Ive reviewed how he came to this 
conclusion. 
The investigator has explained this services approach to car valuations. We dont provide 
valuations for cars but look to whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
Our investigator consulted three motor trade guides we use for cars of the same make, 
model, age, and mileage as Mr As car. He then came to an average of these valuations, 
£2,791. I can see that Avivas engineer, in his review, also found a similar average. 
As Mr As car was over ten years old, some wear and tear would be expected. So I think it 
was reasonable, and in keeping with our approach, for the investigator to assess the value of 
a car in good condition and then make a deduction for pre-existing damage. 
This was based on the costs of repairs needed to restore the car to a good condition. And 
this assessment was based on Avivas engineers report that was based on a breakdown 
report and photographs made at the time the car broke down. 
Our approach is thats its fair to deduct half the estimated repair costs for pre-existing 
damage from the valuation. The estimated repair cost was £2,901.98. So I agree that a fair 
deduction would be half this amount and that a fair and reasonable valuation of the cars pre-
loss market value would be £1,340.01.
Aviva offered Mr A less than this amount. So I think its valuation wasnt fair and reasonable 
and I think it should increase its offer to this amount.
Putting things right
I require Aviva Insurance Limited to pay Mr A an additional £505.77 in settlement of his claim 
for the loss of his car.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Aviva 
Insurance Limited to carry out the redress set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman