DRN-1820107
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complaint is that Barclays Bank UK PLC did not do enough to help them when 
they were the victims of a scam.
What happened
Mr S used an online auction website to purchase a caravan for his wife, Mrs S, for their 
anniversary. Mr S had not used the website before so didnt know exactly what to expect. He 
found a caravan that he liked and talked with the seller via e-mail. They agreed a price and 
the seller requested payment via Paypal, he sent Mr S an e-mail with a link explaining how 
to use Paypal. Unfortunately, Mr S was actually dealing with a scammer and the link wasnt 
genuine. 
Mr S received an official looking invoice from who he thought was Paypal. This looked 
genuine and very similar to a legitimate invoice. On 26 April 2019, Mr S attempted to make 
an online transfer of £6,000 to the scammer, but this was over his daily individual transfer 
limit. Mr S then clicked on a help link in the e-mail the scammer sent him and this led him to 
an online chat with who he thought was Paypal. He was advised to split the payment into 
three separate payments of £2,000. 
The caravan was due to be delivered on 4 May 2019 at around 5pm. When it didnt arrive, 
Mr and Mrs S became suspicious and contacted Barclays. Barclays initially contacted the 
incorrect beneficiary bank to request a return of the funds. It was informed of its error on    
29 May 2019 and then contacted the correct beneficiary bank to request for the funds to be 
returned. Unfortunately, the response was that none of the funds remained. Mr and Mrs S 
referred the complaint to our service.
Our adjudicator investigated and felt that Barclays had acted reasonably when it processed 
the three payments totalling £6,000 without further checks or questions, and that it tried to 
recover the funds quickly, but no funds remained. Because of this, he didnt think Barclays 
needed to refund Mr and Mrs S with the £6,000. Mr and Mrs S disagreed, in particular, they 
felt that Barclays failed to manage their account correctly and that they didnt act quickly 
enough to try and recover their funds. 
As an informal agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to 
review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment 
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And I have 
taken that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story:
The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes a payment in 
circumstances where it has reasonable grounds (although not necessarily proof) for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate the funds of its 
customer (known as the Quincecare duty).    
Regulated firms like Barclays are also required to conduct their business with due skill, 
care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle 6).  
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have taken 
proactive steps to: 
identify and assist vulnerable consumers and consumers in vulnerable circumstances, 
including those at risk of financial exploitation (something recognised by the FCA in 
recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February 2016 report improving 
outcomes for customers in vulnerable circumstances); 
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017 Protecting Customers from 
Financial harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse  Code of Practice, which a 
number of banks and trade associations were involved in the development of); and
 
in relation to branch transactions  follow the Banking Protocol when available.     
This means that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion, fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.  
This is particularly so in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated 
fraud and scams in recent years - which banks are generally more familiar with than the 
average customer. 
In this case, I need to decide whether Barclays acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings 
with Mr and Mrs S when they made the three payments totalling £6,000 to a new payee, or 
whether it should have done more than it did.
Both parties agree that Mr and Mrs S authorised the payments themselves, so Barclays had 
an obligation to follow their instruction and send the funds. But as explained above, there are 
some situations in which it should reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances 
surrounding the complaint.
Ive looked at Mr and Mrs S statements for the months leading up to the transfer and I can 
see they regularly made faster payments, sometimes of similar or even higher amounts than 
the transfers in question, so I dont think the value or the type of transaction were out of 
character for them to make. I do appreciate that there were a number of payments in quick 
succession and I have considered this. But in this case, I dont think this alone is enough for 
me to say Barclays should have treated them as suspicious in the circumstances. So, I think it was reasonable that Barclays followed Mr and Mrs S instruction to process the payments 
without any additional questions or checks. 
Mr and Mrs S notified Barclays on 4 May 2019, as soon as they were aware theyd been 
scammed. Barclays contacted the beneficiary bank right away, but unfortunately it appears it 
initially contacted the incorrect bank. It took around 25 days for it to become aware of the 
error and contact the correct bank. Ive thought about this carefully and what impact it may 
have had on Mr and Mrs S funds being recovered. The beneficiary bank has shown that all 
of Mr and Mrs S funds were removed from the account by the end of 30 April 2019. As this 
was four days before Mr and Mrs S were aware theyd been scammed and notified Barclays, 
so it seems that even if Barclays had contacted the correct bank in the first instance, it 
couldnt have recovered the funds as theyd already been withdrawn.
Any further investigations into what happened to the money after it left the beneficiary 
account werent the responsibility of Barclays, and it wouldnt have unrestricted access to 
that information. So, contacting the beneficiary bank to try and retrieve the money was all 
Barclays could do to help Mr and Mrs S at that stage. I understand Mr and Mrs S are also 
unhappy with the actions of the beneficiary bank, but this complaint is against Barclays so 
Ive only assessed Barclays actions as part of this decision.
I want to acknowledge that Mr and Mrs S have been the victims of a sophisticated and cruel 
scam, and Im sorry that theyve had to go through this unpleasant experience. Having 
carefully considered all the information available to me, I think it was reasonable for Barclays 
to have processed the payments without additional questions or checks. And while I 
acknowledge it caused delays in trying to recover Mr and Mrs S funds, I dont think this 
meant Mr and Mrs S lost out on their funds being recovered. This is because their funds had 
already been removed from the beneficiary account by the time Mr and Mrs S were aware of 
the scam. So I dont think Barclays need to refund Mr and Mrs S with the £6,000.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 February 2021.
 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman