DRN-1144651
 
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a buy-to-let mortgage application submitted by a limited company to 
OneSavings Bank Plc (trading as Kent Reliance). The complaint has been brought by 
Mr and Mrs B as the directors of the limited company, and theyre unhappy that 
Kent Reliance didnt tell them it was also processing a mortgage application for the same 
property from a different buyer.
Any reference to Mr and Mrs B should be taken to mean them acting on behalf of their 
limited company in their capacity as its directors.
What happened
The application was submitted to Kent Reliance on 5 February 2019. A valuation was carried 
out and a mortgage offer was produced on 18 February.
Whilst Kent Reliance was waiting for the application to be progressed through to completion 
it was contacted by the estate agent to say the property was no longer available.
Mr and Mrs B complained to Kent Reliance saying it shouldnt have processed two 
applications for the same property. They said they wanted a refund of the costs theyd 
incurred, such as the valuation and administration fees. Kent Reliance rejected the 
complaint. It said it wasnt its place to decide who the vendor could sell the property to, and it 
couldnt refuse to process an application on the grounds it had another application for the 
same property from someone else.
Our adjudicator said Kent Reliance did nothing wrong in processing two separate 
applications for the property. Mr and Mrs B didnt agree and so its been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
Theres no regulatory reason why Kent Reliance shouldnt process two applications for the 
same property. As Kent Reliance explained, its not its role to decide which buyer should be 
allowed to proceed. Its not unusual for two buyers to be in a contract race and therefore two 
applications would be progressing for the same property at the same time; its pure chance 
that both potential buyers chose to apply to the same lender. If Mr and Mrs B didnt know 
about the other potential buyer then thats a matter between them and the estate agent and/or vendor. Its nothing to do with Kent Reliance as its only role in this was to process the 
mortgage application(s) that were put forward.
Kent Reliance would have no way of knowing it had two applications for the same property 
unless, by chance, the same staff member dealt with both. Thats not information that can be 
shared across two different application records as that would breach the General Data 
Protection Regulation (GDPR) rules by making another potential customers personal 
information available on Mr and Mrs Bs application (and vice versa). It would also have 
been a breach of GDPR if Kent Reliance told Mr and Mrs B (or their broker) about the other 
application as that information related to a third party so its not information Kent Reliance 
would be allowed to disclose.
The fees Mr and Mrs B paid are non-refundable as the administration fee was due for the 
work Kent Reliance undertook, and a valuation was carried out (so that fee was spent). As 
Kent Reliance did nothing wrong here theres absolutely no basis for me to order the fees be 
refunded, or that Kent Reliance should cover any other costs incurred in the abortive 
application.
Were not the regulator and its not within my remit to tell Kent Reliance to change its 
processes. If Mr and Mrs B want to raise any concerns with the regulator  the Financial 
Conduct Authority  theyre free to do so. The regulator doesnt deal with individual disputes 
so wont get involved at that level, but it can look into Mr and Mrs Bs wider concerns if it 
shares those concerns.
My final decision
I don't uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of the 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B (in 
their capacity as directors of the limited company) to accept or reject my decision before 28 
May 2020.
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman