DRN-4325802
The complaint
Mr T complains that HSBC UK Plc restricted access to his funds. Hed like the funds 
released and compensation for the impact on him.
What happened
Mr T has an account with HSBC.
On 9 March 2021 HSBC were informed by another bank, Ill call Bank R, that payments 
totalling £45,000 received into Mr Ts account were fraudulent. On the same day the funds 
were removed from Mr Ts account.
These payments were paid in on 17 February 2021, for £10,000, and 27 February 2021, for 
£35,000.
On 10 March 2021 HSBC contacted Mr T and asked him about the payments. He explained 
they were payments returned after an investment hed made in a business Ill call A.
On 30 March 2021 they asked Mr T for documentary evidence to support the investment.
On 31 March 2021 Mr T provided evidence to HSBC. Including a copy of the shareholding 
certificate, investment agreement, and evidence of the investments in A.
But HSBC werent satisfied with the evidence provided and decided to return the funds to 
source.
Mr T wasnt satisfied with HSBCs response so brought his complaint to our service.
Mr T explained to our investigator that he was the victim of a scam and the £50,000 
investment hed made wasnt genuine. He also provided evidence of the conversations hed 
had with an investment company regarding the return of the funds. And the agreement for 
payments to be made to his account.
Our investigator shared this with HSBC, but the bank remained of the opinion theyd acted 
fairly.
Our investigator explained to HSBC that they didnt think the bank had acted fairly  and 
thought they should return Mr Ts £45,000 plus 8% simple interest from the date of the 
restriction to the date of return.
Mr T accepted our investigators outcome. But HSBC didnt, in response the bank said they 
dont believe Mr T was complicit in any fraudulent activity and was a victim of fraud, but their 
terms and conditions allow them to remove fraudulent funds from their customers accounts.
They highlighted the term:
Section 13 When payments go wrong  what well do.
If we suspect any payment into your account was made by fraud, we can remove it 
without asking you.
As HSBC didnt agree Mr Ts complaint was passed to me for a decision.
On reviewing Mr Ts complaint I came to a slightly different conclusion to our investigator. I 
explained that I thought HSBCs initial actions in restricting the funds were fair however Mr T 
provided sufficient evidence to show he wasnt complicit in any fraud. And received the funds 
in good faith. I therefore thought HSBC acted unfairly in returning the funds to source. I 
thought Mr T also experienced inconvenience as a result of Mr Ts actions, so I 
recommended that HSBC pay Mr T £45,000 plus 8% from the date of the restriction to the 
date of release, plus £300 compensation. 
Mr T accepted but HSBC didnt. 
In summary HSBC argued theyd acted fairly. They reiterated that they received contact from 
Bank R who informed them fraudulent funds had been dispersed to Mr Ts account  
totalling £45,000. HSBC later received an indemnity and returned the funds to source. 
HSBC explained they have an obligation to act swiftly on notification of fraudulent activity to 
recover any funds as quickly as possible. Their terms and conditions allow them to remove 
fraudulent funds without customer consent. 
As HSBC didnt agree Ive considered their comments, and reviewed my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my Provisional Decision I said:
HSBC accept that Mr T wasn't complicit in receiving fraudulent funds. Mr Ts provided 
evidence which shows he made an investment of £50,000, and as a result of him later 
discovering he was a victim of a scam  asking for and receiving the funds back in the form 
of four payments including, £10,000 and £35,000.
I've considered the relevant legislation and industry practice when looking at HSBCs actions 
in returning Mr T's funds to source.
The Payment Service Regulations 2017 dictate that the payer gives his or her consent to the 
execution of a payment transaction by employing the form and procedure agreed between 
them and the bank. The payer is the one who has to give consent, this cant be done by a 
third party. And if the payer doesnt give consent, the transaction will be considered as 
unauthorised. I've thought about what this means in Mr T's case - and it's clear that Mr T (the 
payer) didn't give consent to HSBC to withdraw the funds from his account to pay the 
sending bank - therefore I think the returned transaction of £45,000 was unauthorised. I've 
also considered what good industry practice tells me when a bank is notified their consumer 
has received fraudulent funds as a result of an Authorised Push Payment (APP) scam. Good 
industry practice states that when the receiving bank receives notification from the sending 
bank the receiving bank will need to investigate and establish whether the account is 
fraudulent and if funds remain. And they need to find evidence that the account holder 
obtained the funds fraudulently. Good industry practice dictates that when the receiving bank 
is put on notice that their customer may have perpetrated an APP scam it should investigate 
whether their customer is involved and has received the funds fraudulently. If the consumer can show otherwise and disputes the claim, the receiving bank is under no obligation to 
return the funds to the sending bank.
I've thought about what that means in Mr T's case - and I'm satisfied, as our HSBC, that 
Mr T has provided a substantial amount of evidence to demonstrate he wasn't involved in 
the fraud, and instead he was under the impression he was legitimately receiving a refund of 
an investment he made. I understand that the origin of the funds was from a scam, however 
I'm satisfied that Mr T was also the unfortunate victim of an investment scam. And therefore 
shouldn't be deprived of the funds.
I appreciate that HSBC received a report of fraudulent funds from Bank R, and as 
good industry practice regarding APP scams states Id expect HSBC to investigate this (as 
they did) and consider whether their customer, Mr T, was involved in fraud. Therefore I cant 
say Mr Ts funds shouldnt have initially been restricted. However, I think the review should 
have only taken seven days from when HSBC were notified about the alleged fraud from 
Bank R. I say this as Mr T was very quick to respond to questions and evidence requested 
from HSBC. And I think within seven days of being notified HSBC should have been able to 
request evidence from Mr T, review it and assess that he wasnt complicit in the fraud. And 
unrestrict the funds.
Ive considered the impact on Mr T from HSBCs actions. Mr T advised he was planning to 
purchase a property with the funds and hes experienced anxiety as a result. Ive not seen 
any additional evidence to support what Mr Ts said, however I think its highly likely Mr T 
experienced inconvenience from not having access to his funds  and anxiety when worrying 
they may not be returned. For this reason I think HSBC should also pay Mr T £300 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to him.
Ive considered HSBCs response to my provisional decision, but it doesnt change the 
conclusion I previously reached. Ill explain why below. 
HSBC have reiterated that they acted, as best industry practice dictates, to quickly recover 
funds reported as fraudulent by the sending bank. They then followed their terms and 
conditions which allow them to return funds to source without their customers consent. 
Ive considered HSBCs points about the expectations on a business when receiving a scam 
report however I dont agree with their reasoning. I agree that HSBC have a responsibility to 
respond to a report from a sending bank regarding a potential scam payment, however good 
industry practice dictates that on receiving a scam report they also have a responsibility to 
investigate whether their customer is involved and has received the funds fraudulently. If the 
investigation concludes that the customer isnt complicit in the fraud then HSBC dont have 
the authority to return the funds to source. Im satisfied this is detailed in the Payment 
Service Regulations 2017, which outlines the payer is the one who has to give consent, this 
cant be done by a third party. And if the payer doesnt give consent, the transaction will be 
considered as unauthorised. 
I appreciate that HSBCs terms advise they can return funds to source without the 
customers consent, however as Mr T wasnt complicit in the fraud I dont agree it was fair for 
the bank to apply the term in Mr Ts case. 
Putting things right
I think HSBC should return Mr Ts funds, £45,000, plus 8% from 16 March 2021 to the date 
these are returned. 
I think its likely Mr T experienced inconvenience from not having access to his funds  and anxiety when worrying they may not be returned. For this reason I think HSBC should pay 
Mr T £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to him.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint and direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to:
Pay Mr T £45,000 plus 8% from 16 March 2021 to the date these are returned.
Pay Mr T £300 compensation for the impact caused to him
If HSBC considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr T how much its taken off. It should also give Mr T a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2023.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman