DRN-2056061
The complaint
Mr M says MYJAR Limited irresponsibly lent to him. Mr M says he already had other loans 
and had a poor credit rating so if MYJAR had checked it wouldnt have lent to him. 
What happened
This complaint is about six short-term loans MYJAR provided to Mr M between March 2015 
and August 2018. There are two chains of lending. Mr Ms borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
1 17/03/2015 17/04/2015 1 £100.00 £130.40
2 21/04/2015 22/04/2015 1 £100.00 £124.80
3 26/04/2015 23/05/2015 1 £100.00 £124.00
4 25/05/2015 13/07/2015 1 £100.00 £125.60
Break in lending
5 04/08/2018 14/08/2018 6 £175.00   £50.88
6 16/08/2018 Outstanding 6 £800.00 £254.86
When Mr M complained to MYJAR about the lending it offered to uphold loan four which 
gave rise to redress of £34.54. But after offsetting that amount against the outstanding 
amount due for loan six, Mr M would still owe MYJAR £1,070.81.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. They thought there was nothing in the 
information that MYJAR had obtained about Mr M to show that the lending was unaffordable 
for him or unsustainable. Also, there was nothing in that information that should have caused 
MYJAR to carry out more proportionate checks than it already had. 
Mr M disagreed with the adjudicator. He explained he had suffered because of the borrowing 
resulting in significant mental health issues. Our adjudicator replied to Mr M as his 
comments didnt change the outcome. They told Mr M that if MYJAR wasnt aware of his 
mental health issues we wouldnt have expected it to act differently. 
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me for a decision in my role as 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that MYJAR should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Mr M could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint. After doing so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr Ms complaint. I know Mr M will be extremely disappointed, but Id like to explain 
why. 
I should first say that I agree with the adjudicator that there are two chains in lending. There 
was a break of 13 months between loan four being repaid and loan five being taken. 
Because of this I dont think its unreasonable for MYJAR to have assumed that Mr M had 
overcome whatever the financial circumstances were that caused him to take high-cost 
credit in the first instance. A break in a chain of lending, in effect, starts the clock ticking 
again on what we would consider to be proportionate checks a business should carry out 
when taking into account the length of the borrowing relationship with a consumer.  
MYJAR has told us about the checks it carried out before approving the borrowing. On the 
application forms it asked Mr M about his employment status and he confirmed he was 
employed and had a monthly income of £2,000 for loans one to four and £2,400 for loans five and six. MYJAR also asked about Mr Ms normal monthly living costs and these ranged 
between £400 for loans one to three, £500 for loan four and £600 for loans five and six. 
MYJAR says it obtained information from the loan application, credit reference agencies and 
public databases. It also carried out fraud checks and used its own credit scoring system 
before agreeing to lend to Mr M. It says it cross-referenced and validated what it received 
from these sources together with the information Mr M provided. I think it was reasonable for 
MYJAR to have relied upon this information bearing in mind the two chains of loans  one to 
four and loans five and six  were each at the relatively early stages in the lending 
relationship. And Mr Ms stated monthly commitments werent onerous. So, in these 
circumstances it wasnt unreasonable of MYJAR to lend to him. The lending looked 
affordable on a pounds and pence basis. 
Its possible that Mr Ms financial circumstances werent correctly reflected in either the 
information he provided, or the information MYJAR obtained as a result of its own checks. 
And Mr Ms financial position may well have been apparent if further information  such as 
bank statements or more in-depth credit checks as examples  had been obtained. 
But as Ive said above, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough 
checks might be reasonable and proportionate. And MYJAR could only make a decision 
based on the information it had available at the time. In these circumstances  at the 
beginning of a lending relationship  I dont think MYJAR needed to take further steps to 
verify the information provided. This could have included asking Mr M for evidence of his 
income and outgoings which MYJAR could have gathered from documents such as bank 
statement or copies of bills. 
I have considered the information MYJAR was provided with when it carried out its checks. 
And there isnt anything in the information it has given us that may have led MYJAR to 
conclude that it should decline Mr Ms applications for the borrowing. And there isnt anything 
to have given MYJAR cause for concern  at the level of checks proportionate to the lending 
 bearing these in mind these loans were early in the lending relationship, or to have 
prompted it to ask for more information from Mr M.
In these circumstances, I think the assessments MYJAR carried out for these loans was 
proportionate. I dont think MYJAR was wrong to have provided these loans, based solely on 
the information it gathered from its checks and the information Mr M gave about his financial 
situation. I dont think MYJARs decision to lend to Mr M was unreasonable. 
Its clear from Mr Ms testimony that he has struggled with his mental health and I am very 
sorry to hear that. But I hope I have been able to explain to him why I have reached the 
decision that I have. 
I understand that MYJARs offer to uphold loan four is still open to Mr M. It is now for him to 
decide whether he wishes to accept it. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2020.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman