DRN-2422646
The complaint
Mr O is unhappy with the standard of the repairs to his vehicle following a claim on his motor 
insurance policy with Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited (Markerstudy). He wants 
Markerstudy to write off his car or increase the amount its offering him to settle the 
complaint. Any reference to Markerstudy includes its agents.
What happened
Mr O took out a motor insurance policy with Markerstudy around April 2018 to cover his car. 
Markerstudy valued Mr Os car at £7,500 but Mr O says its value is around £9,000. The 
policy provided comprehensive cover with an excess of £300. Around 29 June 2018, Mr O 
was involved in an accident so he made a claim on his insurance policy. 
In July 2018, Mr O sent Markerstudy a quote for the repair work that was needed on his car 
as he wanted to choose the repairer. And Markerstudy agreed to the work going ahead. 
Mr O was unhappy with the time it took for that work to be carried out and the standard of 
those repairs. But that was dealt with as a separate complaint by our service so I havent 
looked into it now.
In May 2019, Mr O made a complaint to Markerstudy about the repairs. He said the repairer 
didnt use the correct equipment and there was still damage to the car. He said he couldnt 
go back to the garage as it was no longer trading so Markerstudy arranged for an 
independent expert to inspect the car. 
The inspection took place the same month and the report suggested there were ongoing 
problems with the car that hadnt been fixed. So Markerstudy arranged for further repairs to 
take place at one of its approved repairers. Around September 2019, after Mr B received his 
car back, he told Markerstudy he was unhappy with the rectification work that had taken 
place. He listed a number of issues and said he didnt want the car repaired again as he 
didnt have confidence it could be repaired to a good enough standard. 
A further inspection happened at the beginning of October 2019. The independent expert 
agreed some of the damage Mr O was complaining about had been caused by or missed by 
the authorised repairer. But it thought other things  like light scratches on the headlight  
were caused by Mr Os use of the car since it had been repaired. It pointed out that he had 
travelled around 5,000 miles since its first inspection. 
In order to resolve things, Markerstudy offered Mr O £315 cash in lieu of the repairs as he 
said he couldnt take his car back to be repaired. Although it says Mr O agreed to this 
initially, he raised a complaint to our service. Whilst our investigator was looking into things, 
Mr O provided his own independent inspection report. This said to fix the remaining 
problems, it would cost around £900. Markerstudy increased its offer to £715. 
Our investigator thought Markerstudys offer was fair but she also thought it should pay Mr O 
£120 to cover the cost of the report. Mr O didnt agree with our investigator. He thought £900 
wasnt enough to cover the repairs and it was just a starting point. So he wanted the car 
written off. He thought the repairers had intentionally inflated the repair price previously. As 
the complaint wasnt resolved, it was passed to me to review.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in November 2020. I explained I thought the 
complaint should be partially upheld in summary because:
I thought Markerstudys offer to pay the likely cost of the repairs so Mr O could arrange 
for the work to be carried out by a garage he trusts was reasonable. 
I didnt think it was fair for Markerstudy to decline to cover the full amount quoted on 
Mr Os report due to the miles hed driven. This was because all of the repairs 
highlighted in the report had previously been approved by Markerstudys expert. 
I didnt think the quote in Mr Os report covered any work Markerstudys independent 
expert hadnt agreed to.
I hadnt seen enough in this case to suggest the amount set out in Mr Os report wouldnt 
be enough to cover the work.
Based on how much Markerstudy initially thought the repairs would cost, I thought it was 
reasonable it hadnt written the car off. And considering Markerstudy had already 
covered most of the costs, I didnt think it would be fair for it to write off the car now.
I didnt think the cost of the previous repairs highlighted by Mr O which had already been 
carried out  whether justified or not  had any bearing on this complaint.
To put things right, I thought Markerstudy should reimburse Mr O the cost of the independent 
report plus 8% simple interest on this amount. And I thought it should pay him a further £585 
on top of the £315 it had already paid.
I asked both parties to make any further comments before I reached a final decision. 
Markerstudy didnt have further comments. Mr O said he accepted my provisional decision 
but he asked a question about how the 8% simple interest was calculated which our 
investigator responded to.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having also looked at the responses Ive received, I see no reason to change my 
conclusions set out in my provisional decision. So for the same reasons set out above and in 
my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Os complaint in part. Putting things right
To put things right, Markerstudy should pay Mr O:
£120 to cover the cost of the independent report hes provided upon satisfactory 
evidence from him that hes paid that amount.
8% simple interest on this amount from the date he paid for the report to the date hes 
reimbursed the amount*.
£900 as cash in lieu of the repairs as suggested by his independent expert. Markerstudy 
has already paid Mr O £315 so this means it needs to pay him a further £585. 
*If Markerstudy considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr O how much its taken off. It should also give him a 
certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr Os complaint and direct Markerstudy Insurance 
Company Limited to put things right by doing what Ive said above. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or reject my decision 
before 17 January 2021.
 
Nadya Neve
Ombudsman