DRN-1671434
The complaint
Mr M complains that the hire purchase agreement financed by Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited through which he acquired a vehicle was misrepresented as being 
supplied with an unlimited mileage allowance.  He wants excess mileage charges to be 
cancelled.
What happened
Mr M tell us that in March 2016 he acquired the vehicle from a dealership which Ill refer to 
as B and which is a branch of Mercedes. During the pre-contract negotiations he states 
that he was informed by the sales agent that he would have unlimited mileage for the term of 
the agreement. Mr M says that when he returned the vehicle, he was charged for excess 
miles beyond an annual allowance of 6,000 miles.
MBFS told us that it had no evidence to confirm the details of the alleged conversation. And 
that the signed agreement set out the mileage allowance as 6,000 miles.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He said that hed 
been unable to determine that Mr M had been told the agreement came with unlimited 
mileage allowance. And so he didnt think it was fair to require MBFS to waive the charges.
Mr M didnt agree with this outcome. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept that Mr M would be both surprised and disappointed to receive an invoice for an 
excess mileage charge at the end of the agreement. He clearly believed that hed been 
assured the deal came with an unlimited mileage allowance.
The nature of the dispute is very clear. Mr M states that he was told by Bs sales agent that 
the vehicle came with an unlimited mileage allowance and that he could ignore the reference 
to 6,000 miles on the agreement.
MBFS says that the sales agent denies making any such promise. And that the signed 
agreement clearly states the annual mileage allowance is 6,000 miles if Mr M hands the 
vehicle back and doesnt exercise the option to purchase.
I dont apply the law - directly - but I do take it into account. Relevant law here includes 
Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. Summarised this makes the supplier of finance 
equally liable for any misrepresentations relating to the finance agreement or goods made by 
the dealer in antecedent negotiations. A misrepresentation is a false statement of fact which 
induces a consumer to enter into an agreement. And to incur a loss as a result of the 
misrepresentation.
Where information is incomplete, unclear or contradictory - as some of it is here - I reach my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Theres a clear conflict between the parties as to what was allegedly said during the relevant 
discussions prior to the agreement being entered. This complaint arose three years after that 
conversation so I doubt if either party has a clear recollection of the exact words used. And 
experience shows that parties to the same conversation dont always go away with the same 
recollection of what was agreed. So Im not going to make any finding of fact as to the words 
spoken by either party.
What I can say is that the copy of the finance agreement which was signed by Mr M contains 
on the first page details of the 6,000 mileage allowance. And I also accept that the relevance 
of that figure was a topic of conversation. Mr M has told us that 6,000 miles would have been 
inadequate for his needs.
What I find more difficult to understand is why Mr M would accept  and sign  a document 
which he knew  or ought reasonably to have known  was not in accordance with the 
agreement allegedly reached. It would surely have been a simple matter for a new 
agreement bearing the correct details to be printed out.
One of the main purposes of written agreements is that they provide some documentary 
record in the event of a later dispute. But they would be rendered almost meaningless if 
either party to the agreement could have the terms set aside by simply asserting  without 
more information to support such an assertion  that different terms had been accepted.
Im not determining the outcome of this complaint on the basis that I believe one partys 
explanation of events more than the other. Im saying that on the basis of the information -
both verbal and documentary  with which Ive been supplied, I find no reason why MBFS is 
unable to rely on the terms contained in the written agreement it holds. And for that reason 
Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman