DRN-3755620
The complaint
Mr B complains that UK Insurance Limited, trading as Churchill (UKI) reduced his no claims 
discount unreasonably after he had an accident. And he says it was unsympathetic when he 
told it about the impact the resulting increase in premiums had on him.
What happened
Mr B has a comprehensive motor insurance policy with UKI. He had many years of no claims 
discount (NCD) entitlement. In 2021 he was involved in an accident for which he accepted 
responsibility. He notified UKI, who recorded a fault claim on Mr Bs record. 
When Mr B received his renewal quote the following year, he noticed that his NCD had been 
reduced to three years. 
Mr B isnt happy about the reduction. Before the incident, his NCD had been noted on his 
policy schedule for some years as 9 or more years. He says hed never previously made a 
claim in many years of driving. 
As a result of the reduction in NCD Mr Bs insurance premiums increased significantly. He 
says hes financially stretched, and the increase has caused him stress and worry about 
whether he can afford to feed his family. He says he raised this with UKI, but it was 
unsympathetic.
One of our investigators considered Mr Bs complaint and thought it should be upheld. In 
summary, he accepted that under the policy terms if a policyholder had more than five years 
NCD, a single claim would reduce it to three years. But he didnt think this had been made 
clear to Mr B during the sales process. And he thought that if UKI had made its process for 
stepping back the NCD clear when Mr B took out the policy, hed have opted to protect it. 
So the investigator said UKI should offer Mr B the chance to pay the additional premium to 
protect his NCD. He said that if Mr B wished to do that, UKI should reinstate his NCD, 
recalculate his premium to reflect this and refund the difference to Mr B. And he said UKI 
should pay Mr B £50 to reflect the distress and inconvenience hed experienced.
UKI wasnt happy with the investigators view. So the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator, and for similar 
reasons.
Mr Bs told us that when he applied for the policy, he selected 9 years or more when asked 
to input how many years NCD he had. Although he says hed been driving for around 18 
years without making a claim, that was the most that could be input. 9 or more years NCD 
was shown in Mr Bs insurance policy schedule.
Most insurers have a maximum number of years NCD that they will take account of. And its 
common for insurers to reduce an NCD by two years from their maximum NCD allowance in 
the event of a fault claim. 
As Mr B has said, UKI recognises a maximum of nine years NCD entitlement. But under 
Mr Bs policy, for the purposes of reducing NCD following a claim, UKI effectively disregard 
NCD entitlement above five years.  And I dont think it would have been obvious to Mr B 
when he applied for the policy that even if his NCD was nine years or more, it would be 
stepped all the way back to three years following a single fault claim. 
I can understand how, when asked whether he wished to protect his NCD, Mr B opted not to. 
UKI had allowed him to specify that he had nine or more years. He was right in assuming 
that a single claim would reduce the NCD by two years. So I can see how hed have 
assumed that hed still have a healthy NCD if he had to claim. But what he didnt realise was 
that the starting point, for the purposes of the reduction, was five years, not nine. So he was 
lulled into a false sense of security. 
I acknowledge that the policy document sets out the NCD step-back scale clearly. UKI has 
also provided a copy of an Important Information document, which it says Mr B would have 
received, along with the policy document, when he accepted his policy. But by then Mr B had 
already made his decision to take out the policy.  
I realise that Mr B may have had an opportunity to look at the policy document during the 
sales process, but I dont consider that to be enough. An provision like this might well come 
as a surprise to a consumer. And I think its significant enough that it might make a 
difference as to whether they decide to protect their NCD - or even to take out the policy at 
all. So Id expect the business not only to make it clear in documents it sends to the 
consumer once the policys taken out, but also to draw their attention to it clearly during the 
sales process. Based on what Ive seen, Im not satisfied that UKI did that here.
Mr B says that if hed realised that his NCD would be reduced so significantly as a result of a 
single claim on his policy, hed have paid the extra to protect it. I find what he says 
convincing. And I think that UKI should allow him to do this retrospectively.
I also accept that Mr B has experienced stress as a result of the unexpected reduction that 
UKI made to his NCD. I think the £50 that the investigator recommended to reflect this is fair 
and reasonable.
Putting things right
To put things right UKI should:
Apply NCD protection retrospectively to Mr Bs policy from the date of the August 2021 
renewal onwards;
Recalculate Mr Bs premium from the date of the August 2021 renewal onwards to reflect 
the protected NCD and refund to Mr B the difference between the total that he has paid 
and the total that he would have paid if he had chosen to protect his NCD starting from 
the August 2021 renewal date;
Explain to Mr B how it has calculated the refund; and
Pay Mr B £50 compensation for the distress and inconvenience he has experienced.My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require UK Insurance Limited, trading as 
Churchill to put things right by doing as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2022.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman