DRN-4190506
The complaint
Mr T complains about the investment performance of his Standard Life self-invested 
personal pension (SIPP) after Sense Network Limited (Sense) advised him in              
November 2019 to switch investment to a Discretionary Fund Managed (DFM) portfolio. 
Hes also complained that Sense mismanaged his SIPP and charged him excessive fees 
during the period it advised him.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 19 May 2023 in which I set out the
background and my provisional findings. Ive repeated what I said here:
Mr T was a client of a different business (Firm A) who provided advice to him in 
connection with his former Suffolk Life SIPP. In 2010, JW Independent Wealth Management 
Ltd, which later changed its name to Zenith WM Limited, acquired the business interests of 
Firm A. Zenith WM Limited is an appointed representative of Sense which is the principal 
firm. As the principal firm, Sense is responsible for any acts and/or omissions of Zenith WM 
Limited and, therefore, for responding to this complaint. To make this decision easier to 
follow, Ive referred to Sense throughout.
In July 2010, following the acquisition of Firm A, Sense advised Mr T to transfer the value of 
his Suffolk Life SIPP to a new Standard Life SIPP to benefit from lower ongoing charges and 
access to a wider range of investment options. At that time he was aged 58, in good health 
and planned to fully retire at age 65. It was recorded that he wanted to access the tax-free 
cash available in his SIPP to repay his mortgage of about £40,000 in the near future. Sense 
recorded Mr Ts risk profile as Moderately Adventurous. Mr T accepted the 
recommendation. Sense arranged to transfer the value of his Suffolk Life SIPP of £148,765 
to a new Standard Life SIPP and invested it in an advisory model portfolio of funds called the 
Square Mile Portfolio 5 to align with his Moderately Adventurous risk profile. The transfer 
was completed in September 2010. Sense didnt charge Mr T an initial advice fee for its 
recommendation. The ongoing annual charge was projected to be 2.34% of the SIPP fund 
value  this included a 1% annual adviser charge payable to Sense to carry out periodic 
reviews.
In April 2011, Mr T decided to crystallise his SIPP so that he could access tax-free cash of 
£40,715 for mortgage repayment purposes. The residual fund of £122,143 was placed into 
capped drawdown and continued to be invested in line with his Moderately Adventurous 
risk profile.
In April 2012, then aged 60, Mr T wrote to Sense to instruct it to arrange the maximum 
annual income withdrawal limit of £8,816 at that time. He stated in his letter, It is my 
intention to strip out as much as possible from my SIPP whilst I am in a position to enjoy my 
semi-retirement.
In the following years, Mr T continued to withdraw a high level of income from his SIPP 
(relative to the fund value) while Sense continued to carry out periodic reviews during which 
it consistently categorised him as having a Moderately Adventurous risk profile which was 
later labelled as Moderate to Adventurous  and it was on this basis that the underlying 
value of his SIPP continued to be invested in the Square Mile Portfolio 5. Since this was 
managed on an advisory basis, any rebalancing or changes to the underlying asset 
allocation required Mr Ts authority, usually on a quarterly basis.
As part of the periodic review in November 2019, when his SIPP was then valued at about 
£96,500, Sense advised Mr T to switch from the Square Mile Portfolio 5 to its DFM service 
and invest in its Zenith 5 portfolio  in its letter recommending the switch to the DFM 
service, it explained that, overall, there wouldnt be an increase in charges and the 
underlying fund would continue to be invested in line with his agreed Moderate to 
Adventurous risk profile. At that time Mr T was withdrawing monthly income of £1,000 from 
his SIPP.
In July 2022, dissatisfied with the investment performance of his SIPP following the switch to 
the Zenith 5 portfolio, Mr T arranged, without the advice of Sense, to transfer to a new SIPP 
provider. The transfer was completed on an in-specie basis for a total value of £69,457. 
From that point onwards, Sense was no longer the servicing agent for Mr Ts SIPP or 
provided advice in connection with it.
This complaint
In July 2022, Mr T complained to Sense about several points which can be summarised as 
follows:
He was unhappy with the poor investment returns achieved by his SIPP between 
January 2020 and July 2022 following the switch to the Zenith 5 portfolio;
He thought that the Zenith 5 portfolio was too aggressive, exposing his money to 
more risk than he was willing to take  he questioned whether he shouldve instead 
been advised to invest in the Zenith 4 portfolio which he considered to be lower risk; 
Sense sold small tranches of shares in his SIPP at a loss for no obvious reason and 
during falling investment markets to provide income when a cash reserve was readily 
available which wouldve avoided the need to sell assets at deflated prices; and 
Sense charged excessive fees during the period it advised him.
Sense didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint. It was satisfied that both its initial transfer advice in 
2010 to start the Standard Life SIPP and ongoing advice, including the switch to its DFM 
service in 2019, was suitable based on Mr Ts circumstances and agreed Moderate to 
Adventurous risk profile. It said that his SIPP had been correctly invested on that risk profile 
basis since 2010. It was satisfied that Mr T had sufficient investment knowledge and 
experience and that he understood the risks associated with investing. It noted that he hadnt 
previously expressed any concern or questioned his risk profile categorisation. While it 
expressed sympathy for Mr T experiencing a reduction in the value of his SIPP since 2020, it 
explained that this was the nature of investing and had been caused by a downturn in global 
investment markets, something which was outside of its control.
Mr T didnt accept Senses response and so referred the matter to this service. To put things 
right, he requested that this service direct Sense to reimburse him the fees it charged him 
during the period at advised him, which he estimated to be about £15,000.
One of our investigators considered this complaint and recommended that it be upheld. This 
was because he thought that the advice in November 2019 to switch to the Zenith 5 
portfolio was unsuitable, mainly on the basis that Sense had recorded a change in Mr Ts capacity for loss and, therefore, his ability to tolerate the risk of continuing to invest on a 
Moderate to Adventurous risk basis. To put things right, our investigator recommended that 
Sense carry out a loss assessment and pay any compensation due based on the notional 
position Mr T would be in had the value of his SIPP instead been invested as follows: 50% in 
the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index and 50% in fixed rate bonds 
between the date of the switch to the Zenith 5 portfolio to the date Mr T transferred to the 
new SIPP provider in July 2022. He also recommended that Sense pay £600 compensation 
to Mr T for the distress that the investment performance of his SIPP wouldve caused him.
Mr T accepted our investigators assessment. Sense didnt accept it and provided additional 
comments in response. In summary, it stated:
Mr T was an experienced investor who understood the risks associated with investing 
and that returns werent guaranteed;
During its relationship with Mr T it had carried out multiple assessments and had 
conversations with him about his risk profile which was consistently determined to be 
Moderate to Adventurous  it noted that since 2010 he had been given multiple 
opportunities to query and change the risk profile categorisation and basis upon 
which his SIPP had been invested but didnt, suggesting that he agreed with it and 
was comfortable with the level of investment risk;
As evidenced by information recorded in multiple fact find documents, Mr T and his 
wife viewed their finances jointly and their combined guaranteed pension income 
from other sources exceeded their essential living costs  this meant that Mr T wasnt 
reliant on the income provided by his SIPP to support his standard of living and, as 
such, had sufficient capacity for loss to tolerate the risk of investing on a Moderate to 
Adventurous risk basis.
Since Mr T started withdrawing income from his in 2012, it had repeatedly warned 
him that he was withdrawing a high level of income relative to the fund value which 
would likely lead to capital erosion, but he accepted the risk because he wanted to 
continue drawing a high level of income to fund his lifestyle; and
Its recommendation in November 2019 to switch from the Square Mile Portfolio 5 to 
the Zenith 5 portfolio didnt result in a new portfolio or higher charges. Rather, it was 
simply an administrative switch from the advisory model portfolio to a DFM portfolio 
with the same investment manager and asset allocation  the primary reason for the 
switch to the DFM service was to enable quicker fund switches to the underlying 
asset allocation without Mr Ts explicit authority, as was required under the advisory 
model service. Ultimately, following the switch to the DFM service, Mr Ts SIPP 
continued to be invested on the same risk profile basis as it had been since the 
transfer in 2010. 
Our investigator considered Senses additional comments but wasnt persuaded to change 
the recommended outcome. Since agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint has been 
referred to me for review.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules, guidance and good industry practice at the time. Ive also carefully considered the 
submissions made by Mr T and Sense. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are conflicts, 
Ive made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words Ive looked at 
what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me decide what I 
think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
Scope of this decision 
In making this complaint, Mr T specifically referred to the investment performance achieved 
by his SIPP following the switch to the Zenith 5 portfolio  he commented that he shouldve 
instead been advised invest in the Zenith 4 portfolio which he considered to be lower risk. 
Reading through Mr Ts comments, he hasnt complained about the suitability of Senses 
transfer advice in 2010 or, indeed, the investment performance achieved while invested in 
the Square Mile Portfolio 5 under Senses advisory service. The fact that Mr T agreed with 
our investigators recommendation that Sense should only carry out a loss assessment from 
the date of the switch to the Zenith 5 portfolio adds weight to my view that hes specifically 
unhappy about Senses advice to invest in that specific DFM portfolio.
Its not in dispute that during the period Mr T was invested in the Zenith 5 portfolio that the 
investment returns received were less than expected and the value of his SIPP reduced. 
This service doesnt normally uphold complaints that are purely about investment 
performance. This is because we wouldnt expect a business to provide any guarantees of 
fund performance, especially in connection with third party funds, as is the case here. Given 
the longer-term nature of investments which are invested in assets such as equities and 
fixed interest, its reasonable to expect that the value of funds would fluctuate at various 
times during the investment period. Its also the case that with hindsight its easy to say 
things shouldve been done differently.
Therefore, based on the above considerations, Ive limited my assessment of this complaint 
to the suitability of Senses advice to Mr T in November 2019 to switch from the Square Mile 
Portfolio 5 to the Zenith 5 portfolio. Taking into account his comments, particularly that he 
thinks he shouldve been advised to instead invest in the Zenith 4 portfolio, I dont think              
Mr Ts complaint is purely about investment performance but is more to do with the suitability 
of investing in the Zenith 5 portfolio in the context of his financial situation, objectives, and 
risk profile.
Zenith 5 portfolio
Before I go on to assess the suitability of Senses advice to Mr T in November 2019, I think 
the starting point is to understand the composition of the Zenith 5 portfolio. Its invested 
across a range of actively managed and tracker funds. I havent seen any evidence that 
Sense told or misled Mr T to believe that the performance was guaranteed or that he 
wouldnt suffer any investment loss. Ultimately, Sense isnt responsible for the performance 
of the underlying funds.
Sense says that its recommendation in November 2019 to switch from the Square Mile 
Portfolio 5 to the Zenith 5 portfolio didnt result in a new portfolio or higher charges. Ive 
checked this. Im satisfied that there wasnt any additional cost in switching.  And Im also 
satisfied that there wasnt any change to the underlying asset allocation  this is because the 
fund factsheets for both the Square Mile Portfolio 5 and Zenith 5 portfolio preceding and 
following the switch show that the underlying asset allocation was identical. The overall 
asset allocation at that time for both portfolios can be summarised as follows:
Cash 5% 5% in cash
UK 28% 76% in equitiesNorth American 19%
Europe 7%
Japan 5%
Asia Pacific ex Japan 4%
Emerging Markets 8%
Global Specialist 5%
Sterling Corporate Bonds 13%
International Bonds 6%19% in fixed interest
And the objectives for both portfolios, as stated on the relevant fund factsheets, were also 
identical, summarised as aiming to achieve capital growth over the long term. The factsheets 
confirmed that the portfolios would likely have equity exposure between 65% and 85%, with 
some exposure to fixed income or other defensive assets. 
In conclusion, Im satisfied that the switch from the Square Mile Portfolio 5 to the Zenith 5 
portfolio didnt lead to the value of Mr Ts SIPP being exposed to a different or higher level of 
risk than it had previously been exposed to in the preceding several years  in other words, 
had Sense advised Mr T to maintain investment in the Square Mile Portfolio 5 then his SIPP 
wouldve likely achieved a similar investment return over the period until he decided to 
transfer to a new SIPP provider in July 2022 (assuming that fund switches wouldve 
happened sooner under the DFM model compared to the advisory model that required                
Mr Ts explicit authority).
This inevitably leads on to the next question regarding Mr Ts risk profile and whether I think 
Sense correctly categorised him in November 2019 as a Moderate to Adventurous investor 
and whether it was suitable, based on his circumstances and objectives, to continue 
investing the value of his SIPP on that same basis. Ive considered this below.
Mr Ts risk profile and assessment of suitability 
Since 2010, Sense consistently recorded Mr T as being a Moderate to Adventurous or 
Moderate to Adventurous investor, defined as follows:
This means that you are prepared to take a medium degree of risk with your 
investment in return for the prospect of improving longer term investment 
performance. Short term capital protection is not important to you and you are willing 
to sacrifice some long-term protection for the likelihood of greater returns.
Mr T wasnt an investment novice. Given his investment experience, I think its fair to say 
that he understood the relationship between risk and reward. The evidence indicates that he 
was prepared to invest on a Moderate to Adventurous risk basis to provide the potential for 
capital growth in the value of his SIPP and, therefore, replenish some of the income he was 
withdrawing. I think he understood and was prepared to accept the risk of capital loss in 
exchange for the potential for investment return. Theres no evidence of a material change in 
Mr Ts circumstances, objectives or risk appetite in November 2019 that persuades me he 
wanted to adopt a more cautious approach to the investment of his SIPP compared to that 
taken in the preceding years.
Our investigator noted that Sense had recorded a change in Mr Ts capacity for loss and, 
therefore, his ability to tolerate the risk of continuing to invest on a Moderate to Adventurous 
risk basis  and so recommended that this complaint be upheld. But I cannot see that there 
was any material change in Mr Ts circumstances from the previous periodic review when it 
was recorded that he had a higher capacity for loss. If anything, Mr Ts capacity for loss 
increased from the point he started receiving his State pension at age 65. The fact find documents completed by Sense indicate that Mr T and his wife viewed their finances jointly. 
Their recorded joint and guaranteed pension income from other sources, mainly from State 
pensions and other small pension arrangements in Mr Ts name, exceeded their recorded 
expenditure  I think this is a critical point. This meant that Mr T wasnt reliant on the income 
withdrawn from his SIPP to support his standard of living. In addition, it was recorded that  
Mr T and his wife didnt have any liabilities and had cash savings of about £28,000 which 
could be used to meet any unforeseen costs in the short term.
Overall, I think its fair to conclude that Mr T was both willing and able to invest the value of 
his SIPP on a Moderate to Adventurous risk basis to provide a higher potential (compared 
to investing on a lower risk basis) for capital growth with the aim of replenishing some of the 
income he was withdrawing from his SIPP.
At the time of Senses advice in November 2019, Mr T was aged 67 and remained in good 
health. He was retired but did charity work which required him to travel overseas. In the 
context of his SIPP, his primary objective was to continue drawing income as he had been 
since April 2012  at that time he wrote to Sense and directed it to arrange the maximum 
annual income withdrawal limit. In his letter he stated, It is my intention to strip out as much 
as possible from my SIPP whilst I am in a position to enjoy my semi-retirement. Over the 
next several years up until 2019, Mr T continued to withdraw a high level of income from his 
SIPP relative to its fund value, suggesting that he continued to be content in depleting the 
fund value.
By November 2019, Mr Ts SIPP was valued at about £96,500 from which he was 
withdrawing monthly income of £1,000. This made the effective withdrawal rate about 
12.43%. Taking into account ongoing charges, the SIPP would need to increase in value by 
at least 15% every year simply to replenish the income being drawn, let alone achieve 
excess capital growth. In my view, this was an unsustainable withdrawal rate and meant that 
unless Mr T ceased or reduced his level of withdrawals it was very likely he would exhaust 
the SIPP fund value in his lifetime.
The evidence shows that Sense repeatedly warned Mr T since 2012 that he was 
withdrawing a high level of income which would likely lead to capital erosion. Ultimately, 
despite the warnings, it was Mr Ts decision about how much he withdrew. It was recorded 
that he was aware of the risk of capital erosion but was content to continue drawing a high 
level of income until such time as he decided he no longer required it, possibly when he 
stopped travelling overseas for his charity work. So Im satisfied that Sense place Mr T into 
an informed position regarding this.
For income drawdown to be sustainable over the long term, its generally necessary for the 
underlying asset allocation to be invested in several different asset classes and weightings 
to provide the potential for sufficient capital growth to replenish income withdrawals. This 
generally means that the underlying value needs to be more weighted in equities since this 
asset class has historically generated higher capital growth over the long term compared to 
other asset types.
Overall, I think it was suitable for Sense to advise Mr T continue investing the value of his 
SIPP in the Zenith 5 portfolio given that it both aligned with his correctly identified Moderate 
to Adventurous risk profile and provided the potential to provide investment returns to 
replenish some of the income he was withdrawing from his SIPP. That the SIPP 
subsequently experienced a reduction in value from early 2020 onwards doesnt transform 
Senses suitable recommendation into an unsuitable one. 
I can see that after Senses advice in November 2019, Mr T changed his monthly withdrawal 
to £500 in April 2021, increasing it to £1,000 in July 2021 and then decreasing it to £500 by June 2022. Sense repeatedly warned Mr T about the risk of capital erosion, but he decided 
to continue taking a high level of income.
In my view, I dont think the issue here is necessarily the suitability and performance of the 
Zenith 5 portfolio itself, but the fact that Mr T continued to withdraw income from his SIPP in 
a falling market. I think its relevant that during the period he was invested in the Zenith 5 
portfolio, global investment markets experienced the worst performance since the financial 
crisis of 2008. He experienced negative or reverse pound cost averaging during this period  
this is where an investor draws an income from an investment but the value of units in that 
investment have or continue to reduce in a falling market and so more units need to be sold 
(than would otherwise be the case in a rising market) to generate the same level of income. 
Withdrawing a high level of income during that period compounded Mr Ts situation by 
crystallising losses which reduced the potential for investment gains in the future when unit 
prices in the underlying funds in the portfolio eventually reverse.
I understand why Mr T is upset about the reduction in the value of his SIPP before he 
transferred it to a new provider in July 2022, but I cannot find Sense responsible for this. 
Zenith 4 portfolio
Mr T complained that the Zenith 5 portfolio was too aggressive and questioned whether 
Sense shouldve instead advised him to invest in the Zenith 4 portfolio which he considered 
to be lower risk and so, in his opinion, wouldve limited the reduction in the value of his SIPP. 
For the reasons explained above, I think the Zenith 5 portfolio was suitable for Mr T. But I 
want to address the point hes made that he thinks the Zenith 4 portfolio was lower risk.
Both the Zenith 4 and Zenith 5 portfolios launched in July 2019. Ive compared the 
underlying asset allocation of both portfolios based on the fund factsheets provided by 
Sense. This shows that the Zenith 4 portfolio has historically had a higher exposure to fixed 
interest assets such as corporate bonds and gilts compared to the Zenith 5 portfolio. 
Historically, fixed interest has been considered low risk with low volatility and therefore seen 
as a defensive asset  they rarely experience volatility and a sharp reduction in value over a 
short period, and so are usually seen as lower risk than equities. So I can understand why 
Mr T believes that the Zenith 4 portfolio is lower risk than the Zenith 5 portfolio.
However, the annual rate of inflation in the UK increased significantly from 2021 onwards. 
The high rate of inflation negatively impacted the value of fixed interest assets such as 
corporate bonds and gilts during this period because investment markets expected higher 
interest rates in the future to combat the effects of higher inflation  increasing interest rates 
erode the purchasing power of bonds and gilts that pay a fixed payment, reducing their 
capital value. And since the Zenith 4 portfolio had a higher exposure to fixed interest than 
the Zenith 5 portfolio, it experienced worse investment performance over the relevant 
period. This is confirmed by the performance figures stated on the relevant fund factsheets 
which state the total return during the period between the fund launch on 26 July 2019 and 
30 June 2022, as follows:
Zenith 5 portfolio -2.2% 
Zenith 4 portfolio -4.0%
This confirms that the Zenith 4 portfolio performed worse than the Zenith 5 portfolio over 
the relevant period until Mr T decided to transfer the value of his SIPP to a new provider in 
July 2022. Therefore, had Sense advised Mr T to invest in the Zenith 4 portfolio, as hes 
suggested it shouldve done, he wouldve suffered a greater reduction in the value of his 
SIPP than he actually experienced.Conclusion
This services aim in resolving a complaint is to place the consumer, as close as possible, 
into the correct financial position had the error or unfair treatment complained about not 
happened. In this case, while I understand why Mr T is upset by the reduction in the value of 
his SIPP following the switch to the Zenith 5 portfolio, overall, I dont think that Sense made 
an error or treated him unfairly for the reasons explained. And I dont think it mismanaged his 
SIPP or charged him excessive fees during the period it advised him. 
In summary, my provisional decision was that this complaint shouldnt be upheld based on 
the available evidence. And so I didnt think Sense should pay compensation to Mr T  or to 
take any further action in response to this complaint. I asked both parties to this complaint to 
provide any further comments or evidence that they wanted me to consider before I made 
my final decision. 
Mr T provided substantial additional comments in response to my provisional decision. He 
said, in summary, that:
My provisional decision contained several errors and omissions;
I had misunderstood the capped drawdown rules that existed before the pension 
freedom rules were implemented on 6 April 2015;
He shouldve remained invested in the Square Mile Portfolio 5 because it was 
suitable for his needs. He described the portfolios performance as spectacular in 
the period before November 2019 and so cannot understand why he was advised to 
switch to the Zenith 5 portfolio;
The underlying asset allocation of the Square Mile Portfolio 5 to the Zenith 5 
portfolio wasnt the same, as I had stated. He believed that they are different and 
provided his own evidence to demonstrate otherwise. In his view, the switch in 
portfolio in November 2019 led to a change in the underlying asset allocation and 
that he had suffered a financial loss as a result;
Sense never warned him or advised him to reduce the level of income withdrawals 
from his SIPP due to the risk of capital erosion. He said that any decision about 
income withdrawals were his own and that he started to reduce the level of 
withdrawals in recent years due to concerns about the performance of the Zenith 5 
portfolio;
Following the switch in November 2019, his SIPP wasnt managed on a DFM model 
basis, as I had stated;
My comments about him previously suggesting he shouldve instead been advised to 
invest in the lower risk Zenith 4 portfolio were incorrect and that I had twisted his 
words regarding this;
I had failed to consider the fundamental point of his complaint regarding whether the 
Zenith 5 portfolio was suitable for him;
The letter from April 2012, in which he instructed Sense to arrange the maximum 
annual income withdrawal limit of £8,816 from his SIPP, was fake. After being 
provided with a copy of that letter he agreed it bore his signature, but he considered 
the letter to have been fraudulently created by Sense since he had never told Sense, either verbally or in writing, that it was his intention to strip out as much as possible 
from my SIPP, as is stated in that letter and that the composition of the letter isnt his 
usual writing style. He believed the letter to be fake and created by Sense in 
response to this complaint to support its position; and
To put things right, he said that Sense should pay him compensation of £13,800 for 
the investment loss he believed he had suffered, £1,000 for his time spent in 
pursuing this complaint and £600, as recommended by our investigator, for the 
trouble and upset he had suffered because his SIPP fell in value.
Sense initially stated that it didnt have any additional comments to make in response to my 
provisional decision. In light of the serious allegations made by Mr T, I thought it was fair to 
send a copy of his response to Sense to give it the opportunity to respond. It replied and 
stated, in summary, the following:
Mr Ts letter was highly contradictory and inconsistent with the reality of how his SIPP 
was managed and invested. For example, in one part of his letter Mr T made 
reference to being satisfied with the performance of his SIPP which he described as 
spectacular in the past but then went on to criticise the performance since 
November 2019 when the underlying asset allocation of both portfolios was identical. 
In its view, this suggested that Mr Ts challenge to my provisional decision wasnt 
about suitability but primarily based on his dissatisfaction with the recent investment 
performance of the Zenith 5 portfolio;
It always acted in Mr Ts best interests when it carried out regular reviews and 
advised him during which he consistently agreed with and provided confirmation that 
his risk profile was Moderately Adventurous. Therefore, it cannot understand why 
hes now challenging what was previously agreed;
It repeated its previous statement that its recommendation in November 2019 to 
switch from the Square Mile Portfolio 5 to the Zenith 5 portfolio didnt result in a 
new portfolio or higher charges  the reason for the switch was to move to a DFM 
model to enable quicker fund switches to the underlying asset allocation without          
Mr Ts explicit authority, as was required under the advisory model service every 
quarter which was the basis he had previously been advised on. So the switch was 
for purely for an administrative reason; and
It refuted Mr Ts allegation that the letter from April 2012, in which he instructed it to 
arrange the maximum annual income withdrawal limit of £8,816 from his SIPP, was 
fraudulently created. It stated that the letter is legitimate and was acted upon at the 
time. And that as a regulated business it would never fraudulently create a document.
Ive considered the additional evidence provided by both parties and set out my final 
decision below. This is the last stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules, 
guidance and good industry practice at the time. Ive also carefully considered the 
submissions made by Mr T and Sense. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are conflicts, 
Ive made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words Ive looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me decide what I 
think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
The findings I made in my provisional decision and set out above form part of this
final decision. Ive carefully considered the comments received in response to my provisional 
decision. In deciding this complaint, I dont think its necessary to respond to every point 
made but I consider it appropriate to make the following points.
April 2012 letter
Firstly, Id like to deal with Mr Ts allegation that the letter from April 2012, in which he 
instructed Sense to arrange the maximum annual income withdrawal limit of £8,816 from his 
SIPP, was fraudulently created. This is a serious allegation. He accepts that the letter bears 
his signature but believes Sense have cut and pasted this from a different document and 
used it as evidence to support its position. Sense refutes this and says that the letter is 
legitimate.
So this means that there is a dispute about the veracity of the letter. Where there is such a 
dispute, I base my decision on the balance of probabilities. And in this case, I think the letter 
is genuine as Ill explain. Following receipt of that letter, Mr T started to draw the maximum 
level of permissible income from his SIPP at that time. The instruction was implemented. If it 
wasnt his intention to increase his income from his SIPP, then I wouldve expected him to 
raise this at the time. But there isnt any evidence he did. I have no reason to believe that 
Sense would produce a fake letter as alleged by Mr T. And so Ive decided, on balance, that 
letter in question is legitimate and relevant to deciding this complaint.
Level of income withdrawal from the SIPP
Mr T states that I dont understand the capped drawdown rules that existed before the 
pension freedom rules were implemented on 6 April 2015. I can assure him that I do. The 
reason I referred to the letter from April 2012 in my provisional decision is because I thought 
it was relevant in demonstrating that Mr T had shown a pattern of behaviour in the several 
years preceding November 2019, starting from April 2012, where it was his intention to 
withdraw or strip out a high level of income from his SIPP (relative to the fund value) and 
that he understood the risk of capital erosion in doing so. The history of income withdrawals 
supports this.
Mr T denies that Sense ever warned him or advised him to reduce the level of income 
withdrawals from his SIPP due to the risk of capital erosion. But this simply isnt supported 
by the evidence. For example, in its letter of 18 November 2019 recommending the switch to 
the Zenith 5 portfolio, Sense stated: 
As previously discussed, you are fully aware that drawing this level of income could 
potentially erode your investment if you are drawing more than the investment 
makes. This means you would potentially deplete your fund sooner than planned. 
However, you told me that you will continue with this for a few more years - and 
continue to review it every year.
Various other documents indicate that Sense provided similar warnings to Mr T. So Im 
satisfied that he was aware of and prepared to accept the risk of capital erosion while 
drawing whatever level of income he deemed necessary to support his standard of living. 
But the investment markets suffered a reduction in value after November 2019 which 
reduced the value of his SIPP. I set out in my provisional decision the impact of negative or 
reverse pound cost averaging on the value of Mr Ts SIPP while he continued to withdraw 
income during this period. Those comments remain valid.Suitability of the Zenith 5 portfolio
Despite his latest comments, its clear that Mr T initially complained the Zenith 5 portfolio 
was too aggressive and questioned whether Sense shouldve instead advised him to invest 
in the Zenith 4 portfolio which he considered to be lower risk and so, in his opinion, 
wouldve limited the reduction in the value of his SIPP. In my provisional decision, I showed 
that the Zenith 4 portfolio had actually performed worse than the Zenith 5 portfolio between 
26 July 2019 and 30 June 2022, indicating that he hadnt suffered a financial loss on this 
comparative basis.
In response to my provisional decision, Mr T has changed his mind and now states that he 
shouldve been advised to remain in the Square Mile Portfolio 5 because he thinks it 
performed better than the Zenith 5 portfolio. And so he now wants a loss assessment to be 
carried out on this basis.
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision, Im satisfied that the switch from the 
Square Mile Portfolio 5 to the Zenith 5 portfolio didnt lead to the value of Mr Ts SIPP 
being exposed to a different or higher level of risk than it had previously been exposed to in 
the preceding several years. And that it didnt lead to higher charges. I reached that 
conclusion by reviewing and comparing fund factsheets between both portfolios before and 
after the fund switch in November 2019  and these show that the underlying asset 
allocation was identical across both portfolios. The additional evidence Mr T has provided 
doesnt change my view on this. And despite what he thinks, he switched from an advisory 
model to a DFM model  this was the purpose of the switch so that Sense could make 
unilateral changes to the portfolio rather than waiting for Mr Ts explicit authority every 
quarter.
I remain satisfied that Senses advice to switch to the Zenith 5 portfolio was suitable for                 
Mr T bearing in mind his objectives, knowledge and experience, and circumstances. Im 
content that he was willing and able to tolerate the risks associated with investing in the 
portfolio, particularly since the switch didnt lead to a change in asset allocation and, in 
essence, he continued to remain invested on the same basis as he had previously done. 
The issue here is that following the switch, global investment markets experienced the worst 
performance since the financial crisis of 2008 while Mr T continued to draw a high level of 
income. So Mr Ts SIPP fell in value. But as previously explained, an investment loss doesnt 
transform a suitable recommendation into an unsuitable one.
Conclusion 
Overall, having considered the additional comments received in response to my provisional 
decision, my view remains unchanged. I understand that Mr T is upset that the value of his 
SIPP fell in value after the switch to Zenith 5 portfolio in November 2019. But, for the 
reasons previously explained, I dont think the advice provided by Sense was unsuitable or 
that it made an error or treated him unfairly. And I dont think it mismanaged his SIPP or 
charged him excessive fees during the period it advised him.
Therefore, I dont consider it would be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to 
direct Sense to pay compensation to Mr T  or to take any further action in response to this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint or make any award against Sense 
Network Limited.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2023. 
Clint Penfold
Ombudsman