DRN-3065157
The complaint
Mr T complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (VWFS) applied end of contract charges 
for extra usage when it had agreed not to do so. He would like these waived.
.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with our investigators view that VWFS doesnt need to take any 
more action for the following reasons: -
I have no evidence VWFS told Mr T he wouldnt have to pay for additional days hire. 
As  Mr T had the car for more than a  year over the original agreed extension, I think 
its unlikely VWFS would have said it wouldnt charge for this period.
I appreciate Mr T  told us he tried to contact VWFS numerous times to return the car. 
I dont doubt he would have tried but I am surprised that over more than one year he 
was unable to do so. Also, he told us that at one point he gave up trying. There are 
lots of  different ways to contact VWFS so I think its unlikely Mr T couldnt have 
arranged collection sooner than he did. It seems Mr T was able to arrange collection 
when he took possession of a new car.
Its clear from the contract Mr T signed that the return of the car was his 
responsibility. However, given the amount he went over the agreed additional 
contract hire period  I think VWFS could have been more proactive in contacting Mr T
The calculation of the payments due for extra days hire are laid out in the contract. 
As far as I can tell VWFS applied these charges correctly. 
I have seen Mr Ts statement of account. He stopped paying monthly charges at the 
end of his agreed extension period in 2019  making  no further payments until  
October 2020 when the car was finally returned. I dont think its reasonable for Mr T 
not to pay for the car during this period when he had full use of it. And the charge for 
extra hire broadly equates to what he would have paid had he continued to make 
monthly payments from June 2019 to when the car was returned in October 2020.
VWFS has waived 42 days of extra hire payments to cover the time Mr T was in 
receipt of his new car. And  a further 14 days payment as a gesture of goodwill. I 
think this is reasonable.It means Mr T wasnt paying for two cars and acknowledges 
its service could have been better.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman