DRN-3299128
The complaint
Miss R complains that British Gas Insurance Limited has provided her with poor service and 
misleading information while handling a claim on her Homecare policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so Ive provided a summary of 
what happened.
Miss R owns a property which is rented out to tenants. She has a Homecare policy 
which provides various aspects of cover including for repairs to the boiler at the 
property.
Her tenants told Miss R the boiler wasnt working so she contacted British Gas to 
make a claim on her policy.
It sent an engineer to inspect the boiler and he ordered parts. Subsequently, other 
engineers visited. One of them decided the parts already ordered werent sufficient to 
resolve the problem. The further parts had to be specially sourced but the delivery 
timescale was uncertain.
British Gas says that due to the potential delays and cost of sourcing the parts and 
because of the stated vulnerability of the tenants, its engineer suggested a new boiler 
was a better, more sustainable option particularly given its age at the time. 
But Miss R disagrees with this and says the engineer said the boiler couldnt be 
repaired and disconnected it.
British Gas provided a quote for a new boiler but because of the likely installation 
timescale being too long, Miss R instructed a third-party company instead. It installed 
the new boiler at a cost of £1,691 and undertook some additional work on top of this.
Shortly after, the British Gas engineer got back in contact to say he was still looking 
for parts to fix the old boiler. 
Miss R was unhappy as she says she had only proceeded with the new boiler  and 
incurred that expense - as shed been told the old one couldnt be fixed. And now this 
didnt seem to be correct.
British Gas apologised and explained parts for her boiler had to be specially ordered 
and so any delay in them arriving was outside its control. It didnt think it was 
responsible for Miss Rs tenants being without heating for two weeks. And it didnt 
agree its engineer had made a mistake, reiterating a new boiler would have been a 
better option. 
It pointed out it had previously recommended Miss R needed a new boiler a number 
of times from 2017 onwards due to difficulties sourcing some parts. But it offered a 
£26 refund of part of the policy cover together with a gesture of goodwill of £268.
Miss R brought her complaint to this Service and our Investigator didnt uphold it. 
Miss R asked an Ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In a case where theres conflicting evidence, as there is here, I will make my decision on the 
balance of probabilities. Thats to say what I consider to be more likely based on whats been 
presented by the parties.
The repairs and the new boiler
Miss R says the engineer told her the boiler wasnt repairable, disconnected it and said she 
needed a new one. But British Gas says he only suggested a new boiler was a better, more 
sustainable way forward due to the timescale for obtaining the parts via a special order. But 
he still went ahead and ordered the parts. So, Ive considered the evidence Ive been given 
to support these opposing versions of events.
Ive considered the information British Gas has provided following the visits to look at the 
boiler. Its clear from this that the second engineer did order the parts he considered 
necessary to fix the boiler. Its also clear from Miss Rs testimony, he got in contact with her 
sometime later to say he was still looking for the parts to undertake the repair having been 
unable to obtain them from the original source. It seems to me this isnt in keeping with a 
belief the boiler couldnt be repaired.
I note theres nothing in British Gas records indicating it condemned the boiler or said it had 
to be replaced. I do acknowledge it suggested it could provide a quote for a new boiler but 
this wasnt a new suggestion as it had been made on a number of occasions since 2017 as it 
says parts were difficult to source.
British Gas says its practice is to leave hard copies of work sheets with the policyholder, 
detailing what works been undertaken and any recommendations made. Our Investigator 
asked Miss R if she had anything like this but Miss R was unable to provide any paperwork 
confirming British Gas said the boiler couldnt be repaired or should be written off. So, I 
havent been given any documentary evidence which supports what Miss R says.
For the reasons Ive explained, on balance, Im not persuaded theres sufficient evidence for 
me to safely conclude British Gas said the boiler couldnt be repaired and the only course of 
action was for a new one to be installed. And in these particular circumstances, the 
suggestion of buying a replacement seems to be reasonable advice. And because of this, I 
wont be directing British Gas to reimburse the cost of the new boiler.The delays
Miss R says her tenants were without hot water for several weeks and the delay in British 
Gas obtaining the parts contributed to this. The impact on them was more significant as one 
of the tenants is considered to be vulnerable. While I cant consider the impact of the delay 
on the tenants as they arent parties to the policy, I can consider the impact this had on 
Miss R who had to allow them to use her bathroom for washing.  
Theres a relevant term in the policy relating to British Gas obtaining replacement parts:
Replacement parts
We will try to get parts from the original manufacturer or our approved suppliers
If weve agreed to cover a boiler or appliance but warned you that it might be difficult 
to find replacement parts, well do what we can, within reason, to repair it
As Ive explained before, British Gas had previously warned parts might be difficult to obtain 
which is why it suggested on a number of occasions a new boiler might be required. This is 
common with older boilers. On this occasion, the parts had to be specially ordered and 
eventually attempts had to be made to source them locally. So, while I recognise the 
inconvenience the delay caused, Im satisfied British Gas did do its best to obtain the parts 
from a number of sources and any delays were outside its control.
I do acknowledge here what Miss R says about the engineer initially ordering the wrong part 
but this seems to only have caused a delay of a couple of days so Im not persuaded it had a 
significant impact on the time taken overall. But I have taken this into consideration when 
thinking about the compensation British Gas should pay.
The previous service
Miss R asks why British Gas didnt condemn the boiler at the previous service. But this isnt 
part of the insurance contract that Im considering. So, British Gas actions here fall outside 
of the scope of my decision. But in any case, as Ive outlined above it seems to me the boiler 
could be repaired in this instance, so Ive seen nothing to show the boiler shouldve been 
condemned at or before the claim.
Summary
Having thought about this very carefully, and for the reasons Ive explained above Im 
satisfied the £268 and £26 British Gas has paid Miss R for the things it got wrong is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances and I wont be asking it to do anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 April 2022.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman