DRN-2634956
The complaint
Mr M complains that Vanquis Bank Limited continued to hold him responsible for an account 
that he hadnt applied for.
What happened
Mr M received contact late in 2019 about an account at Vanquis. He sent a letter in 
December 2019 saying that he hadnt opened this account. In February 2020 he was 
contacted by a debt collector about the borrowing and told it the same thing. He didnt hear 
anything further and complained. In July 2020 Vanquis offered to pay him £100 but said its 
investigation wasnt complete. He referred his complaint to this service in August 2020.
Since then Vanquis has written to Mr M on 24 September 2020 stating that it has confirmed 
that the account was opened fraudulently. It says it had asked that the account be closed 
and information about it be removed from credit reference agencies.
Our investigator didnt recommend it do anything more. He said that it was clear that there 
had been a delay before this was looked into by Vanquis which could have been avoided. 
He was satisfied that the correct action had now been taken. Mr M said that during the 
investigation he had unsuccessfully applied for car finance with a different financial business. 
Our investigator said he couldnt conclude that the fraudulent application with Vanquis was 
the sole reason the application was declined. And Mr M would need to raise any concerns 
with the other business about it refusing now to look at his application again and the markers 
it had added to his credit file. He also didnt think that Vanquis could be responsible for the 
impact on Mr Ms health and he said the offer was reasonable. It was a matter for Vanquis to 
decide how to assess an application. And Mr Ms point that it had still not provided all the 
information from Vanquis he requested in December 2019 was one that he could take up 
with the Information Commissioners Office if he wanted.
Mr M didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 28 January 2021. I set out below what I said.
Id looked closely at the timing of what happened here. Mr M said that he started to get 
contact from Vanquis about this borrowing in October and November 2019. He wrote a letter 
about this dated 16 December 2019 which Vanquis accepts it received on 24 December 
2019. In a final response to the complaint it says that it wanted to apologise that an 
investigation hasnt been initiated sooner as it shouldve been.
Mr M was contacted by a debt collector in February 2020 and it said it referred the issue 
back to Vanquis. Mr M says he has no issue with its actions.
The next record of contact from Mr M is in June 2020 and this led to a final response from 
Vanquis in July 2020 offering to pay him £100 and saying that the matter was still being 
investigated. Mr M continued to contact it and then referred his complaint to this service. The 
notes from Vanquis say that it had requested a copy of a fraud declaration by 29 July 2020 
and had received a copy back from Mr M by 10 August 2020.
I agreed with our investigator that Vanquis needed to have time to look into Mr Ms claim of 
identity theft. Here it took about two months from the time it requested information from      
Mr M. But that was only resolved nine months after Mr M first contacted Vanquis, and I 
thought that there was a delay of seven months that could and ought to have been avoided.
In his original letter Mr M makes reference to some history of past problems with identity 
theft and attempts to alert lenders to this. But Im afraid it is a matter for Vanquis to decide 
how to an assess an application and what to take into account. I could also see Mr M asked 
for documents about that application from Vanquis. Given that these now relate to accepted 
fraud and the involvement of a third party then if he isnt satisfied with the response thats 
something as our investigator says he can take up with the Information Commissioners 
Office. 
putting things right
I didnt need to make a finding here about whether there was identity fraud. Because since 
this complaint was referred to this service Vanquis has decided that there was. And so, I 
now needed fairly to take into account that the person responsible for a considerable amount 
of distress and inconvenience to Mr M is the fraudster who somehow obtained enough 
information to impersonate him in this application and based on what Mr M says in other 
fraudulent applications with different businesses. Mr Ms letter of December 2019 indicates 
the problems he had in the past and his wider knowledge of the issues.
He didnt receive a timely response from Vanquis which is its mistake. I didnt see as a result 
that Mr M could reasonably think that the matter was resolved especially when a debt 
collector had been in contact. And he did have to contact Vanquis again in June 2020 about 
this and continue to pursue this. He reasonably knew about this delay until June 2020 
because he describes the stress it caused him. I was not clear when he made an application 
for car finance but to the extent he thought that this adverse information might affect him I 
thought he foresaw what he says was the impact. But in addition, I hadnt seen a copy of his 
credit record generally and whether there is other information on there that might have been 
relevant to the application in light of what he says about wider fraud. And in any event I didnt 
think I could say that this information from Vanquis was the sole reason for the decline and 
so that Vanquis Bank was responsible for that..
Mr M has described that he is in poor health which I didnt doubt. I needed to consider the 
impact of what has happened in light of that taking into account as Id said what the fraudster 
seems to have done in a number of applications. I also recognised that he was contacted by 
a debt collector which following a timely investigation could most likely have been put on 
hold.
In light of this I didnt think that the compensation offered is sufficient. I knew Mr M wants a 
figure of well over £2,000. I needed to say to him that we dont make punitive awards and we 
publish guidance about trouble and upset. Having considered that and everything that has 
happened I reached my own judgement that total compensation of £300 is the appropriate 
amount. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Vanquis said it accepted my provisional decision. Mr M did not make any further comments 
about it.
As a result, I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Vanquis Bank Limited to pay Mr M 
£300.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman