DRN-3420458
The complaint
Mr B has complained that AvantCredit of UK, LLC (trading as AvantCredit) lent to him 
irresponsibly. 
What happened
Mr B was given four fixed term loans by AvantCredit. The details of the lending are given 
below:
Loan Date taken Instalments Amount Repayments Repaid
1 07/10/2015 12 £2200 £225.16 25/08/2016
2 20/09/2016 36 £2000 £89.60 25/09/2016
3 12/12/2016 36 £2600 £128.28 24/02/2017
4 03/08/2017 36 £2000 £99.54 26/10/2017
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in March 2022. Both parties have received a 
copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from the decision 
below. I said;
Did AvantCredit make a fair lending decision when it agreed to give Mr B the loans?
Mr B applied for loan 1 in October 2015. I can see from the documentation AvantCredit has 
provided, that it asked for information about his income and expenditure. It also says it 
carried out a credit check. It also used an online verification tool to validate Mr Bs monthly 
income.
AvantCredit say the checks it carried out showed that Mr B had enough disposable income 
to afford the loan repayments for the first loan, but I dont need to draw any conclusions 
about what checks it says it did at the time and whether these were sufficient. This is 
because, on balance, I dont currently think AvantCredit made a fair lending decision on loan 
1 and I will explain why.
AvantCredit ought to have been aware from the information it had acquired (and supplied to 
our service) that Mr B wouldnt have been in a position to make the loan repayments in a 
sustainable way. 
Mr Bs credit search showed that he had combined unsecured debt of around £47,870, a 
large sum for him that represented more than a years salary. £21,110 of this was taken out 
by Mr B within 12 months of this application. The report also lists that he used 11 different 
finance providers to obtain this additional credit. Mr B had total monthly repayments of £526 
a month to make from existing loans before also repaying the repayment of around £225 for 
loan 1. So, Mr B was signing up for making £751 in monthly repayments a month. 
AvantCredit verified using an online tool that Mr Bs monthly income was £2675. The total 
monthly credit commitments that Mr B would be paying with Loan 1 included represented 
around 28% of this. The credit report showed Mr B also held credit cards at that time and 
would have needed to keep repayments on these also in addition to the £751 loan 
repayments he would have had to make. This all leads me to conclude that Mr B would need 
to repay a significant amount in credit and do so over a 12 months term. Something that I 
think, on balance was not sustainable and would have caused Mr B further difficulty. 
The customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable 
commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows 
that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont 
be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their 
repayments without borrowing further. Something which I think AvantCredit ought to have 
realised was the case here when it assessed the information that it would have had in front 
of it. So, I am currently minded to conclude that Mr B wouldnt have been in a position to 
sustainably repay the repayment for loan 1 over the term of the loan and based on what I 
have already concluded, AvantCredit shouldnt have agreed to it.
I have looked at the documentation provided by AvantCredit for loans 2,3 and 4 also and I 
can see that Mr Bs finances didnt improve. Mr B throughout his lending relationship with 
AvantCredit continued to repay a significant amount in credit commitments each month. For 
Loan 2 his total unsecured debt had increased to £68,815 with higher monthly repayments 
and a larger proportion taken of Mr Bs income. Mr B continued to pay a significant amount 
of his monthly income when he asked for loans 3 and 4 also. So, it follows that I uphold Mr 
Bs complaint about these loans too for the same reason that I have upheld the first loan. 
Was there a point in which the pattern of lending itself showed further borrowing would be 
unsustainable for Mr B?
I also looked at the overall history and pattern of lending of these loans. By the time of 
Loan 4, [AvantCredit] ought reasonably to have realised it was increasing Mr Bs 
indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so it shouldnt 
have provided this loan. 
I say this because:
 By the time Mr B was asking for loan 4 he had been borrowing from AvantCredit for 
around 22 months;
Mr B wasnt making any inroads to the amounts he owed AvantCredit. The 
amounts he was asking for had stayed largely the same;
Mr B had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to AvantCredit 
over an extended period;
I think, the presence of these high cost loans on Mr Bs credit file was likely to have had 
implications for Mr Bs ability to access mainstream credit. 
I think on balance AvantCredit ought reasonably to have realised It was unlikely that Mr B 
would be able to sustainably repay the first loan over the extended terms provided. I think in 
these particular circumstances; AvantCredit should reasonably have concluded that it was 
not appropriate to lend to him when it assessed loan 1. Mr Bs finances did not improve and 
so it shouldnt have agreed to lend to him on the 3 other occasions either. 
So, I am currently upholding this complaint and direct AvantCredit to put things right.
I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response to 
my provisional decision. AvantCredit responded. Initially it pointed out a clerical error and 
then added that Mr B had paid off the loans early and not accrued a lot of interest. It then 
responded again and said that it accepts the findings in the provisional decision. Mr B 
responded and said he accepts the decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have accepted my findings in the provisional decision. There isnt anything 
else that I feel I need to comment on or that will change the outcome of this complaint. So, 
because of this, I dont see any reason to depart from my findings within my provisional 
decision and I uphold Mr Bs complaint.  
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr B to repay the principal amount that he borrowed, 
because he has had the benefit of that lending. But he has been indebted with interest and 
charges on lending that shouldnt have been provided to him.
AvantCredit should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges on loans 1-4 and treat all the payments Mr B 
has made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Mr Bs loan account results in him having effectively made payments 
above the original capital borrowed, then AvantCredit should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date 
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled*.
Treat Mr B fairly, If there is a balance remaining for Mr B to repay. It should work with 
Mr B to find an affordable payment plan.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Bs credit file in relation to loans 1-
3. And remove all entries relating to loan 4. At this point, any information about this 
loan was likely to be adverse for Mr B.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires AvantCredit to deduct tax from this interest. AvantCredit 
should give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint and I direct AvantCredit of UK, LLC to put 
things right as I have described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman