DRN-2338989
The complaint
Mr B complains that Gefion Insurance A/S incorrectly settled a third party claim on his car 
insurance policy, without his knowledge.
What happened
In June 2019 Mr B contacted Gefion about renewing his car insurance with it. Hed been 
driving a year and had bought a new car he wanted to insure. On receipt of the renewal 
paperwork, his representative for this case M saw that a fault claim had been recorded 
on Mr Bs insurance from February 2019  from an accident in October 2018.
M, on behalf of Mr B, contacted Gefion to get more information about the claim, as well as 
to say that they hadnt been in an accident. Gefion provide details of the third partys (TP) 
claim and emails that it had sent to Mr B at the time the claim was made, asking for his 
input into what had happened. Gefion also said it called Mr B, but he didnt answer the 
phone.
M raised a complaint with Gefion. He said that Mr B hadnt received calls and that the 
emails were sent to his (Ms) email address, not to Mr B. M said that when the policy was 
purchased, Mr B was asked for an email to send policy documentation to, so they agreed 
to use Ms. But this was only given for this documentation  consent wasnt given for it to 
be used for anything else. M raised concerns about the length of time it took the TP to put 
in a claim  as it took four months. He was unhappy with Gefions handling of the claim 
and that it had been settled as a fault claim without Mr B being able to explain there had 
been no accident at all. He said the TP had made up a false claim using Mr Bs details.
Gefion defended its handling of the claim. It referred to Mr Bs policy documentation and 
its Privacy policy for how it used Ms email address  as given by Mr B. And it said that as 
it couldnt get in contact with Mr B it had to settle based on the evidence available. It 
referenced the black box in Mr Bs car showing the car was in the correct location to have 
been involved in the accident. It also provided the claim form  however it was noted that 
the TP named the driver of Mr Bs car as M, not Mr B. However Gefion maintained that 
without a response from Mr B, it had handled the claim fairly.
M brought Mr Bs complaint to our service, acting as his representative. Our investigator 
didnt uphold the complaint as she said Gefion had tried to contact Mr B and had settled 
the claim in line with the policy terms. M disagreed on Mr Bs behalf and asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
I issued a provisional decision on this case in September 2020. Ive attached a copy of this 
below, but in summary I didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. I considered that Gefion had 
appropriately used his email and had fairly settled the claim. 
M and I corresponded directly after this provisional decision. He asked some questions and 
requested an extension to respond to the provisional decision, pending receipt of a Subject 
Access Request (SAR) with Gefion, and the outcome of a complaint hed made to the 
Information Commissioners Office (ICO). I agreed to extend the deadline to give him time to 
receive and review the SAR, but I didnt agree to wait until 2021, when he said the ICO 
would respond to him. I said this to be fair to both parties to this complaint, and as M had 
made a direct complaint to the ICO, where as I was looking at Mr Bs complaint here. So I 
said I didnt consider I needed this other complaint to reach an outcome on Mr Bs complaint 
with us.
At the end of October 2020 M provided his response to the provisional decision. He said the 
claims settlement was not and never was the issue in this case. He said Gefions actions 
and inactions that preceded the settlement process formed the basis of his concerns. He 
said the consequence of this was Mr B wasnt able to challenge the claim against him, 
causing him to lose his no claims bonus. M explained he wasnt driving the vehicle at the 
time and had never said he was. M said he only provided his insurance details to show he 
could drive Mr Bs car. M made additional comments and challenges in relation to Gefions 
approach, the investigators assessment and my provisional decision. And he asked me to 
revisit all his submissions and review my provisional decision with these and his further 
comments in mind.
Copy of my provisional findings
I will first deal with Mr Bs complaint point about being notified of the TP claim.
M has raised a number of issues as part of this complaint about the use of his email 
address and the responsibility Gefion put on him. However, he is not a customer of 
Gefion and he is only acting as a representative in this complaint. So any complaint 
points or concerns he personally has cannot be considered under this case. Im only 
looking into Mr Bs complaint points and the impact these had on him directly.
Mr B is unhappy that Gefion contacted him by Ms email to notify him of the claim. He 
says this was only provided for the initial set-up documentation to be sent to.
I havent been able to listen to Mr Bs set up call, so I cant comment on what was said 
regarding the email address in this call. However Gefions Privacy policy (which can be 
found through a link in Mr Bs policy terms) explains what the email address will be 
used for, which includes contact in instances such as claims situations. I appreciate the 
points M has made about the claims emails coming from another partys email address, 
however this is also explained in the Privacy policy and the policy terms name other 
parties involved in the insurance contract. So I dont consider Gefion has done anything 
wrong in relation to sending the emails to Ms email address.
Gefion has also said it called Mr B, but he says he didnt receive any calls. Im uncertain 
if Mr B would recall receiving (and not answering) calls from a number unknown to him 
months prior to his complaint. But in any event, as Gefion cant evidence the calls, I 
havent placed much weight on them.
Mr Bs schedule also lists Ms email address as the contact email for this account. So it 
was Mr Bs responsibility to change the email address to his own personal one if he 
didnt want his paperwork or any contact going to M. As these emails were received at 
the address Mr B gave, I cant say Gefion did something wrong in the way it handled 
this part of the claim.
M has suggested a number of ways Gefion couldve done more to contact Mr B, but that 
isnt the test Im applying here. Gefion has handled the claim in line with Mr Bs policy 
terms and as he didnt respond to its emails, Gefion settled the claim based on the TPs 
case. I understand Mr Bs frustration with this, as he says an accident didnt happen, so 
Ill now consider how Gefion settled the claim.Looking at the information available from the reported incident, the black box from Mr 
Bs car showed it was in the required location around the time the TP said the incident 
took place. And this records some heavy braking at that time. So without any further 
input from Mr B, this information suggests the car couldve been involved in the type of 
crash the TP has claimed for. As Gefion didnt have any testimony from Mr B, I cant 
see how it could have reasonably defended the case at that time.
M has made a number of points and asked questions about the details of the TPs claim 
and the amount Gefion paid out. But, in line with Mr Bs terms (general conditions, 
section 2, 2c.), Gefion has the final say on how claims are settled, so it isnt required to 
provide all these details or discuss this with M/Mr B now. And regardless of the costs 
involved, this would still be recorded as a fault claim on Mr Bs record, considering 
Gefion couldnt defend the case.
M has pointed out that the TP didnt name Mr B as the driver at the scene  he gave 
Ms name. And M has provided us with a copy of his own car insurance for the time of 
the accident, as he wasnt listed on Mr Bs policy. This doesnt list Mr Bs car, as M 
relied on his third-party cover to drive other vehicles. M has said he thinks the TP 
couldve accessed details from the Motor Insurers Database to create this [false] 
claim.
The type of personal information the TP held isnt accessible to the public on the 
database M has referenced. And  particularly in this case  the TP gave Ms name, but 
Mr Bs policy details. So even if I were to accept that the TP somehow accessed Mr Bs 
policy details online, it still isnt clear how he ended up with Ms name. Mr B is the only 
person named under his policy, so the TP would have seen his name, not Ms. And as 
Ive set out above, Mr Bs car details are not on Ms policy either. So for the purposes of 
car insurance, possibly bar an email address, there is no link between them.
M has suggested that Gefions investigation into this claim is flawed and that, based 
on the claim notification form, he was driving the car.
It isnt clear if M is saying he was actually driving the car  considering both he and Mr 
B have previously said there was no accident and they couldnt recall who was driving 
the car that day. Or just that he couldve been driving. But in any event, as Ive set out 
above, without Mr Bs testimony at the time, I dont think Gefion was wrong to settle 
this case.
Even if an unknown third party was driving Mr Bs car, Gefion is still responsible for the 
TPs costs, as it insures this vehicle if its been stolen. Although its important to add 
that at no time has Mr B said his car was driven by anyone other than him or M. 
Without a response from Mr B at the time, Gefion didnt have access to any other 
details to recover its costs elsewhere, so it had to settle, and the cost and claim were 
recorded on Mr Bs policy. This would only change if the identity of the driver became 
known and they were insured  so the costs could then be passed to that persons 
insurer.
I put Ms comments about him being named as the driver to Gefion. It responded and 
explained that the TP also provided a witness statement from the accident with a 
description of the driver of Mr Bs car. The TP said the driver was a male between the 
ages of 18 to 21 and provided the TP with his name (the same as Ms name) and his 
insurers name, before quickly driving away. Based on this, Gefion said it wasnt willing 
to contact Ms insurer about it taking over this claim. M has not provided his age to us, 
but considering his relationship to Mr B, I cant say Gefion has acted unfairly by saying it considers it highly unlikely he was driving Mr Bs car at the time of the accident. And 
as the car wasnt reported as stolen, that leaves Gefion responsible for this claim.
As Ive already explained above, without a response from Mr B, I dont consider Gefion 
acted unreasonably by settling this claim. It contacted its insured party using the details 
he had given it. And Gefion has reported that it did also try calling Mr B, although it 
hasnt been able to evidence this. Gefion was aware that the car it insured was in the 
area of the accident when its reported to have taken place. And the TP gave his insurer 
the correct details in terms of the car registration and the correct insurer for that car  
which arent easily accessible details to the public. Theres no testimony or evidence to 
support the car was stolen and the driver description doesnt match M. So I think Gefion 
has fairly settled this claim and it doesnt need to do anything further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed Mr Bs case file, but I havent found any cause to reach a different outcome 
than I previously reached. Ive answered the key further points and questions M raised in 
response below. But, my overall outcome has remained the same.
M argues that Gefion has failed in its duty of care to Mr B in how it notified him of this claim. 
But, there is no set way in which Gefion was required to notify Mr B of this claim. The policy 
terms do not specify exactly how Gefion will contact Mr B in the event of a claim against him 
 and the privacy policy lists a number of ways in which the insured could be contacted 
when Gefion is providing and managing the insurance policy. 
As there is no set requirement for the type or level of contact, I have to consider whether 
Gefion did enough. Its not in dispute two emails were sent and received at the email 
address on file for Mr B. And Gefion has also said it called Mr B, but I accept theres no 
record of this. While Gefion couldve done much more to contact Mr B, ultimately, we have 
records of it contacting him twice on the details he gave, with nearly a week between these 
emails. And M has acknowledged receiving both of these, so while he didnt open the 
emails, he had constructive knowledge of them. So, on the basis of the level of contact, Im 
satisfied Gefion did enough. However Ive considered Ms arguments for why thats not the 
case here.
M accepts that Gefion sent emails, which he received, but hes suggested it shouldve made 
phone calls, left voicemails, sent text messages, sent a telegram and/or sent a letter. While I 
can see the benefit of Gefion contacting Mr B by something other than email in this case, as 
M deleted and didnt read the emails, I cant agree the level of contact suggested is a 
necessary or proportionate requirement to place on Gefion. In the vast majority of cases, I 
expect a consumer would read the emails they received  and so the level of contact M has 
suggested would be surplus to requirements and also not cost-effective. Gefion has set out 
that it requested the information and, as it had a deadline to respond to the third party, it 
gave Mr B a deadline too, which also doesnt seem unreasonable. And, as M did get both 
emails, Gefion didnt receive any bounce back. So it determined Mr B wouldnt be replying 
and progressed the claim accordingly.
M has provided justification for why he didnt open the emails and has argued that he and 
Mr B had nothing to gain by this, but a lot to lose. However Im not deciding whether or not M 
acted correctly in this situation  my role is to review Gefions actions. This is important, 
because there could be a situation where both parties acted reasonably and yet still someone has lost out. But, if the business has done what Id expect and acted as it should, 
then this wouldnt lead me to uphold the case.
I understand why M feels so strongly about this case and I do appreciate his justification for 
not opening the emails, alongside listing the other ways Gefion could have contacted Mr B. 
But I cant say what Gefion did was unreasonable.
M has accused Gefion of focussing more on disposing of the claim than its duty of care to 
Mr B. And questioned why it would email Mr B if it had tried to call him (if I was saying 
something such as a call meant it had done all it had to as per its guidelines). But, as he has 
also pointed out, this claim has cost Gefion a substantial amount of money. And regardless 
of whether a claim is being fought or accepted, it still takes up administration time. Ive seen 
no evidence that Gefion acted unreasonably or was looking to settle this case as quickly as 
possible. And logically, I cant see why an insurer would rather pay out a large claim, than 
defend it  if it could.
With all that said, we decide cases on both whats fair as well as reasonable. So Ive 
considered whether Gefions actions were also fair in the circumstances of this particular 
case.
Mr B says he only gave Gefion consent to use Ms email for the welcome email and 
paperwork  so it made a mistake continuing to correspond on this. But, as Ive previously 
set out, Ms email was included as the contact email on the paperwork when it arrived. And, 
in several places, the documentation highlights to Mr B that he should contact Gefion if there 
were any errors, but he didnt. So, even if I were to agree with Mr B that Gefion made a 
mistake here, this still means Mr B also made a mistake by not correcting his paperwork. M 
has told us he ensured Mr B complied with Gefions request and checked the documents for 
accuracy, as did he. So Im uncertain as to why they didnt ask for Ms email address to be 
removed at this time, if they didnt intend for or want it to be used going forward.
As Gefion didnt receive any updated contact details for Mr B, when it received the third party 
claim it wasnt aware that it shouldnt use the recorded email address. And it also had no 
awareness of how M dealt with emails from unknown senders. On that basis, it can only 
apply its knowledge of the average consumer  and I would say its reasonable to assume 
the vast majority of people do open their emails, especially when one of their insurers 
names is contained within the email address. M has argued that he shouldnt have be 
expected to remember the insurers name eight months after Mr B set up the cover  and 
considering this wasnt his policy, I can appreciate his point. But, I also cant expect Gefion 
to have known that M deletes every email he receives from anyone whose name he doesnt 
recall. So while M has explained how he came to delete the emails, that doesnt change my 
view that Gefion acted fairly in how it contacted Mr B. 
M has also raised concerns about the timescales Gefion applied in its emails and has 
argued it didnt have to settle the case until several weeks after it said it did. However, as M 
deleted the emails without reading them, I dont see how this has any impact on the outcome 
here. Even if Gefion had given Mr B a longer deadline or emailed him more times, M 
wouldve still deleted the emails without opening them. And, while I accept it couldve 
contacted him by a different medium, there wasnt a requirement for it to do this. So this 
doesnt change my decision.
In relation to how the third party gained Ms name, M has suggested that they couldve 
simply conjured up that name to bring authenticity to the claim. Or that with cyber-crime on 
the increase, they came across his name by means of a computer and the internet.Ms points here are purely speculative. And, as I have previously set out, M has no links to 
Mr Bs policy. Im afraid I find it implausible that a third party conjured up a name which 
exactly matched that of someone close to Mr B. And, if the third party is as sophisticated a 
criminal as M has suggested, it would seem strange they ended up with Ms name and not 
Mr Bs. This is especially as their searches would relate to the details they did know about 
Mr B only  namely a visual description of him, his registration and the name of his insurer. 
So this possible explanation also hasnt changed my decision.
M has confirmed that hes not disputing the way Gefion settled the claim. But hes provided 
details that attempt to call into question whether or not the claim was genuine. Ultimately the 
validity of the claim was something Gefion decided without Mr B, as he didnt get in touch 
with it. And, as the settlement isnt in dispute, I dont consider I need to comment on this 
further.
While I havent commented here on all of Ms further points and submissions, Ive read them 
in detail, but my role isnt to answer every single point or question raised. Its to deal with the 
crux of the complaint. I appreciate this outcome will be a disappointment to Mr B and M. But 
it seems that ultimately, the complaint in this case revolves around Gefion using the email it 
did and Ms expectations of how Gefion shouldve acted. Ive explained why I think Gefion 
was able to use the email address. And I cant say that the expectations/standards M is 
applying are necessarily the same as those of an average consumer, or, more importantly, 
the standard that Gefion agreed or contracted to meet. So while I do appreciate why M acted 
in the way he did, Im not concluding that Gefion has done anything wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mr Bs 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2020.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman