DRN-2941088
The complaint
Company 4 is unhappy how HSBC UK Bank Plc dealt with the closure of a business 
account. 
Company 4 is being represented in this complaint by Mr P, a director of Company 4.
What happened
On both 16 April and 9 September 2019, HSBC wrote to Company 4 to let them know they 
needed Company 4 to provide up-to-date information about your business. In these letters 
HSBC explained that Company 4 would be required to provide this information through an 
online form available within the internet banking facility, and that theyd be in touch to let 
Company 4 know when this needed to be done. 
On 13 September 2019, HSBC wrote to Company 4 asking them to complete the online form 
and letting them know that this needed to be done by 6 December 2019. HSBC explained 
the account may be closed if Company 4 didnt provide the information they were asking for.
HSBCs systems show Mr P accessed the online form on 14 October 2019 but didnt 
complete or submit it. So, on 6 December 2019, HSBC wrote to Company 4 explaining 
theyd be closing their account on 14 February 2020. HSBC also explained that any funds in 
the account would be sent to Company 4 by cheque, and that, if Company 4 wanted to keep 
the account open, then they could call HSBC to discuss this. 
Company 4 didnt ask to keep the account open and, on 14 February 2020, HSBC started 
their account closure process. While this process was ongoing, HSBC placed restrictions on 
the account to stop any payments going out. But these didnt stop money being paid into the 
account and, on 2 March 2020, Mr P transferred £720 into Company 4s account. He says 
he did this in error. When the account was closed on 6 March 2020, HSBC sent Company 4 
a cheque for the closing balance of £720.59.
Mr P complained that HSBC made a mistake by accepting his transfer after the date on 
which account shouldve been closed, and he asked them to put the £720 into an account in 
his sole name. HSBC explained they couldnt do this, because the funds in the account 
belonged to Company 4, not Mr P. So it could only be sent to an account in Company 4s 
name. But HSBC offered Mr P £100 as an apology for the delay in replying to his complaint. 
Mr P wasnt happy with HSBCs reply and he brought his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said HSBC had been clear about what would happen if Company 4 didnt 
complete the online review form. So he thought theyd acted fairly when they decided to 
close Company 4s account. He also said HSBCs process allowed for credits to be paid into 
the account, but stopped payments coming out of the account, while the closure was being 
dealt with. So he didnt think HSBC acted unreasonably by accepting the transfer of £720. 
Company 4 and Mr P are separate legal entities, and the investigator said the funds in the 
account belonged to Company 4, not Mr P. So HSBC didnt do anything wrong by paying the 
closing balance to Company 4, and not refunding Mr P the £720 hed transferred.
Mr P didnt agree with the investigator. He said Company 4s account shouldve been closed 
on 14 February 2020, and the definition of closed is totally non-operational. So HSBC 
shouldnt have accepted the £720 he transferred on 2 March 2020. Mr P also said that one 
of the shareholders of Company 4 isnt communicating, so its impossible for them to open a 
new account and cash the cheque HSBC sent. Mr P also complained that HSBC wont 
accept the authority of the remaining four shareholders to open a new account. 
Because Mr P didnt agree with the investigator, this matter has been passed to me to make 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the evidence I agree with the investigators findings on this complaint for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome. 
Ive seen the letters HSBC sent Company 4 about the requirement to complete the online 
form, and closure of their account. And, as Mr P accessed the online form on 14 October 
2019, Im satisfied that he was reasonably aware of what was happening with the account. 
So he wouldve known that the account was due to be closed on 14 February 2020. And, as 
a company director, he would also have known that Company 4 was a separate legal entity 
so any money he paid into Company 4s account would belong to Company 4, not him.
I appreciate that Mr P said he transferred the money into Company 4s account in error. But, 
by doing so, he was paying the money to Company 4, not transferring it to another account 
in his name. So, even if the account wasnt being closed, HSBC wouldnt have been able to 
return the £720 to Mr P without the authority of Company 4. And I havent seen that 
Company 4 have ever authorised the £720 to be paid to Mr P.
HSBC didnt completely close the account on 14 February 2020, and it took until 6 March 
2020 for their business account closure process to be completed. HSBC have explained that 
it normally takes 5 to 10 working days to complete the closure process, but this was delayed 
because they were dealing with a complaint. And their policy requires the closure process to 
be put on hold while the complaint is being investigated. 
Its not my role to tell a financial business what their processes should be. This is a matter 
between the financial business and their regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. So I 
wont be commenting further on HSBCs closure process.
Mr P has explained the difficulties between the directors of Company 4, which means theyre 
unable to open a new account (with HSBC or with any other provider). And theyre unable to 
close down Company 4 with Companies House, which would allow HSBC to look at 
reissuing the cheque. This is stopping the cheque being processed and Mr P accessing the 
£720 he transferred to Company 4. But this is an issue with Company 4, not HSBC. And I 
cant hold HSBC responsible for the actions of Company 4s directors. 
HSBCs responsibility lies with ensuring Company 4s funds are paid to Company 4 on the 
closure of their account. And not to any individual, even if they are a director of Company 4. 
Which is what they did. So I wont be asking HSBC to do anything more.HSBC offered Mr P £100 for the delays in dealing with his complaint. Complaint handling 
isnt a regulated activity, so it isnt something I can look at. And its now for Mr P to decide 
whether to accept the £100 offered by HSBC or not.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Company 4s complaint about HSBC UK 
Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Company 4 to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 September 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman