DRN-3424946
The complaint
Miss A complains about the service she received from HSBC UK Bank Plc when she 
requested a payment holiday extension. She says they made multiple mistakes leading to 
adverse information being reported on her credit file and another business reducing her 
credit limit. 
What happened
Miss A borrowed money from HSBC by way of a personal loan. This was agreed and drawn 
in February 2020. Due to the financial impact on her as a result of the global pandemic, Miss 
A contacted HSBC in April 2020 to request a payment holiday. HSBC agreed her request 
deferring the repayments due in May, June and July 2020.
Around the end of June 2020, Miss A contacted HSBC again. She didnt think her financial 
situation was likely to improve in the short term. So, she wanted HSBC to agree an 
extension to the payment holiday agreed when the existing period ended in August 2020. 
But HSBC failed to process this request correctly and she didnt hear anything more.
Miss A contacted HSBC again in early September 2020. HSBC confirmed they would apply 
the extension for her repayments due in August, September and October 2020. But HSBC 
failed to apply the extension correctly. When Miss A spoke to HSBC again, they agreed to 
ensure the extension was applied and correct any adverse information reported on her credit 
file. 
Despite this, a few days later, HSBC told Miss A her extension request had been declined. 
So, Miss A contacted them again. HSBC agreed to re-age her loan account to reflect the 
payment holiday extension and correct any resulting adverse information reported on her 
credit file. HSBC confirmed this in a letter and said her repayment direct debit would start 
again when the payment deferral extension expired.
Upon expiry of the payment deferral, the direct debit for Miss As loan repayment wasnt 
processed. This resulted in arrears on Miss As loan. Apparently, HSBC had failed to 
reinstate the direct debit correctly. HSBC apologised, corrected their mistake, and again 
agreed to remove any adverse information reported on her credit file. 
Miss A then discovered that another business had decided to make a substantial reduction 
to her credit limit with them. Miss A said this decision had been made due to unspecified 
entries on her credit file. Miss A thought that this was due to HSBCs errors. So, she 
complained to HSBC. In the meantime, it was discovered that Miss As credit file hadnt yet 
been corrected by HSBC. 
HSBC did ultimately correct Miss As credit file to ensure any adverse information theyd 
reported had been removed. They paid compensation of £150 to Miss A to reflect the upset 
and inconvenience caused by their mistakes. They couldnt agree their mistakes had led to 
the reduction of her credit limit with another business. But they did agree to revisit this in the 
event that Miss A could provide specific evidence to support that claim.
Miss A wasnt happy with HSBCs responses to her complaints. So, she referred matters to 
this service to investigate further. Our adjudicator agreed that HSBC had made mistakes and 
errors in the way theyd dealt with Miss As request for a payment holiday extension. Our 
adjudicator thought HSBC had addressed their mistakes in a fair and reasonable way but 
thought they should pay further compensation of £100.
HSBC accepted our adjudicators recommendation. But Miss A remained unhappy. She 
wanted HSBC to increase the compensation to £998.88, this being equivalent to three 
monthly loan repayments. She was unhappy with how HSBC had dealt with her request and 
her subsequent complaints. She also said that stresses caused by HSBCs failings had 
impacted upon an existing health condition. Miss A remained unhappy that her credit limit 
with another business was still significantly reduced.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, Miss As complaint has been passed to me to 
consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued guidance to lenders in April 2020 which 
explained what they expected from businesses during the exceptional circumstances arising 
out of the global pandemic. They provided guidance asking businesses to consider payment 
deferrals of up to three months under regulated credit agreements. 
The FCA said their guidance applied where consumers were already experiencing or 
reasonably expect to experience temporary payment difficulties as a result of the pandemic. 
The FCA also said that firms should ensure that there is no negative impact on the 
consumers credit file because of the payment deferral.  
Further guidance was issued by the FCA in July 2020. This extended these measures, and 
where consumers were still struggling due to the global pandemic, businesses were advised 
to freeze or reduce their payments for a further three months. 
HSBC agreed to defer Miss As loan repayments due in May, June and July. From what Ive 
been able to establish, there are no missed payments or arrears reported on Miss As credit 
file for this period. So, HSBC appear to have complied with the FCAs guidance here. 
It appears mistakes occurred following Miss As request to extend the payment deferral 
period for a further three months. HSBC failed to act promptly on this request. So, when loan 
repayments werent made, HSBC reported these on Miss As credit file and wrote to her. 
HSBC have admitted that mistakes were made in handling Miss As request. Theyve also 
confirmed they failed to reinstate her repayment direct debit once the payment deferral 
period ended. So, these aspects are not in dispute.
As I understand it, Miss As concerns relate to the steps HSBC took to resolve their 
mistakes. This resulted in adverse information being recorded on Miss As credit file. In 
addition, the time taken to resolve matters had caused her both distress and inconvenience. 
It appears Miss A had to contact HSBC on multiple occasions in order that the situation 
could be resolved correctly. So, I think my decision needs to reflect this.
Miss A says that a credit facility provided by another business was reduced substantially as 
a result of the information HSBC recorded on her credit file. Businesses and lenders do 
review the credit limits they provide to consumers on a regular basis. Any review will 
consider a wide range of factors. Different lenders use different systems and factors to 
decide a credit limit. So, while a lender may consider an individuals credit history, this may 
only be one factor. Lenders may also consider general market trends and influences and 
their overall exposure in a given market at any time, together with changes in their own 
lending policies. 
Miss A hasnt provided anything to demonstrate that the decision to reduce her credit limit 
was solely a direct consequence of anything HSBC did. So, I cant reasonably conclude that HSBC were ultimately responsible here. But HSBC have offered to revisit this aspect in the 
event that Miss A can provide evidence to support her claim. In the circumstances, I agree 
with HSBCs approach here.
HSBC have confirmed that steps have now been taken to remove all adverse information 
reported on Miss As credit file. This was the right thing to do and I havent seen anything to 
suggest this wasnt completed correctly. 
HSBC have also acknowledged their failings in Miss As case and paid compensation of 
£150. But given Miss A needed to contact HSBC on a number of occasions to resolve 
matters, I can appreciate how this wouldve caused further distress and inconvenience. Our 
adjudicator suggested that HSBC should pay an additional £100 to Miss A to reflect this. But 
Miss A believes that figure should be higher. In responding to our adjudicators findings, Miss 
A made various comments to support her view. I want to reassure Miss A that Ive carefully 
considered all her comments before reaching my final decision.
Compensation is a personal thing. Whats seen as reasonable by one party may not be 
considered so by another. Miss A did experience some inconvenience. But I think the 
additional amount suggested by our adjudicator feels fair in all the circumstances here. I 
appreciate that Miss A doesnt agree. But it isnt the role of this service to make awards in 
order to penalise HSBC for their mistakes. Any award is considered based upon the impact 
HSBCs mistakes had upon Miss A. And I think our adjudicators recommendation does that 
here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Miss As complaint.
I require HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay £100 to Miss A, in addition to the £150 already paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 May 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman