DRN-3904498
The complaint
Mr U complained about the poor workmanship he received from British Gas Insurance 
Limited (British Gas) when it responded to a home emergency claim under his policy.
What happened
Mr U made a claim on his policy when he thought there was a leak in his property. British 
Gas appointed an engineer. It said, our engineer attended to repair a fault and had to gain 
access through some tiles and plasterboard.
Mr U said British Gas unexpectedly and unnecessarily smashed through a custom fitted 
white wooden one-piece panel behind the toilet bowl. British Gas fitted a plasterboard sheet 
behind the toilet bowl, but Mr U wasnt happy how this was left. He said the engineer had 
promised to come back and paint it. British Gas said this was unlikely as the terms and 
conditions of the policy strictly exclude any decoration.
Our investigator decided to uphold the complaint. He didnt think British Gas had made 
enough effort to make good the repair. As British Gas couldnt go back to complete a repair 
as the policy had been cancelled, our investigator awarded £100 compensation designed to 
allow Mr U to complete the repairs himself. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this on 15 December 2022. I said:
Ive not been able to consider whether it was appropriate for British Gas to break the panel 
in the first place, as there isnt any evidence to support that this was unjustified. I dont think 
British Gas would cause unnecessary damage on purpose. I think its likely that it thought 
the leak maybe originating from behind the toilet area, so the engineer removed the panel to 
investigate further. However, as I dont have evidence the engineer acted inappropriately, 
Im not going to consider this point any further.
British Gas repaired the damage, but Mr U didnt think this was to an acceptable standard. I 
have considered Mr Us testimony and hes set out at length why he doesnt believe British 
Gas has done a good job on the repair. I can see British Gas initially fitted three pieces of 
plasterboard to the area to fit around the pipes in that area.
British Gas said it met its terms and conditions by fitting a flat piece of plasterboard to the 
area. However, I can see Mr U complained about gaps in the plasterboard and an engineer 
came out and filled the gaps with a white filler. He also used this to take out some scratches 
in the plasterboard. Mr U said the engineer said he would come back to paint it.
I have considered what British Gas obligations are under the policy. It states, Getting 
access and making good - we wont be responsible for repairing any pre-existing damage, 
nor will we replace or restore the original surface or coverings, for example, tiles, floor 
coverings, decoration, grass or plants.
I think the policy is clear that decoration isnt part of what British Gas cover in making good 
the repairs. As there isnt evidence that British Gas engineer said he would come back and 
paint the plasterboard, I cant consider this point. Its not that I dont believe Mr U, but our 
service makes decisions based on evidence, and there isnt evidence to support Mr Us 
testimony. British Gas has also said this isnt covered by the policy, which is correct, so I 
think this is reasonable.
Ive considered whether British Gas has done enough to make good the damage. There is 
no definition within the policy to what make good means, however, it does set out clearly 
what isnt covered. I have considered what the condition of the panel behind the toilet was 
likely to have been in before the damage occurred. The area around and above the toilet 
looks old and looks like it hasnt been maintained for several years.
The policy is clear that pre-existing damage isnt covered nor is the replacement of the 
original surface. So, its hard to say British Gas hasnt met the terms of the policy. The 
wooden panelling directly behind the toilet looks in poor condition, as does the tiled area. 
And the surrounding area to where the previous panel was fitted doesnt look conducive to 
having a neatly fitted panel to it. 
I think British Gas has done enough to make good the damage it made. If it painted the 
panels, plastered over them or tiled over the area, then I think it would be repairing pre-
existing damage, which isnt covered by the policy. I think the repairs allow Mr U to complete 
the final finish to the damaged area. Therefore, I dont intend to uphold this complaint.
I can see the policy has been cancelled by British Gas  this seems reasonable based on 
the circumstances of whats happened during the complaint and the communications that 
have taken place. Therefore, I dont intend for British Gas to do anymore regarding this 
claim.
Responses to my provisional decision
British Gas accepted my provisional decision and didnt have anything more to add.
Mr U said he didnt have anything more to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given neither party has provided any new information, I see no reason to change my 
provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require British Gas Insurance 
Limited to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2023.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman