DRN-3125070
The complaint
Mr H complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) has wrongly 
applied charges at the end of a contract hire agreement. 
What happened
In June 2018 Mr H entered into a two-year contract hire agreement with MBFS. The 
agreement included the following provisions: 
There was a mileage allowance of 10,000 miles a year. Any mileage in excess of that 
would be charged at 11p a mile plus VAT.
The car was to be returned free from accident damage and in a good, clean and 
marketable condition. A section headed Vehicle Return Standards set out in more 
detail what that meant. 
At the end of the initial two-year hire period, Mr H and MBFS agreed to extend the 
agreement for a further three months. In September 2020 the car was inspected, on its 
return to MBFS. The inspection indicated that all four wheels were damaged and that there 
was a scratch to the drivers door. The recorded mileage was higher than the mileage 
allowance in the hire agreement. The inspection also referred to damage to the rear bumper, 
but MBFS agreed not to charge for that.
MBFS sent Mr H an invoice for the damage and the additional mileage. Mr H said that the 
invoice was incorrect and disputed the damage to the door. MBFS agreed that the invoice 
was incorrect, although it maintained that there was damage to the door. 
Mr H says that MBFS continued to send incorrect invoices. It appears that they did not take 
into account the increase in the mileage allowance when the contract was extended, 
resulting in a mileage charge that was higher than it should have been. MBFS did however 
issue a credit note and, in November 2020, an invoice which took into account the increased 
mileage allowance.
Mr H did not agree that the revised invoice was correct, primarily because of the door 
damage charge. MBFS offered to reduce the invoice by 10% (or just over £120), but Mr H 
did not accept that offer and instead made his own counter offer. As no agreement was 
reached, Mr H referred the matter to this service. 
One of our investigators considered what had happened but thought that the offer MBFS had 
made was fair. Having considered the inspection report, he agreed that there was damage to 
the door  as well as to the wheels. It was fair that MBFS could charge for that damage. Mr 
H did not accept the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review the case. He 
noted that he was being chased for the full amount of the invoice, without the 10% discount 
that MBFS had offered.        
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill consider the mileage first. The hire agreement included an allowance of 10,000 miles a 
year. That equates to 22,500 over the 27 months that Mr H had the car. The mileage when 
the car was returned was 4,312 more than that, so Im satisfied that MBFS was entitled to 
charge a further £569.18 including VAT. 
Mr H does not appear to dispute that the wheels were damaged. For the avoidance of any 
doubt, however, I agree with the investigator that MBFS was entitled to charge for the 
scratches to them.
I also agree that the damage to the door was sufficiently serious to warrant a charge. There 
was scratch which penetrated the top coat of paint. It was sufficiently large that it exceeded 
the tolerances set out in MBFSs own return standards and those published by the British 
Vehicle Renting and Leasing Association. 
Mr H says that, if he had been told that there was a scratch for which he would be charged, 
he could have arranged a repair locally and more cheaply. That may be the case, but I do 
not think I can safely assume that it would have been possible. But in any event, his 
obligation was to return the car in the condition required in the hire agreement  whether or 
not any areas of damage had been pointed out to him. I do not believe I can fairly ask MBFS 
to reduce its charges in the circumstances. 
Mr H has said too that MBFS is pursuing him for the full amount of the invoice, not the 
reduced amount. But he has not accepted the reduction offered, so I would not expect MBFS 
to proceed as if he has. I understand however that the offer remains open for acceptance. 
It is clear however that there were problems and delays in issuing the correct invoice, and 
this has caused Mr H some inconvenience. I believe however that the offer to reduce the 
final payment by 10% is a fair way of dealing with that. I simply leave Mr H to decide whether 
he wants to accept it. I will not however make an award requiring MBFS to apply that 
reduction  since it has already offered to do so.            
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not require Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited to do 
anything further to resolve Mr Hs complaint.. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman