DRN-3190109
The complaint
Mr P complains U K Insurance Limited (UKI) have unfairly increased his premiums at 
renewal of his motor policy. Hes also unhappy with how long it took them to recover his car 
following an incident.
What happened
Increase in premiums
On 28 July 2021 Mr Ps car was damaged  his wing mirror and his window were both 
smashed. He let UKI know and was told his no claims discount wouldnt be affected. Later 
on, UKI contacted Mr P, and told him he had to pay an additional £172.48 for his new policy 
which had renewed around the time of the incident. Mr P wasnt happy with this, as hed 
been told his no claims discount wouldnt be affected  so he complained.
UKI said it was correct hed had to pay an additional £172.48. They explained the claim 
would be registered as a fault claim. That was an insurance industry term and didnt mean 
Mr P was at fault for what happened, but it reflected there was no way to track the party 
responsible for the incident. Because of that, UKI couldnt reclaim their costs in dealing with 
Mr Ps claim, meaning itd be recorded as a fault claim against him  and did affect his 
renewal costs. UKI added Mr P did have a protected no claims discount, so it was correct 
this wouldnt be affected, but there were lots of factors that affect the cost of a premium  
and a claim would be one of those. UKI said though the agent who took Mr Ps call didnt 
explain this properly  so they paid him £75 in compensation as an apology for not doing so.
Recovery
Mr P called up for recovery of his car on 29 July 2021 and wasnt recovered for four hours. 
He says he wasnt helped at all by the agent who took the call initially and had to call UKI 
directly to get them to help. The initial call was also to UKI, albeit under a different brand 
than Mr Ps car insurance.
UKI accepted theyd got this wrong and provided really poor service. They said the original 
agent Mr P spoke to didnt put through his request to be recovered properly, and a taxi 
wasnt initially ordered either. Mr P was left at the roadside for around four hours, and the 
taxi didnt arrive until an hour after the car itself had been recovered. For this, UKI paid £50 
in recognition of their failings.
Referral to our service
Following this, Mr P contacted us as he didnt think UKI were treating him fairly  by charging 
the increased premiums, or the compensation hed been paid. 
One of our Investigators looked into things and decided overall UKI had acted fairly in 
charging the additional premium, and she felt the compensation they paid was also fair.
Mr P didnt accept this, he said he doesnt understand why he has to pay extra costs when 
the incident wasnt his fault. Because Mr P didnt agree, the complaints been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Increase in premiums
I think itll help to explain that insurers base the cost of their policies on many different 
factors  one of which will include the claims history of the policyholder.
My understanding is Mr Ps renewal pack was sent out on 22 July 2021, the incident 
happened on 28 July 2021, and his policy renewed on 20 August 2021.
From what I can see Mr P had two calls with UKI, on 28 July and 4 August where no mention 
was made about the impact of the claim on his premiums. It seems on 6 August 2021 Mr P 
called back to ask about the additional premium, as hed been told about it by letter at this 
point.
The reason for the increase in premium has been explained by UKI as Mr P having had an 
at fault claim he had to record. I think the timing of whats happened here is quite 
unfortunate. Had the incident happened earlier, or the renewal was due later, then its very 
likely the renewal pack Mr P would have been sent would have included the cost of the 
additional premium.
I do think UKI have acted fairly in charging the extra premium. As Ive mentioned above, Id 
expect any claim to potentially affect the cost of future premiums. Ive also looked at how 
UKI have calculated the additional cost, and although I cant share this information because 
its commercially sensitive, Im satisfied theyd have charged anyone else the same as in 
Mr Ps situation.
Ive seen Mr P says because hes got a protected no claims discount, he shouldnt be 
charged anything further. But the protected no claims discount simply means his no claims 
bonus hasnt been affected by the claim hes had to make. He has though still had to make a 
claim  which is a separate factor in the premium pricing.
Ive seen UKI accept their agent didnt handle the call well with Mr P when talking about this 
 and they paid £75 compensation. I cant treat incorrect information as being true, I can only 
look at the impact on the individual. Here, Mr Ps had a loss of expectation as he wasnt 
expecting to pay anything more. But, overall, Im satisfied £75 compensation is fair for this.
Recovery
As a result of the incident mentioned above, Mr P also needed to be recovered. Ive seen he 
had to make a few calls before he was able to get through to someone who could help him. 
Thats disappointing  as it shouldnt be necessary.
I can see UKI have accepted when Mr P first called, he was given the wrong information and 
things werent logged properly on their system. 
Again, looking at the impact on Mr P it seems he was unfortunately left for two hours longer 
than he should have been. One hour after hed first called up where UKI delayed registering that he needed to be recovered  and another hour after his car had been recovered when a 
taxi hadnt been awarded. For these errors UKI awarded £50.
Ive tried my best to put myself in Mr Ps shoes. Hes explained his personal circumstances 
and felt really frustrated that no one was helping him. I can imagine that was incredibly 
irritating for him and he has my sympathies for this. But, in stepping back and thinking about 
what happened, UKI overall have delayed his recovery by a total of two hours. Taking 
everything into account, Im satisfied £50 to compensate for this is fair.
Summary
Overall, Ive found the increase in premiums have been carried out fairly. And I think the 
compensation UKI have awarded of £75 for the poor explanation of this, and the £50 for their 
poor handling of the recovery, is fair. I understand these amounts have already been paid to 
Mr P directly. So, because of that, I dont require UKI to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman