DRN-2334966
The complaint
Ms S complains about Unum Ltds decision in respect of her income protection claim. 
What happened
Ms S is covered by her employers group income protection policy. The policy provides 
benefit in the event the insured cant work because of illness or injury. It has a deferred 
period of 26 weeks.
In June 2019, Ms S was diagnosed with Multiple Sclerosis (MS). She stopped work, and 
then returned in January 2020.
Ms S made a claim under the policy. Unum accepted the claim from the end of the deferred 
period until Ms S returned to work. However, Ms S thought Unum ought to link some earlier 
absences from work to the claim (so that the deferred period would have ended sooner). 
Unum didnt agree, as it didnt think Ms Ss earlier absences from work were related to her 
later diagnosis of MS. 
Unhappy with Unums decision, Ms S brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He agreed with Unum that 
Ms Ss earlier absences didnt appear to be linked to her MS diagnosis.
Ms S didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy says the following about linked absences:
Although the deferred period is normally a continuous absence Unum will link periods of 
absence of at least 2 weeks duration through incapacity arising from the same cause 
provided the deferred period is completed within twice the length of the deferred period.
The deferred period is usually a continuous 26-week period. 
Ms S was previously absent from her employer from 9 April  14 May 2018, 
19 September 2018  13 January 2019, and 25 March  31 March 2019. She then stopped 
work again in June 2019.
Ms Ss absence in April and May 2018 cant be taken into account, because if all the 
absences over two weeks were linked, this would take the deferred period beyond 52 weeks 
(ie twice the normal length) which the policy doesnt allow. Ms Ss absence in March 2019 
also cant be taken into account, as it was under two weeks duration. 
Ive therefore considered the medical evidence in respect of Ms Ss absence from 
September 2018 to January 2019, to see if this supports that she couldnt work due to 
symptoms arising from her later diagnosis of MS. 
In September 2018, Ms S reported experiencing some problems with two family members 
and felt that everything was on top of her. She was referred to counselling services by her 
GP and her antidepressant medication was increased. 
Then in November 2018, Ms S advised an occupational health adviser that she was 
experiencing anxiety and depression due to ongoing and extremely distressing family issues, 
which had been a problem for many months, resulting in the need for a period of time out.
The MS Society website explains that people with MS can experience mental health 
conditions, including anxiety. It says that MS-related nerve damage in the part of the brain 
that controls the emotions can affect the way someone feels or reacts.
I therefore accept that Ms Ss anxiety could have been a result of her MS. The difficulty of 
course, is that anxiety can also be experienced by people without MS. 
For me to require Unum to link Ms Ss earlier absence to her claim, Id need to be satisfied 
the evidence showed it was more likely than not, that her symptom of anxiety was caused by 
MS. 
Whilst its apparent that Ms S has experienced a number of symptoms related to MS in the 
lead up to her diagnosis, the medical evidence doesnt support that anxiety was one of them. 
Therefore, there isnt sufficient evidence available for me to conclude that her anxiety the 
previous year was caused by her MS.
I can see that Ms S has experienced a really difficult time, and I recognise shell be 
disappointed by my decision. However, Im satisfied that it was reasonable for Unum not to 
link Ms Ss earlier absence to her claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman