DRN-3685529
The complaint
Mr F complains about charges BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS), trading as 
Alphera Financial Services, have asked him to pay on the return of a car he had been 
leasing through them. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr F acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The terms of the finance agreement held him responsible for keeping the car in good 
condition. He would be responsible for any damage if the car wasnt returned in the correct 
condition.
The industry guidelines for what is considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are returned 
at the end of their lease, is provided by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association 
(BVRLA).
Its that guidance that I think BMWFS should have used when reviewing the damage in the 
inspection report. But I think they should also have taken into account that this car was 
already seven years old and had already completed 66,000 miles when it was returned so 
there would be some areas in which fair wear and tear would be more extensive than, for 
example, if the car was only a year old when it was returned.
Areas where damage is clearly in excess of fair wear and tear.
LH rear wheel  the BVRLA guidance says there should be no damage to the spokes. On a 
car of this age and mileage, however, there has been significantly greater opportunity for the 
wheels to be damaged and Id expect the business to take that into account and not apply 
the guidelines so rigorously. However, the photographs show the damage affects more than 
one spoke and in those circumstances I think the damage is in excess of what could be 
considered fair wear and tear and a charge is fair.
Cracked tyre. Mr F has accepted this charge and Id agree that its fair.
I think the LH seat base cover is excessively soiled. The BVRLA guidance says that 
upholstery should not be stained but I think its also fair to consider the age of this vehicle. I 
dont think a consumer would expect a seven year old car to have had its seats replaced and 
it therefore follows that a seven year old cars seats will be the original ones and more 
worn/stained than a younger cars. Having said that I think the staining to this seat is in 
excess of what a reasonable consumer would expect given its age and I therefore think 
BMWFS have been fair when charging for its refurbishment.
Areas where damage is not in excess of fair wear and tear.
Rusted bonnet  BMWFS have now accepted that the charge is unreasonable as Mr F has 
provided evidence the rust was forming when he took receipt of the car. Id agree.
RH seat base  I think the damage here could be expected on a car of this age and 
mileage. It affects the drivers seat and is consistent with a driver entering and exiting the 
car. That has clearly happened more over seven years than it would have happened on a 
newer vehicle, so I think its fair to accept that the damage is the result of fair wear and tear 
and a charge isnt reasonable in those circumstances.
RH carpet  I dont think a reasonable person would expect to have replaced the carpet 
within seven years so its reasonable to expect the same carpet to be in this car as was in it 
when new. A seven year old car will therefore exhibit more wear than a newer one, although 
that more extensive wear can still fairly be considered normal. As the wear here is under the 
drivers pedals and the car has been driven over 66,000 miles I think consideration should 
have been given to that and that a reasonable person would expect some wear in this area. I 
dont therefore think its fair for BMWFS to charge Mr F to replace the whole carpet; the 
charge of over £600 seems excessive and Id agree with the investigator that a charge of 
£29 (taken from the charging matrix) is more reasonable in the circumstances.
It's clear that several of the charges BMWFS have sought to make have been unfairly levied 
and in those circumstances I dont think it was unreasonable for Mr F not to pay the bill until 
his complaint was resolved. BMWFS should therefore remove any adverse reports they 
have made to Mr Fs credit file in relation to this issue.
Putting things right
BMWFS should waive the charges theyve made for refurbishment of the bonnet and RH 
seat base and they should reduce the charge for the RH carpet to £29. BMWFS should also 
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Fs credit file in relation to the 
refurbishment bill.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint in part and tell BMW Financial 
Services (GB) Limited to put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman