DRN-1628513
The complaint
Mr M complains about how a credit limit decrease was dealt with by American Express 
Services Europe Limited (AESEL).
What happened
Mr M holds an account with AESEL, which he opened in July 2019. When his account was 
opened AESEL gave Mr M a credit limit of £8,000. Mr M started to use his card regularly and 
managed his account in line with its terms and conditions. 
On 24 October 2019 AESEL emailed Mr M and sent him a letter, which explained that, 
following a review of his account, it had decided to reduce his credit limit to £3,100 with 
immediate effect. It also said it had suspended Mr Ms ability to withdraw cash. AESEL said 
it had made this decision in order to meet its obligations as a responsible lender. 
Mr M asked AESEL to reconsider its decision to reduce his credit limit. He said his credit 
rating hadnt changed since he had opened his account. And he wasnt happy with how 
AESEL had dealt the credit limit decrease. 
On 2 November 2019 AESEL wrote to Mr M to explain that, having reviewed its decision, it 
was unable to increase his credit limit. Mr M felt AESEL had reduced his credit limit without 
sufficient warning and he thought this was in breach of the terms of his account. 
When he complained to AESEL about what had happened it didnt uphold his complaint. In 
its final response it explained what had prompted its decision to reduce Mr Ms credit limit 
and it explained it had emailed him the same day to notify him about the change to his credit 
facility. 
Being dissatisfied with AESELs response and the way in which it had dealt with his 
complaint Mr M referred it to our service. Our investigator assessed all the evidence Mr M 
and AESEL had provided this service they didnt uphold this complaint. Overall, they 
concluded that AESEL had neither made a mistake nor treated Mr M unfairly. But Mr M 
disagreed and asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mr M experienced here. I can see how strongly he 
feels about his complaint and I appreciate the reason why hes brought it to our service.
My role is to assess whether I think AESEL made a mistake, or treated Mr M unfairly, such 
that it needs to now put things right. And, having thought carefully about everything he and 
AESEL have said, Im afraid to say that I dont think it did. I appreciate Mr M will be 
disappointed by this outcome. But I hope he can understand the reasons behind my 
decision.This complaint was prompted by AESELs decision to reduce Mr Ms credit limit. Hes 
confirmed with our service though that he doesnt take issue with his credit limit being 
reduced. So, I wont spend any time addressing the decision AESEL made either to 
decrease his credit limit at the end of October 2019 or its subsequent decision not to review 
that decision the following month.
Mr M has told our service that his concerns relate to whether he was given notice of his 
credit limit change in accordance with the terms and conditions of his account. He believes 
AESEL breached those terms by not giving notice he was entitled to. But AESEL states it 
has acted in line with what the terms of Mr Ms account say.
Ive carefully considered the terms and conditions that apply Mr Ms account, which explain 
that AESEL will set a customers credit limit that can be adjusted (up or down) by giving a 
customer notice. The terms go on to state from time to time, we may also tell you that a 
credit limit increase is available. If we do this you can choose to exercise your right to that 
higher credit limit within the time we tell you (which will be at least 30 days). 
In the section regarding how AESEL tells its customers about changes the terms state well 
give you at least 30 days' advance notice of the change, unless the change is not to your 
disadvantage. In this case, we'll give you notice but we may make the change more quickly. 
We'll always give you details of when the change will take effect.
On reading these terms its clear that theres a requirement for AESEL to give customers at 
least 30 days notice for increases in credit limit. But theres no requirement for it to give the 
same period of notice when reducing a credit limit or when making a change that isnt to a 
customers disadvantage.
In this case AESEL emailed Mr M on 24 October 2019 notifying him that it would be reducing 
his credit limit and it gave him details of when the change would take effect. It also sent a 
letter the same date giving further information. Im satisfied Mr M received AESELs 
notification about his credit limit reduction because he contacted it by telephone on 25 
October to discuss its decision to change his limit.
Its clear that Mr M is unhappy about the notice he was given. And I can appreciate that he 
may have preferred to receive more notice. But, as Ive already explained, the terms dont 
require AESEL to give him at least 30 days notice when it reduces a customers credit limit. 
Mr M was well within his credit limit at the time of the reduction. So Im not persuaded that 
the change AESEL imposed was to his disadvantage.
Mr M says the change could have affected and disadvantaged him. Hes said this is because 
the interest rate on his AESEL card was more favourable to other credit cards, which is why 
he chose to take it out. So, if he had used the full credit limit hed been given in July 2019 
when his card was opened it would cost him less than using the same facility on another 
card. 
Ive thought carefully about what hes said here. But, as our investigator told him, our service 
has to consider what actually happened. So, we cant award compensation based on 
hypothetical and speculative situations.
Overall, based on the evidence Ive seen, I cant fairly find that AESEL breached the terms 
and conditions of Mr Ms account. It didnt make an error here. So, I wont be ordering it to do 
any more.
Finally, Mr M has complained about the way in which AESEL dealt with his complaint. 
However, as our investigator explained to him our service doesnt have the power to look at how financial businesses deal with complaint handling because its not a regulated activity 
under the legislation that governs our service. So, even if I did think AESEL hadnt done 
things well in this regard, I wouldnt be able to uphold that element of his concerns or make 
an award. I cant act outside the law. So, I comment any further on this issue.
I realise Mr M will be disappointed with this decision. But it brings to an end what we, in 
trying to resolve his dispute with AESEL informally, can do for him. Im sorry we cant help 
Mr M any further with this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman