DRN-4187576
The complaint
Mr A complains that Creation Financial Services Limited closed his account, didnt credit his 
points, a free night stay voucher or refund the annual fee. Hed like his benefits credited and 
compensation for the impact.
What happened
Mr A had a rewards club premium credit card account with Creation which included an 
annual fee of £99. The card included the ability to earn reward points, which could be 
redeemed for hotel stays or experiences, and a hotel voucher for a free night stay.
On 30 September 2021 Creation sent a letter to Mr A informing him that his credit card 
account would be closed on 3 December 2021. And they wouldnt be crediting him the points 
for the last statement period, his free night stay voucher or a refund of the unused annual 
fee. 
Mr A complained to Creation. But Creation didnt uphold his complaint. They thought theyd 
acted fairly in closing his account, not refunding the annual fee, crediting the points or the 
free night stay voucher.
Mr A wasnt satisfied with Creations response so complained to our service.
After Mr As complaint was brought to our service Creation made an offer. They offered Mr A 
a pro-rata refund of his annual fee, the points not credited and the free night stay voucher.
Mr A didnt accept the offer. He complained that Creation havent offered compensation for 
the time, hassle and inconvenience caused and having a raise a complaint with our service. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr As complaint and thought Creation needed to do 
more. Our investigator thought that as well as offering to refund the annual fee, points and 
the free night stay voucher Creation should pay Mr A £50 for the inconvenience caused to 
him. 
Mr A accepted, but Creation didnt.
On reviewing the case I reached a slightly different conclusion to our investigator. I thought 
that Creation should refund the pro-rata annual fee, the points and the free night stay 
voucher. However, I didnt think £50 compensation was fair. I explained that it isnt the role of 
our service to punish a business, nor do we compensate for the inconvenience experienced 
in raising a complaint. I explained, our service doesnt make awards for mistakes which 
haven't caused more than the normal nuisances of everyday life.
Mr A didnt respond to my thoughts. So Ive proceeded to issue my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account closure
Creation can only close accounts in certain circumstances and if its in the terms and 
conditions of the account. Creation have relied on the terms and conditions when closing 
Mr As account. The terms explain that Creation can close an account for any reason by 
giving 60 days notice. I understand this is disappointing for Mr A however, by providing the 
full notice period here I cant say Creation have acted unfairly.
Annual fee, withholding of points and hotel voucher
Creation have offered to reimburse Mr As points, award him the free night stay voucher and 
give a pro-rata refund. Im satisfied that Creation shouldnt have deprived Mr A of access to 
the points, voucher and pro-rata refund when initially closing his account. But, Im pleased to 
see that theyve now agreed to rectify this.
I appreciate this will disappoint Mr A, however Im afraid I havent changed the outcome I 
reached in my initial thoughts. As I explained, Im satisfied Creation acted fairly in closing 
Mr As account, but I agree they should have returned his unused annual fee, credited the 
points and granted him the free night stay voucher  Im pleased to see that Creation have 
now agreed to do this, and having done so theyve put Mr A back in the position he should 
have been in at the time. 
Therefore I cant say hes lost out here.
Putting things right
If they havent already done so Ill be directing Creation to credit Mr As points, refund the 
unused part of the annual fee and award the free night stay voucher.
My final decision
My final decision is I direct Creation Financial Services Limited to:
Refund Mr A the uncredited points
Award Mr A the free night stay voucher
Pay Mr A £46.65
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2023.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman