DRN-3277755
The complaint
Mr B complained that AvantCredit of UK, LLC lent to him irresponsibly and provided him 
with unaffordable lending.
What happened
AvantCredit provided a loan to Mr B as follows:
Date 
takenLoan 
amountTerm Typical 
monthly 
repaymentTotal amount 
repayable
7.3.2015 £1,000 24 months £58.03 £1,392.58
When Mr B complained to AvantCredit it didnt uphold his complaint so he brought his 
complaint to us. One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that 
AvantCredit shouldnt have provided the loan. Our adjudicator explained why he was 
recommending that the complaint should be upheld and he set out directions indicating 
what AvantCredit should do to put things right. 
AvantCredit hasnt responded to our adjudicators view letter. So, as the complaint hasnt 
been resolved, it comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint. Having done so, I am upholding 
Mr Bs complaint for broadly the same reasons as our adjudicator. Ill explain my reasons. 
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. Lenders must work out if a borrower can 
sustainably afford the loan repayments alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower 
also has to pay. 
This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation  a proportionate check might also require the lender to 
find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall 
financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think about whether theres any other 
reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender shouldve 
realised that the loan was likely to lead to significant adverse consequences or more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
I have reviewed the information AvantCredit gathered when it agreed to provide this loan. 
AvantCredit relied on an online check to verify Mr Bs declared income and recorded that 
his pay was around £1,400 per month. Alongside asking Mr B about his monthly 
expenses, AvantCredit also carried out its own credit checks to understand his credit 
history and current credit commitments. 
Like our adjudicator, I think AvantCredit should have been concerned to see that when Mr B 
applied for this loan the credit report it obtained for him showed that he had opened 8 new 
credit accounts within the previous 3 months and increased his total debt balance by £5,481 
during this period  up to £6,587. He had gone over his available credit limit  and although 
this wasnt by much, it was clear hed been stuck in this situation for the last 12 months or 
more. There was a default shown and another account was reported as being delinquent, 
which is an indication of payment problems. AvantCredits checks showed that Mr B was 
paying £911 in total each month on his active credit accounts (not including any mortgage) 
so it was evident that his debt repayments cost Mr B well over half of his declared income. 
Whilst having other outstanding lending or even an impaired credit history wouldnt be 
unusual for a borrower applying for this type of expensive borrowing, and it wouldnt 
necessarily be a bar to lending, I dont think AvantCredit took properly into account what the 
information it had gathered showed about Mr Bs overall financial situation and the likelihood 
of him being able to pay its loan in a sustainable manner. 
I've thought carefully about what I think a responsible lender should have made of all this 
information and in particular whether it was enough for AvantCredit to make a fair decision to 
lend, particularly as it understood that Mr B intended to spend the money on a vacation  so 
it would be adding to his overall indebtedness and extending the time he would be repaying 
expensive borrowing of this type.
I think our adjudicator was right to say that the indications were that Mr B wasnt managing 
his money well and he was already struggling financially. All the signs were that his finances 
were, in reality, under significant stress and his debt had become unmanageable. 
I dont think AvantCredit was reasonably able to be satisfied in these circumstances that 
Mr B would be able to make its loan repayments in a sustainable way. 
Also, bearing in mind the repayment of this loan on top of the debt AvantCredit saw Mr B 
was already responsible for paying, I think its fair to say that Mr B needed to pay a 
significant portion of his income towards credit. And in my opinion, as a responsible lender, 
AvantCredit shouldve realised that Mr B would likely struggle to repay this loan  especially 
bearing in mind the 24 month loan term.
So, thinking about all the information AvantCredit had gathered, I cant reasonably say 
that it made a fair lending decision based on the information in front of it. I dont think 
AvantCredit was able to safely conclude that its loan would be sustainably affordable for 
Mr B. So it shouldnt have provided it and AvantCredit needs to put things right.
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr B to repay the capital amount that he borrowed, 
because he had the benefit of that lending. But he has paid extra for lending that should not have been provided to him. In line with this Services approach, Mr B shouldnt repay more 
than the capital amount he borrowed.
If AvantCredit sold any outstanding debt it should buy this back if able to do so and then take 
the following steps. Otherwise, AvantCredit should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve 
the results outlined below and do the following:
add up the total amount of money Mr B received as a result of having been given 
the loan. The repayments Mr B made should be deducted from this amount
if this results in Mr B having paid more than he received, then any 
overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated 
from the date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement)
if there is a shortfall in repayments which leaves a capital amount outstanding, 
then AvantCredit should try and arrange an affordable payment plan with Mr B 
bearing in mind its obligation to treat Mr B sympathetically and fairly if he still 
needs further time to pay
   whilst its fair that Mr Bs credit file is an accurate reflection of his financial history, 
its unfair that he should be disadvantaged by any adverse information recorded 
about a loan that was unfairly provided. So AvantCredit should remove any 
negative information recorded on Mr Bs credit file regarding the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires AvantCredit to deduct tax from this interest. AvantCredit 
should give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct AvantCredit of UK, LLC to take the steps I've set out 
above to put things right for Mr B.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman