DRN-3353875
The complaint
Mr I has complained that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) has charged him 
excessive amounts for his overdraft. He also says that he wasnt informed when the 
charging structure of the overdraft changed. And so, this didnt leave him with enough time 
to make alternative arrangements. 
What happened
Mr I complained to Halifax. Halifax didnt uphold the complaint, it said it had applied the 
overdraft charges correctly. As Mr I was dissatisfied he referred the complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman.
Mr Is complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that we shouldnt 
look at Halifaxs commercial decision to alter its overdraft rates. She also thought that it had 
given Mr I enough notice about the changes to these and he hadnt experienced financial 
difficulty because of the charges. 
Mr I didnt agree. He said that as he was using his overdraft it was clear that he was in 
financial hardship. So, he thinks that Halifax has acted unfairly when he was vulnerable and 
charged him excessive fees. 
As Mr I doesnt agree the case has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to issue a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Halifax has made a commercial decision to change the charges it applied to Mr Is overdraft. 
We look at the individual circumstances of individual complaints here and its not appropriate 
for me to fully consider decisions that affect all of a group of consumers. I wont do that here. 
I will say that the terms and conditions of the bank account allow Halifax to alter the charges 
on an account. So, its not acting wrongly when it did this on Mr Is account. 
Mr I says that he didnt receive enough notice about the changes to the overdraft charges. 
Halifax sent Mr I a letter in January 2020 that outlines the changes that would take affect in 
April 2020. I think this was enough time for Mr I to decide if wanted to continue to pay these 
charges or look elsewhere. I dont think Halifax provided Mr I with too little notice about the 
changes to his overdraft. 
Mr I has said that he was in financial difficulty and so Halifax shouldnt have kept applying 
overdraft charges. Ive looked to see if it was clear that this was the case. 
Ive seen Mr Is bank statements between 2015 and when the adjudicator looked at the 
complaint recently. I can see that at times he was overdrawn. But, I dont think its 
reasonable to say this was consistent and the overdraft was usually paid off after a short 
time. Mr Is account looked to be in credit for much of the period that Ive seen. And there are 
no other obvious signs of difficulty. I dont think its fair to say that because Mr I used his 
overdraft at times that it follows that he was having sustained financial problems. 
So, I dont think that Halifax should have acted differently due to how Mr I was using his 
account. And it follows that I dont think the overdraft charges were excessive or caused Mr I 
financial difficulty. 
Taking all of the above into consideration Im not upholding Mr Is complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Is complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman