DRN-1115915
 
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy with the success fee charged by The Protection Specialist Limited 
(Protection Specialist) following a successful payment protection insurance (PPI) claim.
What happened
Mr J instructed Protection Specialist to act on his behalf in pursuing a claim for mis-sold PPI 
against Lender N in December 2017. Mr J provided proof of PPI sold with account ending 
7606. The terms and conditions explained Protection Specialist would charge a success fee 
of 30% of any financial award, inclusive of VAT. It was also explained that for any 
cancellation outside of the 14 day cooling off period, Protection Specialist would charge a 
reasonable fee to reflect the work [theyd] done.
In March 2018 Protection Specialist sent Mr Js claim to Lender N. At the same time Mr J 
gave permission for his daughter, Mrs M, to deal with the claim. 
In August Protection Specialist received confirmation from Lender N that the account 
complained of didnt have PPI. Mrs M wasnt happy, as shed given Protection Specialist 
proof of PPI for the same account. It was also recorded advised she would like a 
conformation letter confirming there is no PPI on this account and that all claims for this lead 
have now finished have emailed PPICP to issue letter. 
On the same day, the claim was re-opened on the system and Mr J was informed that as 
there was proof of PPI, Protection Specialist could continue with the claim. Mrs M took over 
the call and it was recorded didnt let me get a word in. all she wanted was the claim closed 
a letter to confirm this and a letter to confirm her dad wont be charged explaining I can 
give a solid yes or no to our fees. Mrs M requested she speak to a supervisor, and it was 
recorded she is extremely unhappy as her father has had to go to the doctors for stress and 
anxiety for this she advised she wants this closed her and dad are fed up with this. It was 
also recorded that Mrs M asked for details of the cancellation costs that would be charged, 
but the call handler said this couldnt be confirmed. It was agreed that the call handler would 
call her back once we have a response. 
In December Mrs M was told that the claim was still open with Protection Specialist. Mrs M 
was asked whether Mr J wanted to accept the no PPI response, or continue to chase Lender 
N. It was recorded she does want to stop and not continue to chase, wants to accept the no 
PPI response would like this confirmed in writing as well.
In February 2019 Protection Specialist discussed the claim with the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, and they were told the claim could be sent to it for consideration. Protection 
Specialist contacted Mr J to ask for his consent to do this, and it was recorded happy to go 
to fos. In May, Lender N agreed to award compensation for the PPI sold with account 
ending 7606. Protection Specialist sent their invoice to Mr J for their success fee to be paid. Mrs M complained on behalf of Mr J to Protection Specialist about their success fee saying 
that she thought the contract had been cancelled. She thought it was unfair that Protection 
Specialist had contacted her father when shed explained his vulnerabilities. Mrs M asked 
about paying cancellation costs instead. 
Protection Specialist responded to the complaint saying that Mr J had provided his authority 
in February 2019, and theyd acted fairly in continuing to correspond with him as the account 
holder. Protection Specialist didnt offer any compensation. 
The investigator didnt think Protection Specialist had acted fairly in their handling of the 
claim. The investigator recommended Protection Specialist charge cancellation costs from 
December 2018 when the claim shouldve been treated as cancelled. Protection Specialist 
didnt agree with the investigators findings, and requested decision by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having reviewed the case, I broadly 
agree with the outcome and findings reached by the investigator. Ive focused my comments 
on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific point its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
The investigator found that instead of paying Protection Specialist their success fee, Mr J 
should pay cancellation costs from December 2018, as this is the date Mrs M advised that 
she no longer wanted Protection Specialist to act on the claim. 
I think Mrs M made it clear to Protection Specialist in August 2018 that her father was 
vulnerable, and the stress of dealing with the claim was more than he could handle. She also 
enquired about cancelling Protection Specialists service, as she didnt want them contacting 
her or her father anymore. I think Protection Specialist shouldve treated the calls in August 
as Mrs M terminating the contract with Protection Specialist, and issued their cancellation 
invoice at the time. I cant see that they did this, despite saying theyd come back to Mrs M. 
Instead Protection Specialist contacted Mrs M again in December, where its clear Mrs M 
again expressed her frustrations with Protection Specialist continuing to act on the claim. 
Mrs M was recorded as having permission to deal with the claim in March 2018. In August 
2018 Mrs M also told Protection Specialist of her fathers vulnerabilities. So although I accept 
Mr J had signed the letter of authority, given what Mrs M had told Protection Specialist about 
her father, I dont think it was fair that Protection Specialist contacted Mr J in February 2019 
trying to progress the claim. 
Protection Specialist shouldve treated the conversations with Mrs M in August as instruction 
to cancel the contract. If theyd had done this, Mrs M wouldve paid Protection Specialists 
cancellation costs, and Protection Specialist wouldnt have continued with the claim. 
Protection Specialist have advised that the cancellation costs applicable in August 2018 
wouldve been the same as December 2018 (£216 inclusive of VAT). So although the 
investigator thought December 2018 was a fair time from which the contract should be 
treated as cancelled, my difference in decision doesnt impact on the compensation 
recommended for this claim.
My final decisionFor the reasons explained, I uphold this complaint. 
The Protection Specialist Limited should invoice Mr J cancellation costs totalling £216, 
(inclusive of VAT), and waive the outstanding invoice for their success fee.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2019.
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman