DRN-1955284
 
Complaint
Mrs S complains that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited turned down her property 
insurance claim for an escape of water. 
Mrs S is represented in this complaint by her son, Mr G.
Background
In 2019, Mrs S made a claim for damage to her kitchen, following the discovery of a burst 
pipe behind the sink and washing machine. 
Lloyds turned down the claim. It thought the damage had taken place over a number of 
years, which meant it was excluded under the policy. Unhappy with this, Mrs S brought a 
complaint to this service. 
I issued a provisional decision on 18 June 2020. My provisional findings said:
"As I understand it, the electrics at the property shorted because of water damage. The 
kitchen was then stripped back and the problem was found to be caused by a burst waste 
pipe behind the sink and washing machine. Mrs Ss contractor has explained this caused 
wastewater to leak out of the pipe and collect in the kitchen sub-floor, then make its way 
through into the living room, front room, and hallway.  
Lloyds thought the damage had happened gradually over many years. Mr G says that his 
mother was unaware of the problem and it was reported to Lloyds as soon as she knew of it. 
The policy explains it doesnt cover:
Any Loss or damage caused by:
A gradually operating cause. This is something that happens gradually over a period 
of time, for example corrosion, damp, condensation, decay or decomposition.
 
Lloyds surveyor inspected the kitchen, however the kitchen had already been stripped back 
by Mrs Ss contractor at that time. The surveyors report said:
We enquired as to how the process started and the customer explained that ever since his 
mother has been living at the property (20 years) there has been a bad smell. This has 
progressively got worse until damp/rotten floorboards became more prominent. The floor has 
been lifted and it was noted that all the wastes for the washing machine, sink etc were 
openly discharging inter the void of the suspended floor as the pipe work was not 
connected. 
Lloyds surveyor noted the damage had been significant as six joists had been cut back, the 
concrete base was still wet, and the wall plaster had been hacked to the walls where the base units were. He thought the damage had been happening for years - given the extensive 
damage, and the customers comments about the smell. 
Given that Lloyds surveyor thought the damage had been happening for years, I accept 
that, strictly speaking, the claim would fall under the exclusion. However, in cases such as 
this, we think about whether the consumer was aware, or ought to have been aware, of the 
damage happening. If the consumer couldnt have been aware of the damage, we usually 
said it would be fair for the insurer to accept the claim. 
Lloyds surveyor said Mr G had told him thered been a bad smell at the property for 20 
years. Mr G strongly denies saying this, and questions why anyone would put up with a bad 
smell in their home without having it investigated. He also says his mother has had about 
three washing machines installed since living in the property, and there was no sign of any 
leak on those occasions. 
I think Mr G makes a reasonable point that it would be unusual for someone to put up with a 
bad smell in their home for 20 years without investigating the cause of it. However, I cant be 
sure what Mr G told the surveyor as both parties have different recollections of the 
conversation. I therefore asked Mr G to provide evidence that washing machines had been 
installed in the 20 years before the claim (i.e. between 1999 and 2019). 
Mr G has been able to provide me with evidence that an insurance plan was taken out to 
cover a washing machine in April 2016. Mr G says the washing machine was bought at this 
time.
The evidence Ive seen doesnt confirm when the washing machine was purchased, but I 
understand that particular company will only cover washing machines that are under 10 
years old. Based on this, I can be reasonably sure that the washing machine was purchased 
and installed at some point between 2006 and 2016. 
If the leak had been going on for 20 years before the claim was made, I think it would have 
been discovered when the washing machine was installed (given the leak was behind the 
washing machine). As it wasnt discovered at this time, I think I can assume from this that 
the leak hadnt been happening for 20 years, and therefore Lloyds surveyor misunderstood 
what Mr G told him.
Consequently, I think it unlikely that Mrs S had been (or could have been), aware of the leak 
before it spread throughout the property and shorted the electrics. I therefore intend to 
require Lloyds to deal with the claim."
I invited both parties to provide any further comments they wished to make.
Both parties responded to confirm they accepted my provisional decision. 
My findings
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
However, as both parties have confirmed they accept my provisional decision, I see no 
reason to change my findings. I therefore remain satisfied Lloyds should deal with the claim, 
and for the same reasons as given in my provisional decision.  
My final decisionMy final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Lloyds Bank General Insurance 
Limited to deal with the claim under the remaining policy terms. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2020.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman