DRN-2177654
The complaint
Mr T complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
The policy was taken out in 1996 in connection with a mortgage. It provided cover for Mr T if 
he couldnt work because of accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr T didnt agree with the adjudicators 
conclusions so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ts case.
It seems to me that the relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as those
set out on our website. And the main questions I need to consider are:
- If Halifax gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it
recommended was suitable for Mr Ts needs?
- Did Halifax give Mr T the information he needed to decide whether to take out
the policy?
If there was a problem with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider whether
Mr T is worse off as a result. That is, would he have done something different 
such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
Ive decided not to uphold the complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr T suggests Halifax presented the PPI as part of the overall mortgage package, and that 
he wasnt given a proper choice about buying it. Ive noted everything Mr T has said.
The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between Mr T and
Halifax when the policy was sold. Im also mindful that these events happened many years
ago, and that exact recollections of what happened can fade over time.
Mr T says the mortgage application was filled in on his behalf by a Halifax adviser, and he 
simply signed where he was told to. But Ive noted that the PPI section of Mr Ts mortgage 
application said:
Do you wish to join the Scheme (Y/N). If Yes please complete the appropriate application 
form.
So it seems Mr T had to complete a separate application form for the PPI, and that he 
couldve opted not to take the cover. And Ive seen nothing in the mortgage application to 
suggest that buying the PPI was a condition of getting the mortgage.
Without anything else to support what Mr T has told me, I dont think I can fairly
and reasonably say that Halifax didnt make him aware that the PPI was optional.
Halifax has accepted that it advised Mr T to take out the policy and it doesnt look like it
was unsuitable for him based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. I say this
because:
- Mr T was eligible for the policy given his circumstances and the PPI terms and
conditions.
- Mr T says he was entitled to employer benefits if he couldnt work due to
sickness or accident, and that he had some savings. 
But the policy wouldve paid out in addition to Mr Ts employer benefits. Having the 
policy in place wouldve meant Mr T could use his employer benefits and savings to 
pay for other expenses. So I still think the policy wouldve been useful to him, despite 
his existing arrangements. 
-Mr T wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits,
such as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical
conditions. As he could have benefited from the full extent of the cover I think it 
unlikely he needed better advice or information about the policys exclusions and 
limitations.
-I cant be sure that the PPI cost was made clear to Mr T before he agreed to buy
it. But he took out the cover knowing he would have to pay something for it. The 
policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr T
would have made a different decision if better information about the cost had been
provided.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr T about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should
have been. But as Ive already said, Mr T wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or
limitations and the policy had a reasonable benefit. So I think it unlikely Mr T would have
made a different decision if better information had been provided  overall, I think he would 
still have taken out the policy.
Mr T has mentioned that hes had PPI refunds for other policies he took out when his 
circumstances were similar. But PPI policies and the products they were sold in connection 
with can vary. We assess each sale according to its own circumstances to decide whether a 
policy was mis-sold. Having taken that approach in this case, and for the reasons Ive 
explained, Im not persuaded that the PPI was mis-sold. My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2020.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman