DRN-3251623
The complaint
Mr T complains about his insurer, Royal & Sun Alliance Limited (RSA) being unable to 
provide him with information about repair work carried out to his property following a fire at 
an adjoining property.
In making his complaint to this service, Mr T was supported by a representative. References 
to Mr T include his representative.
What happened
In 2011 there was a fire in the property adjoining Mr Ts semi-detached property. As a result, 
the adjoining property was demolished, leaving Mr Ts property detached. There was also 
significant damage, including structural damage, to Mr Ts property. Mr T made a claim for 
the damage under his home insurance policy and the repairs were completed in 2012.
In 2021 Mr T decided to sell his property and as part of this process he wanted evidence of 
the repair work carried out, given it was structural. This was needed by prospective buyers of 
his property to meet the requirements of potential lenders providing a mortgage on the 
property. Mr T said that didnt receive any documentation at the time regarding the work 
carried out, so he contacted RSA to ask for any documentation they had about the work.
Mr T was initially told by RSA that they couldnt find details of the claim hed made in 2012, 
but that it was possible that the information had been archived as RSAs policy was to keep 
records for ten years. But RSA said that once they had been archived it wasnt possible to 
retrieve individual records from the archives.
Unhappy at RSA not being able to provide the documentation requested, Mr T complained to 
RSA. But they didnt uphold his complaint. In their final response they said that, having 
reviewed his case, theyd considered it against their Privacy Policy. This set out how RSA 
used customer data, including its retention. RSA referred specifically to part of the policy that 
stated that they would (in general) retain personal information for a period of seven years 
(from the closure or settlement of a claim). As there were no factors that would have led 
RSA to keep the claim information in Mr Ts case for a longer period, they concluded that 
they werent at fault for not being abler to supply the information to Mr T.
Mr T then complained to this service, unhappy at how his request had been handled by RSA 
and that they couldnt provide him with the information hed asked for.  
 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding that RSA didnt need to take any 
action. She noted RSAs Privacy Policy referred to (in general) retention of personal 
information for a period of seven years from the closure or settlement of a claim. She also 
said that RSA had provided evidence that they didnt have information on Mr Ts claim on 
their internal database. The investigator also thought it wasnt unreasonable for RSA not to 
be able to provide the information, as they no longer had the information and they werent 
under any obligation to keep it longer than necessary.
Mr T disagreed with the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review the 
complaint. He said that hed continued his relationship with RSA (he was still insured by 
them) so there was no reason for the information about the repairs under his claim to be 
missing, and RSA should have the information. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id first want to acknowledge what Mr T has told us about the position hes in trying to sell his 
property and the difficulty not having information on the [structural] repairs carried out in 
2012. I recognise that the requirements of lenders would present difficulties to prospective 
purchasers looking to take out a mortgage on the property. I also recognise the other issues 
that Mr T (through his estate agent) has told us about when bringing his complaint. But my 
role here is to decide whether RSA has acted fairly towards Mr T, specifically in respect to 
the information about the repairs carried out in 2012. 
The central issue in Mr Ts complaint is that RSA havent provided him with the information 
he requested about the work carried out to repair his property under a claim following the fire 
at the adjoining property in 2011. RSA say that they cant provide the information as their 
policy is only to retain information for a period [of seven years] following the closure or 
settlement of a claim.
Ive considered what RSA have said, in the context of their policy on personal information 
(which would include the information on the repair work carried out under the claim made in 
2012). The key part of the policy states:
We will retain your personal information for as long as we have a relationship with 
you. Once our relationship has ended (for example, your policy has expired, your 
application is declined or you do not go ahead with a quotation) we will only retain 
your personal data for as long as is necessary to satisfy any legal, accounting or 
reporting obligations or as necessary to resolve disputes.
In general, we will retain your personal information for a period of 7 years from the 
date of cancellation of your contract of insurance or the closure/settlement of your 
claim.
There may be some reasons why we need to retain your personal information for 
longer periods, for example in the case of employers liability insurance and 
subsidence matters.
Ive thought about this carefully. I think its reasonable that the policy is for personal data to 
be kept only for as long as necessary, for the reasons set out. I think its also reasonable to 
set a general period (in this case, seven years) for retention. In this case, while Mr T says 
that he has a continuing relationship with RSA (other than a brief period in 2014 when he 
cancelled his policy) the above Privacy Policy is clear that the seven year period would run 
from when the claim was settled in 2012, so information wouldnt have been kept after 2019 
(or thereabouts). Nor have I seen any evidence that the information would have been kept 
for a longer period for one of the reasons mentioned above.
Ive also looked at the policy booklet in place at the time Mr T made his claim. It doesnt refer 
specifically to any retention periods for information (including personal information) other 
than to say that RSA will hold personal data securely and in accordance with the Data 
Protection Act 1998 (the relevant legislation at the time).Ive also seen the evidence from RSA showing that no claims information recorded either on 
their internal databases or on the Claims Underwriting Exchange (CUE) database in respect 
of Mr T and his property (the CUE database is the insurance industry record of claims 
made). This supports the conclusion that RSA dont hold the information requested by Mr T.
Ive also considered the points made by Mr T about the other issues affecting his ability to 
sell his property, particularly to a purchaser that would need to take out a mortgage on the 
property. However, these issues arent due to the lack of information about the repairs 
carried out in 2012, theyre about the condition of the property now. 
Taking all these points together, I dont think RSA have acted unfairly or unreasonably in not 
providing the information requested by Mr T (or not retaining the information to be able to 
provide it to Mr T).
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision not to uphold Mr Ts complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman