DRN-3764795
The complaint
Mr J complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard waited too long to
terminate his credit card account.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
Mr J had a credit card with Barclaycard. No payments were made between May and 
September 2015 and Mr Js account fell into arrears. On 1 October 2015 Mr J made a 
payment of £50.
On 30 October 2015 Mr J agreed a payment arrangement of £76 for four months. Mr J 
also made a payment of £50. Barclaycard sent Mr J a letter confirming the arrangement 
and said the first payment of £76 was due on 7 November 2015.
Mr J made payments of £76 on 7 November 2015, 7 December 2015, 7 January 2016 and 8
February 2016 (7 February 2016 was a Sunday).
Mr J made the contractual monthly payment in March 2016. No payments were made 
between April and August 2016 but Mr J made a payment of £100 on 23 September 2016 
but that didnt clear the full arrears balance. Mr J paid £20 in October 2016, against a 
requested payment of around £42, and missed November 2016.
From this point, Mr J made sporadic payments to the account until it was ultimately closed 
by Barclaycard in October 2017. A default was recorded on Mr Js credit file at this time.
Last year, Mr J complained that Barclaycard had waited too long to close his account and 
record a default on his credit file. Barclaycard issued a final response but didnt agree.
Barclaycard said it had followed its standard process and waited until Mr Js account had 
missed at least six billing cycles before closing it and recording a default. And that only came 
about in late 2017, despite earlier arrears.
An investigator at this service thought Barclaycard had dealt with Mr Js complaint fairly 
and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr J asked to appeal and has sent in detailed 
responses setting out why he feels Barclaycard waited too long. Mr J says his account 
wasnt being maintained in line with Barclaycards terms and conditions so it shouldve 
taken the step of closing it much sooner. Mr J also said his account balance significantly 
exceeded the credit limit for several months which ought to have caused Barclaycard to 
act sooner. As Mr J has asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive been reasonably brief in setting out the background above as all parties broadly agree 
about the overall timeline. I want to assure Mr J in particular that Ive read and considered 
everything hes sent in support of his case. Having considered everything, I agree with Mr J 
that Barclaycard waited too long to close his credit card and record the default. But Ive 
reached a different view of when Barclaycard shouldve taken that step.
Mr J missed five consecutive payments in 2015. He made a £50 payment on 30 October 
2015 and also agreed a payment arrangement with Barclaycard. The arrangement was 
that Mr J would make four consecutive payments of £76. Mr Js told us his first payment 
due under the arrangement was missed as it was for £50, not £76. But Barclaycards letter 
dated 30 October 2015 confirmed the arrangement began on 7 November 2015 and a 
payment was received on that date.
The other three payments due under the payment arrangement were made on time. I note 
Mr Js view, but Im satisfied he did comply with the arrangement agreed with Barclaycard.
With that being said, my view is that Barclaycard missed earlier chances to review Mr Js 
account history and take action. The Information Commissioners Office issues industry 
guidance setting out how lenders should treat customers experiencing financial difficulties. 
It gives broad guidelines concerning when its reasonable to record a payment 
arrangement or terminate an account on someones credit file. The guidance says a 
business can consider closing an account and recording a default when it falls between 
three and six months behind. It also says businesses can agree a payment arrangement 
with a borrower to stop an account terminating and default being recorded.
Barclaycards explained its standard process is to wait for six consecutive payments to be 
missed before it closes a credit card and records a default. But in the circumstances of Mr 
Js case, that led to various separate periods of sustained arrears of up to five months. Mr J 
agreed a payment arrangement to stop the account closing in October 2015. And, as noted 
above, Im satisfied he met the terms of that arrangement. So I dont agree it wouldve been 
fair for Barclaycard to have closed his account in November 2015. But I do think 
Barclaycard shouldve reviewed Mr Js account in a different way when it quickly fell into 
arrears again. In my view, relying on the standard approach of reaching six missed 
payments before closing a credit card wasnt right for Mr Js circumstances.
Mr J made one contractual monthly payment, in March 2016, before five consecutive 
payments were missed. Mr J made a payment of £100 at the end of September 2016 
which meant Barclaycard didnt take the step of closing his account. But in October 2016 
Mr J was only able to pay £20 against a payment due of £42. Further arrears followed.
Mr Js described the payments he made in 2016 and 2017 as token and I think thats fair. 
Whilst some months he made payments in excess of the minimum, they arent regular and 
others were missed entirely. In my view, this showed Mr J was unable to maintain the
minimum payment in a sustainable way.
I also think its fair to note that interest and charges continued to be applied to Mr Js account 
during a period of, what I think, was clear financial difficulties. Had the account been closed 
sooner, it wouldve reduced the amount Mr J was charged.
Based on everything Ive seen, I intend to uphold Mr Js complaint and direct Barclaycard 
to backdate Mr Js default to August 2016. In my view, thats the point it should reasonably 
have been aware Mr J was unable to sustainably maintain repayments. I also intend to tell
Barclaycard to refund all interest and charges applied to the debt from that date.Both Mr J and Barclaycard confirmed it was willing to accept the provisional decision. 
Barclaycard said it had already refunded interest, fees and charges to Mr Js credit card as 
part of a separate remediation exercise and confirmed it would check whether further 
refunds are due. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties confirmed theyre willing to accept, Im going to proceed in line with my 
provisional decision. 
Putting things right
To resolve Mr Js complaint, Barclaycard should: 
- Refund all interest, fees and charges applied from August 2016 onwards (if it hasnt 
done so already)
- Amend the default date to August 2016 on Mr Js credit file
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Js complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to settle in 
line with the above guidance. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman