DRN-3835503
The complaint
Miss H complains that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund money she lost through what she now 
believes was a scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator for these reasons: 
The starting point in law is that Miss H is responsible for payments shes made 
herself. And, when making a payment of this nature, there is generally no protection 
against the nonreceipt of goods or services. 
Monzo has committed to the standards of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code. That means it might be expected to refund 
Miss H if she fell victim to an authorised push payment scam. But the Code doesnt 
apply to private civil disputes.
To decide whether this was a civil dispute, Ive considered whether on balance the 
business Miss H was dealing with, who Ill call A, had the intent to defraud her at the 
time she made the payment.  
Ive noted that when Miss H made the payment, A was a limited company, registered 
with Companies House, which had its own premises and staff for some time. A also 
had reviews online suggesting that it was delivering on some orders, rather than 
taking all its customers money without doing anything in return. All of this suggests A 
was operating with the intention to trade as a legitimate business.
It seems Miss H thinks A changed tack when it fell into financial trouble, and Ive 
considered her concerns with how the business was run  for example, that the 
money was paid into the directors personal bank account. And of course, theres the 
obvious fact that Miss H didnt get what she paid for  I realise shes concerned that it 
never existed in the first place. But I think its likely this couldve all happened as a 
result of As financial trouble, as opposed to a deliberate act to deceive Miss H. And 
while it might have used inadequate or even unscrupulous practices, thats not the 
same as an intention to defraud Miss H when she paid. 
I know this will be hugely disappointing for Miss H, who I understand has lost more 
than just money here. But having considered the circumstances carefully, I dont 
think Monzo acted unreasonably in saying this was a civil dispute and, therefore, that 
Miss H isnt entitled to a refund under the Code. It follows that Im not persuaded 
Monzo is liable for her loss. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Miss Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman