DRN-4140169
The complaint
Mr B complains about the advice Penvest Limited gave to him to transfer the benefits from 
his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme, the British Steel Pension Scheme 
(BSPS) to a personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this 
has caused a financial loss.
Mr Bs wife, Mrs B, has helped him to bring this complaint. But, for ease of reading, I will 
refer to Mrs Bs comments as being Mr Bs.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Bs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a 
new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). The PPF acts as a lifeboat for insolvent DB pension 
schemes, paying compensation to members of eligible schemes for their lifetime. The 
compensation levels are, generally, around 90% of the level of the original schemes benefits 
for deferred pensions. But the PPFs rules and benefits may differ from the original scheme. 
Alternatively, members of the BSPS were informed they could transfer their benefits to a 
private pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement included that, if risk-related 
qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme 
sponsored by Mr Bs employer would be set up  the BSPS2. The RAA was signed and 
confirmed in August 2017 and the agreed steps were carried out shortly after.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a time to choose letter which gave them 
the options to either stay in the BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the BSPS2 or 
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. Mr B opted to join the BSPS2.
In December 2017, the BSPS provided Mr B with an updated summary of the transfer value 
of his scheme benefits, following the RAA taking effect. These benefits had a cash 
equivalent transfer value (CETV) of £172,798.
Mr B approached Penvest for advice about his pension. Penvest carried out a fact-find with 
him to establish his circumstances and objectives. Amongst other things it noted that Mr and 
Mrs B were both aged 55. They were both working and had no dependents. They owned 
their own home, subject to a small mortgage which would be paid off within a year. They 
also owned another property which generated a rental income of £650 a month. They had 
cash savings worth around £20,000. Mr B had investment ISAs worth £64,772, Mrs B had 
investment ISAs valued at £42,680 and shares valued at £11,200. Mrs B had her own DB 
pension which would be payable from age 60. Mr B also had another DB pension. He had 
also joined his employers recently set up defined contribution (DC) pension scheme. 
Together Mr B and his employer were contributing a sum equivalent to 16% of his salary to 
that. By November 2017 that fund had a value of around £4,715.
In January 2018 Penvest obtained a transfer value analysis (TVAS) report, which set out 
the growth rates required from an alternative personal arrangement (the critical yields) to 
match the DB scheme benefits. 
In February 2018 Penvest gave Mr B its suitability report setting out its analysis and 
recommendations. It recommended that Mr B should transfer his BSPS benefits to a named 
personal pension. Briefly it said that doing so would allow Mr B to access his benefits flexibly 
and to leave any residual pension to beneficiaries on his death.
Mr B accepted Penvests recommendation and transferred his BSPS funds to the named 
personal pension.
In 2022 Mr B complained to Penvest that its advice might not have been suitable for him. It 
didnt uphold his complaint. In summary it said: Mr B wouldn't be reliant on the BSPS income 
in retirement; transferring allowed him to achieve his objectives; it had made him fully aware 
of the risks of doing so; Mr B was comfortable to take those risks and to give up the 
guarantees of the BSPS DB scheme. 
Mr B brought his complaint to us. One of our Investigators looked into it. He didnt think a 
transfer was in Mr Bs best interests. So, the Investigator recommended Penvest should 
establish if Mr B had suffered a financial loss as a result of its advice and if so pay 
compensation. The Investigator also said Penvest should pay Mr B £200 to address the 
impact of making an irrevocable transfer.
Penvest didnt agree with our Investigators complaint assessment. In brief it said:
It had followed the regulators guidance and begun the advice process with the 
assumption that a transfer wouldn't be suitable. But there was enough evidence to 
recommend it.
Mr and Mrs B were financially sophisticated; they were aware of the available options 
and well placed to understand the risks.
Penvest fully considered the high critical yields. But there was still good reason to 
recommend a transfer. 
If Mr B took his BSPS benefits at age 65 they would be well above his income needs 
and Mr B was keen to access those flexibly at age 60 by drawdown.
Mr B could have supported his lifestyle at age 60 by other means but that wasnt in 
line with his objectives. He couldnt have had the same death benefits. 
As our Investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion the complaint was referred for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Penvest's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Penvest 
should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in 
Mr Bs best interests.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for broadly similar reasons to those our investigator gave.
Reasons for my decision
The TVAS report that the regulator required Penvest to carry out showed that the critical 
yield  how much Mr Bs pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide 
the same benefits as his DB scheme  was 15.2% for Mr B taking his benefits at age 60 or 
9.1% at age 65. The critical yield at age 65 would reduce to 7.4% if Mr B took a tax free cash 
(TFC) lump sum and a reduced pension. I think the prospect of a personal pension 
achieving those critical yields to be slim. 
Penvest said the critical yield at age 65 could be met by investing in a medium to long-term 
strategy. But, one of the reasons for Penvests recommendations to transfer was that it 
would allow Mr B to access those benefits flexibility from age 60. That was less than five 
years away. A period Penvest itself described to us as very short. So, by following 
Penvests recommendations, while Mr B would leave some of his funds invested for a longer 
period, he would start to access those, and reduce the funds left to grow, in the short term. 
That strategy would most likely mean the critical yields were improbable to achieve. 
Further Ive kept in mind that the regulator's projection rates had remained unchanged since 
2014: the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 
5%, and the lower projection rate 2%. So, if Mr B didnt take TFC then his investments would 
have had to repeatedly perform above the regulators upper projection rate just to match the 
benefits from the BSPS2 scheme. Similarly if Mr B did take TFC then the fund would need to 
consistently grow at a rate approaching the regulators upper projection level. And given that 
Penvest had recommended Mr B invest in funds with a balanced or medium risk level, that 
seems extremely unlikely. 
Penvest said Mr B didnt want to buy an annuity. So its implied the critical yield isn't 
particularly relevant to Mr Bs circumstances. It also said that the short term to retirement 
had inflated the critical yields. But the regulator required Penvest to consider the rate of 
investment growth that would have to be achieved to replicate the benefits being given up. So I find the critical yield a reasonable yardstick to explain to Mr B the relative value of the 
benefits he will no longer have by transferring. And, for the reasons I've already given, I don't 
think they were achievable in this case and I don't think it was fair for Penvest to play down 
their significance.
Ive noted Penvest said Mr and Mrs B were financially sophisticated and had a good 
understanding of Mr Bs pension options. But while Mr and Mrs B might have had some 
financial experience, I don't think that put them in a position where they would have ignored 
appropriate expert advice once given, even if that didnt agree with their initial thoughts. 
Further, I think Penvest is overstating Mr and Mrs Bs financial knowledge. When completing 
the fact-find, Mr and Mrs Bs investment experience has been noted as moderate. That is 
the middle option of three choices: limited, moderate, or experienced. So, it doesnt appear 
that Mr B considered himself to be an experienced or sophisticated investor. 
Also, while it was the case that Mrs B was working in a financial advisers office she wasnt a 
qualified financial adviser herself. So, while she might have had more knowledge than 
average, I've seen no evidence she had any relevant experience in advising on pension 
transfers or the complexity of those considerations.
Also, as Penvest will know, advising on a DB transfer is a fairly heavily regulated activity. 
Before financial advisers can give advice on transferring they need to have the relevant 
qualifications. Most financial advisers don't have that qualification or the relevant skills or 
authorisation to advise on pension transfers. So I don't think Mr and Mrs Bs financial 
experience meant they didnt need full and appropriate advice from a qualified adviser. Nor 
did it mean Penvest wasnt required to give advice that was suitable for Mr B and in his best 
interests. 
That said, I accept Penvest did warn Mr B that he could be worse off in retirement by 
transferring and that he would be giving up guarantees by doing so. It said Mr B was 
prepared to accept those risks. But pointing out a risk doesn't make unsuitable advice 
suitable. And, regardless of any financial knowledge Mr and Mrs B had, they had asked 
Penvest to give Mr B the benefit of its expertise. Its role wasnt simply to transact what Mr B 
might have thought he wanted. So even if Mr B said he understood and would accept a risk 
of lower income doesn't mean it was in his best interests for Penvest to recommend he take 
that risk.
Penvest also said the reasons for its recommendations were not to meet or exceed the 
BSPS2 benefits but to achieve Mr Bs other objectives. For example, it said he could benefit 
from flexible access to his pension funds in the early years of his retirement. But I've seen no 
evidence that Mr B had any need to access his BSPS DB funds flexibly in retirement.
Penvests suitability report said Mr B intended to retire at age 60. But he had no need to 
access his BSPS benefits before the schemes normal retirement age of 65. It noted he and 
Mrs B would require an income in retirement from age 60 of £30,564. It said they had 
pension income of £26,800 at age 60. And they also had savings, investments, rental 
income and other assets that would make up any shortfall in income. So, Mr B had no need 
to transfer his BSPS benefits in order to afford to retire at age 60. 
That said, its true to say Mr B couldnt have had the same level of flexible access to his 
BSPS DB funds as he could from a personal pension. If hed wanted to take a TFC lump 
sum, then he would have had to take that at the same time as drawing a regular income 
from his pension. Whereas the personal pension would allow him to draw down funds as he 
saw fit.But while I can see why accessing funds flexibly might have been an attractive prospect for 
him, Im not persuaded that Mr B had any concrete need to vary his income throughout 
retirement. But, if he believed he did there was no requirement for him to give up the 
safeguarded benefits from the BSPS scheme in order to have some flexible access to 
retirement funds.
As I've already said, Mr and Mrs B had savings and investments that would have given them 
liquid access to funds, if they wanted to access cash in a flexible manner. Further Mr B and 
his employer had begun contributing to a recently set up DC pension scheme. And, by the 
time he was 60 Mr B could anticipate that his DC pension pot would be in the region of 
£33,000. 
The nature of a DC pension means this already provided Mr B with flexibility  he wasnt 
committed to take its benefits in a set way. This combined with his savings, investments and 
other pension provision, would have likely given him flexible access to funds if that was what 
he needed. So, he didnt need to transfer from the BSPS scheme to have some flexible 
access to cash and I don't think it was in his best interests to recommend this course of 
action and potentially to put his BSPS benefits at risk by doing so. 
Also, if Mr B had joined the BSPS2 and he later decided he needed greater flexibility than 
the scheme provided, then he could have chosen to transfer from that scheme nearer to his 
retirement age. It wasnt a decision he needed to make straightaway. 
In addition, Penvest said that if Mr B didn't access his BSPS2 benefits until he was 65 then 
any BSPS2 income he received at that stage would be surplus to requirements. That might 
be the case. But I think its rare for people to complain that they have too much income. And 
having income above their target level would simply mean Mr and Mrs B would be better off. 
That is, theyd have more disposable income to enhance their lifestyle with, or even to put 
towards a legacy on death if thats what they wished to do. 
That brings me to Penvests argument that transferring allowed Mr B to leave any residual 
pension to his beneficiaries on his death. So, for example, he could leave it to Mrs B who 
could herself pass any residual sums on after her own death. In contrast the BSPS2 or PPF 
would pay 50% of Mr Bs pension entitlement to Mrs B. However, once she died the pension 
would die with her; she wouldn't be able to pass it on. But I dont think the possibility of more 
attractive death benefits was a sufficient reason to recommend a transfer. 
Penvests priority was to advise Mr B about what was best for his retirement provisions. A 
pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement  not a lump sum after death. 
But in transferring out of his BSPS scheme Mr B was essentially giving up a guaranteed, 
index linked, increasing income in retirement, for the potential for a lump sum for his wife or 
other beneficiaries that they may not receive for many years to come. 
I don't doubt the CETV figure would have appeared an attractive sum to be able to leave as 
a legacy. But, in reality, the amount remaining on death following a transfer was always likely 
to be different. As well as being dependent on investment performance the fund would be 
depleted by Mr Bs withdrawals from it in his lifetime. So, how much would remain in it on his 
death depended on a number of factors. And there may not have been much left in his 
personal pension if he lived a long life, the investments performed poorly, or if he took large 
sums from it early in his retirement. 
It follows that I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer justified the 
likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr B. And ultimately Penvest should not have 
encouraged him to prioritise the potential for alternative death benefits through a personal 
pension over his security in retirement.Penvest also said a transfer achieved Mr Bs objective of avoiding his pension going into the 
PPF. It noted Mr B said he didn't want to join the BSPS2 as he was concerned it might also 
move to the PPF in the future. So it would appear that Mr B was leaning towards a transfer 
when he approached Penvest. 
I can understand Mr Bs concerns about the safety of his pension. His employer had been 
consulting about the future of the scheme and I'm aware that many scheme members were 
concerned that, in time, the BSPS2 itself might also move to the PPF. And that had likely 
motivated Mr B to seek advice. 
But Penvests role was to objectively address any concerns Mr B might have had. Its job 
wasnt to simply transact what he might have thought he wanted to happen. And, even if 
Mr Bs pension had moved to the PPF, it would have still given him a guaranteed index 
linked pension for life at no risk or cost to him. However, by transferring he was not only 
putting his funds at the risks and volatilities of the investment markets but he would also 
have to pay the adviser and product charges associated with the personal pension. Those 
are not charges he would have to pay had his benefits moved to the PPF. And he would be 
unlikely to improve on the PPF benefits by transferring. So, entering the PPF was probably 
not as concerning as Mr B might have thought, and I dont think any fears he held about this 
meant that transferring was in his best interest. But I don't think Penvest did enough to make 
this clear to him.
Overall, I cant see persuasive reasons why it was clearly in Mr Bs best interest to give up 
his BSPS DB benefits and transfer them to a personal pension. Penvest has said that, 
regardless of its advice, Mr B would have gone ahead with the transfer anyway. But, I think 
that if it had taken the time to explain to Mr B why transferring wasnt in his best interests 
and he could achieve his objectives without putting his BSPS2 funds at risk I think hed have 
accepted that advice. He had sought out Penvests expertise; so I don't think hed have 
transferred if Penvest had given advice not to do this. It follows that, Im upholding the 
complaint as I think Penvests advice to Mr B was unsuitable for him.
Also as I think that learning that he'd put some of his pension funds at risk unnecessarily has 
been a source of distress and inconvenience for him, I think Penvest should pay him £200 to 
address that.
For completeness Ill add I'm aware Mr B retired last year and has accessed some funds 
from his personal pension. But I think hes only done that as a result of Penvests advice. 
Prior to Penvest advising him Mr B had said that he had no reason to access his BSPS 
funds prior to age 65. However, hes in a different position now. And, having transferred the 
funds, hes acted on Penvests advice to access his pension benefits flexibly from age 60. I 
don't think hed have accessed his BSPSs benefits if the transfer hadn't gone ahead as he 
had other sources of cash and pensions he could have used instead, as he originally 
planned to do. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Penvest to put Mr B, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr B would most likely 
have remained in the occupational pension scheme and joined the BSPS2 if Penvest had 
given suitable advice. 
Penvest must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
Penvest should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A 
copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr B and the Financial Ombudsman 
Service upon completion of the calculation together with supporting evidence of what 
Penvest based the inputs into the calculator on.
For clarity, although Mr B is retired, I don't think he would have taken his BSPS2 benefits 
early than age 65 if he hadn't transferred. So, compensation should be based on the 
schemes normal retirement, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr B 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Penvest should:
calculate and offer Mr B redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr B before starting the redress calculation that:
- redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in line 
with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest the redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr B receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr B accepts Penvests offer to calculate how much of the redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr B for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of the redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Bs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr B as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, Penvest may 
make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that 
consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss 
could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to 
Mr Bs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional 
deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Also I think Penvest should pay Mr B £200 to address the distress and inconvenience arising 
from Penvests unsuitable advice. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that thebusiness pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Penvest Limited to pay 
Mr B the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
Penvest Limited pays Mr B the balance.
If Mr B accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Penvest Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr B can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr B may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2023.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman