DRN-3454392
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund two payments made from her 
account which she says she didnt make.
What happened
In August 2021, two payments were made out of Mrs Ms account which she says she didnt 
make. Both payments were made to different account details that Mrs M hadnt sent money 
to before. The first was for £525 and the second, made the following day, was for £675.
Barclays investigated but said the payments were both made using a device that was 
registered by logging into Mrs Ms genuine mobile banking account and using a code that 
was sent to her genuine mobile phone. It couldnt see how someone else would have been 
able to access these, so it didnt agree to refund the payments. Mrs M wasnt happy with 
Barclays response, so referred her complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint and said they didnt think there was 
evidence to show the device was added without Mrs Ms knowledge. They also said the 
payments were made a month after the device was registered, which would be unusual for 
unknown fraudsters. So they didnt think Barclays should have to refund the payments. 
Mrs M didnt agree with our investigator, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Generally a business can hold a consumer liable for disputed transactions on their account if 
the evidence suggests its more likely than not that they made them themselves or told 
someone else they could make them.
Barclays has sent us technical evidence showing how the payments were made. And from 
this, Im satisfied the payments were all made using Mrs Ms genuine mobile banking details. 
But this, on its own, isnt enough to allow Barclays to hold Mrs M responsible. So I also need 
to think about whether the evidence suggests its more likely than not that Mrs M consented 
to the payments.
Ive thought very carefully about this and I think its a finely balanced matter in this case. But 
where the evidence available is unclear or inconclusive, I must make my decision on what I 
think is likely to have happened, based on the evidence I do have.
Mrs M has said she doesnt know the two people the payments were sent to, she hasnt 
given out any of her security information and no-one else has access to her phone. But, if 
this is the case, I cant see how someone other than her would have been able to log-in to 
her online banking in order to register the new device and then make the payments.
Barclays evidence shows both payments were made using a device that was registered to 
Mrs Ms mobile banking in July 2021. Mrs M says she does not have a device matching this 
devices make and model. But Barclays has also shown us that, in order to register a new 
device, someone would have needed to log-in to Mrs Ms mobile banking using a device that 
had already been registered, generate a code and then enter this code on the new device.
So in order for someone else other than Mrs M to have done this, they would have needed 
access to her existing phone and her security details to log-in to her mobile banking. And I 
think its unlikely someone would have had this information and been able to do this without 
Mrs Ms knowledge.
The device the payments were made with was also registered to Mrs Ms mobile banking at 
the same time as another new device, which has logged into Mrs Ms mobile banking on a 
number of occasions since and made several payments out of her account which she hasnt 
disputed. And I think its unlikely someone would have been able to register a new device 
without her knowledge, at the same time that she was registering a new device which 
appears to be genuine.
The nature of these payments is also not the sort of thing an opportunistic thief would 
normally do after gaining access to someones bank account. Generally, the way fraudsters 
operate is to get as much money as quickly as possible in order to avoid the source of the 
money being cut-off or them being detected. But here, the new device was registered to 
Mrs Ms mobile banking for around a month before any payments were attempted with it. So 
I dont think its likely these payments were done by an opportunistic thief.
I appreciate how Mrs M feels about this case, but Im afraid the evidence isnt in her favour. 
And, based on the evidence I have, I think its likely Mrs M either made the transactions 
herself or authorised someone else to do so.
So I dont think Barclays needs to refund the payments to her.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2022. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman