DRN-3209240
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited (Moneybarn) have given her an incorrect 
early settlement quote.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mrs H, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ive no reason to think that the settlement calculation carried out by Moneybarn is incorrect.
Ive looked at the conditional sale agreement. This states at the top that it is regulated by 
The Consumer Credit Act 1974.
The Consumer Credit Act covers several areas of consumer credit including the content and 
form of credit agreements and the procedures relating to default, termination, and early 
settlement. In relation to early settlement the Consumer Credit Act says that settlement 
figures should be calculated using the rules set out in the Consumer Credit (Early 
Settlement) Regulations 2004. Those are the rules that Moneybarn have explained they 
have applied here. 
In cases of early settlement, if the consumer decides to pay off all or part of a credit 
agreement before the end of the term, they do not have to pay the full amount of interest 
stipulated in the agreement. Instead the total amount of interest which would have been 
payable over the term is reduced by a statutory rebate. Whilst I understand that Mrs H had 
hoped to save more by paying off the agreement early I cant say Ive seen any evidence 
that Moneybarn havent applied the calculations in the applicable regulations correctly.  
Im therefore not persuaded there is sufficient evidence that Moneybarn need to take any 
further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman