DRN-2812364
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as C have complained that Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Plc
(RSA) unfairly turned down their business interruption insurance claim after they were forced
to close due to the Covid-19 pandemic.
Mr D, a director of C, has brought the complaint on Cs behalf.
What happened
C hold a business interruption insurance policy with RSA. They claimed on their policy after
they were required to close due to the Governments actions in response to Covid-19.
RSA said that, while the policy covered business interruption as a result of a notifiable
disease at the premises, C had closed as a result of the Government Act in response to the
national pandemic. As C hadnt indicated that there had been a case of Covid-19
at their business premises which caused them to close, RSA turned down their claim.
C were unhappy with RSAs response and brought their complaint to our service. They said
theyd been required to close by the Government due to Covid-19. They believed RSA
should cover their claim as theyd been forced to close through no fault of their own.
Our investigator looked into Cs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He thought
RSA had turned down the claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. He
thought the policy would only cover closure due to Covid-19 if there had been a case at
the premises. And as there hadnt been a case of Covid-19 at the premises, the claim wasnt
covered.
C asked if the Supreme Court judgment on the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) test 
case made a difference to the outcome of their claim.
RSA said it had reconsidered Cs claim following the Supreme Court judgment but, in order
for the claim to be covered, C would need to have had a case of Covid-19 at their business
premises. As C hadnt indicated that there was a case of Covid-19 at their premises, RSA
maintained that it had acted correctly in turning down their claim.
C asked for an ombudsmans decision. They said it was impossible to know whether anyone
at their premises had Covid-19 as many people were asymptomatic. They also felt that they
had done the right thing in closing, as required by the Government, and that RSA wasnt
treating them fairly in refusing to pay their claim.
Before I considered Cs complaint, our investigator asked C if theyd had a case of Covid-19
at their premises, even if they hadnt closed because of it. C said their secretary had recently
received a positive test result for Covid-19 and had recognised the symptoms as being the
same as those shed experienced in March 2020.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 23 April 2021 where I explained why I 
didnt intend to require RSA to pay Cs claim. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact on
Cs business. But I dont intend to uphold their complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see 
if RSA has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy 
when declining Cs claim.
The most relevant part of Cs policy covers loss as a result of:
closure or restrictions placed on the Premises on the advice or with the approval of the
Medical Officer of Health of the Public Authority as a result of a notifiable human disease
manifesting itself at the Premises
For this extension to provide cover, the policy requires the closure or restrictions placed on
the business premises to have been the result of a case of a notifiable human disease
manifesting itself at the premises. Covid-19 is a notifiable disease, so Ive considered the
information I have to decide if I think its most likely there was a case of Covid-19 at Cs
premises.
Widespread testing wasnt available towards the start of the pandemic, and the Government
advised people to avoid using health services if they were displaying symptoms of Covid-19,
save for emergencies. Its therefore rare that a business will be able to produce a positive
test result, or conclusive diagnosis, from that period. And to treat that as a requirement to
demonstrate a case on the premises would, in my view, be unfair.
Its therefore necessary to take a more pragmatic approach, and to consider whether other
evidence can be provided that supports, on the balance of probabilities, that Covid-19
manifested itself at the insured premises prior to closure. As with any insurance claim, the
burden of proof initially rests with the policyholder to demonstrate that its suffered a loss its
policy covers.
When asked by RSA, C didnt identify anyone whod had Covid-19 on their premises.
However, they said that it would be difficult to know as many people were asymptomatic.
I appreciate that many people with Covid-19 were asymptomatic, but the majority
of people at that time clearly didnt have Covid-19. So, I dont think I can say that its likely
someone at Cs premises had Covid-19.
When asked later, C said that their secretary had recently received a positive test result for
Covid-19 and was of the view that shed experienced the same symptoms back in March
2020. C said their secretary had continued to work at that time as she wasnt too unwell
and wasnt aware it could have been Covid-19.
Its unclear why C didnt tell RSA about their secretary thinking shed had Covid-19 sooner,
but it could be because her positive test result was received in between RSA reconsidering
the claim and our investigator asking C for further information. However, I dont think that
matters to the outcome of my decision.
We asked C for any further evidence to support the view that their secretary most likely had
Covid-19 in March 2020. However, none has been provided. I understand this is becausethe secretary didnt realise at the time that her symptoms could be caused by Covid-19. But I
dont think the secretarys testimony alone is enough for me to fairly conclude that there was
most likely a case of Covid-19 at Cs premises.
C also referred to the Supreme Court judgment on the FCAs test case. However, the test
case didnt consider all policies or all terms, and whether a claim should be paid still
depends on the terms contained in the policy.
I appreciate my decision will be disappointing to C, but I dont intend to require RSA to pay
their claim.
RSA didnt respond to my provisional decision. However, C didnt agree. They felt my 
decision was morally wrong and said that they felt cheated by the interpretation of the 
clause. They said theyd provided a truthful account of events and confirmed that the reason 
they hadnt told RSA about their secretary believing she had Covid-19 was because their 
complaint was already with us. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Cs frustration with my provisional decision, but I think that the extension is 
clear that the policy will only provide cover if the closure or restrictions placed on Cs 
business premises are as the result of a notifiable human disease manifesting itself at the 
insured premises.
While I dont doubt that C has provided a truthful account, I havent seen enough to fairly 
conclude its most likely there was a case of Covid-19 manifesting itself at Cs business 
premises. So, I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman