DRN-3949989
The complaint
Mr C, who is represented by a third party, complains that Moneybarn No.1 Limited 
(Moneybarn) irresponsibly granted him a conditional sale agreement he couldnt afford to 
repay. 
What happened
In September 2018, Mr C acquired a  used car financed by a conditional sale agreement 
from Moneybarn. Mr C made an advance payment of £89 and was required to make 
60 monthly repayments of £282.90. The total repayable under the agreement was 
£16,780.10.
Mr C started getting into difficulty with meeting his monthly repayments under the agreement 
from around March 2019. He voluntarily terminated the agreement in May 2020. He is now 
paying the balance still owed by way of a payment plan. 
Mr C says that Moneybarn didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it had, it 
would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Moneybarn didnt agree. It said that it 
carried out a thorough assessment which included requiring proof of income and running 
credit checks. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought Moneybarn didnt act 
unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
Mr C didnt agree and said that Moneybarn ought to have carried out better checks before 
granting him the finance. 
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Moneybarn will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
Whilst Ive seen that Moneybarn obtained proof of Mr Cs income by way of payslip 
information, it didnt ask him about his expenditure. Although it did complete a credit check in 
order to find out more about his level of committed expenditure for other credit as well as his 
payment history for such credit, this wont have shown what his regular living expenses 
were. Without knowing what Mr Cs regular committed expenditure was Moneybarn wouldnt 
have got a reasonable understanding of whether the agreement was affordable or not. It 
therefore didnt complete proportionate checks. 
Moneybarn told us that the credit check it completed showed that Mr C had missed one 
payment for other existing credit. There were no adverse records on his file such as 
defaulted accounts or county court judgments. But I have to keep in mind that Mr C was 
taking on a significant financial commitment over a five year period. So again, I think it 
therefore would have been proportionate for Moneybarn to have got a more thorough 
understanding of Mr Cs financial circumstances before lending.
I cant be certain what Mr C would have told Moneybarn had it asked about his regular 
expenditure. I dont think Moneybarn needed to request bank statements, but in the absence 
of anything else, Ive placed significant weight on the information contained in the bank 
statements Mr C has sent us as an indication of what would most likely have been disclosed. 
Ive reviewed bank statement covering a period of three months leading up to Mr C applying 
for and being granted the finance. These show that Mr C was earning an average monthly 
net income of around £1,200. I agree that the statements appear to show only limited details 
about the extent of Mr Cs monthly day to day and committed expenditure. So there isnt 
enough information for me to conclude that Mr Cs spending may have been at a level such 
that he wouldnt have had enough disposable income to meet the monthly repayment costs 
of the agreement. I did notice that Mr C was making regular use of his overdraft each month, 
before going into credit once he was paid. But given that the level of overdraft use wasnt 
escalating over time, I cant say that Mr Cs financial situation was getting significantly worse 
to the extent that Moneybarn granting him the finance would have been unfair. 
It follows that, taking all the information and evidence Ive seen into account, I dont consider 
there is enough to show that the agreement may have been unaffordable for Mr C. 
For this reason, Im therefore not persuaded that Moneybarn acted unfairly in approving the 
finance. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman