DRN-3499537
The complaint
Mr W complains about the way Aviva Insurance Limited handled a claim he made on a 
group private medical insurance policy.
What happened
Mr W is a member of a group private medical insurance policy. Cover began in March 2018. 
But on 1 November 2020, Mr Ws employer changed insurance provider and Aviva began to 
underwrite Mr Ws policy on a continued moratorium basis. 
In June 2020, Mr W had begun to experience heart palpitations and he was referred for 
tests. The previous insurer had agreed to cover Mr Ws claim. In October 2020, he was 
admitted to hospital as an emergency suffering from palpitations and was diagnosed with 
atrial fibrillation.
Following the change in insurer, Mr W spoke to Aviva about his claim in November 2020. It 
let him know hed need to restart the claims process and it requested medical evidence to 
support his claim. After assessing Mr Ws medical records, Aviva turned down his claim. 
Thats because it noted that Mr W had suffered from palpitations for a number of years and 
so it concluded that the condition had existed before the initial policy had begun in March 
2018.
Subsequently, Mr W was diagnosed with mitral regurgitation/mitral valve prolapse. So he 
made a further claim on his private medical insurance policy. Aviva assessed further medical 
evidence from Mr Ws GP and declined the second claim too.
Mr W was very upset by Avivas decision and he complained. He began treatment for his 
conditions on the NHS.
Aviva referred Mr Ws claim to its Chief Medical Officer (CMO) for review. The CMO 
concluded that Mr Ws cardiac conditions couldnt be linked to the palpitations hed had 
previously. So Aviva agreed to cover these conditions going forwards; it told Mr W hed be 
entitled to claim cash benefit for any NHS inpatient admissions which wouldve been covered 
by the policy and it offered to pay Mr W compensation of £300 to acknowledge its errors in 
the handling of the claim.
Mr W remained very unhappy with Avivas response. He asked us to look into his complaint. 
He told us thatd he been put to a great deal of time, distress and inconvenience in dealing 
with the claim and that hed suffered bereavements at the same time. All in all, dealing with 
Aviva had caused him a great deal of upset. He felt that compensation of £10,000, together 
with a refund of his policy premiums would be fair redress.
Our investigator agreed that Aviva hadnt handled Mr Ws claim as well as it shouldve done. 
He thought it shouldve asked for more medical information when it first assessed the 
medical evidence in December 2020. And he felt itd turned down Mr Ws second claim 
prematurely too. But he considered that Aviva was entitled to ask for evidence to support Mr 
Ws claim. And he explained that were not able to punish financial businesses for making 
mistakes. So overall, he considered the £300 compensation Aviva had offered Mr W, 
together with its agreement to cover any further claims for this condition, was a fair response 
to Mr Ws complaint.
Mr W disagreed. He maintained that £300 compensation was well below his expectations. 
He explained that hed suffered distress in trying to get the claims decision overturned; his 
mental health had been impacted; his employment had been affected as a result of chasing 
Aviva which had caused him to lose a pay rise; hed missed time with his family and hed lost 
out on the comfort and aftercare hed have received in a private hospital. He queried how the 
impact this had had on him could be valued at the same amount as two months of policy 
premium.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr W, I think Aviva has resolved his complaint 
fairly and Ill explain why.
First, its clear that Mr W has been through a very worrying and upsetting time. I was very 
sorry to read about the bereavements hes suffered, and I dont doubt how worrying the 
diagnoses he received mustve been. Im also aware that Mr W has undergone surgery and I 
do hope hes now recovering well. However, as our investigator explained, our role isnt to 
punish or fine the financial businesses we cover. Our role is to investigate complaints 
brought by consumers who think that a financial business has done something wrong which 
has caused them to lose out. If we agree with a consumer that a business has made an 
error, we can direct it to put things right and if we feel its appropriate, we can direct a 
business to pay compensation for a consumers distress and inconvenience.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms of Mr Ws policy and the available evidence, to decide whether Aviva handled his 
claim fairly.
It's important I make clear that while I accept it mustve been frustrating when Mr Ws insurer 
changed part way through a claim, I dont think it was unreasonable for Aviva to request 
medical evidence from Mr W before deciding whether to cover his cardiac conditions. Thats 
because its a general principle of insurance that its for a policyholder to provide enough 
evidence to show, on balance, that they have a valid claim on their policy. And Aviva is 
reasonably entitled to assess that evidence to decide whether or not the claim is covered by 
the policy terms.
Ive therefore turned to consider the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of 
Mr Ws contract with Aviva. The policy was taken out on a continued moratorium basis. 
Avivas policy terms set out what this means and say:
We do not cover treatment of any pre-existing condition, or any related conditions, if the 
member had:
 symptoms of
 medication for
 diagnostic tests for treatment for, or
  advice about
that condition in the five years before their initial date of cover. The initial date of cover is the 
date they started cover with your first insurer (provided there has been no break in cover 
since then).
Mr Ws initial policy cover began in March 2018. So when assessing Mr Ws claim, Aviva 
needed to be satisfied that his conditions didnt fall within the moratorium clause. Ive looked 
at the medical evidence Mr Ws GP sent to Aviva in December 2020. A consultant Mr W 
spoke with in June 2020 stated:
He tells me that he has always had palpitations from the age of twenty.
And an inpatient admission discharge summary from October 2020 says that Mr W: Has 
had palpitations intermittently short lived for years.
Based on this evidence, I can understand why Aviva didnt immediately accept Mr Ws claim 
for atrial fibrillation. Thats because the treating doctors had specifically stated that hed 
suffered from palpitations for years. And these palpitations were listed as comments 
adjacent to diagnosis of atrial fibrillation on the discharge summary. So I appreciate why 
Aviva mayve had concerns that this condition existed before cover began in March 2018. 
Like the investigator though, I agree that it mightve been helpful if Aviva had asked for 
further medical information at this point.
After Mr Ws second claim, Aviva requested further information from his GP, which was 
received in late February 2021. This evidence bundle included additional medical information 
from cardiac specialists which doesnt seem to have been included in the December 2020 
evidence. One letter, dated 24 November 2020, from a consultant cardiologist said:
Interestingly he does describe some palpitations going back to his teenage years but they 
were never sustained and I don't think they particularly point us to a diagnosis of an SVT 
leading to AF. (atrial fibrillation)
A second letter, dated 7 December 2020, from another consultant cardiologist said that Mr 
W had been admitted to hospital a couple of months ago due to a new onset atrial 
fibrillation.
At this point, I dont think Aviva acted fairly by maintaining its decision to turn down Mr Ws 
claim. The consultant cardiologists didnt link Mr Ws atrial fibrillation with his prior 
palpitations and indeed, the atrial fibrillation was referred to as new onset. Neither was 
there any clinical indication from the specialists whod seen Mr W that he couldve known 
about the mitral prolapse when cover began or that it was linked to his earlier palpitations. In 
my view then, this was the point at which the atrial fibrillation claim could reasonably have 
been accepted and at the very least, further information about the mitral valve prolapse 
couldve been requested. 
Instead, Aviva didnt let Mr W know that its CMO had decided to overturn the earlier claims 
decisions until July 2021. Importantly here, Aviva acknowledged that itd made a mistake in 
turning down the claims  in essence, that it hadnt handled Mr Ws claims fairly and it had 
turned them down unreasonably. It let Mr W know that hed be covered for both conditions 
going forwards and that hed be entitled to cash benefit if he was admitted into an NHS 
hospital as an inpatient for treatment which wouldve been covered privately. 
When Aviva recognised that it hadnt met its regulatory obligations, it needed to put Mr W, as far as possible, in the position he wouldve been in had it accepted his claim when it 
shouldve done. In my view, this was broadly in late February 2021. As it seems Mr W was 
on the NHS pathway by this point, there were no private medical bills for Aviva to reimburse. 
But it did agree to cover the conditions in the future, and it highlighted the NHS cash benefit 
which was available under the policy. As far as it could then, I think it tried to put Mr W in the 
correct position.
While I can understand why Mr W wanted to stay on the NHS pathway hed begun, it was 
open to him to look into undergoing treatment privately if hed wished to do so. The 
complaint form he sent us says that he was scheduled for surgery in December 2021  
which was around five months after Aviva confirmed cover. So I think he did have a choice 
about whether or not to investigate having private surgery which is likely to have been 
covered by Aviva.
Aviva also offered Mr W £300 compensation to reflect his distress and inconvenience. I do 
understand how strongly Mr W feels that this isnt enough and Ive thought very carefully 
about what I think is fair. As Ive set out above, its clear Mr W had suffered two very 
distressing bereavements and I dont doubt that learning his claims werent covered added 
further upset. I acknowledge too that it did put Mr W to time and trouble in chasing Aviva.
But inevitably, making a medical claim will always cause some degree of inconvenience. 
And I need to bear in mind that Mr Ws health was worrying for him  but I think this would 
always have caused him distress. Ive borne in mind too that it seems that he did have 
access to NHS treatment. And Ive noted that at the outset, his consultant recorded that he 
wasnt keen on having ablation surgery and indeed, that his consultant thought his 
symptoms werent bad enough to warrant it. So I dont think I could fairly find that hed have 
undergone surgery immediately even if Aviva had accepted the claim at the start. 
I also cant reasonably hold Aviva responsible for the conditions of the NHS hospital or the 
aftercare he received there. Mr W can claim for NHS benefit for up to 25 days of inpatient 
admission (in line with the policy terms). This benefit is designed to effectively compensate 
policyholders who undergo inpatient treatment on the NHS which wouldve been covered 
privately. 
Neither do I think I could direct Aviva to compensate Mr W for any consequential losses he 
may have suffered through chasing the claim. I havent seen enough evidence to 
demonstrate that he lost out on a pay rise because he was in contact with Aviva.
Overall, I find that £300 compensation feels fair and reasonable to reflect the errors Aviva 
made in turning down Mr Ws claim between late-February and early July 2021. It seems Mr 
W was already on the NHS pathway at this time and I think this amount is fair to reflect the 
time, trouble and upset which was directly caused by Aviva. So I now direct Aviva to pay Mr 
W £300 if it hasnt already done so.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that Aviva has already made a fair 
offer to resolve Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman