DRN-4492375
The complaint
Miss J has complained that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) will not refund the money she lost as 
the result of a scam. 
What happened
Both parties are familiar with the details of the scam so I will provide only a summary here. 
Miss J noticed on a social media platform that a friend had invested and made substantial 
profits with a company that I will call B. Miss J contacted B and consequently sent funds to a 
crypto exchange the funds were then exchanged into crypto which was sent onto B. Miss Js 
sister also sent Miss J funds to invest with B. Miss J tried to make three transactions on 19 
July 2022 via a crypto currency exchange these were returned. Miss J then made the 
following transactions via a different crypto exchange and the payments were made using a 
debit card.
Transaction number Date Amount Merchant
1 19/07/2022 £500 Moonpay
2 19/07/2022 £60 Moonpay
3 19/07/2022 £1,000 Moonpay
4 19/07/2022 £120 Moonpay
5 19/07/2022 £250 Moonpay
6 20/07/2022 £830 Moonpay
7 20/07/2022 £55 Moonpay
8 20/07/2022 £600 Moonpay
9 21/07/2022 £1,650 Moonpay
10 21/07/2022 £850 Moonpay
11 22/07/2022 £1,070 Moonpay
Miss J tried to withdraw some of her profits. She says she was unable to do so and 
therefore she realised that she had been scammed. Miss J raised a fraud claim with Monzo 
but it rejected her claim. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint in part because he thought that Monzo should have 
intervened at transaction 1 and had it done so the scam would have been stopped. He 
therefore thought that all the transactions after this point should be refunded. The reason he 
concluded  this was because the three failed transactions to a different crypto firm in short 
succession followed by transaction 1 to a different crypto exchange on an account which had 
not had that type of transaction before should have been considered out of character and 
have prompted an intervention from Monzo.
He did though after some back and forth decide that there should be a 50% reduction to the 
refund as Miss J was promised unrealistic returns and had she done some research on B 
then it would have shown scam warnings for companies that shared similar names to B. So, 
he thought that Miss J contributed to her own loss.
Neither party agreed with this outcome and therefore this complaint was passed to me to 
issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that Miss J made and authorised the payments. Miss J knew who she 
was paying, and the reason why. At the stage she was making these payments, she 
believed she was transferring funds to invest in crypto. I dont dispute Miss J was scammed 
and she wasnt making payments for the reason she thought she was, but I remain satisfied 
the transactions were authorised.
Its also accepted that Monzo has an obligation to follow Miss Js instructions. So, in the first 
instance Miss J is presumed liable for her loss. But there are other factors that must be 
considered.
To reach my decision I have taken into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, 
relevant codes of practice and what was good industry practice at the time. To note, as the 
payments were debit card payments the principles of the Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM) code do not apply in this case.
This means I think that Monzo should have:
been monitoring accounts and payments made or received to counter various risks, 
including fraud and scams, money laundering, and the financing of terrorism.
had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might 
indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which financial institutions are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer.in some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, taken additional 
steps or made additional checks before processing a payment, or in some cases 
declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect its customers from the 
possibility of financial harm.
I think Monzo should be liable for payments 1 onwards. Ill explain why below.
I think Monzo ought to have carried out further checks and spoken to Miss J before 
processing this transaction. It was a larger payment than Miss J usually made, was to a new 
payee, it was a payment made to a crypto exchange (Miss J had held her account for a while 
and Monzo should have recognised that Miss J was not in the habit of making payments to a 
crypto exchange) and it was proceeded by a number of declined transactions to a different 
crypto exchange. This combination of factors in this particular case was unusual enough that 
is really should have prompted an intervention from Monzo.
I also appreciate that Miss Js loss didnt materialise directly from her Monzo account in 
these circumstances. But even though she was transferring funds to a crypto account in her 
own name, I still think that Monzo ought to have taken a closer look at payment 1  given the 
significant risk of fraud associated with cryptocurrency investments at the time.
The FCA and Action Fraud published warnings about cryptocurrency scams in mid-2018. 
And by January 2019, cryptocurrency scams continued to increase in frequency. So, by the 
time Miss J started making her investments in July 2022, it is reasonable to say Monzo 
ought to have had a good enough understanding of how crypto scams works  including the 
fact that their customer often moves money to a crypto account in their own name before 
moving it on again to the scammers.
Therefore, Im satisfied that Monzo shouldve had mechanisms in place to detect and 
prevent this type of fraud at the time Miss J was making this payment, and that it should 
have led to it intervening to ask further questions about payment 1.
I would expect Monzo to have intervened and asked Miss J who the payment was for, what it 
was for, and for the  surrounding context of the payment - it could, for example have, asked 
how she had been contacted, whether shed parted with personal details in order to open a 
trading account, whether she was being helped by any third parties e.g. a broker, and how 
she had come across the investment.
I have no reason to believe Miss J wouldnt have been open with Monzo, and I think she 
would have taken its intervention seriously. So, I think Monzo would have quickly learned 
from its conversation with Miss J the basic background to the payment instruction  that she 
was buying cryptocurrency and then sending onto what she thought was a cryptocurrency 
type trading platform which shed decided to pursue after learning about it via a friends post 
on social media
Even though the conversation would have identified the payment was going to Miss Js own 
crypto account (before being sent onto the scammers), the conversation shouldnt have 
stopped there on the basis that the money appeared to be going to somewhere safe and 
within Miss Js control. This is because by this point Monzo was well aware  or ought to 
have been well aware  of how scams like this work  including that the customer often 
moves money onto a crypto account in their own name before moving it on again to 
scammers. So, I think Monzo would have been concerned by what the conversation would most likely 
have revealed and so warned Miss J, explaining the typical characteristics of scams like this. 
Had it done so I think Miss J would have listened and recognised she was at risk. I am 
satisfied she would have had second thoughts if Monzo had intervened effectively. 
It therefore follows I think Miss J would not have gone ahead with payment 1 or the 
payments afterwards.
Ive considered carefully whether Miss J should hold some responsibility for her loss by way 
of contributory negligence. In this instance B had promised Miss J a 1000% return on the 
funds that she invested. This is considerably too good to be true and therefore I dont think 
anyone could reasonably have thought that this was a legitimate company to deal with. I also 
dont think that Miss J did her due diligence prior to investing with B as there are a number 
of reviews and FCA warnings for companies that have a very similar name to B and had 
Miss J searched for information about B I think she would have discovered she was not 
dealing with a legitimate company.
So overall and having considered everything I think that Miss J contributed to her own loss 
and therefore I feel that it would be appropriate to reduce the amount of compensation due 
to Miss J by 50%.
I have thought about whether Monzo could have recovered the funds via a chargeback but in 
this instance as the funds were sent to a crypto account in her own name and were used to 
buy crypto I dont think a chargeback would have been successful as she essentially got 
what she paid for. I also dont think that there was any other way to recover the funds.
Putting things right
Monzo will have to
Refund 50% of the disputed transactions
Add 8% simple interest annually on those sums from the date they were paid to the 
date of settlement less any tax lawfully deductible
My understanding is that of the funds transferred to B £1,165 was from Miss J and the 
remaining was from her sister. As the majority of the disputed transactions had been funded 
by Miss Js sister, has a claim to the relevant funds from the refund. It would be for Miss J 
and her sister to decide how the returned funds are divided between themselves.
Also my understanding is that Miss J I has entered into an IVA agreement. Her IVA 
practitioners have confirmed their interest in any redress due as a result of this complaint. As 
such Miss J should contact the IVA practitioner to discuss what needs to happen with the 
money she receives.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and require Monzo Bank Ltd to pay the redress outlined above
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman