DRN-2901520
The complaint
Miss B complains that BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited (BMWFS) has unfairly 
charged her for excess mileage under a hire purchase agreement. She says the excess 
mileage charge doesnt form part of the hire purchase agreement and non-payment of it 
shouldnt have been recorded on her credit file.
What happened
In March 2016, Miss B acquired a car using a hire purchase agreement from BMWFS. The 
total repayable under the agreement was £24,810.97. Miss B was required to make 47 
monthly payments of £306.98 and there was a final optional payment of £10,170.91 if she 
wished to buy the car at the end of the agreement. 
The agreement set out that Miss B had the right to terminate the agreement at any time 
before the final payment was due. In doing so, BMWFS would be entitled to the return of the 
car and at least half of the total repayable under the agreement. The agreement set out this 
was £12,405.49.
In September 2019, Miss B asked to terminate the agreement. She returned the car, but she 
says that shortly afterwards, BMWFS told her shed need to pay an excess mileage charge 
of £1,198.48 because shed exceeded the mileage allowance by 19,084 miles.
The agreement set out that Miss B had an annual mileage allowance of 8,000 and a total 
mileage allowance of 32,000. It said that if she exceeded this allowance BMWFS could 
charge her 6.28 pence for every mile that she exceeded the allowance by. It said that in the 
event she terminated the agreement early, the mileage allowance would be pro-rated for the 
time the car was on hire.
Miss B doesnt think an excess mileage charge is due. She says my liability is limited to one 
half of the finance payable. Any additional costs, expenses, compensation or otherwise 
relating to a breach of the agreement are irrecoverable. And she says it wasnt right of 
BMWFS to record her non-payment of this sum on her credit file.
BMWFS rejected this complaint. It said the charges for excess mileage were set out in the 
finance agreement Miss B signed in March 2016. And it said that termination of an 
agreement by a customer by way of Voluntary Termination does not affect any liability under 
the agreement which has accrued before the termination. And it said the Agreement clearly 
states that Excess Mileage Charges are sums that become payable under the Agreement 
prior to termination.
BMWFS says mileage limitation is a fair measure of what would constitute reasonable care 
of the vehicle given that it can affect its value upon resale. It said, exceeding the Maximum 
Total Mileage agreed upon commencement of the Agreement, is likely to have caused the 
Vehicle to have decreased in value more than it otherwise might have done had the agreed 
mileage been adhered to and you should therefore have to compensate us accordingly. It 
said it was confident that it hadnt acted incorrectly and that its charge was an accurate 
reflection of the additional mileage incurred.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She was satisfied that BMWFS 
had calculated the excess mileage charge correctly in line with the terms of the hire 
purchase agreement and the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). She also found that the 
terms of the agreement were clear around the possibility of an excess mileage charge being 
payable on voluntary termination.
In summary, she said:
S99 of the CCA sets out the right for a consumer to terminate a hire purchase 
agreement early and S100 sets out what liabilities a consumer has on termination. 
In brief, on termination a consumer is liable to pay at least half of the total price of 
the agreement. Total price is defined by S189 CCA as the total sum payable under 
the hire purchase agreement. It does not include charges for items that are payable 
as compensation for breach of an agreement. This means that any charges for 
breaches of the agreement are in addition to any liability for termination.
S99 sets out that any liabilities that the consumer accrued prior to termination are not 
to be affected by the termination. 
The hire purchase agreement set out that the excess mileage charges will accrue 
immediately prior to termination. The term in Miss Bs agreement was clear that the 
charge accrued before termination and was therefore not affected by the termination. 
The terms of the agreement dont set out that exceeding the mileage allowance is a 
breach of the agreement. The excess mileage charges must therefore be included in 
the total price of the agreement. 
The mileage charge therefore accrued prior to termination and counted towards the 
total price of the agreement. Miss Bs accrued liability under S100 therefore included 
paying an additional amount of £1,198.48.
The credit agreement set out clearly the terms surrounding when excess mileage 
would be charged, when it would accrue and how much it would cost. 
The agreement made it clear that this charge would be payable on voluntary 
termination of the agreement if any pro-rated mileage allowance had been exceeded. 
When considering all the terms of the agreement as a whole, she was satisfied it was 
made clear and not misleading about when an excess mileage charge could be 
applied and for how much. She was therefore satisfied it was fair and reasonable for 
BMWFS to charge the additional amount. 
Miss B disagrees so the complaint comes to me to decide. Miss B says the charge isnt fair 
and given that she had made all the payments under the agreement on time, it wasnt right 
that BMWFS reported a default on her credit file for non-payment of the excess mileage 
charge.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator, and for broadly the 
same reasons.
In paying a deposit and her monthly rentals to BMWFS, the hire purchase agreement 
allowed Miss B use of the car for the duration of the agreement. She also had the option to 
purchase the car outright at the end of the agreement in exchange for the final payment of 
£10,170.91. While Miss B was entitled to use the car, that use was subject to certain 
conditions, such as maintaining and taking care of the car and only driving a maximum mileage each year and overall throughout the lifetime of the agreement. The agreement set 
out what would happen should Miss B not meet those requirements.
Miss B exercised her right to voluntarily terminate the agreement. In some instances, 
voluntary termination allows the hirer to simply hand back the car without having to pay 
anything more. But this is dependent on, amongst other things, how much has been paid to 
the agreement, whether there are arrears to be paid, the condition of the car and whether 
any excess mileage or other charges are due. 
In this case Miss B disputes the excess mileage charge of £1,198.48 that she has been 
asked to pay. 
The CCA sets out the rights consumers have to voluntary terminate their hire purchase 
agreements and the liability that is due on termination. The Termination: Your rights section 
of Miss Bs hire purchase agreement also refers to the liability that is due on termination. 
Various sections of the agreement Miss B had with BMWFS also referred to the liability on 
early termination, including where excess mileage, damage charges or other charges may 
increase the final liability.
Whether or not it is fair for a lender to apply the charge will be unique to every case, as it will 
depend on the terms of the agreement that has been entered into. In other words, what I 
have to decide is, has the agreement been constructed in a way as to allow the charging for 
excess mileage without contravening what is set out in the CCA regarding voluntary 
termination? In Miss Bs specific case, I think it has. Ill explain why. 
As explained by the investigator, S99 sets out that any liabilities which accrue prior to 
termination are not affected by the termination. What this means is that Miss B is liable to 
pay any charges which have built up prior to the termination of the agreement, and that 
these charges are in addition to the other liability for early termination.
The first page of Miss Bs hire purchase agreement has a section headed: Excess Mileage 
Charges for Depreciation. This section sets out the mileage allowance and what charges 
will apply if that mileage is exceeded. It says that if the agreement is terminated early the 
mileage allowance will be pro-rated to the reduced period of hire and that your obligation to 
pay any excess mileage charges will accrue immediately prior to termination. Im satisfied 
Miss Bs agreement is worded clearly in setting out when excess mileage charges accrue. 
The agreement also has a sectioned headed Termination: Your Rights. This section 
contains specific wording which BMWFS was required to include in the agreement, and in 
summary sets out that so long as Miss B has paid at least half the total amount payable 
under the agreement, she will not have to pay any more. Ive thought about whether this 
conflicts with the rest of the terms of the agreement, specifically those that explain charges 
for exceeding the mileage might apply. 
Having read all of the terms of the agreement as a whole, I dont think the agreement is 
either unclear or misleading concerning the charges for excess mileage. I think it explains 
that the excess mileage charge can be applied in addition to other charges for voluntary 
termination. I dont therefore consider that the way this specific agreement has been 
constructed has prejudiced Miss B.  
Im also satisfied that any excess mileage charge that would be applicable under this 
agreement will have accrued prior to termination. It follows that Miss B is liable to pay the 
excess mileage charge and that this is consistent with what is allowed to be charged under 
S99 of the CCA.  Miss B says that BMWFS unfairly reported arrears on her credit file in relation to her 
agreement. However, as Miss B hadnt paid all the sums which fell due when she terminated 
the agreement early, I cant reasonably say that what BMWFS reported was either 
inaccurate, unfair or unreasonable. I understand that Miss B has now paid the charge for 
excess mileage and that BMWFS has updated her credit file.
Overall, Im not persuaded BMWFS has acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss B.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 September 2021.
 
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman