DRN-3430720
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, 
S.A. (Mapfre) declined his travel insurance claim as the cost claimed was recoverable.
Mr B is represented by his mother, Mrs B, on this complaint.  
What happened
Mr B took out a single trip travel insurance policy on 6 March 2020. The policy was 
underwritten by Mapfre. Mr B was due to go on a ski trip and booked his flights and transfers 
separately. His intended travel dates were from 29 March 2020 to 5 April 2020.
On 17 March 2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO  formerly 
the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against all but essential travel as a 
response to Covid-19. 
As there were travel restrictions in place, the trip was cancelled. Mr B received a refund for 
the flights hes booked. The transport provider for the transfer provided a refund in the form 
of a credit voucher for a future booking. The voucher was issued on 16 May 2020 with an 
expiry date until 16 May 2023. The cost of the transfer was 518 euros.
Unhappy with this, Mr B submitted a claim to Mapfre for the cost of the transfer. Mr B says 
he may not be able to use the voucher due to ongoing restrictions and its not guaranteed 
that he will travel again. Mapfre assessed the claim but declined it. It said the cost of the 
transfer was recoverable as a credit voucher thats equal to the cost of the original booking 
had been provided. Mr B was also unhappy with how Mapfre has handled the claim and 
caused delays. 
Mr B brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into it and didnt uphold it. 
He said the cost is shown to be recoverable and Mr B hasnt suffered a financial loss as a 
credit voucher has been offered to him. Our investigator said the terms of the voucher arent 
so restrictive and the time allowed for its use is reasonable. He didnt think that it was unfair 
or unreasonable for Mapfre to decline the claim. 
Mr B disagreed. He asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. So, its been 
passed to me. 
Mr B says we havent explained how he, as a 23-year-ol single person would be able to 
make a booking between January 2023 and March 2023 as no-one so far has been able to 
explain this. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly 
and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
Ive started by looking at the Mr Bs policy terms and conditions as this forms the basis of his 
travel insurance contract with Mapfre. 
Section A, page 17, sets out whats covered under the policy in the event the trip is 
cancelled or cut short. This says:
What you are covered for
If you have to cancel or cut short your trip because of one of the reasons below we 
will pay up to the amount shown in the table of benefits on page 4 for:
Unused travel and accommodation expenses that you have paid or have 
agreed to pay under a contract and which you cannot get back, including any 
local prepaid excursions, tours or activities, if it is necessary and you cannot 
avoid cancelling or cutting short your trip; and 
Reasonable extra travel costs if it is necessary and you cannot avoid cutting 
short your trip..
The section goes on to say that Mapfre will accept the reason for cancelling the trip in the 
event the FCDO advises against all but essential travel. 
The crux of the complaint is that Mr B received a refund from the transport provider in the 
form of a credit voucher. This is therefore a cost that he has been able to get back. Its only 
when the cost is shown to be irrecoverable that the claim would fall into scope. In the 
circumstances here, Mr B has received a credit voucher and therefore hes not incurred a 
financial loss. Under the terms and conditions of his policy, Im not persuaded that Mapfre 
has declined his claim unfairly or unreasonably. 
Ive also considered the terms of the voucher itself. This had a total of three years from the 
original booking date. I don think this is an unreasonable length of time for the trip to be re-
booked. I appreciate that Mr B says he is a young single person and its not guaranteed he 
will be able to use the voucher. However, I dont think the reasons he has given are 
exceptional and I dont think therefore its unreasonable for Mapfre to decline the claim on 
the basis that the cost is recoverable. The terms of the voucher arent so restrictive.
I acknowledge Mr Bs comments that we havent been able to explain how he will be able 
use the voucher. Hes a single person and he now has a three-month window from January 
2023 to March 2023 to make use of this. I appreciate his comments. However, Im afraid 
thats not an answer that we can provide. Our services role is to look at the claim thats been 
assessed by Mapfre and decide whether its been declined in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of Mr Bs policy and whether that has been done fairly and reasonably. So, 
looking at the claim, the cost of the transfer has been shown to be recoverable and therefore 
Mr B hasnt suffered a financial loss. I accept in order to use the voucher he would need to 
make the travel arrangements as he did previously but thats also communication that Mr B 
will need to have with the transport provider and isnt Mapfres responsibility. But in terms of 
whats required under the policy terms and conditions, Im not persuaded that Mapfre has 
declined the claim unfairly or unreasonably. With regard to the service Mapfre provided, I must also bear in mind that Mapfre was dealing 
with an unprecedented situation at the time and Covid-19 has had a significant impact on the 
travel insurance industry given the number of customers whose travel plans were impacted 
by the disruption to travel. So, I dont think its unreasonable that this had some impact on 
their normal levels of service.
Overall, taking everything into account, I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon 
which I could fairly ask Mapfre to accept the claim. It follows that I dont require Mapfre to do 
anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint against Mapfre Asistencia, 
Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2022.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman