DRN-4256285
The complaint
Mrs L complains that when she took out a motor insurance policy with Sainsburys Bank Plc, 
she and her husband didnt receive the double nectar points on their joint Nectar account 
she was offered on all shopping and fuel purchased from Sainsburys stores for 12 months. 
Shes also unhappy about the time taken to resolve this.
What happened
Mrs L took out a motor insurance policy with Sainsburys which started on 26 JNectar of their 
entitlement to double points. And her husband, Mr L, spent a lot of time calling Sainsburys 
and Nectar trying to sort this out. 
Sainsburys have told us that during the initial call to take out the policy Mr L was told if there 
was any issue with the points, and these werent reflected on their account within 60 days of 
the start of the policy, to call them rather than Nectar. Theyve also confirmed that they 
accept their agent wrongly recorded Mr and Mrs Ls nectar card number during the call, so 
this was the reason their double nectar points werent added to their account. 
Mr L says that he checked their joint nectar account on 10 April 2022 and no double points 
had been added. He called Nectar and they were unable to help him and he was told the 
issue would be escalated, and hed have a response in 14 days. He waited three weeks and 
then called again and was told to call Sainsburys. He spoke to them on 9 May 2022 and 
was again told the matter needed to be escalated, and hed receive a response within five 
days.
He didnt receive that response so raised a formal complaint on 13 May 2022. One of the 
complaint points was about the time it took for calls to be answered. Sainsburys replied to 
Mrs L on 7 June 2022. They said wait times could be longer than expected on certain days, 
depending on service levels. And that theyd listened to the call of 5 January 2022. They said 
shed been given the correct information in relation to her nectar points, but their agent 
hadnt recorded their nectar card number correctly. Theyd contacted Nectar whod said 
1811 backdated points would be added to their card. And they offered £25 compensation for 
the upset caused.
Mrs L wasnt happy with Sainsburys response. Mr L replied to them saying it had taken 
them over four months to notify Nectar of their entitlement to double points. He said that in 
response to his complaint Sainsburys initially said that the policy was taken out via a 
comparison website. Which wasnt correct as he called them on 5 January 2022 and the 
entitlement to double points was confirmed during that call. So he felt the matter hadnt been 
fully investigated and a correct response issued. 
And he wasnt happy that they hadnt confirmed the period the backdated 1811 points 
related to. Based on his own calculations he wanted a further 503 points added to their 
nectar card, or a detailed statement breaking down the 1811 points. He also wasnt happy 
with the £25 compensation Sainsburys had offered. He said he spent five hours on the 
matter and was self-employed charging £50 an hour. So he suggested a compromise to 
resolve the matter would be the 503 points hed calculated were missing and £125 in 
compensation.
Sainsburys replied saying theyd issued their final response and if Mrs L wasnt happy, she 
could complain to our service. Which she did. 
Our investigator considered the case and upheld the complaint. She said that even though 
Sainsburys resolved the issue with Nectar and Mr and Mrs L received some of the double 
points they should have received, they didnt provide the breakdown of the points theyd 
requested, or explained why, based on Mr Ls calculation, 503 points were missing. So she 
recommended Sainsburys should provide the statement Mr L had requested and pay a 
further £75 compensation for the time hed spent trying to resolve the matter.
Sainsburys didnt accept our investigators opinion. They said that Nectar is a separate 
company to them. So theyve only been able to provide us with the information theyd been 
provided by Nectar about the eligible points and what points have been paid as part of their 
investigations. Their relationship with Nectar involved them sending a card number to them 
and confirming the account was eligible for the promotion. But they have no access to data 
regarding the customers points and cannot issue statements.
Sainsburys accept that they keyed in the Mr and Mrs Ls card number incorrectly, so they 
didnt tell Nectar that they were eligible for the double point promotion. But they said theyd 
dealt with this promptly and apologised for the error. They understood that Mr and Mrs L said 
theyd lost out on 503 points worth £2.51. But they didnt have any details of Mr Ls 
calculation to check if this was correct. And when theyd contacted Nectar, theyd updated 
the points Mr and Mrs L were due quickly.
In relation to the time Mr L had spent on the phone with Nectar, Sainsburys said there was 
no record of this time, and when he contacted Nectar, he should just have been referred 
back to them, to check why they hadnt received the points from a promotion. So they asked 
our investigator to review her opinion.
The case was then reviewed be another investigator, as the original investigator had left our 
service. She didnt recommend that the complaint was upheld. She accepted that 
Sainsburys had made an error and recorded Mr and Mrs Ls nectar card number incorrectly. 
And this had led to them not receiving their double nectar points. 
But she felt Sainsburys couldnt be held responsible for the time Mr L had spent calling 
Nectar, as when he did, they should have referred him back to them. And once hed been 
told to contact them, they contacted Nectar, the correct card details were provided, and Mr 
and Mrs Ls nectar account was credited with their double points.
So she felt the £25 compensation Mrs L had been offered by Sainsburys was reasonable. 
And she accepted that Sainsburys couldnt provide a statement of Mr and Mrs Ls nectar 
points, as theyre a separate company and this needed to be requested from Nectar. 
Mrs L wasnt happy with our investigators further opinion as she felt Sainsburys should be 
responsible for the actions of Nectar and the time her husband spent trying to contact them.
Since our investigator provided their opinion weve asked Sainsburys to request a statement 
of the Nectar points Mr and Mrs L have been awarded under the double points promotion 
from Nectar. Theyve provided this statement and our investigator sent a copy to Mr and Mrs 
L asking them to confirm if the points the statement showed theyd been awarded were 
correct. Mr L replied saying that it would be too time consuming to review the Nectar points 
awarded over 12 months ago. But he still wanted to pursue a claim for compensation for the 
time hed spent on the matter.The case has now come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It was Mrs L who took out the motor insurance policy linked to the double nectar points 
promotion. So even though the nectar card was in the joint names of her and her husband, 
shes the one whos an eligible complainant and can raise a complaint about Sainsburys.
Sainsburys accept that when Mrs L took out her motor insurance policy with them they 
wrongly recorded the card number for the joint Nectar card she holds with her husband. So 
they didnt initially receive the double nectar points the promotion entitled them to.
Sainsburys have told us that when the policy was taken out Mrs L was told if there was any 
problem with the double points being awarded, she should contact them. But Mr L contacted 
Nectar about the missing points in April 2022, and only spoke to Sainsburys in May 2022. 
Sainsburys and Nectar are separate companies and Sainsburys dont have any access to 
Nectars systems. So once Mr L had spoken to Sainsburys they had to contact Nectar to 
provide the correct card details and confirm the double points offer Mr and Mrs L were 
entitled to.
Mr L has told us that he thinks Sainsburys should be held responsible for the time he spent 
contacting and speaking to Nectar. But as theyre separate companies I cant do this. When 
Mr L called Nectar about the promotion they should have referred him to Sainsburys. It 
doesnt appear that they did this, but I cant say that Sainsburys are responsible for this.
When Mr L did contact Sainsburys they didnt get back to him within the five-day timescale 
he was given. And I think they should have done, or at least have updated him on when he 
was likely to receive a reply. As they didnt he raised a complaint on behalf of his wife and 
Sainsburys responded to this on 7 June 2022 confirming that 1811 Nectar points had been 
added to Mr and Mrs Ls joint Nectar account. They also offered £25 compensation.
Sainsburys couldnt provide the Nectar points statement Mr and Mrs L wanted. But theyve 
now obtained a statement from Nectar of the double points awarded to Mr and Mrs L under 
the promotion. Mr L has told us its too onerous to for him to now check this to confirm if the 
points awarded are correct.
Nectar have advised Sainsburys that theyve correctly backdated the double points that Mr 
and Mrs L were entitled to under the 12-month promotion. Nectar have now provided a full 
statement of the points awarded over this period.
I dont have any evidence that the double points have been awarded incorrectly, or evidence 
that there are further points due to Mr and Mrs L. In the absence of such evidence I think 
Sainsburys resolved the problem within a reasonable timeframe, and I think this would have 
been quicker if Mr and Mrs L had contacted them initially instead of Nectar. And as Ive said I 
cant say Sainsburys are responsible for the actions of Nectar. 
I appreciate that Mr L has spent time speaking to Sainsburys about this matter. But as its 
Mrs L who is the complainant I cant say that he should receive compensation for his time. 
While there were some delays in Sainsburys responding to Mrs L, I think the £25 
compensation they offered for this is reasonable in the circumstances. So I wont be asking 
them to do anything more.My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ls complaint about 
Sainsburys Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2023.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman