DRN-2530415
The complaint
Miss L has complained that Indigo Michael Limited (trading as Safety Net Credit (SNC)) lent
to her irresponsibly. Miss L says she became reliant on SNCs loans and was struggling to
pay her essential bills because of her debts.
What happened
Our adjudicator thought Miss Ls complaint should be upheld. SNC disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision explaining why Miss Ls complaint should be upheld in full. 
A copy of the background to the complaint and my provisional findings follow this and form 
part of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision:
Miss L approached SNC for a SafetyNet facility in September 2017. This was a running
credit account where a consumer could either request funds up to their credit limit, or funds
would be deposited into their bank account once their account balance fell below a safety
net amount of the customers choosing.
Miss L was initially given a facility with a £200 credit limit in September 2017. Her limit was
increased on a further six occasions with her last credit limit approved for £580 in
September 2018. Its not clear from the information provided by SNC if there is still an
outstanding balance on the account and, if so, how much it is.
One of our adjudicators looked at Miss Ls complaint. He thought that SNC were wrong to
grant Miss L her facility as the facility was unaffordable from the outset.
It appears that Miss L agreed with our adjudicators opinion.
SNC disagreed and provided the following information to consider:
The calculations for someones disposable income are made using an algorithm that
works on the basic premise of deducting a persons non-disposable expenditure from
their monthly income.
SNC calculated Miss Ls disposable income to be £751.11per month.
SNC believe Miss L would have been able to afford the repayments.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a final
decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully thought about everything Ive been provided with, Im still intending to
uphold Miss Ls complaint, but I think there were different reasons as to why SNC should
have been aware that Miss L was having financial difficulties.
The adjudicator who investigated Miss Ls complaint believed the facility was unaffordable
from the outset. The adjudicator said Miss L actually had a lower monthly income and a
higher monthly expenditure than the figures SNC relied on when it was assessing the overall
affordability of the facility.
At the time of the loan application, Miss L declared she was employed full time with a
monthly income of £1,400. She declared she was living at home with her parents.
SNC completed a credit check as part of its affordability assessment. The results of the
credit check didnt show any adverse information recorded on Miss Ls credit file. Or any
information that may have prompted it to ask further questions about Miss Ls
circumstances.
In addition to this, SNC had read-only access to her bank statements for the 90 days prior to
the start of the facility on 19 September 2017. After assessing Miss Ls bank statements,
SNC recorded her monthly income as £2,172. SNC has told us this was made up of
£1,549.07 for her salary, £500 in bank transfers, and £122.97 in other income. After SNC
considered Miss Ls outgoings, it recorded her disposable income as £751.11. Which SNC
says was sufficient to be able to afford the repayments Miss L was committed to repaying.
SNC has told us that when checking income, it considers the following;
Any salary received by the customer.
Bank transfers  SNCs algorithm considers both incoming and outgoing transfers
and determines to what extent incoming transfers represent actual income.
Any other regular income which does not fall into other categories, excluding funds
received from gambling, borrowing from other sources of credit, other loans or
returns and refunds which are disregarded in calculating monthly income.
I think the key point here is an income that is regular - an income that could be guaranteed
each month or at least regularly enough for SNC to have confidence that a sum would be
received. Otherwise, if an income is not guaranteed, then, in my view SNC would need to
think carefully about whether it would be reasonable to include all or some of it in the income
calculation.
As Miss L applied for her facility on 19 September 2017, I acknowledge that SNC didnt have
her full bank statements for June and September 2017. It only had the last five days for June
2017 and the first 15 days for September 2017. As this wouldnt have presented the full
picture of Miss Ls circumstances in these two months, Ive particularly focused on the
information it held for July and August 2017  when SNC had access to Miss Ls full bank
statements for both months.
Looking at Miss Ls circumstances in these two months, SNC would have seen that her
monthly salary was around the same amount each month  around £1,113.50 on average.
SNC would have also seen Miss Ls salary for June and September 2017 and that her salary
was broadly similar. I cant see any other regular income which leads me to believe Miss Ls
salary was averaging more than £1,113.50.
It seems that Miss L was transferring money to and from another account ending *62. In the
month of July 2017, she transferred £350 out to this account and an amount of £345 was
credited back. And in August 2017, she transferred out £165 whilst not receiving any fundsback. So, it appears that more money was being transferred to the account ending *62 than
what credited from the account which SNC had access to. This led me to conclude that Miss
L potentially had other expenses elsewhere which could not be seen on her bank
statements. So, I dont think SNC could have reasonably considered this £345 in July 2017
as regular income as it didnt have enough information to suggest this was the case.
In addition to this, Miss L transferred money to and received money from two other bank
accounts which shes told us belong to family members. For one of these accounts, the
amounts debited for July and August 2017 (averaging £70) was around the same amount
credited to Miss L (averaging £67.50). So, I think Miss L was borrowing and repaying money
lent to her by a family member, or possibly the other way round.
With regard to a fourth account which, again, appeared to be a family members account,
Miss L was paying out more than she received back. For example, she transferred out an
average of £70 over the two months whilst receiving back an average of £40. This meant
there was a difference of around £30 for these two months.
This leads me to the last account where money was being transferred to and from. Over the
two-month period, an average amount of £291 was credited to Miss Ls account from this
other account. But I can also see an average amount of £381.50 was debited out to this
account over the course of the two months. This meant Miss L was paying out more than
she received  the difference being around £90.50.
I think SNC should have asked further questions about Miss Ls circumstances in order to
find out what these transfers were for. But simple mathematics demonstrates from the most
superficial look that the credits from these other accounts could not possibly be seen as
regular income. After all, SNC was already aware of Miss Ls regular salary and ultimately,
she was paying more to these other accounts than she was receiving from them.
When we asked Miss L for further information about this account, she explained that she had
another bank account from which she would pay her bills. She confirmed two accounts were
her family members and that she would borrow money and repay it. She also had expenses
for her dogs which she jointly had with a family member. And the last account was her
partners account to which she would pay rent.
I think what Miss L told about the transfers to and from her account seems reasonable
considering she was paying out more money to these accounts than she received back 
and I think SNC should have seen this and quickly concluded these transfers did not
constitute regular income. I also think SNC should have been on notice that Miss L was
needing to borrow money from her family members each month. This is information it would
have seen on her bank statements prior to approving the facility.
This leads me on to consider Miss Ls monthly expenditure for July and September 2017.
For July and August 2017, Ive calculated Miss Ls average monthly expenditure of around
£494 for these two months. I say this because I can see Miss L was paying out £107.11
towards a high cost loan every month and she was using her overdraft which meant she had
overdraft charges averaging £16 a month. In addition to this she made payments of around
£155 for a credit card, mobile phone, TV subscription and a third-party debt purchaser. She
also had food costs of around £165.
So, I think Miss L had a disposable income of around £620 based on the information Ive
seen about her circumstances in July and August 2017. But this amount didnt include any of
the extra payments she was making when she transferred money to and from other
accounts, which in fact represented borrowing that needed to be repaid, along with standard
living expenses, as discussed above.I also find it concerning that Miss L was spending around half of her salary towards online
betting sites. In the two months bank statements Ive reviewed, I can see Miss L could
spend up to 50% of her income of these sites  so around £600 per month. But SNC would
have also seen that these transactions were present on Miss Ls account for June and
September 2017 as well. Whilst she did sometimes receive winnings from these betting
sites, these winnings couldnt be guaranteed and therefore cant be counted towards
income.
I think SNC had enough information to suggest the facility was unaffordable and
unsustainable for Miss L from the outset. There were a significant number of transactions to
online betting sites and Miss L was borrowing money from elsewhere. Miss Ls outgoings
were around the same as her monthly income which would have left her with little or no
money to afford SNCs repayments  even paying the minimum amount of around £20 each
month. So, I think SNC was wrong to approve the facility from the start.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Miss L and SNC didnt raise any new points for me to consider after receiving my 
provisional decision. And it appears that both parties have accepted the findings I reached in 
my provisional decision.
I therefore, see no reason to depart from the findings I made in my provisional decision and I 
still think SNC was wrong to have approved the facility for Miss L. Ive explained what SNC 
needs to do to put things right for Miss L below. 
Putting things right
As Ive explained, its not entirely clear from the information SNC has provided if Miss L has 
an outstanding balance to repay. The below recommendation is based on Miss L having 
repaid her account in full. 
Remove any interest fees and charges applied to Miss Ls facility.
Add 8% interest per year simple on the above interest and charges from the date
they were paid to the date the settlement is made*
Remove any adverse information recorded about the facility from Miss Ls credit file.
If Miss L hasnt repaid her balance in full, then SNC will need to do the following;
Remove any unpaid, interest fees or chages from the oustanding balance.
Re-work Miss Ls account as if all repayments made had gone towards the amount 
she borrowed. 
If after doing the above, Miss L has already repaid SNC enough to repay what she 
borrowed, then any overpayment needs to be refunded directly to her with 8% simple 
interest per year* from the date the overpayment arose to the date of settlement.
If after carring out the above an outstanding balance still remains then SNC should 
try and come to a mutally agreeable repayment plan with Miss L. But Id remind SNC 
of its obligation to treat Miss L fairly.
Remove any adverse information recorded about the facility from Miss Ls credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires SNC to take off tax from this interest. SNC must giveMiss L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, I uphold Miss Ls 
complaint in full.
Indigo Michael Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman