DRN-3305505
The complaint
Ms Hs complaint is about a commercial loan she took out with The Royal Bank of Scotland 
Plc (RBS) in 2017. Her concerns are:
That the quantity surveyor (QS) appointed by RBS failed to do its job properly, resulting 
in costly delays to the development project and some works needing to be redone at a 
cost of around £100,000. 
RBS charged a punitive interest rate of 9.25% from August 2019 for around a year, 
which was unfair and unreasonable.
RBS complaint service was narrow and ill-informed. 
What happened
In 2014 Ms H owned a residential property and decided to split the title, in order to build a 
house on part of the garden. Following planning permission being agreed, Ms H sought the 
assistance of an independent mortgage broker to arrange finance for the build. 
RBS agreed a commercial loan of £1,660,676 in early 2016. The loan was arranged on a 
repayment basis, with an interest rate of 3.9% above BoE base rate attached to it. The loan 
had a term of 21 months from the date on which the first tranche of money was drawn down. 
The first drawdown was in May 2017, so the loan was due to be repaid in February 2019. 
Ms C told us that she planned to repay the loan from the sale proceeds when the new build 
property was sold. It was anticipated the build would take 18 months. 
The build started in the autumn of 2016 and RBS advanced the first tranche of funds in 
May 2017. Unfortunately, problems with the build were experienced and the timescale for it 
to be completed was extended. In 2019 the builder went into liquidation, a second builder 
withdrew their services and the third found problems with the works the original builder had 
done. Due to these events, the original loan was renegotiated in August 2019, and the 
agreed borrowing was increased to approximately £2,400,000. This was formatted as an 
increase to the original loan to £1,800,000 and a second loan of £600,000. The interest rate 
on all the borrowing was set at 8.5% above BoE base rate. This reduced to 5% above base 
rate in August 2020. The repayment date for the borrowing, was set to April 2021.
At the beginning of December 2020 Ms H complained to RBS about the failings of the QS 
appointed by RBS. The concerns related to the fact that errors or omissions on the part of 
the builders, which would affect whether the build was acceptable for a building warranty, 
were not picked up by the QS. This resulted in some work needing to be redone at an 
estimated cost of £100,000, delays, and time and effort being invested by Ms H. In addition, 
Ms H considered that the checks the QS did regarding permissions, insurances etc before 
the build could commence also caused delay. She asked that RBS reimburse her for the 
costs of the additional works needed, refund at least six months-worth of interest on the 
loans from 2020 and not charge her exit fees when she repaid the loans.
RBS responded to the complaint on 24 January 2021. It explained that due to the borrowing 
representing a loan-to-value (LTV) of approximately 50% and the complexity of the project, it 
required the services of a quantity surveyor (QS) to monitor the progress of the scheme. 
RBS highlighted that Ms H had her own QS and project management arrangements. It 
explained that it was not the role of RBS QS to vet the work of Ms Hs contractors.  In 
relation to Ms Hs request to suspend interest and waive the exit fees, RBS said the matter 
of the exit fees was down to her relationship manager. However, it felt that it had been more 
than supportive in offering the additional borrowing to Ms H when she needed it. In addition, 
the interest margin had been reduced from 8.5% to 5% above Bank of England base rate in 
August 2020 and interest was payable irrespective of the time taken for remediation work to 
be completed. As such RBS didnt agree to suspend interest on the loans.
Ms H wasnt happy with RBS response and referred her complaint to this service. 
The loans were repaid in August 2021. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but he didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. He explained that the role of RBS QS was not to monitor the quality of the work 
Ms Hs contractors were doing or compliance for the purposes of the building warranty. It 
was to ensure that the payments were only made when certain points in the build were 
reached. In relation to the interest rates offered, RBS had set out what it was willing to offer 
Ms H, and she had accepted it. As such, it wasnt unreasonable for RBS to have 
administered the contract in line with the terms Ms H had accepted, including the interest 
rates and the fees. 
Ms H didnt agree with the investigator and asked that the complaint be referred to an 
ombudsman. She reiterated her comments about the QS and its failings. She said that the 
investigator had ignored the fact that the QS owed her a duty of care. In addition, Ms H said 
that she was unable to transfer to another lender in 2019 and RBS unfairly exploited this 
situation and engaged in predatory financing when setting the interest rate following the 
restructuring of the loan and advance of further funds. 
The investigator considered Ms Hs comments, but they didnt change his opinion. As such, 
the complaint has been referred to me for consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will first address the matter of the appointment of the QS and what its role was. It is normal 
where a loan or mortgage is advanced for the purposes of building a property, that the funds 
are advanced in traches throughout the build. In order to ensure that it is appropriate for the 
tranches of money to be released, a lender will usually require its own expert to check on 
the progress of the build to ensure that the build has reached the point it should have to 
allow release of each tranche of money. It would also have been the QS role to ensure that 
all the pre-build permissions had been obtained and due diligence had been completed 
before the build started. As lenders are not property or building experts, they will appoint a 
suitably qualified external expert. As long as the expert is suitable qualified, then a lender is 
entitled to rely on the advice and guidance the expert provides. In this case the expert 
appointed was a member of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors, and so would be 
considered suitably qualified. 
Ms H has described the QS as RBS subcontractor and expressed the belief that RBS is 
responsible for the QS conclusions and advice. While I can understand why Ms H would 
want that to be the case, it is not. As I have said above, the QS is an external consultant 
brought in to provide professional services and so RBS was not responsible for the findings 
or conclusions of the QS. So if there were failings on the part of the QS, RBS cannot be held responsible for them.
Ms H has focussed on a couple of examples where she considers the QS failed to do its job 
properly. One of these was that the contractors used incorrect carrier board for the render on 
the rear of the property; the type of board used was unacceptable to the warranty insurer. It 
was not the QS job to ensure that the build complied with the method and materials set out 
in the insurers standards/requirements. Compliance with such standards/requirements would 
have ultimately been the responsibility of Mr Hs project manager and contractors. As such, if 
the contractors didnt complete the build in line with the insurers requirements, or it didnt 
obtain the relevant permissions, I cant hold RBS responsible for those errors or omissions. 
When Ms H sought advice for the original loan, she asked an independent broker for 
assistance. As such, that broker would be responsible for whether the original loan was 
suitable for her needs. RBS set out the loan that it was willing to offer her, including setting 
out the terms of the contract and the fees attached to it. Ms H accepted those terms. 
When Ms H later needed further funds to complete the build, again RBS set out on what 
terms it was willing to lend her the additional money on. For completeness at this point, I 
would confirm that RBS wasnt obliged to offer Ms H more money. When it did so, it was 
able to assess the risk that amount of borrowing represented in the context of the overall 
project. It was able to propose the terms for the borrowing that it considered were 
appropriate given the project and what Ms H wanted. Ms H has said that she doesnt 
consider the additional money she needed for the build meant the loans represented a 
higher risk. She is entitled to that opinion, but clearly RBS took a different view, which it was 
entitled to do. 
Ms H said in response to the investigators view that until the build had been completed, no 
other lender was willing to lend on the property. Those decisions would have been based on 
each lenders assessment of the risk the project represented. The fact that the risk was more 
than those lenders were willing to accept, would also belie Ms Hs belief that the risk to RBS 
hadnt changed and didnt merit the increased interest rate. 
I dont consider that RBS acted inappropriately or unreasonably when it set the interest rate 
or the fees and charges for the renegotiated borrowing in 2019. 
I am aware Ms H is unhappy with how her complaint was handled. Our rules also set out the 
matters that we can look at as being; regulated activities, payment services, lending money, 
paying money by plastic card, and ancillary banking services. In addition, we can consider 
complaints about ancillary activities carried on in connection with the above.
The handling of complaints is not itself a regulated activity. Its something that the regulator 
requires financial businesses to do. However, that isnt enough to make it a regulated activity 
within the meaning of the rules; that is, one from the list of activities set out in the legislation 
from which we derive our powers.
We are able to consider concerns about complaint handling in some limited circumstances, 
for example, if were upholding the underlying complaint that a consumer believes was 
mishandled. Here, however, I havent upheld the underlying complaint, which means I dont 
have the power to consider Ms Hs concerns about the ancillary issue; how RBS handled the 
complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Ms H to accept or reject my decision before 
7 October 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman