DRN-2649576
Complaint
Mr S has complained that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) unfairly continued to 
applying charges to his overdraft when he was in financial difficulty.
  
Background to the complaint and my provisional decision of 16 February 2021 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint and didnt think RBS had done anything 
wrong or had treated Mr S unfairly. Mr S disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review 
his complaint.   
On 16 February 2021, I issued a provisional decision setting out my initial findings on Mr S 
complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a summary of my 
findings. 
I started by saying that RBS will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry 
practice we consider when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and 
reasonably when applying overdraft charges. So I didnt consider it necessary to set all of it 
out.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I thought that RBS acted unfairly when it 
continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees from August 2016. By this point, I 
thought that it was evident Mr S use of his overdraft had become unsustainable. A cursory 
look at his statements leading up to this period showed that hed only spent short sporadic 
periods with a credit balance. And on a couple of occasions this was because Mr S had 
taken payday loans. I could also see a consistent pattern of gambling transactions from the 
account too.
I thought that in August 2016, the position started to worsen and Mr S also started incurring 
returned items and overlimit fees because of these issues. And at that point, I thought that 
RBS should have stopped providing the overdraft on the same terms and treated Mr S with 
forbearance rather than adding even more interest, fees and charges on the overdraft.
All of this meant that I found that RBS should have realised Mr S was experiencing financial 
difficulty, wasnt using his overdraft as intended and shouldnt have continued offering it on 
the same terms. As I thought RBS didnt react to Mr S overdraft usage and instead 
continued charging in the same way, I found that it failed to act fairly and reasonably. 
As Mr S ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on his overdraft at a time 
when he was already experiencing difficulty, I thought that Mr S lost out because of what 
RBS did wrong and that it should put things right.
Finally I set out a method of putting things right which I thought addressed RBS failings and 
Mr S resulting loss.
Responses to my provisional decision
RBS didnt provide anything for me to think about or ask for any additional time to do so.
Mr S said that the extended period this went on for had a detrimental effect on any kind of 
credit, his mental health and even put pressure on his relationship.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about what Mr S has said. I can ask a business to compensate for any 
additional (or consequential) losses that a consumer mightve suffered, or if theyve been 
inconvenienced. But only usually where theres a clear and direct link between what the 
business did wrong and any additional losses suffered and/or what the business has done to 
put things right doesnt reflect how much the consumer has been inconvenienced. 
Ive carefully thought about Mr S arguments. But Im sorry to inform him that I dont think 
that theres a strong enough argument for me to say that RBS continuing to provide him with 
an overdraft directly caused additional losses to Mr S which merit additional compensation.
Im upholding Mr S complaint because I think RBS should have withdrawn his overdraft as it 
ought to have realised that he was already in financial difficulty. And if RBS had done this, as 
I think it ought to have, then Mr S ability to obtain credit elsewhere would have been 
impacted. Equally while Im sorry to hear that Mr S has had mental health difficulties and 
additional pressure on his relationship, its difficult for me to say that RBS actions are 
responsible for this. I say this while mindful of the nature of the transactions I think RBS 
ought to have been aware of when allowing Mr S overdraft to be used in the way it was.
So overall and having considered Mr S further points, Ive not been persuaded to alter the 
conclusions that I reached in my provisional decision of 16 February 2021. Im still partially 
upholding Mr S complaint and directing RBS to put things right in the way Ive set out below. 
  
Fair compensation  what RBS needs to do to put things right for Mr S
Having thought about everything, I think its fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
Mr S complaint for RBS to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Ss current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it from August 2016 onwards are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made RBS should contact Mr S to arrange a suitable repayment plan for 
this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr Ss credit 
file, it should backdate this to August 2016.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr S along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then RBS 
should remove any adverse information from Mr Ss credit file.  HM Revenue & Customs requires RBS to take off tax from this interest. RBS must give   
Mr S a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision of 16 February 2021, Im 
upholding Mr S complaint. The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc should put things right in the way 
Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman