DRN-3822972
The complaint
Mr P complains about charges applied at the end of his hire agreement by Mitsubishi HC 
Capital UK PLC trading as Novuna Vehicle Solutions (Novuna).
This company was formerly known as Hitachi Capital (UK) PLC. 
What happened
In November 2018 Mr P entered into a hire agreement for a new car. He returned the car in 
March 2022. 
Novuna arranged for the car to be inspected when it was collected from Mr P. The inspection 
report detailed various damage to the car, with a total value of £1,361.58. This was broken 
down as follows:
Damage Area Damage Value
Basic valet Soiled £50.00
Front tyre L Uneven wear £174.39
Front alloy centre cap L Corrosion/rust £14.45
Front bumper Paint run £175.00
Rear door L Rippled finish £140.00
Rear alloy centre cap L Corrosion/rust £14.45
Quarter panel L Rippled finish £140.00
Rear bumper Dent £75.00
Rear alloy centre cap R Corrosion/rust £14.45
Quarter panel R Dent £60.00
Front door R Dent £175.00
Front alloy centre cap R Corrosion/rust £14.45
Front tyre R Uneven wear £174.39
Front door L Rippled finish £140.00
Mr P complained that he didnt think these charges were fair. But Novuna didnt uphold Mr 
Ps complaint. They said that, as a goodwill gesture, theyd remove the charge of £57.80 
relating to corrosion on the alloy wheel centre caps. But they said all other charges would 
remain, totalling £1,303.78.
Unhappy with this resolution, Mr P brought his complaint to us. He said hed had some of the 
damage repaired before he returned the car, and he didnt agree that these repairs were of 
poor quality. Mr P said he didnt mind paying for other damage that he hadnt noticed, but he 
didnt believe Novuna had paid to re-do the repairs hed already had carried out.
Our investigator said the agreement Mr P signed had made it clear that hed be charged for 
any damage outside of fair wear and tear. She compared the photos of the damage detailed 
in the inspection report to the industry standard - the fair wear and tear guidelines published 
by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA). 
The investigator said she was satisfied that the charges had been applied fairly, because 
shed seen evidence of damage that had been poorly repaired. She said Novuna could still 
charge for damage which falls outside fair wear and tear guidelines if the vehicle went to 
auction without repairs being carried out, because it would sell for less.
Mr P disagreed with our investigators view. He said the repairs hadnt been of poor quality 
and wouldnt have affected the cars resale value. Mr P thought the extremely high values of 
used cars at the time would have been beyond the value Novuna would have been 
expecting in their financial modelling. He felt this was an attempt at profiteering. He asked for 
the case to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P complains about a hire agreement. Entering into consumer credit contracts such as this 
is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied I can consider this complaint.
Novuna have provided a copy of the hire agreement Mr P signed, which Ive read carefully. 
Paragraph three lists Mr Ps obligations concerning the vehicle. This includes:
to keep the vehicle in good condition and repair. You will be responsible to us for any 
damage caused to or deterioration of the Vehicle otherwise than through fair wear and 
tear as indicated in the guidelines issued from time to time by the British Vehicle Rental 
and Leasing Association (BVRLA).
So, Im satisfied that Novuna had clearly explained how theyd assess any damage to the 
car at the end of the hire period. 
Mr P has told us that he doesnt mind paying the charges Novuna applied for damage he 
hadnt been aware of. But he doesnt accept that the repairs hed had carried out were of 
poor quality. So, my decision will focus on the four areas that had been repaired. 
Ive reviewed the fair wear and tear guidelines published BVRLA at that time. I consider 
these guidelines to represent good practice across the industry, giving descriptions of what 
should be accepted as fair wear and tear when a vehicle is returned. 
The BVRLA guidelines say:
Obvious evidence of poor repair, such as flaking paint, preparation marks, paint 
contamination, rippled finish or poorly matched paint, is not acceptable.
Ive seen a copy of the vehicle inspection report dated 21 March 2022, which includes a 
photo of each area of damage noted by the inspector. Ive reviewed these photos to consider 
whether the repairs were acceptable. 
1. Front Bumper  Paint Run
Ive seen a photo of the front bumper, in which I could clearly see a paint run along the 
edge of the grille. A ruler was positioned close to this paint run to give an indication of its 
size. Im satisfied that it would be clearly visible to the naked eye, without the use of any 
specialist equipment. 
2. Left-Hand Side Doors and Quarter Panel  Rippled finishIve examined the photos of the front and rear doors and rear quarter panel on the left-
hand side of the car. I can clearly see a rippled finish to the paintwork in these areas. 
In the photos I examined, a ruler and striped card had been positioned near to the areas 
of concern as a guide to the approximate size and nature of the defects. But Im satisfied 
that the rippled finish would be clearly visible to the naked eye, without the use of any 
specialist equipment. 
Having reviewed the photos, I find there to be obvious evidence of poor repairs to the front 
bumper and the left-hand side doors and quarter panel. Im satisfied that the repairs fell 
below the standard the BVRLA guidelines consider to be acceptable. So, although I realise 
how frustrating this must be for Mr P, I consider it reasonable for Novuna to charge him for 
the damage to these areas of the car. 
Mr P doesnt believe Novuna had the repairs re-done before they sold the car. He doesnt 
accept that the repairs hed had carried out would have affected its resale value, especially 
given the unusually high resale values of used cars at the time. Ive given careful thought to 
the point hes made. 
I do think that damage beyond fair wear and tear is likely to affect a cars resale value. 
Theres no rule or guidance requiring businesses to provide evidence of the loss incurred 
due to damage to the car. And I dont think it would be reasonable to expect Novuna to do 
so. The BVRLA guidelines say:
Charges can still be applied at end of lease where the leasing company decides for 
commercial reasons not to repair damage or to replace missing equipment before the 
vehicle is sold.
So, although I realise Mr P will be disappointed with this decision, Im not persuaded that 
Novuna have treated him unfairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2023.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman