DRN-4094078
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain about the settlement that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) has 
offered for a claim they made on a travel insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so Im simply setting out a 
brief summary of what I think are the key events.
In September 2021, Mr and Mrs S travelled abroad. They were due fly back to the UK on 20 
September 2021. In line with Covid-19 rules at the time, Mr and Mrs S took Covid-19 tests a 
few days before they were due to travel home. Unfortunately, Mr S tested positive for the 
coronavirus and therefore, he and Mrs S were required to quarantine in their hotel. They 
were unable to return to the UK as planned. Mrs S tested positive for Covid-19 a short while 
later and therefore, Mr and Mrs S period of quarantine was extended. They were able to fly 
back to the UK in early October 2021. They made a claim on their travel insurance policy for 
the costs they incurred  which included extended car parking and kennel costs.
There were some delays in IPA assessing the claim. Ultimately, it agreed to settle the 
majority of the claim, less the applicable policy excess. But it didnt agree to pay for either 
the extended car parking or kennel costs Mr and Mrs S had incurred as a result of their 
delayed return to the UK. Thats because it said these costs werent covered by the policy 
terms.
Mr and Mrs S were unhappy with IPAs handling of their claim and the settlement it had 
offered them. IPA acknowledged thered been failings in the way it had handled the claim 
and so it offered to pay Mr and Mrs S a total of £400 compensation. But it maintained that 
the extended car parking and kennel costs werent covered by the policy terms. 
Remaining unhappy with IPAs position, Mr and Mrs S asked us to look into their complaint.
Two investigators looked into Mr and Mrs S complaint. The first felt that as kennel and car 
parking costs werent specifically excluded by the policy terms, IPA should meet those costs, 
together with interest. 
However, the second investigator didnt think that IPA needed to pay anything more. She 
didnt think extended car parking or kennels costs were included in the list of things IPA 
covered. So she didnt think IPA needed to settle those parts of Mr and Mrs S claim. She 
was also satisfied that IPA had offered Mr and Mrs S fair compensation for its service 
failings.
Mr and Mrs S disagreed. In summary, they felt IPA had agreed to cover the extended car 
parking costs during a conversation Mr S had had with a complaints handler in July 2022. 
They considered that the extended car parking costs were a legitimate charge to enable Mr 
and Mrs S to return to their home address. They also didnt think it was fair for IPA not to 
meet the kennel costs, when dog boarding is a legitimate part of holiday costs and the 
extended kennel stay had been a direct consequence of their illness.
The investigator asked IPA whether it had considered a curtailment claim for the lost days of 
Mr and Mrs S holiday following Mr S positive Covid-19 test and the direction to quarantine 
in their hotel room. IPA has now told us that it is prepared to increase its settlement offer to 
include curtailment benefit for Mr and Mrs S lost holiday between 18 and 20 September 
2021, together with interest at a rate of 8% simple.
Mr and Mrs S still have concerns about the way IPA has handled their claim  in particular, 
with delays in sending them information theyd asked for and errors in its communications 
with them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think that IPA has now made a fair offer of settlement and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of Mr and Mrs S policy and the circumstances of their claim, to decide whether I 
think IPA treated them fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of Mr and Mrs 
S contract with IPA. Mr and Mrs S were diagnosed with Covid-19 whilst they were abroad 
and they therefore incurred medical expenses and had to extend their trip. It appears to me 
that IPA initially considered their claim in line with Section B  Emergency medical and other 
expenses. This says that IPA:
will pay you up to £20,000,000 for the following expenses which are medically necessary to 
treat a medical emergency either during a trip or for a one-way trip within the first 10 days of 
arriving at your final destination, as a result of you suffering unforeseen bodily injury, 
complication of pregnancy, illness, disease and/or compulsory quarantine:
1. Emergency medical, surgical, hospital, ambulance and nursing fees and charges 
incurred outside of your home area.
2. Emergency dental treatment for the immediate relief of pain (to natural teeth only) up 
to a limit of £1,000 incurred outside of your home area.
3. If you die:
a. Outside your home area the reasonable additional cost of funeral expenses 
abroad, plus the reasonable cost of returning your ashes to your home, or the 
additional costs of returning your body to your home.
b. Within your home area the reasonable additional cost of returning your ashes or 
body to your home up to a maximum of £750.
4. Reasonable additional transport and/or accommodation expenses incurred, up to the 
standard of your original booking (for example full or half board, all inclusive, bed and 
breakfast, self catering or room only), if it is medically necessary for you to stay 
beyond your scheduled return date.
This includes, with the prior authorisation of the Emergency Assistance Service, 
reasonable additional transport and/or accommodation expenses for a travelling 
companion, friend or close relative to stay with you or travel to you from the United 
Kingdom or escort you. Also additional travel expenses to return you to your home or 
a suitable hospital nearby if you cannot use the return ticket.
5. With the prior authorisation of the Emergency Assistance Service, the additional 
costs incurred in the use of air transport or other suitable means, including qualified attendants, to repatriate you to your home if it is medically necessary. These 
expenses will be for the identical class of travel utilised on the outward journey 
unless the Emergency Assistance Service agree otherwise.
In my view, IPA has clearly set out the medical and other expenses it provides cover for. 
This list doesnt include any additional car parking fees a policyholder may incur if theyre 
delayed abroad. And neither does it include additional kennel costs a policyholder incurs if 
illness delays their return to the UK. While I entirely understand that Mr and Mrs S had no 
choice but to leave their pets in a kennel longer than theyd planned to, this simply isnt a 
cost IPA has chosen to cover. I appreciate Mr and Mrs S feel that the car parking fees were 
a legitimate cost to allow them to return home  and I accept that without payment of the 
extended car parking fee, they couldnt have driven their car out of the car park. But I dont 
think I could reasonably interpret car parking costs as an additional transport expense. In my 
view, such costs are costs such as replacement flight costs or flight amendment fees, rather 
than the costs of extending a place to store a car whilst a policyholder is away.
And IPA has also set out a list of things it specifically excludes from cover. The list includes 
the following: Any other loss, damage or additional expense following on from the event for 
which you are claiming, unless we provide cover under this insurance. I think the policy 
makes it sufficiently clear that IPA doesnt cover consequential losses. I consider that both 
the extended car parking and kennel fees can reasonably be treated as consequential 
losses. 
Im mindful that Mr S has maintained that IPA told him that the extended car parking fees 
would be covered. Ive thought about this. But this conversation appears to have taken place 
some months after Mr and Mrs S had already paid the fees. This means the payment of 
those costs wasnt as a direct consequence of any misinformation by IPA. So even if IPAs 
complaints handler did wrongly tell Mr S that IPA would cover this cost; I dont think I could 
fairly find that Mr and Mrs S lost out financially as a result. And therefore, I dont think it 
would be fair or reasonable for me to direct IPA to pay the extended car parking costs on this 
basis when theyre not otherwise covered.
As such, whilst I sympathise with Mr and Mrs S position, I think it was fair for IPA to decline 
to cover both the extended car parking and kennel costs.
Since the complaint was referred for an ombudsmans decision, IPA has agreed to pay Mr 
and Mrs S curtailment benefit under Section A of the policy for the two lost days of their 
holiday, together with interest. Thats because the policy definition of curtailment includes a 
policyholders confinement to their room due to illness if theyre quarantined for 48 hours of 
more. In this case, the evidence indicates that Mr S tested positive for Covid-19 two days 
before he and Mrs S were due to return to the UK and they were accordingly confined to 
their room following that test result. Following consideration of this point, IPAs claims team 
has now agreed to pay curtailment benefit for the period 18 until 20 September 2021. In my 
view, this is a fair and reasonable offer from IPA.
Its clear that IPA hasnt handled Mr and Mrs S claim as promptly as it shouldve done. It 
seems that Mr and Mrs S have experienced a very frustrating claims journey, including 
delays in claims handling and in failures to provide them with information theyve requested. 
I dont doubt this caused Mr and Mrs S unnecessary distress and inconvenience. IPA has 
offered to pay Mr and Mrs S a total of £400 compensation to reflect the impact of its claims 
handling on them. In my opinion, this is a fair and reasonable offer to reflect the time and 
trouble Mr and Mrs S were unnecessarily put to in their dealings with IPA. So Im now 
directing IPA to pay this amount to Mr and Mrs S if it hasnt already done so.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that IPA has now made a fair and 
reasonable offer of settlement.
I direct Inter Partner Assistance SA to pay Mr and Mrs S curtailment benefit for the period 18 
until September 2021.  It must also add interest to this amount at an annual rate of 8% 
simple from the date of claim until the date of settlement. *
I also direct IPA to pay Mr and Mrs S £400 total compensation if it hasnt already done so.
*If IPA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest it should tell Mr and Mrs S how much it has taken off. It should also give Mr and 
Mrs S a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 May 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman