DRN-3394032
The complaint
Mr H says J D Williams & Company Limited (J D Williams) irresponsibly lent to him. He 
has requested that the interest and late payment charges he paid on his account be 
refunded. 
What happened
This complaint is about a catalogue shopping account provided by J D Williams to Mr H. 
The account was in December 2015 with Mr H being given an initial credit limit of £125. 
This limit was increased 9 times until it reached £2750 in December 2017. 
Mr H says hes unhappy that when he first opened his account, J D Williams didnt explain 
to him how it worked, including how charges would be applied. He says the account was 
unaffordable from the outset and that J D Williams continued to increase his credit limit on 
each account without making make proper checks to find out whether he was experiencing 
financial difficulties.
J D Williams says it carried out enough checks when it agreed to give Mr H his account 
and also each time it increased his credit limit. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Hs complaint and thought that J D Williams ought to 
have realised that Mr H wasnt in a position to sustainably repay any further credit on his 
account by the time it offered Mr H the increased credit limit in June 2017. She also 
thought that J D Williams ought not to have allowed new purchases on Mr Hs after May 
2019 by freezing his account. J D Williams disagreed with our adjudicators finding and 
instead suggested there should have been no further credit limit increases after 11 
December 2018, when Mr H began to miss monthly payments. This offer was put to Mr 
H but, in the absence of J D Williams providing a breakdown of its redress calculation on 
that basis, Mr H hasnt accepted the offer. 
The complaint has therefore been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website.
Did J D Williams lend to Mr H irresponsibly?
J D Williams needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr H 
could afford to repay what he was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the 
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that J D Williams should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the frequency of borrowing, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been indebted (reflecting the risk that prolonged 
indebtedness may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
When Mr H opened his account in December 2015, J D Williams told us there were no signs 
of financial difficulties based on the checks it did. Having reviewed the checks, and taking 
into account the low opening credit limit of £125 he was given, I dont think there is anything 
to suggest that it would have been unreasonable for J D Williams to have approved the 
account. J D Williams didnt however ask about Mr Hs income, which may have helped it 
begin to build a picture of his financial circumstances. 
Our adjudicator thought that the first increase to Mr H credit limit on the account, in 
February 2016, didnt show or suggest irresponsible lending by J D Williams. For the 
second to third increases, from 8 March to 3 May 2016, taking Mr Hs credit limit up to 
£600, she thought that whilst it would have been reasonable for J D Williams to enquire 
about Mr Hs living costs, there wasnt enough to show that if it had done so it might have 
decided not to lend to Mr H. For the four credit limit increases that took place between 31 
May 2016 and 4 April 2017, taking Mr Hs credit limit up to £1750, our adjudicator 
considered that J D Williams ought to have carried out additional checks as it seemed 
likely that Mr H might have become financially stretched had he used the full extent of his 
credit limit. Overall, I agree with our adjudicator that up to this point there wasnt enough 
to show that Mr H was likely to be experiencing financial difficulty to the extent that J D 
Williams shouldnt have increased his credit limits between February 2016 and April 2017. 
Our adjudicator went on to set out in some detail why she thought J D Williams shouldnt 
have provided Mr H with any additional credit from June 2017 onwards, when Mr Hs 
credit limit was increased to £2000, and then increasing again in December 2017, when it 
went up to £2750. Mr H hasnt been able to provide us with evidence of his income and 
expenditure  for instance, by way of bank statements. However, from what he told our 
adjudicator about his income, daily living costs and committed expenditure, she thought 
there was a likelihood he wouldnt have been left with enough disposable income to meet 
his borrowing with J D Williams. Had J D Williams carried out proportionate affordability 
checks at this time our adjudicator considered that it would likely have seen Mr H was 
struggling. She also thought it ought to have noted that Mr H continued to make only 
minimum payments whilst his account balance was increasing. This showed there was a risk he would become unable to continue meeting his monthly payments. Our adjudicator 
therefore concluded that there should have been no further credit limit increases from that 
point. 
J D Williams said the credit limits it set were affordable for Mr H and he only used an 
average 70% of his credit limit. It also pointed out that when purchasing high value items 
Mr H had chosen to spread the cost on a buy now pay later basis. It also said that Mr H 
had continued to make minimum payments to his account until December 2018 when Mr 
H got into financial difficulty and could no longer meet his monthly minimum payments, at 
which point his access to account credit was withdrawn. 
In making my decision Ive looked at these points as well as the overall pattern of J D 
Williams lending history with Mr H, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which J D 
Williams should reasonably have seen that further lending was likely unsustainable, or 
otherwise harmful. If so, that would mean J D Williams should have realised that it 
shouldnt have further increased Mr Hs credit limits. 
Unfortunately, Mr H hasnt been able to provide us with copies of his bank statements 
covering the period he had the account. But hes given us some information about his 
financial situation. Weve also seen from his credit report that he had at least two ongoing 
credit card commitments. Given the particular circumstances of Mr Hs case, based on 
the information Mr H and J D Williams have given us, I agree with our adjudicator that a 
point was reached by June 2017 when J D Williams increased Mr Hs total credit limit to 
£2000, which ought to have prompted J D Williams to realise further credit was likely to 
be unaffordable or otherwise harmful to Mr H. Mr Hs account history showed that the 
proportion of the credit limit Mr H was using had been rising steadily whilst he continued 
to only make minimum repayments. So I think that based on the limited information we 
have about Mr Hs existing commitments, his account history shows signs that he might 
have been getting into difficulty with making his monthly payments. And it seems unlikely 
that he would have been able to take steps to reduce the increasing debt on his account 
whilst at the same time having to meet his daily living expenses and other credit 
commitments. 
I therefore think that had J D Williams carried out better checks at this stage as to Mr Hs 
financial circumstances, given the way he was managing his account, it likely would have 
realised there was a significant risk that Mr H would be unable to reduce the increasing 
level of debt on the account whilst at the same time being able to meet his daily living 
expenses and other credit commitments. I also thing that any further increase to his 
credit limit could have led to his indebtedness increasing unsustainably and to the point 
that he had no funds available to meet his regular outgoings and other debts. So I dont 
think it was reasonable for J D Williams to increase Mr Hs credit limit at this point. I think 
it follows that beyond this point any further credit limit  increases were likely to be 
unaffordable.
It follows that I think that Mr H lost out because J D Williams provided him with further credit 
from June 2017 onwards. In my view, J D Williams should have realised by then that Mr H 
was in getting into financial difficulty and was likely to experience problems in paying back 
even a modest amount of credit. 
Should J D Williams have taken further action?
Our adjudicator also went on to find that by 1 May 2019, when Mr H contacted J D 
Williams to say he was in financial difficulty, the account ought to have been frozen  putting the account on hold for 28 days wasnt enough. I agree. Ive seen that J D 
Williams placed a 28-day hold on his account that lasted up to 4 October 2019, after 
which time the account charges continued. Having been alerted to the fact that Mr H was 
struggling financially, I consider that J D Williams ought to have taken proportionate 
measures to find out more about Mr Hs financial circumstances  and in particular his 
level of committed income. Had it done so, I think it would have likely seen that that Mr H 
was struggling to manage the credit he already had and that there was a significant risk 
that any further spending on his account would lead to his indebtedness increasing 
unsustainably. So I think the appropriate next step would have been to put a freeze on his 
account. 
It follows that I think Mr H lost out because J D Williams allowed him to continue spending 
on his account and didnt take sufficient and adequate forbearance measures from May 
2019 onwards. In my view, J D Williams actions unfairly increased and prolonged Mr Hs 
indebtedness by allowing him to continue to use credit he couldnt afford over an extended 
period of time and the interest being added got him into further debt. So on this basis as 
well J D Williams should put things right.
Finally, Ive seen that Mr H says that he was vulnerable and should not have been allowed to 
have the account when he first opened it. Given how long ago the account was opened, 
J D Williams no longer holds the account-opening information. However, other than the 
reasons Ive given for upholding this complaint, I havent seen anything to make me think 
that Mr H wasnt given enough information about the way the account would operate when 
he first opened the account, including the charges that could be made if he missed 
payments. Nor have I seen anything to persuade me that J D Williams knew or ought to 
have known that Mr H was vulnerable and therefore it would have been inappropriate to lend 
to him on that basis. 
It follows that I agree J D Williams should put things right.
Putting things right  what J D Williams needs to do
Rework Mr Hs account to ensure that from 27 June 2017 onwards interest is 
only charged on balances up to the total credit limit of £1750, including any 
buy now pay later interest, (being the credit limit in place before that date) to 
reflect the fact that no further credit limit increases should have been provided. 
All late payment and over limit fees should also be removed; and also
Rework Mr Hs accounts to ensure that from 1 May 2019 all interest or charges 
be removed, including any buy now pay later interest (being the credit limit in 
place before that date), to reflect the fact that access to any remaining credit 
on the accounts shouldnt have been provided. All late payment and over limit 
fees should also be removed; and
If an outstanding balance remains on the account once these adjustments 
have been made J D Williams should contact Mr H to arrange an affordable 
repayment plan for this account. Once Mr H has repaid the outstanding 
balance, it should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Hs credit 
file from 27 June 2017 onwards.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments and returned to Mr H, along with 8% simple interest per year on 
the overpayments from the date they were made (if they were) until the date of 
settlement. J D Williams should also remove any adverse information from Mr 
Hs credit file from 27 June 2017onwards.
HM Revenue & Customs requires J D Williams to take off tax from this interest. 
J D Williams must give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks 
for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out, Im partially upholding Mr Hs complaint. J D Williams & Company 
Limited should put things right in the way set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2022. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman