DRN-3369815
The complaint
Mr W complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt allow his mortgage with it to run its full 
term.
What happened
In 2001 Mr W took a repayment mortgage with Barclays over 20 years. The mortgage was 
designed to offset Mr Ws linked current account and savings account balances. That 
meant the mortgage interest was calculated daily on the net balance of the mortgage, 
current and savings accounts. Another feature of the mortgage was the reserve borrowing 
facility. In practice that meant Mr W could borrow back any money he had repaid on the 
mortgage at the same interest rate as the mortgage. So, that facility grew as he made his 
repayments.
Mr W says he received his annual mortgage statement in October 2019 and that informed 
him that the monthly payment required to repay his mortgage over the remaining term (one 
year and 11 months) was £27.86. But he noticed in September 2020 that his current monthly 
payment amount would repay his mortgage in three months. He asked Barclays to 
recalculate his monthly payment amount so that the mortgage ran its full term as he didnt 
want to lose the reserve borrowing facility. He says Barclays told him it would do this but 
then ignored his request, so he asked again in November 2020 and Barclays still didnt carry 
out his wishes. When he asked for a third time, in December 2020, Barclays told him the 
mortgage had been put on automatic redemption and that could not be reversed.
By putting his account on automatic redemption Mr W says Barclays increased his monthly 
payment, took unnecessary money from his linked current account  putting that in overdraft  
 and triggered an early exit fee. Yet, in response to a complaint he made in 2007, it had 
been agreed that the fee would only become applicable upon full repayment of the 
mortgage if redeemed before its maturity date.
Mr W complained to Barclays. In its final response letter dated 30 March 2021, Barclays 
upheld Mr Ws complaint. It said there had been requests from Mr W to keep his mortgage 
running for the full term but they were not actioned meaning the mortgage redeemed earlier 
than he wanted. It apologised and offered the following redress:
£95  a refund of the early exit fee.
£38.64  to cover charges on Mr Ws current account.
£200  in respect of the distress and inconvenience caused.
Dissatisfied with Barclays response, Mr W asked us to consider his complaint. Our 
investigator thought it was reasonable for Barclays to have a balance limit (£1,000), lower 
than which it could not recalculate monthly payments. But he found that Barclays had failed 
to carry out Mr Ws wishes. He thought its offer of compensation was reasonable. So, he 
didnt ask Barclays to take any further action.
Mr W didnt agree. He said he wasnt aware of any mortgage condition that said the balance 
had to be over a specific amount for the mortgage to continue. And, given that the mortgage 
was designed to facilitate a fluctuating balance, he would expect any such condition to have 
been made apparent from the outset. He said hes not been told that by any of Barclays 
staff and it appears in no communication hes received from Barclays. Mr W also said, when 
the mortgage account went into credit, Barclays should have re-credited his current account 
to put his mortgage back into debit.
As Mr W didnt agree with our investigator, his complaint has been referred to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties accept that Barclays shouldnt have redeemed Mr Ws mortgage early against 
his wishes. So, to decide Mr Ws complaint, Ive thought about whether the compensation 
Barclays has offered is fair in all of the circumstances. But Ive also considered Mr Ws 
comments about Barclays being unable to support its reasons for doing so with its mortgage 
conditions and whether that should have an impact on the compensation it should pay him.
Firstly, I should confirm that I also think Barclays shouldnt have taken action that meant Mr 
Ws mortgage was redeemed early, particularly because hed told them he didnt want that. 
And Barclays hasnt shown that its mortgage terms and conditions say that, should a 
mortgage balance fall below £1,000, it wouldnt be able to recalculate the monthly payment, 
and that may lead to early redemption. I think that was a limitation of its systems rather than 
a feature of its mortgage product. So, in the circumstances, I think it should have tried to find 
a way around that so Mr Ws mortgage could run its full term, as per his request.
Given that I think Barclays actions were unfair to Mr W, I also agree that it should 
compensate him. I should clarify here, that our role is not to punish businesses or impose 
fines, so when we consider compensation, we look, where possible, to put consumers back 
in the position they would have been in had the error or omission not have occurred. Given 
that Mr Ws mortgage is closed and were now beyond the date of its scheduled term end, 
its not possible to put Mr W back in the position he would have been in had Barclays not 
taken the action it did. So, Ive thought about Mr Ws actual losses and the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
I understand the potential value of the reserve borrowing facility on Mr Ws mortgage. That 
was a pool Mr W could have drawn from without notice, up to nearly the full about of his 
original mortgage, with interest payable at the mortgage rate. So, it was a very favourable 
borrowing facility. Mr W has mentioned that hed thought about using the facility to buy a car. 
However, any amount he borrowed from that facility would have had to have been paid back 
by the end of the mortgage term. At the time the mortgage redeemed, that was 
approximately 11 months. So, given the short term remaining on the reserve facility, I think 
its value to Mr W was diminished considerably.
The value of the facility was only nominal if it was never used. While Mr W has said he 
thought about using it to buy a car, he hasnt shown us that he did buy a car within the 
original remaining term of the mortgage. And he hasnt shown us that hes done so by 
obtaining a loan at a higher interest rate, thereby actually incurring a loss. So, in terms of the 
early removal of the reserve facility, I havent seen an actual loss to Mr W for which he 
should be compensated.Mr W has incurred losses in respect of interest charged on his current account and a fee that 
was charged for early redemption. But Barclays has offered to refund that money and has 
offered to pay Mr W £200 in respect of the distress and inconvenience caused. 
I dont want to appear dismissive of Mr Ws complaint because I do agree that Barclays has 
acted unfairly, I understand Mr Ws sense of injustice and I can see from his correspondence 
that this is important to him. I think Mr W should be compensated for the frustration that 
Barclays didnt carry out his request and the disappointment that the facility was prematurely 
taken away. But I think Barclays offer of compensation is fair in the circumstances, given my 
remit. That means I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint and Barclays only needs to pay him what 
it has offered, if it hasnt already done so.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2022.
 
Gavin Cook
Ombudsman