DRN-3021790
The complaint
Ms T, as a sole trader, complains about the decision to decline her business interruption 
insurance claim made by The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited. 
Ms Ts claim relates to losses incurred following the COVID-19 pandemic.
What happened
Ms T operates a holiday letting business and held a property owners insurance policy. The 
policy offered a number of areas of cover, including for business interruption. Ms Ts policy 
was underwritten by The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited (NFU). 
The COVID-19 pandemic caused an interruption to Ms Ts business and she claimed under 
the policy.
NFU declined the claim. It said the core business interruption insurance provided by the 
policy responded to situations where damage to property had caused the interruption, and 
that wasnt the case here. NFU also said that the two extensions to this cover that looked 
like they might respond, didnt in the circumstances. These were the Public Emergency 
extension, which NFU said excluded claims resulting from infectious or contagious disease. 
And the Human Diseases extension, which NFU said only provided cover in relation to 
certain specified diseases  and this list didnt include COVID-19. 
As Ms T was unhappy with this decision, she brought her complaint about it to this service. 
However, our Investigator didnt think her complaint should be upheld. She thought NFU had 
applied the terms of the policy correctly and so didnt think NFU had acted unfairly or 
unreasonably by declining the claim. 
Ms T remains unsatisfied and her complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact COVID-19 
restrictions have had on Ms T, I wont be upholding her complaint. My reasons are 
substantially the same as the Investigators.
I understand that Ms Ts business was impacted in March 2020 due to the 
government-imposed restrictions. The nature of her business was such that she wouldnt 
have been allowed to continue operating after this time. So, the type of cover shes looking 
to claim under is business interruption insurance.
There are a range of business interruption insurance policies on the market covering 
different risks. For example, some only provide cover for basic things such as fire or flood, 
whilst others provide cover in more circumstances either as part of the policy or as optional 
add-ons. The starting point is to consider the specific policy Ms T took out.
The standard cover provided by the business interruption section of Ms Ts policy, as well as 
a number of the extensions to this cover, is based on an interruption to the business of the 
insured which has been caused by damage to property. Whilst I appreciate the pandemic 
has caused substantial financial loss, I dont think COVID-19 caused damage to property 
which has led to an interruption of Ms Ts business. 
So, I dont think either the standard business interruption cover, or the extensions that rely 
on there having been damage, provide cover in the circumstances of Ms Ts claim. And I 
think NFU acted fairly and reasonably in not meeting her claim under these areas of cover.
As NFU has said, there are two further extensions to the business interruption section of 
Ms Ts policy which do not require there to have been damage to property, and which look 
like they might respond to the circumstances. I will deal with each in turn.
The Public Emergency extension
This extension says:
WE will pay for loss of INCOME arising from the actions or advice of a competent 
Public Authority, due to an emergency likely to endanger life or property occurring 
within the vicinity of the PREMISES, which prevents or hinders the use of or access 
to the PREMISES for a period greater than four consecutive hours.
WE will not pay for any loss resulting from infectious or contagious disease or the 
suspected or actual presence of an incendiary or explosive device.
Ms Ts business was interrupted by the actions or advice of a Public Authority, and this was 
due to an emergency likely to endanger life. However, this emergency was the COVID-19 
pandemic. And COVID-19 is an infectious or contagious disease.
As this extension says that NFU will not pay for any loss arising from an infectious or 
contagious disease, and COVID-19 is such a disease, I am unable to fairly say that NFU 
should pay Ms Ts losses that arose out of the COVID-19 pandemic under this extension. 
So, it follows that I cannot say that NFU were wrong to decline Ms Ts claim under this 
extension. 
I should also point out that even if this were not the case, the High Court in the FCA test 
case (The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) v Arch Insurance (UK) Ltd & Ors [2020] EWHC 
2448 (Comm)) found that terms such as this one were limited in their scope by the inclusion 
of the word vicinity in the manner set out in the clause above. The High Court found that 
such terms provided cover only for localised events, rather than national ones such as the 
COVID-19 pandemic. The relevant findings are at paragraphs 466 to 467 of the judgment. 
However, as I already consider losses from infectious or contagious diseases are not 
covered, is not necessary for me to expand on this additional argument in this decision.
The Human Diseases extension 
This extension read:
WE will pay for loss of INCOME caused by the occurrence of any of the following 
diseases at the PREMISES which results in closure or restriction in use of the 
PREMISES on the order or advice of a competent authority:

The extension then goes on to list a number of diseases, but this list does not include 
COVID-19.Having considered this term, Im not persuaded this section of the policy would have 
provided Ms T with cover for the circumstances of her claim. This is because COVID-19 isnt 
one of the diseases listed in the definition.
When reaching this finding Im mindful that COVID-19 is a new disease that no-one had the 
foresight to cover, and that it might not have been possible for NFU to include it in the policy 
at the time it was written. But I dont think that changes anything. Thats because I dont think 
NFU intended to, or suggested they would, provide cover for all diseases. NFU deliberately 
chose to define the cover provided by reference to a static list of certain diseases.
I dont think the list is indicative of the kind of diseases that are included, I think its an 
exhaustive list. There is nothing in the policy which implies that it provides cover for other 
diseases, including any new diseases which might emerge.
As Ive said above, a range of policies are available. And some provide cover for all 
notifiable diseases  a list of diseases updated by the Government. These policies might, 
depending on the circumstances, provide cover. But this is not the type of policy Ms T has.
I think the purpose and effect of the policy Ms T has is to provide cover in the event of the 
diseases listed in the policy. There are many potential illnesses and diseases that the policy 
does not cover including, for example, SARS (another type of Coronavirus). I dont think the 
policy can or should fairly be read as covering any and all diseases that fall outside of the 
defined list set out above.
So, the policy clearly only intended to cover certain diseases. And I dont think it can fairly 
and reasonably be read in a different way.
Ms Ts claim resulted from a disease that was not included in the list of covered diseases. As 
cover was not provided under this area of Ms Ts policy for losses resulting from business 
interruption caused by COVID-19, I am satisfied NFUs decision to decline the claim was in 
line with the policy, and in all the circumstances of this case fair and reasonable.
Having considered the rest of the policy carefully, I do not consider there to be any area of 
cover that means NFU should have met Ms Ts claim. I know this decision will be 
disappointing for Ms T, but I hope Ive provided her with a thorough explanation of why this 
policy doesnt offer cover in the circumstances of this claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 January 2022.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman