DRN-4382967
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D have complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold them a 
fee-paying Premier account in June 2009.
Mr and Mrs D say that they only agreed to the account because Barclays told them that they 
had to have it, due to Mr Ds level of income.
What happened
Mr and Mrs Ds account had been a fee-free Premier account previously, from January 
2004, it was then changed to being a fee-paying Premier Life account in June 2009.
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and they didnt think that Barclays had mis-
sold the account to Mr and Mrs D. Mr and Mrs D disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to 
review their complaint.
Mr and Mrs D have also mentioned that they are unhappy that their account was closed in 
2015. But as our adjudicator has explained, if they remain unhappy with this, they would 
need to refer their concerns to Barclays to allow it to investigate matters first, before we 
could consider that issue. So, this complaint will only be addressing the sale of the Premier 
Life account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr and Mrs Ds complaint.
I think it will be helpful to explain that where evidence is incomplete and matters are in 
dispute, as they are here, I make my decision based on what I think is most likely to have 
happened  keeping in mind everything Ive seen and been told by both parties. And having 
weighed everything up, I dont think Barclays mis-sold the Premier Life account.
Firstly, I have considered whether Mr and Mrs D were given a fair choice in taking out the 
account. 
Mr and Mrs D say that they were told that due to Mr Ds income they were told that they 
would have to agree to a fee paid account. Mr D initially said that this happened when he 
was 29 but that does not line up with when the Premier Life account was sold. What I think 
Mr D recalls is the change from his standard Barclays account to the fee-free Premier 
account in January 2004. I say this because the fee-free Premier account was only available 
to people with a certain level of income. I also cant see that Mr Ds income changed that 
significantly at the time the Premier Life account was taken out. I find it unlikely that Mr D 
would have thought that, due to his level of income being high, he was being penalised and 
needed to upgrade his account yet again, but this time to an account that incurred a monthly 
fee. 
If there was any discussion about level of income at the time of the sale of the Premier Life 
account, I think that it would most likely relate to the fact that there was a discount to the 
monthly fee for the Premier Life account if an account holder paid a certain amount of money 
into the account. I can see that Mr and Mrs D were eligible for this and benefited from it.
Mr and Mrs D used the account benefits shortly after the account was taken out - such as 
using the lounge pass benefit, the breakdown cover and registering for the gadget cover. So 
overall, I think that Mr and Mrs D took out the Premier Life account because of the benefits 
that it came with, rather than because they thought they had to have it.
From my understanding of Barclays sales processes, the account would have likely been 
sold on a non-advised basis. So it would not have been personally recommended to them. 
But given that the main benefits at the time the account was taken out were breakdown 
cover, Travel insurance and Home emergency cover and it seems that Mr and Mrs D did 
travel, owned a home and made a claim on the breakdown cover, if this account was 
recommended to them, it would not have been an unreasonable recommendation.
Therefore, I think its likely that Barclays gave Mr and Mrs D some information about the 
account benefits during the sale, and it was those benefits that in all likelihood attracted Mr 
and Mrs D to the account. I accept its possible that Barclays didnt give Mr and Mrs D all of 
the information it shouldve about all of the other benefits the account came with. But Ive not 
seen anything about their circumstances that makes me think they wouldve been put off 
from agreeing to the account, had they been given more information about it.
I appreciate that with the benefit of hindsight, Mr and Mrs D may now think that that Premier 
Life has been poor value for money. But that in itself doesnt mean that the account was mis-
sold. And so, taking everything into account, I dont think its likely that Barclays mis-sold the 
Premier Life account to Mr and Mrs D. As such, I dont think it would be appropriate to 
require Barclays to refund the account fees that Mr and Mrs D have paid for the Premier Life 
account.
I appreciate that this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs D. But I hope I have been 
able to explain why I dont think the Premier Life account was mis-sold.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 November 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman