DRN-3477006
The complaint
Mr B complains because Simplyhealth Access trading as Simplyhealth hasnt paid a claim 
under his dental insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr B holds a dental insurance policy, provided by Simplyhealth. 
Unfortunately, Mr B was unwell while travelling on the motorway and lost his top dentures. 
Mr B dropped his bottom dentures when cleaning them and made a claim under his policy 
for the cost of replacing both dentures. 
Simplyhealth said the loss of dentures wasnt covered under the Accident section of Mr Bs 
policy. Simplyhealth paid Mr B £137.90 under the Treatment section of his policy, as well as 
£50 compensation for any upset that was caused to him during a telephone conversation. 
Simplyhealth didnt address Mr Bs claim for his bottom dentures. 
Unhappy, Mr B brought his complaint to the attention of our service. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened but said she didnt think 
Simplyhealth had acted unfairly or unreasonably by declining Mr Bs claim. Mr B didnt agree 
with our investigators opinion, so his complaint has been referred to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers should 
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into 
account when making my decision about Mr Bs complaint. 
The terms and conditions of Mr Bs policy provide for Simplyhealth to pay a benefit in the 
event of an Accident. Accident is defined as an incident that happens by chance, which 
could not have been expected, causes a significant dental injury and requires medical or 
dental attention.
The policy doesnt define what is meant by a dental injury. Ive considered various 
dictionary definitions of the word injury, what I think is the ordinary, everyday meaning of 
the word and also the context within which the word is used in Mr Bs policy terms and 
conditions.
Id generally consider a dental injury to involve physical harm or damage to the mouth area, 
usually caused by some form of external force. I dont think Mr B can fairly be considered to 
have suffered a dental injury which damaged either his top or his bottom dentures. 
Therefore, I dont think his claim is covered under the terms and conditions of his policy. 
Furthermore, in relation to Mr Bs claim for his bottom dentures, his policy contains a general 
exclusion for claims for damage to dentures that happens whilst you are not wearing them.
I think the £50 compensation which Simplyhealth has paid to Mr B is fair and reasonable 
compensation for any distress and inconvenience he experienced when speaking to 
Simplyhealth about his claim. 
So, I wont be directing Simplyhealth to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2022.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman