DRN-2837258
The complaint
Mr P complains about the quality of a brand-new car supplied to him under a hire purchase 
agreement with Black Horse Limited trading as Land Rover Financial Services (BHL).
  
What happened
 Mr P is represented in his complaint by his wife. But in order to make this decision easier to 
read and understand I just refer to Mr P throughout. Even if the information I am referring to 
was sent in by Mr Ps wife on his behalf.
In August 2017 Mr P entered into a hire purchase agreement with BHL, under that 
agreement BHL supplied Mr P with a car, for which he made monthly payments. 
Mr Ps stance is that the car that BHL supplied is not of satisfactory quality because within a 
short space of time it was back with the dealership because of problems with the diesel 
particulate filter (DPF). The problems with the DPF kept coming back on off and on over 
around a three year period. In response the dealership and other specialists tried to put 
things right including forced regenerations. Further, Mr P suggests that the car was not fit for 
the purpose for which he acquired it (short city drives) and it was not as described, and this 
also means that the car is not of satisfactory quality. 
Mr P indicated he had reached the end of his tether with the car and no longer trusted it. For 
this reason, he ended that agreement by paying off the finance owed and opted for a 
different make and model of car and a new supply and finance agreement  also with BHL. 
He part-exchanged the car to fund this new deal.
However, all was not well. Mr P tells us that he made a loss on the original contract with BHL 
because what he was able to get in part-exchange for the car did not cover all that he owed. 
Rather he had £3,000 of what he calls negative equity that was rolled into the new 
agreement for the new car. In addition, Mr P suggested he had been landed with a number 
of consequential losses due to this matter. For all these reasons Mr P wanted, amongst 
other things, a refund of his negative equity and of his deposit, and what he saw as his 
consequential losses. 
BHLs position is that it knew nothing about Mr Ps complaint until 36 months after the 
agreement was ended and seven months after Mr P part exchanged the car to get his 
current car. Moreover, Mr P told it that to put things right all he wanted was for it to write off 
the £3,000 of negative equity. BHL upheld the complaint and agreed to this redress. It also 
offered £500 for distress and inconvenience. For all of these reasons BHL thought it had 
done enough. It follows it was not prepared to do anything further.
Once the complaint was with us Mr P also suggested that he wanted back what he called 
hire charges that he said had been added to the agreement and the 6% in interest he had 
paid on the agreement.
One of our investigators took a look at Mr Ps complaint. He thought it was fair and 
reasonable to ask BHL to take further action. In particular, he recommended it write off the 
negative equity, return Mr Ps deposit with interest, refund 15% of the payments Mr P had 
made towards the finance agreement from February 2018 until the date the agreement 
ended in January 2020. Finally, he also recommended that BHL pay Mr P £500 for distress 
and inconvenience.
Mr P accepted our investigators recommendation it seems, But BHL did not. In summary, it 
objected to the recommendation for the following reasons. Mr P had part-exchanged the car 
before complaining to it, so from its perspective it did not get a fair chance to put things right. 
In any event it had given Mr P the compensation he had asked it for. Moreover, it suggested 
Mr P had already benefitted from the deposit and the payments hed made because these 
payments went towards the part exchange value of the car. Whereas, if Mr P had been 
allowed to reject the car then all he would have got back is the deposit that is - £2,800 and 
interest. On this basis getting the £3,000 negative equity written off together with a refund of 
the deposit and some of the repayments actually puts Mr P in a better position than is fair in 
the circumstances. BHL objected to this and called it betterment. For all these reasons BHL 
suggested it was now, unfairly, being penalised because Mr P chose to pay off his 
agreement, buy the car and then part-exchange it before he complained.
BHL asked that an ombudsman take a fresh look at Mr Ps complaint.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
It seems it is not in dispute that the car was not of satisfactory quality when supplied due to 
the issues with the DPF. It follows that both parties agree therefore there has been a breach 
of contract which BHL is responsible for putting right. However, the sticking point here, 
appears to be, how exactly BHL needs to go about putting things right. 
BHL suggests that it is being treated unfairly due to a timing issue that was not of its making. 
Specifically, it suggests if Mr P had come to it sooner, it might have accepted the rejection of 
the car and given him his deposit back but that would have been all he could have fairly 
expected to receive from it. I disagree with BHLs position. Regardless of whether Mr P 
rejected the car or part-exchanged it, it would always have been fair and reasonable to look 
at the impaired usage Mr P had of the car during the times when it was either being 
investigated and/or causing Mr P problems when he was driving it. 
It appears the fault, that made the car of unsatisfactory quality, was intermittent but 
happened frequently enough that Mr Ps usage of the car was impaired, for most of the time 
that he had it. Further, it would also seems that even when the car was running fine, given 
the history of the DPF issues, Mr P was always waiting for the DPF fault to emerge 
unexpectedly once again. Indeed, it seems it was because Mr P could, understandably, take 
no more of this living on tenterhooks, that he decided to end his agreement early by paying 
off the outstanding finance so he could get rid of the car. 
In the circumstances I am satisfied that it is both fair and reasonable that Mr P get an award 
that reflects what he went through. I think 15% of the repayments made from February 2018 (which is the point at which there had been already been a chance to repair the car) until he 
ended the agreement in January 2020 is fair and reasonable.
Moreover, it appears that Mr P had negative equity because the car lost value to such an 
extent that its part exchange value did not cover what Mr P had to pay to end the hire 
purchase agreement. But its instructive to look at what would have happened if Mr P had 
been able to hand back the car, in that scenario BHL rather than Mr P would have borne the 
loss in value in the car. There is no suggestion that the car was sold at an undervalue, 
therefore, the price he got for the car most likely represents the market value. So BHL would 
have been taking that financial hit either way. 
Plus, it does not seem to me that Mr Ps preferred option throughout was to keep the car, 
quite the reverse. I think it is likely if he had been offered the chance to hand back the car, 
get back his deposit and part of his repayments he would have done that. That offer was not 
on the table though. So, I can see why Mr P tried to cut his losses by paying off the finance 
and selling on the problematic car. For all of these reasons I find it is fair and reasonable that 
BHL takes responsibility here for writing off the negative equity of £3,000 from Mr Ps new 
agreement with it.
Further still, Mr P was supplied with a car that was not of satisfactory quality. Ideally he 
should have been able to reject it and get back his deposit. I have already explained why I 
dont think this is unjustly enriching Mr P. In the circumstances, and for the reasons I have 
gone through above I find it is fair and reasonable that BHL should refund Mr Ps deposit.
That said, I dont make any finding about whether the car was appropriate for the type of 
driving that Mr P was doing or whether he was told before he contracted that the car was 
appropriate for frequent short city drives. This is because I dont need to make a finding 
about this specific point in order to say, on balance the car was not of satisfactory quality 
when supplied. And even if I did make a finding about this point, which I have not, I would 
not be giving any more redress than what I have already ordered.
There has been a lot of to and fro here over quite a long period of time. Much of it was 
unnecessary. Im satisfied it caused Mr P distress and inconvenience. On that basis, I find it 
is fair and reasonable that BHL pay Mr P £500 to make up for this as it has already offered 
to do.
Mr P accepted our investigators earlier view. That view did not recommend that BHL pay 
what Mr P suggests were his consequential losses. Therefore, it seems that Mr P is no 
longer raising this complaint point and I will not deal with it beyond saying this. If Mr P was 
still raising this point, I would have found I had no fair and reasonable basis for upholding 
this part of his complaint, I dont agree these losses flow from anything that BHL is 
responsible for.  I also note that Mr P did accept a payment of £1,000 seemingly from the 
retailer and this will offset some of these costs and I did not take the £1,000 into account 
when looking at what BHL had to do to put things right., so Mr P has benefitted from that.
My final decision
 My final decision is that Black Horse Limited trading as Land Rover Financial Services must:
Refund the deposit Mr P paid going by the agreement it has supplied this was 
£2,800. Pay interest on that refund at the rate of 8% simple per year. The interest to 
run from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Refund 15% of the repayments (details of which I set out below) made by Mr P 
towards the finance agreement. This refund is made to reflect Mr Ps impaired usage 
of the car he was supplied with. The refund to apply to the payments he made from 
the date in February 2018 when the car was returned for repairs until the date in 
January 2020 when the agreement ended. BHL must add interest to this refund at 
the rate of 8% simple per year. The interest to run from the date of payment until the date of settlement. 
Write off the £3,000 negative equity from Mr Ps current finance agreement.
Pay Mr P £500 for distress and inconvenience if it has not already done so.
BHL must pay the total compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr P 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of the final decision until the date of payment at the rate of 8% 
simple per year.
If it considers it is legally required to deduct income tax from that interest, it must send a tax 
deduction certificate with the payment (if it able to) so that Mr P can reclaim the tax if he is 
able to.
Mr P should refer back to BHL if he is unsure of the approach it has taken and both parties 
should contact HM Revenue & Customs if they want to know more about the tax treatment of 
this portion of the compensation. 
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2021.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman