DRN-3359122
The complaint
Mr L has complained that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) did not send him the cinema tickets for 
his Club Lloyds account and that they would not refund him the value of these tickets. 
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and she thought that Lloyds didnt need to 
do anything to resolve the complaint.
Mr L disagreed and asked for the complaint to be considered by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we deal with complaints about packaged accounts on our website, and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. Having considered everything that has been 
provided by Mr L and Lloyds, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Mr L selected to receive cinema vouchers as one of the benefits of his Club Lloyds account. 
Lloyds has explained that Club Lloyds account holders receive 6 cinema vouchers each 
year, and the vouchers come with a 1-year expiry date. Mr L selected this benefit in April 
2021 and says he did not receive these tickets. Lloyds has said that it sent him the tickets 
via e-mail and in September 2021 offered to send them again via post. Mr L declined this as 
he says he did not wish to use the cinema tickets as he is a key worker and it is too risky due 
to Covid-19.
I should explain that for me to ask Lloyds to offer compensation in this instance I would need 
to be satisfied of two things. Firstly, that Lloyds did something wrong and secondly that this 
caused Mr L a financial loss. In this case Mr L says that he did not receive the cinema tickets 
whilst Lloyds says that it did send them to him via e-mail. 
Given that Mr L has selected this benefit before, I think that he would have chased for these 
tickets earlier than he did if he wished to use them. Additionally, even if Lloyds had not sent 
them by email as it says it did, Lloyds did offer to send them again in September 2021 - 
which still gave Mr L time to use the tickets before they expired. So, I dont think Lloyds to do 
anything in relation to this part of Mr Ls complaint. 
Mr L has argued that he did not want to use the tickets due to Covid-19 and because he is a 
key worker. So he feels that Lloyds should, as a gesture of goodwill, give him the value of 
the tickets. But ultimately, he chose this benefit, from a list of benefits, in the midst of a 
global pandemic  bearing in mind that the impacts of Covid-19 had been ongoing for over a 
year when he chose the benefits. 
So it was his choice as to whether this benefit was of use to him. So Im unable to hold 
Lloyds responsible if an account holder doesnt go on to use an account benefit that they 
have chosen. Ultimately Mr L asked Lloyds for cinema tickets and these were provided to 
him. 
Finally, I should also add that from the statements that I have been provided with, Mr L has 
not actually paid for the Club Lloyds account, as he met the criteria for the fee being waived. 
So from what I can see he has been provided these benefits essentially for free. As such, 
even if I thought that Lloyds was being unreasonable, I cant see that Mr L had actually 
suffered a financial loss as a result of him being unable to use the cinema vouchers.
I understand that Mr L may feel disappointed by this, especially as Lloyds did offer him a 
gesture of good will the previous year for the cinema tickets. But this at Lloydss discretion, 
and  I cant reasonably ask it to make another goodwill payment when I dont think that 
Lloyds actually did anything wrong.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman