DRN-2669784
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A have complained that Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) unfairly
turned down their business interruption insurance claim after their business was forced to
close due to the Covid-19 pandemic.
What happened
Mr and Mrs A hold a business interruption insurance policy with RSA. They claimed on their 
policy after their business was required to close due to the Governments actions in 
response to Covid-19. They thought their claim should be covered by the extension for 
disease and defects in sanitary arrangements. They said the everyday meaning of 
sanitary was relating to health, promoting health or measures put in place to protect health. 
They also said the policy lacked detail and didnt specifically exclude cover for pandemics. 
RSA said that, while the policy covered business interruption as a result of a notifiable
disease at the premises, Mr and Mrs As business had closed as a result of the Government
Act in response to the national pandemic. It also said they would only be covered for 
defective sanitary arrangements if the premises had to close on the advice of a public 
authority as a result of a defect in the drains at their premises. As there was no indication 
that anyone at Mr and Mrs As premises had Covid-19, or that theyd been required to close 
due to defective sanitation, RSA turned down their claim.
As Mr and Mrs A were unhappy with RSAs response and thought RSA should pay their 
claim, they brought their complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into Mr and Mrs As complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He
thought RSA had turned down the claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
He thought the policy would only cover closure due to Covid-19 if there had been a case at
the premises. As Mr and Mrs A had indicated that the closure was due to the Government 
Act in response to the national pandemic, and there wasnt a case of Covid-19 at the 
premises, he didnt think the claim was covered. He also didnt think Mr and Mrs As 
business had been required to close as a result of defective sanitary arrangements.
Mr and Mrs A didnt think this was fair and referred to the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
(FCA) test case. They asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact on 
Mr and Mrs As business. But for the same reasons the investigator set out, I wont be 
upholding their complaint. Ill explain why. 
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see 
if RSA has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy 
when declining Mr and Mrs As claim. 
The policy contains an extension for Disease, Murder, Suicide, Vermin and Pests. The 
relevant parts of this extension are A and C and Ill deal with these in turn.
Disease
This extension covers loss as a result of:
A) closure or restrictions placed on the Premises on the advice or with the approval of 
the Medical Officer of Health of the Public Authority as a result of a notifiable human 
disease manifesting itself at the Premises
Covid-19 is a notifiable disease but I dont think this term covers Mr and Mrs As claim. I say 
that because the policy requires the closure or restrictions placed on Mr and Mrs As 
premises to have been the result of a case of the notifiable human disease occurring at the 
premises. However, Mr and Mrs A havent indicated that there was a case of Covid-19 at 
their premises. So, this doesnt provide cover for their claim.
Drains or other sanitary arrangements
This extension covers loss as a result of:
     C)  closing the whole or part of the Premises by order of the Public Authority for the             
area in which the Premises are situate as a result of defects in the drains or other 
sanitary arrangements at the Premises
I understand Mr and Mrs A feel that this part of the extension should provide cover because 
their business was closed due to other sanitary arrangements. However, in order to provide 
cover this term would require the closure of their premises to have been because there were 
defects in the sanitary arrangements at their premises, which resulted in the Public Authority 
requiring them to close. I havent seen anything to indicate there were any defects in the 
sanitary arrangements at Mr and Mrs As premises which required them to close. So, 
unfortunately, I dont think this provides cover either.
Mr and Mrs A feel that the policy lacks detail as it doesnt specifically exclude cover for 
pandemics. However, I dont think not having an exclusion for a pandemic means the claim 
should be paid. I say that because the policy sets out what is covered, and I dont think 
theres a term which covers Mr and Mrs As claim.
Mr and Mrs A also referred to the FCAs test case. However, the terms considered in the test 
case were different to those in their policy. And as Mr and Mrs A havent indicated that there 
was a case of Covid-19 at their premises, I dont think the outcome of the test case impacts 
their claim. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr and Mrs A were hoping for, but having considered this 
matter very carefully, I dont think I can fairly ask RSA to pay their claim.  My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 April 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman