DRN-2630947
The complaint
Mr P complains that Morses Club PLC lent to him irresponsibly.  
What happened
Mr P has explained that he took many loans with a company called Shopacheck  which was 
eventually bought by Morses Club. He continued to take loans. 
Morses has explained that it knew Mr P had taken other loans but it does not have any 
records of them. Morses explained that the earlier twenty Shopacheck loans were not 
included in the purchase of accounts and so it says it was not responsible for them.
For the loan approved in August 2013, Morses has summary information only and no details 
surrounding the application process. It explained that the reason was because it was the 
subject of a complaint brought to it more than six years after it had been approved and so it 
was beyond its data retention period. It did give consent for us to investigate the loan 
approved more than six years before the complaint was brought but was not able to provide 
any information about it other than the basic details. 
Mr P has explained the very poor financial state he was in during the lending period and we 
are sorry to hear of it. However, Mr P does not have any records about the lending which 
includes - no copy agreements, no credit file that covers his period of lending with 
Shopacheck or Morses and no bank statements which might have demonstrated some or all 
the loans. And the three about which Morses has limited records are the ones which have 
been assessed. So, there is very limited information from both parties. 
The three loans about which Morses has sent us information are set out in a loan table here. 
Loan Approved Amount Term Repayment 
amountDeclared 
income 
(expenditure)Repaid
1 7 August 2013 £875 50 
weeksNo info No info 12 June 
2014
2 20 June 2014 £400 50 
weeks£14  
actually 
paid £20£200 weekly
(£80)10 February 
2015
3 10 February 
2015£500 50 
weeksAround £20 £180 weekly
(£50)11 February 
2016
One of our adjudicators looked at these three loans as they are the only ones we have any 
information on and he thought that by the third one approved in February 2015 Morses ought 
to have realised that Mr P was not able to continue to take further loans. 
Morses disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. It said that the loan amounts hadnt 
increased significantly. There were no repayment problems until about seven months into 
Loan 3s term of lending.
As no complaint resolution has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Morses needed to 
take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice this means that it 
should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr P could repay the loans in a 
sustainable manner.
 
These checks could consider several different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a 
lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and, the customer should be able to make repayments on time, 
while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ps complaint in part and have explained why below.
 
Mr P has disagreed with what the adjudicator has said in relation to Loans 1 and 2, but he 
has not been able to send us any evidence of the loans or any credit file or bank statements 
for any of the lending period. I think that Mr P has had time to obtain the records and I know 
that he was originally asked for these items in or around September 2020. 
Mr P continues to refer to an earlier complaint about an issue surrounding Morses reminder 
notes posted into individuals homes. But as that was resolved in or around 2016 and did not 
relate to irresponsible lending its not relevant to this complaint. Mr P makes several points about the way the agent(s) acted and dealt with the applications 
for loans which includes, pointing out handwriting differences, saying that the figures for 
income and expenditure did not reflect the correct sums, the agents knowledge about Mr Ps 
difficulties and that he was always offered new loans rather than repayment plans. As theres 
no, or not enough, evidence to substantiate any of these elements of Mr Ps complaint I have 
made no findings on them. I realise Mr P will be disappointed but I cant review and decide 
on information and evidence that is not before me. 
I havent recreated individual, proportionate affordability checks for loan 3 because I dont 
think that it is necessary to do so. Ive looked at the overall pattern of Morses lending history 
with Mr P, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which Morses should reasonably have 
seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Morses should 
have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the circumstances of Mr Ps case, I think that this point was reached by loan 3. I say 
this because:
At this point he had been indebted to Morses for at least 18 months; and  
Mr Ps first loan about which we have brief information was £875 and Loan 3 was for 
£500. So, the amount Mr P was borrowing had reduced but he had been indebted to 
Morses for a significant time and was going to be indebted for a further 50 weeks; 
and 
at this point Morses ought to have known that Mr P was likely borrowing to meet an 
ongoing and increasing need. And this indicates his problems may have been 
worsening; and  
because of these factors, Morses ought to have realised it was more likely than not 
Mr Ps indebtedness was unsustainable. 
Morses says that it thinks the checks it did were enough to show the lending was affordable. 
But I think the lending pattern itself shows the loans werent sustainable.
I think that Mr P lost out because Morses continued to provide borrowing at Loan 3 because:
It had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ps indebtedness by allowing him to take 
expensive credit over a long period of time and
the length of time over which Mr P borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on Mr Ps ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
Im upholding the complaint about loan 3 and Morses should put things right.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Mr P at loan 3, as Im satisfied it ought to have. 
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr P may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between him and this lender which they may not have had with others. If this wasnt a viable 
option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that 
was even possible.Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr P in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable 
to conclude that Mr P would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options. 
So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses liability in this case for what Im satisfied it has 
done wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have given Mr P loan 3.
A) Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr P towards interest, 
fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party where 
applicable, but not including anything it has already refunded.
B) Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr P 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr P originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Morses should pay Mr P the total of A plus B.
D) The overall pattern of Mr Ps borrowing for loan 3 means any information recorded about 
it is adverse, so it should remove this loan entirely from Mr Ps credit file. If Morses has sold 
any of the loans Morses should ask the debt purchaser to do the same.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should 
give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax Morses has deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ps complaint in part and Morses Club PLC should do as 
I have directed above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2021.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman