DRN-1852169
 
The complaint
Mr D complains that Clydesdale bank Plc didn't alert him to possible fraud on his account 
and won't refund money that he's lost as a result.
What happened
Mr D has explained that he saw a car advertised on Gumtree. He contacted the seller to 
express his interest in the car, and they agreed a price of £5,000. The seller suggested 
however that he advertise the car on eBay, so that Mr D would be able to take advantage of 
that business's seller protection scheme. Mr D agreed and then arranged to buy the car 
through eBay. He received payment instructions and sent the payment from his account with 
Clydesdale Bank; the seller said that he was arranging shipment of the vehicle. 
The car didn't arrive, however. Mr D found out that he wasn't protected by the eBay seller 
protection scheme and so contacted Clydesdale Bank. It said that Mr D had authorised the 
payment and that there was little it could do to help. It contacted the seller's bank but was 
told that there was no money left in its customer's account. It said that it didn't consider 
either that it should have identified the payment as potentially fraudulent and taken action to 
warn Mr D of that possibility. 
Mr D referred the matter to this service and one of our investigators considered what had 
happened. He agreed with the bank, however, that Mr D had authorised the payment; he 
didn't think the bank had missed an opportunity to prevent the fraud and so didn't 
recommend that it refund the payment or take any further action. Mr D didn't accept the 
investigator's findings and asked that an ombudsman review the case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I have however reached broadly the same 
conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar reasons.
There's no question of course that Mr D has been the victim of a fraud. It appears that the 
"seller" suggested switching the sale to eBay to make Mr D believe it would be protected and 
that he would have the benefit of that protection. But it seems that the "seller" controlled the 
messages about that and that Mr D consequently paid him directly. In fact, the seller 
protection scheme didn't cover the transaction at all.
What I must consider, however, is the extent to which - if at all - Clydesdale Bank was 
responsible for Mr D's losses. 
As the investigator noted, the usual position is that a bank should act on its customer's 
instructions. In this case, I'm satisfied that Mr D gave an instruction to transfer £5,000 to 
another person's account and that Clydesdale Bank acted on it.Where a person claims to have been a victim of a scam such as this one, I would however 
expect their bank to take reasonable steps to try to recover the money. Again, I'm satisfied 
the bank did that here. Since, however, there was no money left to recover from the 
receiving account, I don't believe Clydesdale Bank  could reasonably be expected to do any 
more. 
I agree too that there was no reasonable opportunity for the bank to identify the payment as 
suspicious. It had been properly authorised and was made from Mr D's mobile phone. Had 
the bank contacted Mr D to ask about it, it seems to me very likely that he would have 
explained that it was a payment for a car he was buying; he wouldn't have decided to act 
differently, since he believed he was making a purchase with the benefit of eBay's seller 
protection. 
Mr D has my sympathy; he's clearly been the victim of a scam. I can't however fairly 
conclude that it was the result of anything the bank did or failed to do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't require Clydesdale Bank Plc to do anything more to resolve 
Mr D's complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Mr D to accept or reject my decision before 22July2020.
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman