DRN-4417018
The complaint
Miss Cs complaint is about a mortgage she has with Topaz Finance Limited trading as 
Heliodor Mortgages. She is unhappy that an offer she made to settle the mortgage debt for 
less than the outstanding balance was not dealt with in a timely manner and was ultimately 
rejected. In addition, shes dissatisfied that when she asked for a redemption statement, it 
had to be sent to her and was dated for the day it was received. As the name of the 
accountholder was not included in the information on the redemption statement, Miss C has 
told us clearing the mortgage was delayed. Overall, Miss C thinks Topaz caused 53 days of 
delays in the process and this resulted in her paying an additional £1,460 of interest. 
What happened
In early 2023 Miss C had a mortgage with Topaz. On 27 April 2023 Topaz received a letter 
from Miss C setting out her situation and asking Topaz to accept £90,000 to clear the 
mortgage.  
On 12 May 2023 Miss C complained to Topaz that her settlement offer had not been 
responded to. During the conversation the complaint was raised in, Miss C was warned 
shortfall offers were not usually accepted. She was also given the timescale for the review to 
happen  within ten working days.
The offer was reviewed three days later, but Topaz was not willing to accept it based on the 
information available at the time. Topaz tried to call Miss C on 17 May 2023 to tell her this 
and ask for the additional information it wanted. Miss C didnt answer the call and so Topaz 
left a message asking her to call back. It also wrote to her asking her to call it. When Miss C 
didnt call, Topaz tried calling her again on 24 May 2023 and left another message for her. 
It was not until 7 June 2023 that Miss C called Topaz. The questions Topaz had were 
answered and the offer was passed back for further consideration. The offer was then 
declined. Topaz tried to call Miss C on 9 June 2023 and left a message for her to call it back. 
It was 21 June 2023 before Miss C was told her offer had been rejected. Miss C was not 
happy about the decision and there were misunderstandings between Topaz and Miss C 
during that call. Miss C expressed dissatisfaction that Topaz had not responded with 
alternatives and discussed with her how she could source the additional funds to pay off the 
mortgage. She was also concerned that as she had told it she had £90,000 available to her, 
Topaz had not attempted to speak to her about what she could do with that money. It was 
confirmed that Miss Cs concerns about how her proposal had been handled would be 
added to the existing complaint. Miss C was transferred to another department, and it was 
confirmed that Topaz couldnt give her advice, and it was suggested that she seek 
independent financial advice. However, it was confirmed that Miss C could make lump sum 
overpayments to the mortgage. Redemption administration fees were explained as was the 
possibility of the interest rate increasing on the sub-accounts if she repaid the original 
mortgage advance first. It was confirmed that further information about what the mortgage 
would cost if certain accounts were repaid would be sent to her. 
A redemption statement was also requested on 21 June 2023. This was sent to Miss C on 
26 June 2023 with an assumed redemption date of 30 June 2023.
On 4 July 2023 Miss C asked for the issues with the redemption statement to be added to 
the complaint. She said she believed Topaz was purposely slowing down the process of the 
mortgage being repaid in order to make more money out of it. The mortgage was repaid on 
the same day.
Topaz responded to the complaint in its letter of 5 July 2023. It apologised for the delay in it 
reviewing the settlement offer and offered her £50 for the inconvenience that had caused 
her. Topaz, however, said that the redemption statement had been issued within its usual 
service standard. As for the payment being delayed because of the incorrect name for the 
accountholder being used, it said that this was a decision by the paying bank, as some did 
accept its trading name, rather than Topaz. It again apologised for any inconvenience 
Miss C was caused.
Miss C was not satisfied with the response and asked the Financial Ombudsman Service to 
consider her complaint. 
One of our Investigators considered the complaint and ultimately, she partially upheld it. She 
concluded the settlement offer process was beset with delays initially, but Topaz attempted 
to progress the matter in a reasonable manner thereafter, but Miss C had not contacted it 
when asked to. However, she concluded that Miss C could have paid the funds she had 
toward the mortgage even before she received a response to the shortfall offer and could 
have reduced the amount of interest she had needed to pay. That said, the Investigator 
considered the compensation payment should be increased to £100 in recognition of the 
upset and inconvenience Miss C had been caused. 
Miss C didnt accept the Investigators conclusion. She reiterated that every day of delay had 
cost her £22 in interest and the only reason shed had a response to her settlement offer 
was because she had constantly chased Topaz. In addition, she didnt think it was 
acceptable for Topaz to have not responded to her request in writing and there had been 
such a delay in the process simply because she had missed a phone call, which she was not 
aware she had missed. Miss C also denied having received any voicemails from Topaz.  
Miss C went on to reiterate her points about the redemption statement and being told at the 
end of June she would need to wait for a new statement to be issued, with the associated 
timescale, before she could pay the mortgage off. Miss C also said that she wasnt told at 
until the end of June that she could pay the £90,000 she had access to as a down payment. 
Topaz didnt accept the Investigators conclusions either. It acknowledged that there had 
been a slight delay at the beginning of the process for the settlement offer being considered, 
but it thought its offer of £50 was sufficient for that error. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Topaz has acknowledged there was a delay in the settlement offer being dealt with initially. 
Based on the service standards Topaz had in place at the time the offer should have been 
dealt with by 11 May 2023, which clearly it was not. However, it does appear once the 
mistake was identified the offer was prioritised, as it was reviewed within three days. 
At that point Topaz was not willing to accept the offer, but rather than rejecting it outright, it 
wanted some more information to ensure it was making the right decision. It asked Miss C to contact it by both leaving a voicemail for her and sending her a letter. She didnt respond. 
Having listened to the telephone call of 21 June 2023, it seems it is plausible that Miss C 
mistook the letter and voicemails with those asking her to call Topaz about the arrears on 
her account, which she had decided not to respond to until she knew the outcome of the 
settlement offer shed made. 
The final decision not to accept Miss Cs offer was made within days of the additional 
information being provided and Topaz tried to contact Miss C at that time. Again, Topaz was 
unable to reach her and left her a message to call back. She didnt do so. 
While Miss C has said that she would have expected Topaz to give its response to the offer 
in writing, I dont consider it had to do that and it is clearly not its process to do so. I would 
confirm at this stage the Financial Ombudsman Service has no power to tell a business what 
policies or processes it has in place. It is clear that Topaz made three attempts to contact 
Miss C when it made its initial decision and wanted more information to review it. It also tried 
to contact her following deciding not to accept the offer. I cant find that it didnt try to relay its 
decision to Miss C.
I note the issue Miss C has raised about the redemption statement. It is normal for lenders to 
have a service standard for providing these documents and five working days is not unusual. 
So I cant criticise Topaz for that. How long it then took to arrive is not within its control. As 
for the parent company name not being included in the redemption statement, rather than 
just the trading name, as Topaz has said, payments regularly go through using the trading 
name. That said, it would have been simple enough for Miss C to speak to either her bank or 
Topaz to check the account holding business name. The process was not perfect, but I dont 
consider that Topaz caused delay in the payment being made, although having to check the 
correct name may have been a little inconvenient. 
That said, overall, the majority of the delays in Miss Cs mortgage being paid off were not 
caused by Topaz. I also note that Miss C had access to funds to significantly reduce the 
mortgage balance, whether her settlement offer was accepted or not. She chose not to do so 
as soon as she could. As such, I am not persuaded it would be reasonable to require Topaz 
to refund any of the interest that accrued on the mortgage from the time Miss C made her 
offer to the point the mortgage was repaid. 
Topaz offered £50 for the inconvenience Miss C was caused by its administration failures. I 
have considered this matter carefully, and I dont think it is sufficient. It is clear that Miss C 
was in financial difficulties and very concerned about losing he home at the time, so feeling 
that she was being ignored by Topaz was distressing for her. I am in agreement with our 
Investigator that a more appropriate sum would be £100, including the amount Topaz initially 
offered in its final response letter.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of the 
complaint I order Topaz Finance Limited to pay Miss C £100 compensation, inclusive of the 
amount it previously offered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman