DRN-2644147
The complaint
Mrs E is unhappy with the fee charged by Ageas Retail Limited (Ageas) when she cancelled 
her car insurance policy.
What happened
In August 2020, Mrs E called Ageas to cancel her car insurance policy which was due to 
expire in a month. Ageas let Mrs E know that a cancellation fee of £50 would apply. This left 
Mrs E with an outstanding balance of £37.11 to pay. 
Mrs E complained as she felt the cancellation fee was disproportionate. She said Ageas 
didnt make her aware of the fees when she purchased the policy. Shes also unhappy 
Ageas sent threatening and harassing correspondence chasing the outstanding balance. 
And that Ageas continued to do so, despite telling them she had complained to our service.
Ageas said the policy documents sent to Mrs E explained the cancellation fee and was 
applied in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. They also felt they had followed 
the correct process in chasing for the outstanding balance. Mrs E remained unhappy and 
referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator said that Ageas had made Mrs E aware of the cancellation fee and it was 
applied in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. She felt the letters sent to Mrs E 
werent threatening. And she didnt think it would be fair to ask Ageas to waive the 
cancellation fee.
Mrs E disagreed with the investigator and asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. 
She feels there shouldnt be a blanket cancellation fee and it should depend on how long is 
left on the policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator for largely similar 
reasons. I know this will be disappointing to Mrs E, so Ill explain why.
Mrs E purchased her policy through a comparison website on 31 August 2019. Ageas sent 
the documents relating to the policy to her online account. The document pack contained the 
policy schedule and policy document.
The Terms of Business Agreement within the policy schedule sets out all the non-
refundable fees and charges. This states that a cancellation fee of £50 would apply after 14 
days from taking out the policy. Based on this, I cant agree Ageas didnt reasonably make 
Mrs E aware of the cancellation fee. 
Id expect a cancellation fee to be proportionate to the administrative task carried out by the 
insurer. And I dont think £50 is an unreasonable amount. It wouldnt be fair to charge 
customers based on how long they have left on their policy. I say this because the insurer is 
carrying out the same administrative tasks whether the policy being cancelled has one 
month left or ten months left. 
Its unfortunate that in this case Mrs E has found herself owing £37.11. But Im satisfied 
Ageas have fairly applied the cancellation fee in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy. So, I dont think theyve done anything wrong in asking Mrs E to pay the outstanding 
balance.
Ive reviewed the volume and content of some of the correspondence Ageas sent to Mrs E. 
Ageas wrote to Mrs E regarding her complaint which Id expect them to. They also sent her 
some letters and text messages about the outstanding balance. It isnt unreasonable for 
Ageas to keep in regular contact with Mrs E and I cant agree the level of contact made in 
this case is excessive.
I also dont believe the correspondence Ageas sent was harassing or threatening in nature. 
Ageas had explained their position to Mrs E on 1 September 2020. So, it wasnt 
unreasonable for them to ask Mrs E for payment, even if she disputed it. 
I think Ageas gave Mrs E a fair opportunity to clear the outstanding balance. She was also 
made aware of the consequences during a phone call on 1 September 2020 and in the letter 
of 28 October 2020  if payment wasnt received, the debt may be passed to a recovery 
agent. 
Since Ageas didnt receive payment, they were entitled to pass the debt to a third party. Im 
satisfied Mrs E was told that this might happen and its also in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy.
Mrs E feels Ageas have continued to harass her about the outstanding balance, while we 
were investigating her complaint. Ageas acted on Mrs Es request and agreed to place a 
hold on chasing her for payment while they addressed her concern. 
In the final response letter dated 13 October 2020, Ageas explained if payment wasnt 
received, theyd continue their collections process. I dont think Ageas were obliged to stop 
contacting Mrs E simply because she complained to our service.
I can see Ageas suggested discussing options, if Mrs E was having difficulties making the 
payment and signposted her to independent organisations for advice. While I havent seen 
any evidence to suggest Mrs E was having difficulties, Ageas have acted as Id expect by 
offering help.
Ageas werent unreasonable in pursuing the outstanding balance  they were within their 
rights to do so. In any event, I cant agree it amounts to harassment.
All things considered, Im satisfied Ageas have treated Mrs E fairly and I wont be asking 
them to waive the cancellation fee.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2021.
 
Ash Weedon
Ombudsman