DRN-3363563
The complaint
Mr B complains that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HLAM) caused 
delays in transferring his Stocks and Shares ISA (ISA) causing him financial loss.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. Below, 
I have highlighted some key dates I think are relevant to the complaint:
22 October 2020: HLAM receive a request to transfer Mr Bs ISA to another provider. 
19 November 2020: Mr B complains about the delay.
17 December 2020: HLAM confirm the transfer is being processed and in-specie 
transfers usually take six weeks.
26 January 2021: The transfer completes.   
HLAM has paid Mr B £100 for what happened. Our investigator recommended HLAM pay 
Mr B a further £100 for its mistake. However, Mr B is seeking an increased amount of 
compensation. As an agreement couldnt be reached the matter has been passed to me for 
a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I broadly agree with the conclusion reached by our investigator for the 
following reasons: 
All parties agree that there was a delay in transferring Mr Bs ISA to another provider. 
When a business has delayed a transfer I firstly need to consider if there was any 
financial impact. Mr B wanted to transfer his ISA funds in specie, which due to the 
nature of the transfer can typically take longer. 
But Ive thought about the timescales HLAM gave Mr B. On 17 December 2020, it 
told Mr B that the process would take around six weeks. Following this, I can see the 
transfer did complete within six weeks of the December date but by this point, the 
transfer was into its eighth week. 
HLAM has said that the delay was due to high business volumes which led to an 
increase in the processing time. So, whilst I understand the reasons for the delays, 
I still need to consider the impact on Mr B. I think HLAM couldve transferred Mr Bs 
funds much quicker than it did and therefore, Ive considered whether he suffered 
any financial loss because of HLAMs delays. 
Mr Bs funds were transferred in-specie which meant that he wasnt out of the 
market whilst the transfer process was taking place. I dont dispute that Mr B wanted 
his new provider to actively manage his fund. And I can see that once the transfer 
was complete Mr Bs fund was sold over time. From January 2021 to June 2021, 
there were various disposals and purchases through Mr Bs account with his new 
provider. But I dont think this sufficiently demonstrates that Mr B was always 
intending to buy or sell specific investments once the transfer was completed.
On balance, I think the evidence supports that Mr B had no specific intention to buy 
or sell immediately on transfer. I think its more likely than not that this was decided 
by the new provider based on an evaluation of Mr Bs holdings at any particular point 
in time. Under these circumstances, I cant fairly say that Mr B lost out on any 
specific opportunity as a result of HLAMs mistakes. So, I wont be asking it to 
compensate Mr B for any financial loss he says hes made.
Nonetheless, I accept HLAM couldve carried out the transfer more quickly. It didnt 
communicate effectively with Mr B to manage his expectations about how long a 
transfer of this type could take. When it did tell Mr B it could take up to six weeks, the 
transfer had already taken eight weeks. 
Putting things right
HLAM has already paid Mr B £100 compensation. But I agree with our investigators 
recommended award of an additional £100 for the distress and inconvenience, 
bringing the total compensation amount to £200 for the mistakes made by HLAM.
For all these reasons, Im upholding the complaint and Im awarding compensation as set 
out above.
My final decision
I order Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited to pay Mr B a further £100 for the 
distress and inconvenience it caused which is in addition to the £100 it has already paid him. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2022.
 
Rajvinder Pnaiser
Ombudsman