DRN-2757234
The complaint
Mr M complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Virgin Money) declined his application 
to open a current account without explaining why. 
What happened
In August 2020, Mr M made an online application to open a current account with Virgin 
Money, but this was declined. Mr M wasnt given a reason for this, so he made a complaint. 
He was concerned about the impact on his credit record and his ability to obtain future credit.
Virgin Money said its system completed several security checks to ensure the account was 
suitable. The precise details of the system used were confidential to the bank, so it wasnt 
able to offer any specific reasons for its decision.
Mr M remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked 
into Mr Ms concerns but didnt think his complaint should be upheld. He said he was 
satisfied, from the information Virgin Money had provided, that it had made a fair decision. 
Mr M disagreed with our investigators view. He said his credit report showed that Virgin 
Money had conducted two anti-money laundering searches using the wrong date of birth. 
Hes sent us a screenshot to support this. Mr M said Virgin Money had the correct date of 
birth as hed submitted his passport as evidence of his identity. He was also not satisfied that 
Virgin Money hadnt made any enquiries regarding the concerns it had. So, his complaint 
has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
I appreciate Mr Ms frustration that Virgin Money hasnt given him a clear explanation as to 
why his application was declined. But Virgin Money can set its own criteria for which 
customers it accepts or declines and it doesnt have to share its reasons for doing so. 
Virgin Money has shown us that it assessed Mr Ms application based on the information he 
provided online. Unfortunately, I cant share the information Virgin Money has given us 
(including the reasons for declining the application) with Mr M as this is commercially 
sensitive. But having reviewed this, Im satisfied that Virgin Moneys decision to decline his 
application was fair. 
Mr M has also raised concerns that Virgin Money used the wrong date of birth when 
completing credit reference agency searches. But the date of birth on the screenshot Mr M 
has sent us, is the same as the one Mr M appears to have provided in his online application. 
So, I cant say Virgin Money was wrong to have used it in the credit search, even if Mr M 
also provided documents showing his correct date of birth. 
I know my answer will be disappointing for Mr M, but I think Virgin Money has acted fairly 
and reasonably. So, I wont ask it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2021.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman