DRN-2665740
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited has turned down an
accidental damage claim they made on their home insurance policy.  
What happened
In October 2020, Mr J got in touch with Lloyds to make an accidental damage claim to his
TV and an iPad. He told Lloyds his child had thrown the iPad on the floor after becoming
upset and it had bounced up and hit the TV. Both items had been damaged.
Lloyds turned down the claim. It said the policy specifically excluded claims where damage
was caused maliciously or deliberately. As Mr J had explained his child had thrown the iPad
deliberately; Lloyds said the claim wasnt covered. However, it did pay Mr and Mrs J £100
compensation because it said theyd been led to believe their claim would be covered.
Mr and Mrs J werent happy with Lloyds decision and they asked us to look into their
complaint.
Our investigator thought Lloyds should reconsider Mr and Mrs Js claim. He didnt think it
was fair for Lloyds to consider that Mr and Mrs Js child wouldve known their actions could
cause damage. So he didnt think it was fair for it to rely on the exclusion clause to turn
down the claim.
Lloyds disagreed. It maintained that a child of Mr and Mrs Js childs age would realise that
throwing an iPad was wrong. It pointed out though that in its file submission to us, itd offered
to reconsider the claim for the TV, because the iPad had bounced when itd been thrown and
unexpectedly hit the TV.
I asked our investigator to put Lloyds offer to Mr and Mrs J. They didnt accept it. They felt
Lloyds should consider the claim for both the Tv and the iPad.  
I issued my provisional decision on 8 March 2021. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I thought Lloyds offer was fair and reasonable. I said:
Mr and Mrs Js policy includes accidental damage cover. Lloyds terms and conditions set
out what it means by accidental damage. It includes the following definition:
An accident that causes physical damage, which is caused suddenly by an outside force
and is not expected and not deliberate.
The policy also includes a section called General Exclusions which lists specific events the
policy doesnt cover. One of these states:
This policy does not cover
Deliberate acts: Any loss, damage or legal liability caused by or resulting from a deliberate,
wilful, malicious, or unlawful act by you, your family, domestic staff tenants or visitors invited
into your home.
Lloyds now accepts that when Mr and Mrs Js child threw the iPad, the fact it bounced up
and hit the TV was unexpected and accidental. So it now accepts that it would be
appropriate for it to consider the claim for the TV under the accidental damage cover set out
in the policy terms and conditions. Im pleased that Lloyds has made this offer to Mr and Mrs
J. Thats because I agree that its unlikely a child couldve foreseen that the TV would
become damaged as a result of them throwing the iPad. And it seems the damage was
unexpected. So I dont think it was fair for Lloyds to apply the exclusion to this part of the
claim.
But I dont currently plan to tell Lloyds to reconsider the claim for the iPad. Mr J told our
investigator that his child had thrown the iPad after they became frustrated during an online
game. So based on what he told the investigator, it seems the iPad was thrown deliberately.
Our investigator didnt think a child of Mr and Mrs Js childs age could be expected to know
right from wrong. However, in my view, a child of Mr and Mrs Js age would be reasonably
likely to be aware of cause and effect. And that therefore theyd likely know theres a strong
chance that if an item is thrown, it will break. So while I appreciate Mr and Mrs Js child didnt
intend to damage the iPad, I think theyd have known there was a least a chance it could
happen.
On this basis, I currently think it was fair and reasonable for Lloyds to conclude that the claim
for the iPad was caught by the scope of the exclusion clause. So Im currently persuaded it
was fair and reasonable for Lloyds to turn down the claim for the iPad.
I asked both parties to send me anything more they wanted me to consider.
Lloyds had nothing more to add.
Mr and Mrs J disagreed with my provisional decision. They said that the iPad had a 
protective case on it. Their child had previously dropped the iPad with the covering on it and 
it hadnt sustained any damage. The damage to it was caused by it falling from the TV unit 
after itd hit the TV and landing floor-side down. Mr and Mrs J believe their child didnt intend 
to damage anything and say their child was unaware of their actions. So they still believe the 
damage was accidental.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I still dont think Lloyds needs to reconsider the iPad claim and Ill explain 
why.
Ive thought about the fact that the iPad had a protective case on it and that itd previously 
been dropped without damage occurring. So I accept that when Mr and Mrs Js child threw 
the iPad after theyd become frustrated; they might not have meant to damage it. But Im still 
persuaded, based on what Mr J told our investigator about the circumstances, that the iPad 
was thrown deliberately. This led to it becoming damaged.  And I still think that given the 
childs age, theyd have been likely to know about cause and effect. So I still think theyd 
have known that despite the protective covering, there was a real chance the iPad would 
break if it was thrown. 
This means I still think it was fair and reasonable for Lloyds to rely on the exclusion clause to 
turn down Mr and Mrs Js claim for their iPad.  Im satisfied that its fair and reasonable for 
Lloyds to reconsider the claim for the damaged TV alone. My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint in part.
I direct Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited to reconsider Mr and Mrs Js claim for
their damaged TV, in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 April 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman