DRN-3412007
The complaint
Mrs P and Mr P complained that Zurich Assurance Limited (Zurich) gave them unsuitable 
investment advice.
This complaint has been brought on behalf of Mrs P and Mr P by a claims management 
company but to keep things simpler, Ill refer to Mrs P and Mr P as the complainants.
What happened
Mrs P and Mr P met with a financial adviser on behalf of Zurich in August 2000. Acting 
on the advisers recommendation, Mrs P and Mr P invested a lump sum of £45,000 in a 
managed bond. 
Mrs P and Mr P felt that they were advised to take too much risk when they invested in 
the managed bond. Zurich replied to say it didnt think it had done anything wrong and 
the adviser had recommended a fund that was suitable. Mrs P and Mr P then 
complained to our service as they still disagreed with Zurich.
Our investigator didnt recommend upholding the complaint. He felt overall that Zurichs 
investment recommendation had been reasonable as it broadly reflected Mrs P and Mr 
Ps risk attitude and met the recorded investment objective of capital growth within the 
fact find that its adviser carried out. Our investigator was satisfied that Mrs P and Mr P 
had ample cash on deposit to fall back on if needed. So, he didnt feel he had seen 
enough to uphold the complaint.
Mrs P and Mr P disagreed. They said they requested a balanced investment, and that is 
not what was recommended. Mrs P and Mr P asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint and so it comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs P and Mr Ps complaint is whether Zurich gave them suitable investment advice. So, 
with this being the case, Ive thought about the following key questions:
thinking about the amount invested and the risk this involved, was the 
investment advice Zurich provided suitable for Mrs P and Mr P?
If so, was Mrs P and Mr P in a strong enough financial position to be able to 
invest?
Zurich has produced paperwork including a fact find document completed by the adviser. 
The fact find in particular, shows that Mrs P and Mr P were asked a series of questions to 
find out what they thought about their financial situation and what they wanted their money to 
achieve. 
There is a section within the fact find about risk and this has been filled out by the 
adviser. This suggests to me a conversation was had between the parties about Mrs P 
and Mr Ps risk attitude. Mrs P and Mr P had some experience of investing up to this 
point. I can see from the documentation that they had invested in an equity ISA and 
held an endowment policy. So, they were discussing their attitude to risk, whilst having 
some experience of investing previously. 
Based on the fact find, which on balance I think would have included the adviser asking 
Mrs P and Mr P about their circumstances, Zurich identified Mrs P and Mr Ps 
investment approach as balanced. This was the second of three options in identifying 
Mrs P and Mr Ps attitude towards investment. The three categories on the fact find form 
were listed as cautious, balanced and adventurous. So, by choosing the middle 
category from those listed, Mrs P and Mr P were demonstrating their willingness to take 
on some risk in order to achieve growth on the capital sum they invested, something 
that the adviser recorded down, that they wanted to obtain. I dont think there was 
anything that was recorded down by the adviser that would have suggested that Mrs P 
and Mr Ps chosen attitude to risk was unsuitable for them, based on what they had told 
Zurich and their circumstances at that time. 
The adviser on behalf of Zurich recommended a jointly owned life managed fund. The fund 
fact sheet provided by Zurich regarding this fund from around that time, describes it as 
follows: 
The Life managed fund aims to provide excellent prospects for long term growth while 
limiting the risks associated with pure equity funds. It accordingly offers a balanced 
investment portfolio, spread across a wide range, including shares, properties, fixed 
interest securities and cash, both in the UK and globally.
The description provided seems to me to fairly reflect and match Mrs P and Mr Ps risk 
attitude and their objectives as shown in the fact find. I dont think Zurich had any reason to 
think that Mrs P and Mr P had misunderstood its advice or that they lacked capacity to 
decide this matter for themselves after having had advice.
I dont know the full extent of discussions about Mrs P and Mr Ps financial situation that 
took place between the parties. But looking at Zurichs fact find document completed 
during the meeting in August 2000, when Mrs P and Mr P sought advice from Zurich, 
they had around £200,000 in a deposit account. Mrs P and Mr P were in employment 
and had two dependants as well as a mortgage with 13 years left to repay. Theres 
nothing to suggest Mrs P and Mr P expected to have any large expenses or that they 
told Zurich they had any big spending plans for their money. 
According to the fact find that Zurich carried out, I think it's fair to say that Mrs P and Mr P 
looked to be in a position where they could afford to invest some of the cash on deposit 
with the aim of capital growth. Mrs P and Mr P looked to invest £45,000, leaving around 
£155,000 on deposit for any unexpected expense. 
I dont think the amount Mrs P and Mr P were looking to invest was too much in their 
particular circumstances and I dont think the adviser ought to have had any concerns at 
this stage about that or that they couldnt afford to invest. So, I dont think Mrs P and Mr 
Ps circumstances at the time including their capacity to invest, would have made Zurichs 
recommendation unsuitable for them.
I think, on balance, that they also had the capacity to take on the risk they had agreed to 
as well. I say this because the amount Mrs P and Mr P were investing from this represented around a quarter of his overall cash reserves. So, I think at the time the 
adviser recommended this investment, Mrs P and Mr P had the capacity to absorb any 
losses from the assets they held. 
Taking everything into account, I think Mrs P and Mr P knew they were signing up to a 
level of risk for this particular investment in order to obtain the capital growth they hoped 
for, and they held the capacity to take on this risk. The investment seemed affordable 
for them too. All in all, this leads me to conclude that I havent seen enough to make me 
think that the bond was too risky for Mrs P and Mr P or otherwise unsuitable or that any 
other advice Zurich provided was unsuitable.
I appreciate that what I've said here will come as a disappointment to Mrs P and Mr P, but I 
hope  setting things out as Ive done helps explain why I've come to this overall conclusion.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mrs P and Mr Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 December 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman