DRN-3077228
The complaint
Mr C complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) declined his application to 
extend the term of his mortgage. He also said that Halifax has given him poor customer 
service and that has resulted in him not being able to take out a fixed rate and make other 
changes to the mortgage.
What happened
Mr C has an interest only mortgage with Halifax when the term ended in 2017, Halifax 
agreed a five year extension with a two-year fixed interest rate. The term due to end in 2022. 
The mortgage reverted to the standard variable rate (SVR) from 31 October 2019. Mr C said 
he had been trying unsuccessfully to take out a new fixed rate since then.
In 2019 Mr C asked Halifax to:
Extend the term of the mortgage by five years or provide a lifetime interest only product 
with a fixed interest rate.
Provide a further advance for home safety improvements.
Add his wife, Mrs C, to the mortgage.
Refund the difference between what they have paid on the SVR and what they would 
have paid on a fixed interest rate.
The investigator thought the complaint should be upheld in part. She didnt think Halifax had 
acted unfairly apart from not properly considering Mr Cs request to add his wife to the 
mortgage. She said Halifax should consider an application to add Mrs C to the mortgage and 
give Mr C the reasons for the decision it reaches.
Halifax later added that it was prepared to offer Mr C a retirement interest only mortgage, 
provided the balance was reduced by £10,000 and he received mortgage advice.
Mr C didnt accept what the investigator said. He made a number of points, including:
Mrs C was the most important element of this complaint. Due to her medical condition, 
being in familiar surroundings was important for her  and this was supported by a letter 
from her doctor.
Halifax had wrongly concluded that he had £170,000 in his personal bank account. His 
accountants have confirmed that £110,000 of that was third party corporate funds. Only 
£60,000 was personal savings and this would reduce further paying for the cost of 
building works to alter the property for Mrs C, reducing the current mortgage by £10,000 
and any future medical costs for Mrs C.
He had not sold parts of his business. Rather pension lump sums they originally intended 
to use as a repayment vehicle were put into an annuity to increase their retirement 
income. 
He was never told he had been offered a retirement interest only mortgage  this should 
have been brought to his attention earlier. And in any case, these mortgages last for the 
borrowers lifetime, so there is no need for any repayment vehicle to be considered.
The family business provided a suitable repayment vehicle to replace the pension lump 
sums. He has evidence from his accountants showing assets of around £450,000.  But 
they have been advised not to sell at this point.
The application was declined because he didnt have a suitable repayment vehicle. That 
is not a valid excuse. The bank was trying to avoid giving them a competitive interest 
rate while creating unnecessary costs and distress for him and his wife. 
Two mortgage brokers have confirmed that he has sufficient income for the current 
mortgage of £152,000 to be affordable.
Halifax was trying to intimidate him and his wife. What should have been a relatively 
simple request has involved lawyers, accountants, doctors, their MP, our service and two 
mortgage brokers.
I understand that Mr C has now taken a retirement interest only mortgage with Halifax, 
without the need to reduce the balance. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
term extension and further advance
The FCA introduced new rules for mortgages in 2014. Those rules made it more difficult to 
get an interest only mortgage and required more stringent affordability requirements than 
were in place before. They also included what are known as transitional arrangements. The 
transitional arrangements allowed lenders to waive the new affordability requirements in 
certain circumstances for borrowers with mortgages that pre-existed the new rules, if the 
proposed changes were in the borrowers best interests.
In this case Mr C wanted to borrow additional money. Technically, that meant that Halifax 
was entitled to carry out full affordability checks and apply the new rules in respect of interest 
only borrowing. Im satisfied that when Halifax carried out those checks the stated 
repayment vehicle  the sale of the business  wasnt acceptable to it under its standard 
criteria. I accept that Mr C considers that it was an adequate repayment vehicle. But in these 
circumstances, it was for Halifax to decide what repayment vehicles it is prepared to accept. 
Even if Halifax were to have considered whether an extension was in Mr Cs best interests. I 
dont consider it was. I know Mr C will disagree with this, as he is entitled to. But the 
assessment of what is in his best interests should be made objectively. The mortgage had 
already been extended once by five years. I understand the planned repayment vehicle was 
used for a different purpose by Mr C. 
Further, Mr C had the funds available to repay the mortgage (if I accept what he says about 
the value of his business). But he said he had been advised by his accountants that it wasnt 
right to sell it at the moment. The difficulty is that we dont know what the value of the 
business will be in five years time. I note his point about the amount of savings that were actually his.
Most importantly, the reason for the extension was that Mrs C had a need to remain in the 
same property because of her medical condition. I dont consider it would have been 
reasonable for Halifax to agree a short-term extension. Mrs Cs condition might get worse 
and she would be faced with moving when she was older if she and Mr C did not have the 
means to repay the mortgage in full at that time.
Overall and for the reasons above, I dont consider that a five-year extension was in Mr Cs 
best interests  taking an objective view.
In any event, because Mr C wanted to raise more money Halifax was entitled to apply its 
usual checks. Is satisfied that Mr Cs proposed repayment vehicle wasnt acceptable to 
Halifax and this decision was made fairly.
adding Mrs C to the mortgage
Halifax has explained that Mr C should phone its end of term team if he wants to add his wife 
to the mortgage. I consider this is reasonable unless Mr C has any disabilities, which I am 
not aware of, that prevent him using the phone. If so  or he needs the correct contact 
number - he should get in touch with our investigator, who will be able to help.
switching interest rate
I can see that Mr C wrote to Halifax on 11 November 2019. But that letter does not include a 
request to switch product. And on 18 March 2020, Halifax gave Mr Cs solicitors details of 
what he needed to do to switch products. It was reasonable for him to take those steps if he 
did wish to change products.
Looking at the evidence we have, I dont consider that there has been any error by Halifax 
which led to the product not being switched. Mr C has referred to an offer from Halifax to 
backdate the interest rate. I havent seen any such offer. 
retirement interest only
I was glad to hear that Mr C has been able to arrange a retirement interest only mortgage 
with Halifax. He has questioned why he wasnt offered this at an earlier stage. I can see that 
Halifax did consider this, but its policy was that it couldnt offer this product where there was 
more than two years remaining on the mortgage. Mr C is correct that there was no need to 
have a repayment vehicle. But Im satisfied that Halifax initially did not suggest this product 
to Mr C for other legitimate reasons.
In May 2021, when Halifax spoke to Mr C about retirement interest only originally, he told it 
he was looking to sell his home. So Halifax said the product wasnt suitable for him. Thats 
because he would be tied into a fixed rate product with an early repayment charge. It was 
reasonable for Halifax to say that product wasnt suitable for Mr C based on what it knew at 
that time.
service
Halifax hasnt handled this as well as it could. It ought to have replied to Mr Cs original 
letter. But it has already paid Mr C £250 for any distress and inconvenience caused to him 
for that. I think that is fair. It was Mr Cs decision to instruct solicitors, but I dont consider 
they were necessary for Halifax to deal with his complaint. So I dont think it should meet 
those costs.Mr C said that Halifax has failed in its duty of care and that he has incurred unnecessary out 
of pocket expenses. 
Ive already found that Halifax was entitled to carry out the checks it did when Mr C applied 
for the term extension. Unfortunately, there is a degree of stress, inconvenience and cost in 
that  particularly so in Mr C and his wifes circumstances. But I dont think that was due to 
any error by the bank. It reflects how it looks at applications of this nature.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I think the payment already made to Mr 
C by Halifax is sufficient compensation for the errors it made.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2021.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman