DRN-2062505
The complaint
Mr T complains that Monzo Bank Ltd blocked his account for more than 30 days without 
giving him a reason. Mr T would like access to his money, a reason why his account is 
blocked and compensation
What happened
Mr T has two accounts with Monzo.
Monzo undertook a review and whilst it reviewed the accounts it blocked them.
Mr T says that his account was blocked on 4 August 2019. He didnt know why the account 
was blocked. He made numerous contacts with Monzo who didnt give him a reason for the 
block. Mr T complained to Monzo. Monzo said they blocked his account following a review. 
They were unable to give reasons for the block, but said they were complying with their 
regulatory obligations. Monzo unblocked Mr Ts account on 20 September 2019. Mr Ts 
account was closed on 23 October 2019.
Mr T was unhappy with Monzos response. He complained that the bank wouldnt tell him 
anything and he was unhappy about the length of time that the account had been blocked. 
He said that his wages couldnt go into his account and he couldnt pay the rent for his shop 
or buy food for his children.
Monzo said they should have kept Mr T informed and offered him £200 compensation for the 
inconvenience. Mr T accepted this, and it was paid into his account.
He remained unhappy about not being given a reason, so he complained to our service.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He said that Monzo were entitled to 
review the account and block it but agreed that Monzo had taken too long to unblock the 
account. He thought the £200 awarded was reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr T was unhappy with the view. He said he wanted more compensation, in the region of 
£5,000 and that he thought his account had been blocked for much longer than Monzo said.
Our investigator looked at the complaint further. He thought that Monzo had kept the account 
blocked for an extra month. And in view of this he thought that Monzo should do more to put 
things right. So, he said the bank should pay Mr T a total of £400.
Monzo disagreed with the view. They said the account had been unblocked on the 
20 September 2019 and Mr T had used the account since then. They accepted the account 
had been shortly suspended on the 6 October. But since Mr T had used the account from 
20 September 2019 to the closure date of 23 October 2019, they didnt think it was fair to 
award Mr T a further £200 in compensation.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me for decision.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I am minded to reach a 
different conclusion as that reached by the investigator and I will explain why below.
Anti-money laundering regulations and UK legislation, place extensive obligations on 
regulated financial businesses to verify a customers identity, establish the purpose and 
nature of the business relationship and the origin of funds. Businesses are also required to 
carry out ongoing monitoring of an existing business relationship. Monzo has said that Mr Ts 
account was blocked to meet these legal requirements.
Mr T has said he doesnt know why his account was blocked. He says the blocks meant he 
couldnt pay his mortgage or buy food for his children. 
Whilst I understand Mr Ts strength of feeling, as Ive already explained businesses have a 
legal obligation to comply with various laws and regulations. Having looked at the 
information Monzo relied upon, Im satisfied that Monzo were complying with its legal and 
regulatory obligations when it blocked Mr Ts account. So, I cant say it has done anything 
wrong. The terms and conditions of Mr Ts account also permit Monzo to block an account. 
Having considered those terms, Im satisfied Monzo acted in line with them. 
I know Mr T wants Monzo to explain the reason it blocked his accounts. And I can 
understand Mr Ts frustration that he hasnt been provided a detailed explanation. But as the 
investigator has explained, Monzo is under no obligation to provide this information to him, 
as much as hed like to know. So, I cant say Monzo has done anything wrong by not 
providing this information to him. 
Ive already said that Monzo has procedures it must follow to comply with its legal and 
regulatory obligations. Im satisfied that is what it was doing when it reviewed and blocked 
Mr Ts accounts. So, I dont think it has done anything wrong.
However, Monzo have accepted that they blocked Mr Ts account for longer than they 
should have and have offered him £200 in compensation. 
Mr T has said his account was blocked longer than 4 August 2019 to 20 September 2019. 
So Ive looked at how long Mr Ts account was blocked for. I have seen evidence that the 
account was in fact unblocked on 20 September 2019 and the account remained accessible 
to Mr T until 23 October 2019, when Monzo closed the account.
I have considered the impact that the account being blocked had on Mr T. The account was 
blocked between 4 August 2019 and 20 September 2019 and Monzo have already said they 
blocked it for longer than they should. Monzo have awarded £200 for the inconvenience that 
was caused him. So my provisional decision was that I considered this to be a fair and 
reasonable amount. In deciding this I have taken into account that Mr T had other accounts 
which he was able to use which would reduce the impact of having an account blocked. So I 
think Monzo has done enough to put things right.So subject to any further representations by Mr T and Monzo I was minded to reject the 
complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr T has said he has never held two accounts with Monzo. He has said he is unhappy that 
he had to struggle to buy food and pay rent for three months, he doesnt think £200 
compensation is enough. 
Monzo has also said it has nothing further to add to the decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered again my provisional findings in the light of Mr Ts response to it.
Mr T has said that he has never held two Monzo accounts. I apologise for this and I accept 
that Mr T only has one account with Monzo, however he does have a savings pot within that 
one account which I see he has used regularly. 
Mr T also said that his account was blocked for three months and he struggled to buy food 
and pay for rent. In my original decision I said that the account was unblocked on 
20 September 2019. I have reviewed the evidence again and I am satisfied that the account 
was unblocked on the 20 September 2019 and the account remained accessible to Mr T 
until 23 October 2019, when Monzo closed the account. So I dont think the account was 
blocked for three months.
I appreciate that Mr T found the closure difficult and that he wasnt able to access money in 
the blocked account. However, having looked at the evidence afresh in the light of Mr Ts 
comments, I still consider that £200 compensation is fair and reasonable as Mr T had access 
to other accounts during this period, which reduced the impact of having his Monzo account 
blocked.
For all these reasons and the reasons outlined in my provisional decision, my view on what 
the fair and reasonable outcome on this case is remains the same as set out in my 
provisional decision
My final decision
My final decision is that I reject the complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 September 2020.
 
Ombudsman