The complaint  
Mr G complains that Nationwide Building Society restricted his account without a reason. He  
would like access to his funds and compensation.  
What happened  
The facts which led to Mr G bringing his complaint to our service are well known to both  
parties, so I am not repeating them in full here  
In summary Nationwide blocked Mr Gs account. He was asked to provide documents to  
show proof of entitlement to funds.  Mr G did so but Nationwide have not unblocked the  
account. Mr G has complained of lack of communication from Nationwide and incorrect  
information. At the time of writing the account remains blocked.  
Nationwide have said they will be closing Mr Gs account . 
Mr G has told us the impact of the block is that he has been unable to pay for medical  
treatment for himself and a family member. Hes been unable to work, and the restrictions  
has affected his physical and mental health.  
Our investigator concluded that Nationwide was acting in line with its legal and regulatory  
obligations. And that their review was still ongoing and is active. No delays have been  
identified. He said they were entitled to decide to close Mr Gs account. The investigator said  
Nationwide h ad been updating Mr G when he contacted them but as the investigation is  
ongoing there is not much they can tell Mr G. He thought it was fair for Nationwide to require  
an itemised cost of the medical expenses before they could consider releasing any funds.  
Mr G was unhappy with the view. He said the investigator had overlooked his vulnerable  
medical condition. He thought the investigators conclusions were flawed and unfair.  
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why  
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and  
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Firstly. I would like to thank Mr G for all the thorough documentation he has provided this  
service especially at a time when things have been difficult for him professionally and  
personally. Im also aware that I have summarised the events in this complaint in far less  
detail than the parties and using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by me in taking  
this approach. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow  
me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to  
the courts.  
I would like to reassure Mr G that I have looked at a ll the information he has provided in  
detail. And if I dont refer to particular information in my decision that doesnt mean I havent  
DRN-4230512looked at it. Ive considered all of the information, but I dont believe its necessary to  
address each and every point  that Mr G has made in order to meet my statutory duty to  
determine his complaint. Im required to do that with minimum formality, and so Ill address  
the issues that I consider to be the most important. I do stress however that Ive considered  
everything that Mr G and Nationwide have said before reaching my decision.  
 
Mr Gs main concern is that his account has been blocked since 23 March 2023 and he  
hasnt had access to his funds. Mr G has told us he has provided a lot of information to  
Nationwide to satis fy their enquiries regarding the source of funds in his account so he cant  
understand why they wont unblock his account and allow him access to his funds.  
 
Ill start by setting out some context for the review of Mr Gs account. UK legislation places  
extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses. Financial institutions must establish  
the purpose and intended nature of transactions as well as the origin of funds, and there  
may be penalties if they dont. This applies to both new and existing relat ionships. These  
obligations override all other obligations. I know that Nationwide originally asked Mr G for  
proof of entitlement to a payment of £800 into his account. Mr G provided some information.  
Nationwide then requested further information regarding  the funds in Mr Gs account. I am  
satisfied Nationwide were complying with these obligations when they initiated the review of  
Mr Gs account and asked him to provide more information.  
 
Mr Gs concern is that the review is still ongoing, and hes had no ac cess to funds since  
March 2023. I have looked at the actions of Nationwide in particular whether they have  
caused unnecessary delay in the review of Mr Gs account. Having looked at the information  
provided to me by Nationwide Im satisfied that Nationwide  havent caused any unnecessary  
delays and their review is still ongoing. I appreciate Mr G has mentioned that some of the  
staff have been on holiday during the review period and he thinks that staff at Nationwide  
havent done anything for quite some time but are keeping his account blocked because of  
inefficiencies or delays. Id like to reassure Mr G that is not the case. Unfortunately, there is  
no time scale for account reviews and in some instances, reviews can take time to complete.  
This is such a case. I appreciate this will be extremely frustrating to Mr G but from what Ive  
seen Nationwide are progressing the review as I would expect, and I am satisfied there have  
been no undue delays.  
 
Mr G has complained tha t Nationwide wont give him access to funds in his account for living  
and medical expenses. Traditionally a bank will allow a customer access to benefits or  
wages in these types of review. However, I note that Mr G isnt on benefits and his income  
isnt de rived from wages but from business. I can see why Nationwide couldnt give Mr G  
access to funds. I note that Mr G has been helped by family and friends with day to day  
living expenses.  
 
Mr G has told us of his worsening medical conditions and of how the blo ck on his account  
has caused him a great deal of mental stress, anxiety and suicidal thoughts. In addition, he  
has mentioned his family relative, who he helps with medical bills is unable to receive  
medical treatment whilst the account is blocked. I am dee ply sorry for all these issues which  
Mr G is suffering.  
 
I note in the correspondence that Nationwide offered to give access to some funds for  
medical expenses. Mr G has provided Nationwide with a treatment plan. Nationwide asked  
for more specific informati on about medical expenses like essential prescriptions which they  
would consider releasing limited funds for if Mr G provided medical evidence. I note Mr G  
was unhappy with this and said he wanted access to all his money not just some of it.  
Nationwide hav e agreed to allow Mr G access to £250 to cover the cost of his prescription  
medication.  
  
Although I appreciate the frustration Mr G was experiencing, I can see that Nationwide were  
trying to help Mr G within the context of complying with their legal and reg ulatory obligations.  
I dont think they have acted unfairly here.  
 
Mr G has complained that Nationwide havent kept him informed of what has been  
happening with his account and the progress of the review. More importantly when he could  
expect access to his funds. I have looked at the information provided in particular the notes  
of calls and email provided to me by Mr G. I can see that Mr G was aware of what was  
happening as he was contacting Nationwide regularly. From Nationwides point of view, they  
are not able to provide an update to Mr G other than that the review is ongoing. I can see  
that Mr G would want daily or even hourly updates. I can imagine this is extremely stressful  
for Mr G, but I cant say that Nationwide havent kept him  informed.  
 
The investigator thought Nationwide shouldnt ask Mr G for information that he had already  
provided, and I agree but Im satisfied this hasnt caused delays in the review of Mr Gs  
account.  
 
I know that Mr G will be deeply disappointed and upset with my decision but having looked  
at the information available to me Im satisfied that Nationwide were entitled to review Mr Gs  
account. The review is still ongoing, and I can see Nationwide havent caused delays and  
they are progressing things as I wou ld expect. Nationwide are entitled to hold on to Mr Gs  
funds whilst they carry out the review of his account.  
 
My final decision  
 
For the reasons stated above I dont uphold this complaint.  
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to  ask Mr G to accept or  
reject my decision before 11 October 2023.  
 
 
 
 
 
Ombudsman  