DRN-3384448
The complaint
Miss S complains that Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) wouldnt accept a claim 
she attempted to make for a faulty appliance.
 
Im aware that Miss S has also raised a complaint against her bank, which shes also 
brought to our service. In this decision Ill only be considering the actions of D&G.
Miss Ss friend is representing her in this complaint. For ease, Ill refer to anything hes said 
as being said by Miss S.
What happened
Miss S held a packaged bank account which she understood to include extended warranty 
cover with D&G. 
In early 2020, Miss S attempted to make a claim for a faulty fridge, D&G told her that it 
wasnt covered because she hadnt registered the appliance. This meant that she wasnt 
entitled to have the fridge repaired.
In mid-2021, Miss S complained to D&G. Miss S was concerned that she was paying £6 a 
month to her bank for an insurance plan. Shed been in contact with the bank and said they 
werent able to tell her what she was paying for. She said that the bank had told her to get in 
touch with D&G.
D&G told Miss S that it could find no evidence of premiums being paid to it. She would have 
needed to register her appliance within 90 days of purchase for it to have been registered on 
D&Gs system. D&G suggested Miss S speak to her bank because she appeared to have 
been making payments to them, rather than D&G.
Miss S remained unhappy and asked our service to consider her complaint. Our investigator 
looked into her concerns but didnt think her complaint should be upheld. She concluded that 
Miss S didnt have an insurance policy with D&G because she hadnt registered the 
appliance within 90 days of purchase. She said that the £6 monthly payments were being 
paid to the bank, rather than D&G.
Miss S disagreed with our investigators view. Her representative commented that Miss Ss 
first language isnt English and neither the bank or D&G had verified information about her 
insurance needs. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
Miss S was paying £6 a month for a packaged bank account, which meant she was entitled 
to several benefits. The available benefits are set out in the banks terms and conditions with 
extended warranty listed under features youll need to register for. Beneath this it says:
Your new domestic appliances can now be protected for an additional 12 months  on top 
of your manufacturers cover  against breakdown, accidental damage and, if your freezer 
fails, food spoilage All purchases must be registered within 90 days of purchase.
Ive listened to a recording of Miss Ss phone conversation with D&G from February 2020. In 
this call, Miss S said she hadnt registered her fridge with D&G because she wasnt aware 
that shed had to. After taking Miss Ss details, the D&G representative confirmed that no 
appliances for Miss S were registered with it. 
In another recording (from 2021) Miss Ss representative said that Miss S had attempted to 
register the appliance by telephone. He suggested that D&G might not have noted the 
appliance she wanted to insure. 
 
However, the banks terms and conditions also say: Once you have registered an 
appliance, we will send you a confirmation letter setting out the details of the plan for that 
appliance. And Miss S hasnt provided a confirmation letter or any other evidence to show 
that she registered the fridge with D&G. So, I dont think she was likely to have registered 
the appliance. 
I understand Miss S believes she was paying £6 a month for insurance. 
In the Extended Warranty Cover section of the banks terms and conditions it says:
Theres no limit to the number of items you can register in one year, although you must 
register new appliances within 90 days of purchase. Please note, each appliance will be 
protected under its own separate plan.
I havent seen anything to suggest that Miss S registered any appliances with D&G. So, 
based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that there was no insurance cover in place for her.
The banks terms and conditions show D&G was the insurance provider for the extended 
warranty cover and some other types of cover. But the £6 a month she was paying to the 
bank was for various benefits, some of which werent insurance. So, Im not persuaded she 
was paying any insurance premiums. Rather, she was paying the bank for access to certain 
features that she may or may not have taken advantage of.
Ive seen nothing to suggest that D&G had an obligation to contact Miss S to ask her about 
her insurance needs. The terms and conditions provided by the bank allowed her to register 
an unlimited number of appliances for extended warranty cover (provided they met certain 
criteria). So, her insurance needs may have changed if she purchased other appliances. 
D&G would have no way of knowing about these if she didnt register the items with it.
I appreciate that English isnt Miss Ss first language and she might not have understood 
what she was required to do. But D&G didnt sell her the package, so I cant say its 
responsible for ensuring that Miss S was given clear information about it.
I know my answer will be disappointing for Miss S, but having considered all of her points, I 
havent found reason to uphold her complaint.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Miss Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman