DRN-3997584
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy Santander UK Plc (Santander) gave them misinformation about 
securing new interest rates on their mortgage and loan.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H took out a mortgage with Santander on 30 November 2017. They were on a 
fixed rate that was due to expire in December 2022. 
A few years later, on 8 November 2021 Mr and Mrs H took out a new loan. The new loan 
was also on a fixed rate, due to expire shortly after the mortgage, in January 2023.
Mr and Mrs H phoned Santander on 1 August 2022 to discuss arranging new fixed rates for 
both accounts. They were told it was too early to do this for their loan, but they could arrange 
a new rate for their mortgage, ready to start in December. Mr and Mrs H say they were told 
to call back in September to arrange a new fixed rate for the loan. But, when they called 
back to do this, they were told they couldnt make any further amendments until their 
ongoing application completed in December.
Mr and Mrs H think Santander should have allowed them to secure a new rate for their loan 
in September  like they were told in the call. They have had to wait to apply for a new rate 
and in the meantime the interest has gone up, so their loan will be more expensive. 
Santander looked into Mr and Mrs Hs concerns and accepted they were given some 
misinformation during the call that took place on 1 August. Mr and Mrs H were incorrectly 
told they could call back in September to arrange a new rate for the loan. But, as only one 
application could be pending at a time, they should have been told they would have to wait 
until 3 December 2022 to apply for a new rate on their loan. Or, they could have waited until 
September and applied for new rates on both accounts at the same time.
Santander asked Mr and Mrs H if they wanted to move to the new rate on their mortgage 
earlier than planned. This would allow them to go ahead and secure a new rate on the loan. 
Santander also offered to cancel the ongoing application and apply for a new rate for both 
the mortgage and the loan. Mr and Mrs H didnt accept either of these options and kept 
things as they were, which meant waiting until December to change the interest rate on the 
loan.
Santander apologised for the misunderstanding and paid Mr and Mrs H £250 to say sorry for 
any stress or inconvenience caused.
As Mr and Mrs H remained unhappy, they referred their complaint to this service. Our 
investigator looked into what happened, but they didnt think Santander needed to do 
anything else. Mr and Mrs H disagreed, so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Mr and Mrs Hs complaint should be upheld, and Ill explain 
why.
Santander has accepted that it gave Mr and Mrs H the wrong information over the phone on 
1 August 2022, so I dont need to look into that further. But I do need to decide what Mr and 
Mrs H would have done if theyd been given the correct information. And how Santander 
could put them back in that position now. 
If Mr and Mrs H had been given the correct information, their options would have been as 
follows:
Move to another lender, which would have meant either waiting for both of their fixed 
rates to end or paying early repayment charges (ERCs).
Wait until September 2022 to apply for a new rate on both the mortgage and the 
loan.
Secure the new rate on the mortgage and wait until December 2022 to secure a new 
rate for their loan.
Mr and Mrs H say they would have moved to a different lender, but I dont think they would 
have. I say this because Mr and Mrs H were attempting to secure new rates with Santander 
as early as possible, and I think this indicates they didnt want to pay any ERCs to go 
elsewhere. And if they wanted to avoid ERCs, they would have needed to wait until the fixed 
rate on their loan ended in January 2023 to move to another lender. Im satisfied they 
wouldnt have wanted to do this either, because they were concerned that interest rates 
were rising and would be even higher by January. So, I think Mr and Mrs H would more likely 
than not have stayed with Santander and I dont think they would have left even if they were 
given the correct information during the call in August 2022.
Santander gave Mr and Mrs H the option to cancel the ongoing application and apply for a 
new rate for both the mortgage and the loan, which would have been the second option 
available to them. Mr and Mrs H didnt accept this option either.  Mr and Mrs H decided to 
keep things as they were, which meant waiting until December to change the interest rate on 
the loan. So, of the three options that would have been available to them at the time of the 
call in August 2022, Im satisfied Mr and Mrs H have been offered solutions that would give 
them those three options now. And they chose to keep the rate they secured on their 
mortgage in August and to wait until December to secure a rate for their loan.
I understand Mr and Mrs H have suggested Santander could give them a fixed rate that was 
available for their loan in September. But as Ive explained above, they could only have had 
this if they agreed to cancel their application for the new rate on their mortgage. This would 
have meant losing the rate they had secured for that which Mr and Mrs H didnt want to do. 
While Mr and Mrs H may not think this is fair, what they want was never an option for them  
even if theyd been given the correct information at the time. 
Santander also offered Mr and Mrs H the option to move to the new rate on their mortgage 
earlier than planned, which would have allowed them to go ahead and secure a new rate on 
the loan. This is an additional option that wouldnt have been available to them had the error 
not occurred. Mr and Mrs H didnt wish to do this, possibly because their existing rate was 
quite a lot lower than the new rate they had applied for. But I think it was fair of Santander to 
give them another option and I dont think theres much more it could have done.Considering everything, I think Santander gave Mr and Mrs H options to put them back in the 
position they would have been in. Mr and Mrs H then chose how to progress and I think its 
more likely than not they would have done the same had they been given the correct 
information from the start. Santanders apologised for the misunderstanding and paid Mr and 
Mrs H £250 to say sorry for any stress or inconvenience caused. Ive thought about this 
carefully and I think this fair, particularly considering I dont think Mr and Mrs H would have 
done anything differently. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman