DRN-3110812
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that AXA Insurance UK Plc has turned down a curtailment claim they
made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs L had planned a two-centre holiday and they booked flights through a travel
agent. They were due to travel to a country Ill call A on 9 March 2020 and then fly on to a
country Ill call N on 28 March 2020. They were scheduled to fly back from N to the UK on 4
April 2020. Mr and Mrs L travelled abroad to A as planned on 9 March 2020.
However, due to the Covid-19 pandemic, on 17 March 2020, the Foreign & Commonwealth
Office (FCO) advised against all but essential travel abroad. As a result of the developing
situation, Mr and Mrs Ls airline cancelled their flight to N and refunded these tickets costs
(of around £380 per person) to the travel agent. Mr and Mrs Ls travel agent put this refund
towards the cost of a new, return flight from A to the UK, which didnt include any stop in N.
Mr and Mrs L travelled home early on 28 March 2020, without taking their planned trip onto
N. They were able to cancel their accommodation bookings in N and receive refunds directly
from the providers. But they considered they were out of pocket because the refund which 
wouldve come to them was instead used to purchase new flights. And so they made a 
curtailment claim on their travel insurance policy for these costs.
AXA turned down the claim. It said the curtailment section of the policy only covered
irrecoverable financial losses a policyholder has suffered. In this case, while Mr and Mrs L
hadnt been able to take their flight to N, AXA didnt think theyd lost out financially. Thats
because the travel agent had put the cost of this flight towards rerouting Mr and Mrs Ls flight
back to the UK, without them needing to pay out anything more.
Mr and Mrs L werent happy with AXAs decision and so they asked us to look into their
complaint. They explained that their son had been able to recover the same costs from his
own insurer.
Our investigator thought Mr and Mrs Ls complaint should be upheld. She felt that Mr and
Mrs L had been entitled to the flight refund which the travel agent had put towards the new
return flight. She noted that the curtailment section of the policy covered additional expenses
a policyholder incurs. She considered that if the travel agent had paid the refund to Mr and
Mrs L, rather than using it to re-route the return flight, theyd have likely incurred additional
costs in arranging a new return flight, which wouldve been covered by the policy. So she
didnt think it was fair for AXA to turn down the claim on this basis.
I issued a provisional decision on 14 September 2021. In my provisional decision, I 
explained the reasons why I didnt think Mr and Mrs Ls complaint should be upheld. I said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the
terms of the policy and the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ls claim, to decide whether AXA
treated them fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of Mr and Mrs
Ls contract with AXA. The cancellation and curtailment section of the policy provides the
following cover:
We will pay you up to the amount shown in the schedule of benefits for your proportion only
of any irrecoverable unused travel and accommodation costs and other pre-paid charges
which you have paid or are contracted to pay, together with your proportion only of any
reasonable additional travel expenses incurred ifyour trip is curtailed.
Theres no dispute that Mr and Mrs Ls trip had to be cut short early as a result of Covid-19. I
dont doubt how disappointing and upsetting this mustve been for them, because I
understand this had been planned as a trip of a lifetime.
But in order for curtailment benefit to be paid, a policyholder needs to show theyve suffered
an actual financial loss. And I think the policy terms make it clear that a policyholder must
suffer either an irrecoverable loss or incur additional travel expenses in order for the terms to
be met.
In this case, its clear that Mr and Mrs Ls flight from A to N was cancelled and that they
didnt get to take the second stage of their holiday. Ive also seen evidence from the travel
agent that the refund of the ticket costs for the cancelled flight was put towards arranging an
earlier, rerouted return flight from A back to the UK. Mr and Mrs L have confirmed that they
didnt have to pay out anything more for their flights and that they separately recovered their
accommodation costs in N. This means then that while Mr and Mrs Ls ultimate journey back
to the UK didnt follow the original planned path, their total outlay for their flights, despite the
reroute, remained the same. On this basis, I dont think I could fairly find that Mr and Mrs L
have suffered a financial loss as a result of the curtailment of their trip which is covered by
the terms of their policy.
I accept that had Mr and Mrs L received the refund from their travel agent, instead of the
refund being put towards the reroute, its likely they wouldve incurred additional costs which
may well have been covered. But given that Mr and Mrs L didnt incur any extra travel costs
on top of what theyd originally paid out for their trip, I dont think it would be fair or
reasonable for me to direct AXA to pay their claim on this basis.
Mr and Mrs Ls sons claim was paid by his own insurer and I understand why its frustrating
for Mr and Mrs L that their own claim hasnt been met. But different insurers have different
terms and conditions and under the terms of that insurers policy, the claim was payable. It
wouldnt be reasonable for me to tell AXA to pay Mr and Mrs Ls claim based on a third party
insurers actions.
Taking the above into account, I currently think it was fair for AXA to turn down this claim.
I asked both parties to send me any more evidence they wanted me to consider.
AXA accepted my provisional decision.
Mr and Mrs L disagreed with my provisional findings and Ive summarised their response.
It was frustrating and disappointing that the investigator had found in their favour, but 
that my provisional decision had reached the contradictory conclusion. This showed 
that the case was not clear cut and was open to interpretation. They also felt that my 
provisional decision had been heavily weighted in AXAs favour;They maintained that they had suffered a financial loss when the holiday was 
curtailed and that its illogical for AXA to argue the opposite. They didnt consider that 
this would stand up to legal scrutiny;
Their airline had applied extra charges for rescheduling their return flights to the UK. 
The travel agent had applied the refunds they received from the original airline for 
their unused flights to N to meet these extra charges. They hadnt travelled to N and 
therefore they still considered they were entitled to receive refunds for the costs of 
these flights. Thats because they felt it was their money which theyd been entitled 
to;
The terms and conditions are silent on events such as these and they felt that the 
contract terms were being applied unfairly in AXAs favour;
All they are claiming for is the cost of their flights from A to the UK  theyve never 
claimed for the lost costs of their holiday. They accept that refunds were given for the 
cancelled flights. But they didnt think it was fair for AXA to conclude that because 
theyd received that refund, theyd effectively been compensated for the cost of their 
new flight home;
They queried whether AXA wouldve paid their claim in differing circumstances, such 
as if the refund had been paid directly to them. They queried how this would be fair in 
law;
Its disingenuous for me to find that they didnt suffer a financial loss. The refund 
theyd received for the cancelled flights had merely put them in the same position 
theyd have been in had they not bought them in the first place. The new flights back 
to the UK had therefore resulted in them suffering a financial loss;
They questioned whether the insurance contract was unfair and whether, if I 
considered the policy was ambiguous, I could take AXA to task over this point;
Theres no evidence that their sons policy was worded differently and that that was 
the reason why his claim had been paid. They felt it had likely been paid because the 
insurer took a reasonable, fair and logical view on whether he had suffered a 
financial loss. They considered this should be taken into account when deciding 
whether or not AXA had acted fairly in declining their claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs L, I still think it was fair for AXA to 
turn down their claim and Ill explain why.
First, Id like to thank Mr and Mrs L for their detailed response to my provisional decision. 
While Ive summarised their points, Id like to reassure them that Ive carefully considered all 
theyve said. In this decision though, I havent commented on each and every point or 
question theyve made or raised  and our rules dont require me to. Instead, Ive focused on 
what I consider to be the key issues.
Its also important that I make clear the role of this service. We are independent and 
impartial of both parties and we make decisions based on what we consider to be fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of an individual case. We also base our decisions based on the facts of a specific case. So while I appreciate Mr and Mrs L have questioned whether 
alternative scenarios wouldve led to a successful claim, Ive made my decision based on 
what actually happened at the time they had to curtail their trip. 
As I set out in my provisional decision, the policy covers irrecoverable unused travel costs 
and reasonable additional travel costs a policyholder incurs if they have to curtail their trip. In 
order for a claim to be payable, there needs to be a demonstrable financial loss. Thats a 
general and fundamental principle of insurance and its for a policyholder to show, on 
balance, that theyve suffered such a financial loss.
It remains the case that while Mr and Mrs Ls travel agent put the refunds from their original, 
cancelled flights towards the cost of the reroute, these original costs were recovered from 
their airline. It also remains the case that Mr and Mrs L told our investigator that they didnt 
pay anything extra overall for the cost of the rerouted, alternative flights home. Im satisfied 
that based on all Ive seen, they didnt personally incur any additional expenses for their 
return journey. I still find then that their total outlay for their flight costs was the same overall, 
regardless of the fact that they necessarily had to fly via a different route. And its on this 
basis that Ive decided they havent suffered a financial loss as a result of the curtailment, 
because theyve told us that their rearranged travel plans didnt cost them anything more, in 
total, than their original return plans (via N) had done. Thats the case even though I accept 
Mr and Mrs L didnt get to fly to N. Its also the case that even if the costs of the rearranged 
flight back to the UK incurred extra charges, the off-setting of the refund of the flights from N 
against these fees by the travel agent meant that no additional charges were incurred by Mr 
and Mrs L overall. It follows then I dont find there are any additional costs for AXA to 
consider or pay.
I dont think the policy term Ive referred to above is ambiguous or misleading. I think it 
clearly sets out the curtailment costs AXA has decided to cover. And in this case, for the 
reasons Ive set out, while I sympathise with Mr and Mrs Ls position, Im simply not 
persuaded that theyve suffered a financial loss which falls within the scope of the policy 
terms.
Its clear that Mr and Mrs L feel strongly that the outcome of their sons claim should be 
taken into account when considering AXAs assessment of their claim. While I accept it must 
be frustrating that another insurer has paid a claim, it isnt clear on what basis the claim was 
paid, or what the terms of that policy were. But the terms of Mr and Mrs Ls policy simply 
dont cover the expenses theyre claiming for. And I dont think on the facts of this case, it 
would be fair or reasonable for me to direct AXA to pay the claim outside of the terms of 
contract. So while I sympathise with Mr and Mrs Ls position, Im not telling AXA to do 
anything more.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 December 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman