DRN-2856322
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, defaulted his account and 
didnt contact him before doing so.
What happened
Mr P had a Halifax current account that was overdrawn. Mr P contacted Halifax to arrange 
repayment of the overdrawn amount but was told that the account had been closed due to 
non-payment and that a default had been recorded on his credit file. Mr P wasnt happy 
about this, especially as hed received no notice that Halifax were intending to take such 
action. So, he made a complaint.
Halifax looked at Mr Ss complaint. But they noted that they had sent several letters, 
including default notices, to Mr Ps address. So, they didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Mr P wasnt satisfied with Halifaxs response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they also felt that Halifax had sent 
notice of their intentions to Mr P, so they also didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr P remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand how Mr P might have been dismayed to discover that his Halifax account 
had been closed, especially as he was contacting Halifax to try to arrange a repayment plan 
on the overdrawn amount.
Where a business closes a customer account for non-payment and records a default on that 
customers credit file, it would be expected by this service that the business would give fair 
notice to the customer that they were intending to take such action, so as to allow the 
customer the opportunity to take the action necessary to avoid the account being closed.
I think that Halifax did that here. Theyve been able to demonstrate to this service that a 
series of letters were sent to Mr Ps address, including default notices, such that Im satisfied 
that they did issue fair notice of their intent to close Mr Ps account if the account remained 
overdrawn and without payment.
Mr P has stated that he didnt receive the letters that Halifax sent and believes that Halifax 
should have tried to contact him by alternative means. Im not convinced by Mr Ps position 
here, and Id consider it reasonable for Halifax to assume that the letters that they were 
sending to the address Mr P registered with themselves were being delivered. Furthermore, I 
wouldnt hold Halifax accountable for the repeated non-delivery of sent letters, and this is 
because the delivery of letters is the responsibility of postal services and isnt something 
over which Halifax have any control. 
Mr P has quite rightly stated that the non-delivery of letters is also something for which he 
isnt responsible, and he feels aggrieved that his account has been closed because the 
letters notifying him of Halifaxs actions werent received by him. However, Mr P was aware 
that his account was overdrawn, and he contacted Halifax about this matter several months 
previously and was given one 30 days breathing space  and this 30 day breathing space 
had expired approximately six weeks before Halifax took the step to close the account, 
having received no payment, offer of payment, or continuing communication from Mr P 
during that time.
Its also that case that Mr P could have monitored the ongoing status of his account by other 
means, and I consider that it would have been especially incumbent on Mr P to do so, given 
that he was aware of the overdrawn status of his account.
So, given the circumstances here, its difficult for me to conclude that Halifax have acted 
unfairly or unreasonably toward Mr P by closing the account for non-payment as they did. 
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr P was wanting, but it follows from this that I 
wont be upholding this complaint or asking Halifax to take any further action at this time. I 
hope that Mr P can understand, given everything I have explained above, why I have made 
the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman