DRN-1640828
The complaint
Miss H complains that Advancis Limited (trading as Buddy Loans) unfairly added her as 
guarantor to a loan. She says that the lender should have realised that she was being 
pressured into acting as a guarantor as a result of an abusive relationship.
What happened
Miss H acted as a guarantor for a loan taken out by a work colleague, who later became her 
partner. I will call him Mr X. She had previously acted as a guarantor for a loan given by 
Buddy Loans to Mr X around eight months before. That loan had been successfully repaid 
by being refinanced into another loan for which another party acted as guarantor.
Buddy Loans provided Mr X with a loan for £5,000 in February 2018 for which Miss H agreed 
to act as a guarantor. The loan in part refinanced some previous borrowing. Miss H 
electronically signed a Guarantee and Indemnity Agreement in relation to the loan. She also 
confirmed her agreement to acting as a guarantor during a telephone call with the lender.
Miss H says Mr X, who she is no longer in a relationship with, suffers from a gambling 
addiction. As a result she says she was pressured into providing him with financial support 
by guaranteeing his borrowing, from Buddy Loans and other lenders, and assisting him by 
regularly transferring funds. When Miss H made her complaint she said Mr X had started to 
threaten to stop paying the loan and so she would become liable under the guarantee she 
has given to Buddy Loans.
Miss Hs complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. She didnt think it was 
reasonable to conclude that Buddy Loans should have been aware that Miss H was being 
coerced into becoming a guarantor for the loan. So she didnt think the lender had done 
anything wrong, and so it shouldnt be required to release Miss H from the Guarantee and 
Indemnity Agreement.
Miss H didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints of this nature on our website and Ive kept this in 
mind while deciding Miss Hs complaint.
At the outset I want to make it clear that I have no doubts that Miss H has provided us with 
her complete and honest recollections of what must have been a very difficult time for her. 
I am sorry if the questions we have needed to ask while investigating her complaint have 
caused her additional distress. But I am sure that she will understand why it is important for 
us to have a complete picture of her circumstances at the time.
What I need to decide here isnt whether what Miss H has told us is true  as I said earlier 
I have no doubts about that. What I need to decide is what I think the lender should 
reasonably have been aware of. And to decide if a reasonable lender would have reached 
the same conclusions as Buddy Loans did here, if it had that information. But to be clear, it 
isnt appropriate for me to consider here whether or not Buddy Loans should have given the 
loan to Mr X  that is matter between him and the lender. So I wont be looking at the checks 
Buddy Loans did, or should have done, to make sure Mr X could afford to repay the loan.
As I said in my introduction, Miss H had previously acted as guarantor on a loan that Mr X 
had taken from Buddy Loans. That loan had been refinanced and so Miss Hs liability as 
guarantor had ended. I think it was reasonable for Buddy Loans to take some comfort from 
the fact that Miss H had given a similar agreement in the past.
Buddy Loans has given us recordings of a conversation it had with Miss H before she was 
added as a guarantor to the loan Mr X took in February 2018. There was no indication on 
that call that Miss H was facing any duress in providing the guarantee. I entirely accept what 
Miss H says about it not always being apparent what is happening behind the scenes. But 
I would have to apply a similar conclusion that this means it would be reasonable to 
conclude that the lender couldnt have known either the position in which Miss H found 
herself.
So whilst I have great sympathy for the position Miss H now finds herself in, I cannot fairly 
conclude that Buddy Loans did anything wrong when it accepted her as a guarantor for the 
loan it gave to Mr X. It follows that I dont think Buddy Loans should be required to release 
Miss H from the Guarantee and Indemnity Agreement she signed in relation to that loan.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Advancis Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 November 2020.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman