DRN-4297110
The complaint
Mr H complains Motorpoint Limited mis-sold him a motor warranty.
What happened
In August 2019 Motorpoint sold Mr H an extended motor warranty. This happened alongside 
the sale of a car costing around £21,000.  He went on to make a claim against the warranty 
after the cars gearbox failed. He was quoted about £9,000 for the repair. But the warranty 
provider (a different firm to Motorpoint) said it would only contribute up to the policys claim 
limit of £3,000.
Motorpoint didnt uphold a complaint from Mr H. It said it didnt set the warrantys claim limit. 
Mr H wasnt satisfied so came to this service. He says Motorpoint mis-sold the warranty as 
he was made to believe the claim limit would be the value of the vehicle  significantly more 
than £3,000.
Our investigator felt Motorpoint should have done more to explain the claim limit during the 
sale. But he wasnt persuaded that Mr H, if told of the limit, would have purchased an 
alternative policy that covered the full cost of the claim. So he didnt think he was worse off 
because of Motorpoints failure. So he didnt recommend it take any steps to put things right 
for Mr H. As Mr H didnt accept the outcome the complaint was passed to me to decide. He 
says he would have taken out alternative cover that covered the claim in full. 
I recently wrote to Mr H and Motorpoint. I explained I was satisfied Mr H had been given 
misleading information about the claim limit during the sale. I explained why I wasnt 
persuaded that, had he been given better information, he would have taken out an 
alternative policy that covered the claim in full. I said it was most likely he wouldnt have 
bought any cover at all.  
I explained that in these circumstances Id usually require the seller of the policy to refund 
the premium  but also allow it to deduct the value of any successful claim. I set out that in 
this case Mr H had potential for a valid claim exceeding the premium he paid. I explained a 
premium refund may have implications for any claim made against the policy. I asked Mr H 
for his thoughts on the matter, asking if hed prefer a refund or to pursue a claim unaffected 
by any issues that may arise from receiving a refund.  
In response Mr H disagreed with my finding that he wouldnt have taken out alternative 
cover. He said he isnt interested in a refund  only for Motorpoint to take responsibility for 
the repairs. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When selling insurance, firms are required to provide potential customers with clear, fair and 
not misleading information. This is to ensure they can make an informed decision about the 
product they are considering. In addition as this was an advised sale Motorpoint was 
required to ensure the product it recommended to Mr H was suitable for him. 
Having considered everything provided Im satisfied Motorpoint failed to provide Mr H with 
good enough information during the sale. 
The paperwork available from the sale is misleading. A demands and needs document 
refers to  a claim limit of the value of the vehicle. Motorpoint states this is an overall, 
rather than individual, claim limit. That may well be correct but that isnt clear from the 
document. Mr H says he wasnt told during the sale that the individual claim limit was 
£3,000. Motorpoint hasnt provided a transcript or any notes to indicate he was.
So Im satisfied Mr H was most likely provided with misleading information during the sale  
and purchased the policy under the impression the individual claim limit was significantly 
higher than £3,000. 
Motorpoint has referred to documentation being sent to Mr H post sale. The information it 
sent provides the same misleading information. As far as Ive seen the claim limit was only 
set out in a policy schedule. Post-sale the policy administrator emailed Mr H a link to a 
portal. It seems the schedule may have been available to him there  but the link no longer 
works so I cant be certain. Even if it was, that wouldnt be enough to make up for the mis- 
leading information Mr H was provided with during the sale. It was reasonable of him to rely 
on the information he had been given when the policy was sold.  
This service tries to put consumers back in the position they would have been had a firm not 
made its mistake. In this case that means considering what would have happened differently 
if the individual claim limit had been explained clearly to Mr H during the sale.
Mr H feels Motorpoint should cover the full cost of the repair. I might require it to do 
something like that if persuaded he would most likely have rejected this warranty and instead 
purchased alternative cover with a higher claim limit. I know he now says thats what he 
would have done. But Im not persuaded, at the time of the sale, thats probably what would 
have happened. 
When initially referring his complaint to this service Mr H volunteered on a couple of 
occasions, that if told of the £3,000 limit, he wouldnt have purchased the warranty. He didnt 
mention finding alternative cover. Sometime later Mr H was asked directly by this service 
what he would have done. He responded that the car was still under a manufacturer 
warranty when he bought it. He said he was persuaded by the sales pitch to purchase 
Motorpoints extended warranty. But had he known the claim limit he wouldnt have 
purchased it or the car itself.  
Mr H did later explain he would have purchased alternative cover with a higher limit. But that 
was only after it had been explained to him that we would only likely require Motorpoint to 
cover the full cost of the claim if we thought he would likely have done so. 
I realise this will be frustrating for M H. Ive considered his recent comments including about 
how much he paid for the car and the type of seller he chose to buy from. I obviously cant 
know for certain what he would have done back in 2019. So I can only go on what I feel is 
most likely, considering the available evidence. I havent seen enough to persuade me Mr H 
was so set on purchasing an extended warranty that he would have taken the effort and 
extra expense to purchase alternative cover. Instead it seems most likely he wouldnt have 
purchased Motorpoints policy or any other.  Ive also considered that this was an advised sale. Even if I thought Motorpoint had 
recommended an unsuitable policy to Mr H it wouldnt change the outcome of this complaint. 
Its explained that was the only policy it could offer him. So it wouldnt have been able to 
recommend him a different one with a higher claim limit. 
For the reasons given above Im not going to require Motorpoint to cover the repairs. Mr H 
has said he isnt interested in a refund. So Im not going to require Motorpoint Limited to 
provide him with one.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont require Motorpoint Limited to do anything differently. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2023.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman