DRN-3145322
The complaint
Mr W complains that Secure Trust Bank Plc, trading as Moneyway, irresponsibly granted 
him a loan he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In July 2014, Mr W acquired a car. He financed the deal through a hire purchase agreement 
with Moneyway. Mr W was required to make 32 monthly repayments of £220.53, with a final 
optional payment if he wanted to own the car at the end of the agreement. The total 
repayable under the agreement was £7,382.49.
Mr W says that Moneyway didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it had, it 
would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Moneyway didnt agree. It said that it 
carried out a thorough assessment which included verifying Mr Ws income and a credit 
search. It also collected some information about Mr Ws personal circumstances to help it 
decide if the credit would be affordable for him.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought there was 
insufficient evidence Moneyway had acted unfairly or unreasonably when approving the 
finance agreement.
Mr W didnt agree, and the case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Moneyway will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
The credit check Moneyway completed showed that there was still a significant active 
balance due on an account Mr W had defaulted on. I think this ought to have indicated that 
Mr W was likely to be struggling financially. It therefore would have been proportionate for 
Moneyway to have got a more thorough understanding of Mr Ws financial circumstances 
before lending.
Ive considered what Moneyway would likely have found out if it had completed reasonable 
and proportionate affordability checks. Weve asked Mr W to provide us with evidence of his 
financial circumstances at the time the lending was taken out. However, he hasnt given us 
enough information to fairly determine what proportionate checks would likely have shown 
Moneyway. 
As Mr W hasnt been able to demonstrate that the agreement was unaffordable, I cant 
reasonably conclude that Moneyway ought to have known he would struggle to make the 
repayments. Im therefore not persuaded that Moneyway acted unfairly in approving the 
finance. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman