DRN-3115145
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M were unhappy with the settlement offered to them for stolen contents under 
their home insurance with Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds).  
What happened
Unfortunately, Mr and Mrs M had their home burgled and some jewellery was stolen. They 
made a claim to Lloyds under their home insurance policy. Mr and Mrs M said Lloyds made 
a settlement offer of £20,000 for the claim, but they thought £39,000 was the true worth.
Lloyds said We have provided you vouchers for the jewellery up to your high-risk limit of 
£20kafter a full review of your claim I can see you were not able to provide the original 
receipts and costs at the time of purchase. You also advised that you did not declare some 
of these items when going through customs so would not have paid duty on these. We are 
only liable to pay for the amount you paid for the items not at todays value. 
Mr and Mrs M wanted the payment made in cash, but Lloyds said its policy allowed it to 
decide how a claim will be settled and said it exercised its right to settle on a replacement 
basis. On review, Lloyds decided to increase its offer to £23,000 but in vouchers, so Mr and 
Mrs M could purchase replacement jewellery from a list of jewellers known to Lloyds.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. She said Lloyds had acted fairly by 
offering a settlement slightly higher than the high-risk limit and it had acted in line with its 
policy terms by issuing vouchers so Mr and Mrs M could replace the items using Lloyds 
jewellery network. Mr and Mrs M disagreed, so the case has been referred to an 
ombudsman. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this on 28 September 2021. I said:
I have looked at the process Lloyds has used in calculating a settlement offer for Mr and 
Mrs M.  Lloyds appointed experts to assess the value of the stolen items. I think this was fair. 
Lloyds said the policy Mr and Mrs M purchased had an upper limit of £20,000 for high-risk 
items (where the individual worth of single items was no more than £3,000). It has discarded 
one item that was valued well in excess of £3,000. Having checked the policy, I think this is 
reasonable, as this wouldnt have been covered by the policy. The other items in aggregate 
were valued significantly over the high-limit. Therefore, Lloyds has offered the maximum the 
policy allows (£20,000). I think this is fair, as the policy sets this out. Therefore, I dont 
uphold this aspect of the complaint. I think Lloyds settlement value offered is fair.
Mr and Mrs M requested the settlement was paid in cash so they could choose where to buy 
their replacement jewellery. Instead, Lloyds said it would replace the stolen items. It offered 
to pay the settlement in vouchers, so replacement jewellery could be purchased from its own 
network of jewellers which it said is allowed under the policy. Lloyds also increased the 
settlement offer in vouchers to £23,000.
I have reviewed the policy to understand what is set out in respect to settling claims under 
the contents part of the cover. The policy states:
How we settle claims under your Contents covers:
We can either repair or replace any item or make a money payment instead
We will pay the cost of replacement as new if available or otherwise the nearest 
equivalent less any discounts obtainable
If an item is irreplaceable, we will base our payment on expert opinion of its value 
immediately prior to its loss or damage.
Lloyds said it has the choice on how to make the settlement. The policy says it can make a 
money payment so if thats an option it should follow that. So, I dont think its fair that 
Lloyds has told Mr and Mrs M it cant provide them the settlement as a cash payment. I dont 
find this reasonable, given Mr and Mrs M said they would prefer to source their own 
replacement jewellery. I intend to uphold this aspect of the complaint, as a cash payment 
should be possible.
However, I intend that the value of that settlement should be £20,000 in line with the upper 
limit in the policy, rather than the higher level Lloyds indicated it was willing to pay with 
vouchers. Lloyds havent provided any other information to suggest £20,000 isnt the correct 
level for the cash settlement.
As Lloyds were unwilling to pay the settlement in cash, Mr and Mrs M have been unable to 
buy their replacement jewellery. As the cash settlement was withheld, it has delayed Mr and 
Mrs M being able to replace their jewellery, so I intend to award £200 for the distress and 
inconvenience this has caused them. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Lloyds accepted my findings and didnt have anything more to add.
Mr and Mrs M accepted my findings and didnt have anything to add.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given neither party has provided any new information, I see no reason to change my 
provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint. I require Lloyds Bank General 
Insurance Limited pay Mr and Mrs M:
Cash settlement of £20,000 (instead of the offer of vouchers)
£200* compensation  for the distress and inconvenience the delay has caused
* Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the 
date on which we tell it that Mr and Mrs M accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this 
it must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date 
of payment at 8% a year simple.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to accept or reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman