DRN-3178487
The complaint
Mr P says CMC Spreadbet Plc (CMC) applied margin close-outs to his spread-betting 
positions on 8 March 2020, causing loss and lost potential profit across other positions in his 
account and causing a negative account balance. 
He says he did not receive the margin notification(s) that should have been sent to him; he 
challenges what he considers to be unexplained and suspicious timing in CMCs application 
of the close-outs which, he says, unjustly happened at the bottom level of market pricing at 
the time (bypassing better price levels at which it could have applied) and which, he says, 
resulted in increasing the loss crystalized by the closures; he also refers to how a price 
movement in favour of his positions, a few seconds thereafter, could and/or should have 
altered the course of the closure event.
What happened
One of our investigators considered the complaint and concluded that it should not be 
upheld. In the main:
He began his consideration with the negative account balance and he noted the 2018 
measures, introduced by the European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA), 
which protected retail clients against negative account balances in their derivatives 
trading accounts. He explained that Mr P lost this protection because he was 
recategorized as a professional client (to whom the protection did not extend) in the 
same year, so he considered whether (or not) the recategorization was valid and 
compliant with the regulators requirements. 
He referred to those requirements  the qualitative, quantitative and procedural tests 
in the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS, at COBS 3.5.3) within the 
regulators Handbook  and he referred to available documentary evidence from and 
related to Mr Ps 2018 recategorization. He concluded that CMC properly applied the 
tests, assessments and procedure at the time, all of which led to and supported the 
result that Mr P was correctly recategorized as a professional client, so he had no 
negative balance protection in 2020.
He then moved to the matter of the close-outs. He said the close-outs automatically 
applied because there had been a margin breach  a breach of the requirement for 
equity in the account not to go below 50% of the maintenance margin level [or 
liquidation level] required in the account. He also said CMC owed no obligation to 
give him prior notice of the close-outs; that it was not required to apply a wait and see 
based timing to execution of the close-outs; that they were applicable upon the 
margin breach; and that, as a matter of courtesy, the account was set for automated 
notification at the point equity dropped to 80% of the margin requirement, but it took 
less than 30 seconds for the margin breach to occur in Mr Ps case and this setting 
did not dilute his responsibility to monitor and manage margin in his account.
 Mr P disagreed with this outcome. He mainly said:
He has never claimed negative balance protection. Instead, part of his key 
arguments are that CMC failed to promptly apply the close-outs upon the margin 
breach, despite the absence of gapping in the relevant pricing and despite the 
absence of reason for delay; and that such immediate or prompt application would 
have been consistent with the past close-outs he had experienced, over a number of 
years, which diminished his accounts value but never resulted in a negative account 
balance.
There is evidence to suggests that the 50% liquidation level breach happened many 
seconds and perhaps minutes before the close-outs were applied. The liquidation 
level set for the account was reached when the account would have been in around 
£1,000 positive territory, yet the close-outs were applied when margin was around 
negative £8,000, so the delay in application is evident. A similar analysis applies to 
the pricing of the underlying Crude Oil commodity (related to the positions), which 
was around $35.6/barrel at the point of the liquidation level but was around 
$32/barrel at the point the close-outs were applied. The close-outs were supposed to 
be applied without delay at the liquidation level and there is no justification for the fact 
that they were not.
Mr P also set out scenarios in which, but for the delayed close-outs that he asserts and but 
for the consequences of the negative account balance that they caused, some margin would 
have been maintained in the account  based on timely and appropriate close-outs at the 
outset  and certain positions would thereafter have continued and yielded profits for him.
The matter was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion expressed by the investigator for the 
broadly the same key reasons he gave. 
I consider that the investigator followed a logical approach to the complaint by beginning with 
Mr Ps professional client recategorization. The negative account balance features in the 
case. In 2020, that would not have been so  or would not have been permissible  if Mr P 
was a retail client. I understand his point about this matter, he has not thrown weight behind 
a claim that he ought to have had negative balance protection, but if the recategorization 
was wrong then the implications could be that he ought to have remained a retail client and 
ought to have had such protection. Hence the prompt to consider this first.
Overall and on balance, I am satisfied that Mr P was correctly recategorized as a 
professional client in 2018. There is evidence of the qualitative, quantitative and procedural 
tests having been applied to his recategorization at the time; of the factual information 
sought by CMC, presented by him and used by CMC in the assessment process; and of all 
relevant information at the time, up to and including the procedural declaration required to 
conclude the assessment, supporting and resulting in what appears to have been a valid 
recategorization. 
Ordinarily, it is likely that I would provide details of the aforementioned evidence, but I am 
conscious of a responsibility to avoid detailing information about Mr Ps wider personal 
trading and personal finances without a call for such details to be set out. On balance, I do 
not consider that such a call exists. The investigators view  which, unlike this decision, is 
not published  already set out some of these details and CMCs documentation for the assessment was requested by and disclosed to Mr P. In response, he does not appear to 
have disputed the documentation, the assessment or the recategorization. Therefore, there 
does not appear to be a dispute to resolve in this respect, or a requirement to illustrate the 
grounds for my finding that he was correctly defined as a professional client. 
As I said above, it has been necessary to address this in order to clarify whether (or not) 
negative balance protection should have applied to him. It follows from him being a 
professional client that no such protection applied to him  it applied/applies only to retail 
clients. Furthermore, documentation issued to him at the time gave notice about the loss of 
negative balance protection due to the recategorization.
I understand Mr Ps key points about application of the close-outs. They have been 
presented well and in reasonably clear terms. However, on balance, I am not persuaded by 
them.
His positions were closed out from 22:02:33 on 8 March 2020. I have seen evidence of a 
Low Account Revaluation Amount Notice sent to him by CMC, which warned that as of 
22:02:15 his account was approaching the close-out level. This was sent to him at 22:04 so 
it is fair to say it was a redundant notice, given that it was sent after the close-outs had 
already started. At the same time (22:04), he was also sent another notice that said as of 
22:02:33  any or all of [his] open positions may now be closed in accordance with the 
Terms of Business. A copy of the relevant account activity statement shows that the close-
outs began at 22:02:33, and that a number of the Crude Oil based positions were closed.
We have been provided with a screenshot of Mr Ps liquidation account profile and settings 
as of 8 March 2020, at 22:02:33. This too confirms that the liquidations (close-outs) began at 
this time. It shows that the Account Revaluation Amount (essentially, the accounts equity) 
was below the liquidation level, this triggered the close-outs. The following setting selections 
were in place  a last-in-first-out liquidation method; a 50% liquidation level; an account reset 
level of 70%; and a notification level of 80%. The screenshot also shows that execution of 
the close-outs for the Crude Oil based positions had begun at this time. The screenshot 
appears to have been taken on 19 July 2021, but I have not seen cause to doubt that it is a 
valid depiction of the account on 8 March 2020 (at 22:02:33).
Section 12 of Schedule 1 in the 2018 Terms for Mr Ps account says: 
You must ensure that for each Account your Account Revaluation Amount is at all times 
above the applicable Close-Out Level for your Account displayed on our Platform. Where 
your Account Revaluation Amount is less than the applicable Close-Out Level, our Platform 
may automatically initiate Account Close-Out in accordance with your Account settings. 
Further details on the applicable Close-Out Level for your Account, and the methods of 
Account Close-Out, can be found on our Platform. Account Close-Out does not and is not 
intended to limit your entire liability to us in respect of your Bets. You can lose more than 
your investment and you may be required to make further payments, except in respect of a 
CMC Start Account, an Account with Negative Balance Protection enabled or an Account 
with Shield Mode enabled, where you cannot lose more than your Invested Capital.
Section 9 of CMCs 2018 Order Execution Policy (OEP) is a separate section dedicated to 
the execution of close-outs. It was/is distinct from the best execution based provisions in the 
different sections (for executing trade orders for different products) set out earlier in the 
OEP. This is not uncommon in OEPs for firms like CMC, because close-outs are not 
comparable to trade orders. They do not usually carry a best execution characteristic, they 
aim to react to a margin requirement breach. Section 9 of the OEP said:There are some circumstances where the whole or a portion of your Bets will be closed 
without instructions from you. This includes where Account Close-Out occurs, where you fail 
to reduce any Position to below the applicable limit within the relevant time limit specified by 
us or where we exercise our rights to close your Bets.
I do not suggest that close-outs can reasonably be executed negligently or intentionally 
against an accountholders interest. That should not be the case. However, on balance, I do 
not consider it has been established that the close-outs of Mr Ps positions were conducted 
negligently or intentionally against his interest.
The close-outs were validly triggered by the liquidation level breach in his account. I can 
understand criticism he could have about the warning notice that was sent after the close-
outs had started. From his perspective that was a pointless warning, because the relevant 
event had already started. The account was set for such a warning at the 80% level, ahead 
of the 50% breach level. However, two factors feature in this respect. Firstly, there does not 
appear to have been any contractual guarantee that such a warning will always be provided. 
Even if it was done in the past, the first quote above confirms Mr Ps primary and sole 
responsibility to monitor and manage margin in his account. That responsibility was not 
qualified by reference to the warning level setting in the account. Secondly, and as the 
investigator appears to have noted, available evidence suggests the margin breach 
developed and happened in less than 30 seconds. Whilst this might or might not explain why 
the warning was sent to Mr P around a minute and a half after the close-outs began, it does 
suggest that a warning less than 30 seconds before the breach (and onset of the close-outs) 
would have been unlikely to make a difference to the matter. 
As I said above, the screenshot and the account activity statement show that close-out 
execution of the Crude Oil based positions began at 22:02:33, so the process does not 
appear to have been unduly delayed as Mr P has argued. CMC was not under an obligation, 
in the context of the validly triggered automated close-out process, to wait for the chance of 
a price rebound  which is what would have been required in terms of taking benefit from the 
price rebound Mr P has referred to. 
Overall, on balance and for the above reasons, I am not persuaded to uphold Mr Ps 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that Mr Ps complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman