DRN-2950996
The complaint
Mr M complains that Black Horse Limited recorded incorrect information on his credit file and 
he was refused credit and lost out financially as a result.  
What happened
In August 2016 Mr M acquired a caravan with a hire purchase agreement (HPA) from Black 
Horse. In 2019 he wanted to end the HPA early so he asked Black Horse for a settlement 
figure and paid it. A month or so later he found the outstanding balance was still showing on 
his credit file. He contacted Black Horse who told him the account was still in the process of 
closing down. Not long after Mr M received more correspondence saying there was an 
outstanding balance. He contacted Black Horse again and it said he might get these letters 
for a while and should ignore them. 
Over the months that followed Mr M made several applications for credit that were declined. 
He thinks this was due to information Black Horse recorded incorrectly on his credit file  
which included missed payments. He complained to Black Horse and Black Horse accepted 
things werent done properly. It offered to fix Mr Ms credit record and pay him £300 
compensation for any distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mr M didnt think that was fair. He says he lost out financially because of the mistakes Black 
Horse made - finance applications were refused and one finance provider told him his credit 
score was too low, even though he had enough income. 
Mr M brought the matter to our service and one of our investigators looked into what 
happened. She was satisfied that Black Horse made mistakes but she didnt think there was 
enough evidence to show that these alone caused Mr M to be refused credit. She was 
satisfied that Black Horse had updated Mr Ms credit file to remove the incorrect information. 
She considered the £300 compensation offered was fair and she didnt think Black Horse 
should have to do more.  
A few months later Mr M was contacted by a third party about some outstanding site fees 
and he received another statement from Black Horse showing a current balance of around 
£5,670. The investigator contacted Black Horse again. It said the statement was generated 
automatically and should have been amended manually to show a zero balance. Black 
Horse confirmed that Mr Ms credit file was unaffected and offered to pay him an additional 
£200 compensation to reflect the further distress caused.  
The site fees werent funded by the HPA so the investigator thought Mr M would need to 
raise this issue with the third party. Mr M confirmed there was no change on his credit file. 
The investigator found the additional £200 compensation offered was fair in the 
circumstances and she didnt recommend Black Horse should have to do anything else.
Mr M disagrees. He feels Black Horse should pay more than £5,000 by way of compensation 
- in light of the stress and anxiety caused to him and his family by the errors Black Horse 
made repeatedly over such a long time. He asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that financial businesses are required to ensure that the information they report 
to credit reference agencies is accurate. Black Horse accepts it made mistakes here  in that 
missed payments and the wrong balance were recorded on Mr Ms credit file. And he was 
also sent correspondence about an outstanding balance after the finance was settled. 
I have no doubt that Mr M experienced a good deal of frustration, worry and inconvenience 
as a result of this. I understand hes also disappointed with the way that Black Horse dealt 
with the matter - he feels Black Horse tried to brush aside his concerns. And he wants to 
ensure that other borrowers dont have the same experience. 
I should make it clear at the outset that Im looking at the individual circumstances of Mr Ms 
complaint in this decision. The Financial Ombudsman Service isnt a regulator. Its not my 
role to punish any financial business or individual employee and I dont have the power to tell 
Black Horse how to operate on a day to day basis. Our service is independent. We look at 
complaints objectively, we treat both parties fairly and equally and we dont take sides.  
I realise Mr M feels strongly about what happened here. I appreciate it was distressing for 
him to find Black Horse had recorded incorrect information on his credit record when hed 
met all of the payments required and settled the HPA. And I understand this was made 
worse by Black Horse sending further paperwork that showed the wrong credit balance after 
he thought things had been sorted out. I accept Mr M had to go to some trouble to alert 
Black Horse to these errors and check his credit history to ensure that information recorded 
on his credit file was right. 
Mr M told us he had several credit applications declined during the time the inaccurate 
information reported by Black Horse was showing on his credit file. And he incurred 
significant financial losses as a result - because he was unable to get a mortgage he wanted 
as well as business and vehicle finance - meaning he had to pay additional rent and 
increased business costs. I can see why Mr M would connect the two. But, Id need to be 
satisfied that Mr Ms losses were a direct result of mistakes that Black Horse made in order 
to hold Black Horse responsible. 
Like the investigator, I think lenders take a wide variety of factors into account when they 
decide whether to lend or not. I accept this is likely to include consideration of a potential 
borrowers credit record - but Im satisfied thats not the only thing they look at. Having 
thought carefully about what Mr M has said and the evidence provided, Im not persuaded 
theres enough for me to safely conclude that he was refused credit and incurred financial 
losses due to failings on the part of Black Horse. And I cant reasonably require Black Horse 
to reimburse Mr Ms financial losses, in this situation. 
Ive given some thought as to what amounts to fair compensation for Mr M. I understand he 
feels Black Horse should pay over £5,000  which is about the same amount as the incorrect 
credit balance showing on his last annual statement. But, Im not persuaded this is fair or 
reasonable in these circumstances. Im satisfied that Black Horse has corrected Mr Ms 
credit file now and theres no lasting impact on his credit history. I recognise this whole 
experience was very stressful and worrying for Mr M over some time  and I appreciate it 
was upsetting for his family as well. Im unable however to require Black Horse to 
compensate family members - as theyre not the ones who took out the finance. 
Taking everything into account, I find the offer of £500 (in total) is fair - to compensate Mr M for the distress and inconvenience caused by the mistakes Black Horse made. This is in line 
with what I would have found Black Horse should pay if it had not already made the offer and 
I consider its reasonable overall. Mr M may find it helpful to refer to the guidelines available 
on our website if he would like to know more about how we determine awards of this nature. 
I note Mr M says he hasnt cashed the cheque for £300 that Black Horse sent last year. If he 
wishes to do so now and this needs to be re-issued he should contact Black Horse about 
that. I realise Mr M will probably feel let down by my decision, as its not the outcome he 
hoped for. But, hes not obliged to accept what Ive said  in which case it remains open to 
him to pursue the matter by any other means available. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my decision is I uphold this complaint in that, if it hasnt done 
so already, I require Black Horse Limited to pay Mr M another £200 compensation (bringing 
the total to £500) for the distress and inconvenience he experienced. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2021.
 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman