DRN-2915517
The complaint
Ms T complains about American International Group UK Limiteds (AIG) offer of settlement 
of her mobile phone insurance claim. My references to AIG include its agents.  
What happened
Ms T has mobile phone insurance through her bank account. The insurer is AIG. In 
December 2020 Ms T called AIG to claim on the policy as her phones screen had cracked 
when she dropped it. 
In the call AIGs representative said as it wasnt possible to repair Ms Ts phone through its 
approved repairer (which Ill refer to as W) but could offer her a replacement refurbished 
phone. AIG also spoke about Ms T taking the phone to another repairer (which Ill refer to as 
S). They discussed how close S stores were to Ms T but the nearest was too far with a three 
hour round trip. Ms T asked if she could arrange a repair locally and claim the cost but AIG 
refused.
Ms T thinks AIGs offer is unfair. She says:
her damaged phone was only six days old when she claimed and a refurbished 
phone wouldnt be as good as her brand new phone
she would have to pay a £100 excess to get a refurbished phone rather than a £50 
excess to get a repair. Also a refurbished phone came with a 12 month warranty, 
whereas a repair has a 24 month warranty
shed checked Ws website and it only offered repairs for phones by two 
manufacturers, which didnt include her phone. It wasnt clear in the policy terms her 
phone wasnt covered for repairs
she wants her phone repaired with the 24 warranty and to pay £50 excess. 
Initially out investigator thought AG should repair Ms Ts phone by mailing to S, waive the 
excess and pay £100 for Ms Ts distress and inconvenience. AIG gave further evidence 
including that it only had a walk-in repair arrangement with S and no repair option was 
available with W for Ms Ts phone. AIG also said the policy stated it would repair if the repair 
option is available and it wasnt so it had acted within its policy terms.
Ultimately our investigator recommended AIG provide Ms T with a replacement refurbished 
phone but reduce the excess to £50, the amount she would have paid if a repair had been 
available.
AIG disagrees and wants ombudsmans decision. It said the policy terms and additional 
information sent to policyholders at the time it took over as insurer were clear it didnt 
guarantee a repair option and when that option was available.
Before I made a decision we updated Ms T about the investigators ultimate 
recommendation and asked for an update on her phone. She hadnt got the phone repaired.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im intending to partly uphold this complaint.
The policy says:
If, during the period of cover, your phone is damaged  we will either provide you 
with a replacement phone or will arrange for your phone to be repaired, (if the repair 
option is available). This will be discussed with you when you make your claim.
If we replace your phone, we will provide you with a refurbished model. Refurbished 
replacement phones will have genuine manufacturer parts and be in an as new` / 
Grade A condition. The replacement phone comes with a 12-month warranty.   
The additional information sent to Ms T when AIG took over as insurer says:
Whats Changing?
New repair options: Depending on your location and the type of damage, you may be 
able to choose to have your phone repaired at a local walk- in agent or by a 
technician coming to you (a £50 excess will apply when your phone is repaired).
So the policy does say a repair option may be available and doesnt guarantee that option. 
As the repair option wasnt available AIG offered Ms T the replacement refurbished phone 
and it could do so under the policy terms.
However I can step out a strict reading of the policy terms to decide a fair and reasonable 
outcome in the particular circumstances.
AIG says the policy terms and the above additional information sent to Ms T are clear about 
when the repair option will be provided, but I dont think they are clear.
The additional information refers to the type of damage and location as being relevant for a 
walk-in repair and AIG discussed that option when speaking to Ms T about the location of S 
stores. AIG doesnt dispute the nearest store was too far for Ms T to travel to get a repair.  A 
technician going to Ms T to repair the phone wasnt offered and AIG doesnt dispute thats 
because W didnt provide the service for the make of Ms Ts phone.
Neither the policy or the additional information is clear that the type of phone a policyholder 
has is relevant in AIG deciding whether a repair can be carried out. So I dont think its fair 
for Ms T to have to pay the additional £50 excess for the refurbished phone option because 
the non walk-in repair arrangements AIG has put in place dont cover her make of phone, 
which isnt an unusual make. 
Putting things right
I appreciate Ms T would prefer that her existing phone is repaired. However, overall I think a 
fair and reasonable outcome is that AIG can offer to settle the claim with a replacement 
refurbished mobile phone but in these particular circumstances its fair to charge Ms T the 
£50 excess she would have been charged for a repair. Its for Ms T to decide if she wants to accept that settlement. Im not going to say AIG should extend the warranty to 24 months for 
the refurbished phone as the repair 24 months warranty would only relate to the repaired 
part, not the whole phone. 
My final decision
I partly uphold this complaint.
I require American International Group UK Limited to settle Ms Ts claim by providing a 
replacement refurbished mobile phone charging her an excess of £50.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2021.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman