DRN-2379320
The complaint
Mrs and Mr U complain about U K Insurance Limiteds handling of a home insurance claim 
and about the claim being declined. 
What happened
Mrs and Mr U have a home insurance policy underwritten by UKI, which covers home 
emergencies amongst other things.
Mr U contacted UKI in October 2019 to report a problem with his boiler. He was without 
heating and hot water. This was particularly worrying because a number of people living at 
the home were vulnerable due to health problems.
UKI sent an engineer, who reported that there was an issue with the spark electrodes on the 
boiler. He said this was a part which would have been maintained or replaced if the boiler 
had been serviced. And he noted the boiler was 17 years old and hadnt been maintained.
Mr U says the engineer told them hed order replacement electrodes for the repair.
He says he heard nothing more until he chased UKI three days later, when he was initially 
told UKI wouldnt be fixing the boiler because it hadnt been maintained.
After speaking to several people (Mr U asked for the call to be escalated), UKI agreed to 
send an engineer the following day. The engineer eventually attended three days later. Mr U 
was told theyd been waiting for parts to be delivered.
The engineer attended on two further occasions. At each visit, it appears further issues were 
identified with the boiler after the intended repair hadnt brought Mrs and Mr Us boiler back 
to good working order.
On the last occasion, Mr U says he noticed issues with the pressure in the boiler and the 
over-ride button on the control panel not working. This was in mid-November 2019. He 
contacted UKI, who got back to him several days later. 
At this point, they said the boiler was beyond economical repair and hadnt been maintained, 
so they were declining the claim.
During this period, Mr U made a number of complaints to UKI. Its not necessary to go into 
all the detail here. But Mr U initially complained about the service provided when he first 
reported the problem with his boiler. He said UKI didnt contact him to tell him the claim was 
declined and he only found out when he chased them about the repairs hed been expecting.
UKI admitted the service hadnt been what they would expect and paid Mrs and Mr U £220 
in compensation.
Mr U then complained about UKIs handling of the claim and their declining it. And he said 
there had been many delays, failures to call him back, confusion throughout and mis-
representation by the person whod dealt with his original complaint.
UKI didnt uphold Mr Us complaint. They said the service they provided hadnt been to the 
standard theyd expect, but the compensation already paid to Mr U was sufficient. And they 
maintained that the decision to decline the claim was correct because Mrs and Mr U hadnt 
maintained the boiler.
Mrs and Mr U were unhappy with this outcome and brought their complaint to us. Our 
investigator looked into and didnt think UKI had done anything wrong.
Mrs and Mr U disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.       
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs and Mr Us policy says UKI will pay for emergency assistance (up to specified cost 
limits) if the main source of heating in the home fails. And it says theyll contribute £250 
towards the cost of a new boiler if the current one is beyond economical repair.
The policy then goes on to set out conditions and exclusions to this provision.
Amongst other things, it says:
We wont pay for. any system or appliance which has not been installed, 
maintained or repaired in line with the manufacturers instructions  
Mr U has himself told us that his maintenance regime for the boiler consists of: using the 
heating and hot water, turning the boiler on and off, checking and maintaining the pressure 
and bleeding the radiators. 
The manufacturers instructions for maintaining the boiler are accessible via the internet. 
They say the boiler should be serviced annually by a CORGI-registered engineer. They list 
what that service should include. Its a long list and I wont repeat it all here, but it does 
include ensuring the electrodes (the original problem with the boiler according to the 
engineer) are free from corrosion and correctly positioned. And the list does include several 
tasks which Mr U didnt tell us were included in his maintenance regime for the boiler.
So, according to Mr Us own evidence, he hasnt maintained the boiler in line with the 
manufacturers instructions.
I dont think its an unfair or onerous term in the policy to require the customer to keep their 
appliances well-maintained. Mrs and Mr U havent been able to evidence any servicing of 
the boiler at all  UKI have asked them to do so. And Mr U himself says theres been no 
servicing for a number of years.
On that basis, Im satisfied its not unreasonable for UKI to decline Mrs and Mr Us claim. 
As a by-the-way, it seems to me that the persistent faults with the boiler - and different parts 
of it  do very likely indicate, as the engineer suggested, that the boiler is beyond economic 
repair and at the end of its useful life. Which is not entirely surprising for a 17-year-old boiler 
which hasnt been regularly serviced. Insurance policies will usually cover accidents and unexpected or unfortunate failures in 
well-maintained appliances which may be expected to last at least that long. They arent 
intended to provide replacements when your appliance has worn out through age and/or lack 
of maintenance.
UKI did confuse things when they reversed their original decision not to cover the claim. I 
suspect they did so because of Mrs and Mr Us circumstances and a willingness to try to go 
beyond their obligations for a customer in difficulty. 
Whatever UKIs motivations, their attempts to have the boiler fixed went above and beyond 
the cover provided  and were clearly in Mrs and Mr Us interests. The confusion this caused 
could have been avoided. And the service provided to Mr U might have been better. But Im 
satisfied the compensation already provided by UKI for this is sufficient in all the 
circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs and Mr Us complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs U and Mr U to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 February 2021.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman