DRN-3074584
The complaint
Mrs T has complained that Building Block Insurance PCCL Limited (BBI) unfairly removed the 
public liability cover from her pet policy for her dog. 
What happened
Mrs T took out this policy with BBI to start on 1 November 2019 via a comparison website. 
She made a claim and in the course of that claim BBI examined her dogs vet records. As a 
result of the examination of the vet history, BBI noted there were several instances where it 
was noted her dog had aggressive behavioural issues.
BBI said Mrs T didnt tell it about this when taking out her policy in 2019. Therefore, because 
she had misrepresented the matter, it withdrew the public liability cover. Mrs T complained 
but BBI wouldnt change its stance, so she brought her complaint to us. 
The investigator didnt think BBI had done anything wrong. Mrs T didnt agree so her 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why.
When Mrs T applied for the policy through the comparison website, she was asked several 
questions, to which she answered no. These were as follows:
  Has an insurer ever declined for insurance, refused to renew a policy or terminated 
a policy? 
 Has [name of dog] ever shown any vicious tendencies towards a person or another 
animal? 
 Has [name of dog] ever been involved in an accident involving a third party, 
attacked, bitten or been aggressive to a person or another animal? 
Sadly, the vet history shows the following: 
02/08/2016: On exam though went to bite. O advised muzzle at this point as 
has done so before - however unable to keep muzzle on [name of dog]. 
Taken for a walk to let him calm down but still unable - have discussed 
muzzle training at home so used to having one as tolerates halti quite well. 
Try away from owner once muzzle trained as may be better behaved. Does 
snap at owners as well though so care need as very fit muscly dog. Had long 
chat about benefits to nice visits with the nurse to get him used to being here 
as worried re behaviour if he has a cut pad/ear infection etc. O will muzzle 
train at home and booked nice visit for saturday.
24/08/2016: Vaccinated DHP+L4 - very limited exam so could not do in depth 
as will try to bite.
02/08/2017 - Has issue w one paw but will not allow examination.
29/09/2017: Limited exam, muzzled but got muzzle off so amazing  got 
towel round the neck and distracted,
09/07/2018 - Discussed issues with aggression as well.
02/11/2018: Owner requested for me just to do his injections as previously 
been a problem at the vets, Appears very friendly/excitable. But did try and 
nip me after injection given.
20/08/2019: Unable to muzzle - so sedate  to enable blood test.
30/10/2020: Very cursory examination as care dog.
 
Therefore, on this basis I dont consider Mrs T answered the questions asked correctly. I 
understand that Mrs T believed her dog wasnt aggressive and was simply nervous of the 
vets, but the vet history clears shows her vet thought otherwise and moreover advised Mrs T 
about her dogs behavioural issues to include undertaking muzzle training. Therefore, I think 
Mrs T needed to explain this to BBI before taking out this policy, rather than simply 
answering no.
 
 On the basis of this evidence, my role is to assess whether BBI did anything wrong 
consequently in removing the public liability cover aspect of her policy. The law that 
regulates what an insurer can and cant do when faced with this sort of misrepresentation is 
called Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This Act 
imposes a duty on consumers like Mrs T when applying for insurance cover to take 
reasonable care to answer all the questions asked truthfully and honestly. If thats not the 
case, then the insurer has several remedies. Those remedies depend on whether the 
misrepresentation was careless or reckless and deliberate. I agree with the investigator here 
that Mrs Ts misrepresentation was most likely careless. 
The insurer also must show that if it the correct information had been given by the consumer 
to the questions asked, it would have done something different for example, it might have 
offered different terms or possibly not offered the policy at all. If thats the case that means 
under CIDRA its a qualifying misrepresentation. BBI has told us that if it had known about 
your dogs behavioural issues at the vets and listed in the vet history, it would have still 
offered you a policy but excluded the public liability cover. So that follows the permitted 
remedies available to BBI under CIDRA therefore I dont consider it did anything wrong in 
removing it when it found out.
Furthermore, BBI clearly detailed both in the policy document and the policy information 
leaflet that it relied on the information given being accurate and that it required the 
policyholder to check and make sure the basis of the cover was correct. This is clearly laid 
out as follows:  
On providing confirmation of cover it said the following:
It is important You read them carefully to make sure they meet Your needs. Please 
also check Your Schedule carefully to make sure the information You have given Us 
is correct.
You must therefore tell Us if this information is wrong, or if it changes. You have
responsibility to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation, should You 
be careless in answering the questions required to obtain a quotation and 
subsequently take out cover, or deliberately or recklessly make a misrepresentation 
then it may be that this affects Our decision to pay a claim.
If any of the information We have recorded is incorrect, or if You have any questionsabout this Insurance Policy, please contact Perfect Pet either by [email address and 
telephone number.]
In the policy information leaflet, it said the following:
What are my obligations?
It is important you check that this policy meets your needs and you make sure the
information you have given us is correct.
You must tell us if this information is wrong, or if it changes. You have responsibility 
to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. Should you be careless in
answering the questions required to obtain a quotation and subsequently take out 
cover, or deliberately make a misrepresentation then it may be that this affects our 
decision to pay a claim and we may be required to void your policy.
And lastly in the policy document itself it says the following:
General Conditions
1. You must tell us immediately of any changes in Your circumstances that may 
affect Your pet insurance and the cover provided; This includes but not limited 
to; change of address, change of ownership or complaints made about Your 
pet, including any Behavioural complaints. This may result in a premium 
change or Your Policy voided.
.
Policy Conditions
We will only give You the cover described in the Policy and shown on Your Schedule 
if: ..You have taken reasonable care to ensure that declarations made and 
information given to Us orally, electronically or in writing which form the basis of this 
Policy, are complete, accurate and true; and including but not limited to Breed, Age 
and Sex and Your pets behaviour.
You tell Us immediately of any changes in Your circumstances that may affect Your 
pet insurance and the cover provided.
If any of the above conditions are not complied with We have the right to amend the
premium or cancel the policy.
Therefore, I also consider BBI gave full and comprehensible details of the importance of Mrs 
T giving it the correct information to anything it asked about.
So, in conclusion, based on the evidence in the vet history and the answers to the questions 
BBI asked Mrs T on the application, I dont consider BBI did anything wrong in removing the 
public liability cover from her policy. 
My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2022.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman