DRN-3975132
The complaint
Ms N complains that AXA France IARD did not fairly compensate her after it mis-sold 
payment protection insurance (PPI) to her alongside a store card. 
I know that PPI was sold to Ms N in a department store. AXA is the insurer and it has 
accepted responsibility for the complaint. So, Ill refer to AXA for the rest of this decision. 
What happened
PPI was sold to Ms N in 1989 at the same time as she took out a store card in 1989. Ms N 
complained to this service about the sale of PPI and our adjudicator agreed the cover had 
been mis-sold. 
AXA then offered to pay £5,906.51 to compensate her for that mis-sale. Ms N did not think 
this was a fair offer. She said that she had opened her account at the same time as a friend 
and that her friend had been paid substantially more. Ms N thought AXA had only 
compensated her for some of the period shed paid for PPI and it did not hold complete 
information about her account. 
Our adjudicator looked at AXAs offer and thought it was fair. Ms N disagreed with that view 
and so the matter was passed to me for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was very sorry to learn that a very close family member of Ms N passed away very 
recently. I do appreciate that pursuing this complaint in those circumstances must be very 
difficult for Ms N.  
I know Ms N will be disappointed with my decision, but after considering all the 
circumstances in her case very carefully, Ive decided AXAs offer was fair. Ill explain why 
below. 
The parties agree that PPI was mis-sold. So I dont have to look at what happened at the 
point of sale. Im looking at whether AXAs offer to compensate Ms N for that mis-sale is fair. 
So, insofar as it is possible to do so, Id expect AXA to return Ms N to the position shed have 
been in if PPI had never been sold in the first place. Id expect AXA to refund to Ms N all of 
the PPI premiums she paid, along with any card interest shed paid because of the PPI. Id 
also expect AXA to pay 8% simple interest to Ms N to compensate her for any time her 
account would have been in credit but for the PPI policy. 
I can see that Ms N strongly believed that AXA hadnt paid everything that was owed to her. 
She referred to her friend who had opened her account at the same time and had been paid 
substantially more. I dont have the details of Ms Ns friends account. What I would say is 
that just because the accounts were opened at the same time, it doesnt mean that the 
amount spent on the cards was the same over the years. I cant reasonably say AXAs offer 
was unfair because a different person was paid a different amount. 
Neither party has been able to provide me with a full set of Ms Ns statements. Thats not 
surprising given that PPI was sold over 30 years ago. I wouldnt expect either Ms N or AXA 
to keep such detailed information for so long. 
Whilst AXA doesnt have full statement data to show how much Ms N paid each month for 
the policy from 1989 to 2005, it knows that between 1989 and 2010, she paid a total of 
£1,718.68 for PPI. AXA has statement data from 2005 to 2010, so Ive been able to see 
exactly what was paid each month during that time.
Ms N argued that from 2005 to 2010, shed paid around £637.50 over five years and as 
shed used her card in the same way over the years, the total premiums she paid were likely 
to be much higher that £1,718.68 over 20 years. Ive thought carefully about Ms Ns 
argument here, but I cant say its most likely that she did pay more than AXAs records 
show. I say this particularly because I note that the cost of the cover most likely increased 
from £1 for every £100 outstanding on her card to £1.50 for every £100 in around 2003. On 
balance, Im satisfied AXAs records likely accurately reflect the total cost of the PPI and that 
this was £1,718.68. 
As AXA knew how much Ms N had paid in total for PPI from 1989, it then had to work out 
how much interest she would have paid on the cost of the PPI. It calculated she would have 
paid £1,910.87 in card interest. So, altogether, AXA calculated that Ms N would have been 
charged £3,629.55 in total for the PPI policy. It offered to refund all of this. 
It looks as though Ms Ns account was closed in 2010. And AXA appears to have calculated 
8% simple interest accordingly and deducted the relevant rate of tax as required by HM 
Revenue and Customs. 
I appreciate Ms N does not agree that AXA fairly compensated her for mis-selling PPI. But I 
have considered its calculation carefully. I am satisfied AXA undertook all the steps I would 
expect in circumstances such as this. It follows I am satisfied that AXAs offer of 
compensation is fair. 
My final decision
My decision is that the offer made by AXA France IARD to Ms N to compensate her for mis-
sold PPI is fair.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman