DRN-4102186
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain about the maturity proceeds they received from Zurich Assurance 
Ltd when their endowment policy matured in October 2022. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs A had a 25 year endowment plan which commenced on 1 October 1997 and 
required a monthly contribution of £157.28. The units were all invested in the Zurich 
Managed G4 AL Fund and the policy would mature on 1 October 2022. In total Mr and Mrs A 
paid around £28,300 into the plan. 
In June 2022 Zurich wrote to Mr and Mrs A with two options on maturity of the plan  to 
encash it or extend it by ten years. At the time of the letter, the plan was worth £77,909.63  
but Zurich made clear that this value was not guaranteed and could be subject to 
fluctuations before maturity. Mr and Mrs A opted to encash the plan at maturity, and the 
proceeds were paid out to them just after 1 October 2022. 
Unfortunately, on 23 September 2022 an announcement by the then UK Government 
caused widespread volatility in financial markets, and had a negative effect on all major UK 
indices. Mr and Mrs As plan was still invested in the managed fund, which was primarily 
invested in UK equities, and as a result the plan suffered a significant drop in value. Mr and 
Mrs A received £74,049.86 and complained. 
Zurich looked into their complaint, but didnt think it had done anything wrong. In short, it 
explained that the plan had been managed in accordance with the terms and conditions, and 
the final maturity value was never guaranteed. It explained the economic conditions shortly 
before the plan matured, and said that this was the unfortunate cause of the significant drop 
in the plans value. It said that this wasnt something it had any control over, and therefore 
didnt consider it ought to pay any compensation. 
Mr and Mrs A remained unhappy and referred their complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators looked into the complaint, but didnt think it should be upheld. In summary, she 
considered the plan had been administered correctly and was satisfied by Zurichs evidence 
as to what the plan was worth on maturity and how the units had been calculated. She didnt 
consider she needed further evidence to substantiate the value of the plan. 
Mr and Mrs A disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to decide the matter. 
They said that Zurich had taken nearly £500 since the June 2022 letter and at the 11th hour 
deducted another £4,500 in 3 months. 
They said they had not seen any real evidence from the actual investors, just internal 
charts. They said that they required external proof from investors, not just Zurich internal 
charts etc. Mr and Mrs A reiterated that they wanted to see solid external proof from 
investments to demonstrate why their plan had dropped in value at maturity. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important I emphasise at the outset that I completely understand why Mr and Mrs 
A are dissatisfied. Its entirely understandable that a drop of almost 5% in 3 months wouldve 
come as shock at the time. Unfortunately, though, there is no further evidence which would 
satisfy Mr and Mrs A that the plan was in fact worth the sum they received on maturity and 
therefore I dont have much to add to what the investigator has already said. Im not clear 
what further external evidence Mr A has said he needs to see, because all of the 
information he has been provided consistently demonstrates that the drop in the value of the 
plan was down to the unfortunate timing of the plans maturity. 
Mr and Mrs A were provided with the unit price changes in the last 12 months, as well as the 
performance of the fund versus the sector average. The Zurich Managed G4 AL fund, which 
is what their plan was invested in, has publicly available information that shows what it is 
worth at any given point in time. For example, Ive checked the funds performance in the 
three months August 2022 to October 2022, and it shows a drop of 4.8% during that period. 
This all means that Im persuaded by Zurichs explanations, and by the evidence it has 
provided, in relation to the way they administered Mr and Mrs As plan and the way the 
maturity value was calculated. Im satisfied that the government announcement about a 
week before the plans maturity, had a disproportionate effect on the value of Mr and Mrs As 
plan  but this was not something Zurich was responsible for mitigating or taking any action 
on. Obviously Zurich had nothing to do with these external events either. 
For all these reasons, whilst I entirely appreciate why Mr and Mrs A remain unhappy with the 
amount they received, I dont consider Zurich has treated them unfairly. Im therefore not 
satisfied it would be fair and reasonable to uphold this complaint or award any 
compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 October 2023.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman