DRN-4134164
The complaint
D, a social club and sports venue, has complained about Hiscox Insurance Company
Limiteds settlement offer in relation to a claim for business interruption under its business
insurance policy.
D is represented in this complaint by Mr L.
What happened
D operates as a sports and social club. In April 2020, D contacted Hiscox to make a claim for
business interruption, as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. D said that as a result of the
Government restrictions imposed in March 2020 it had to close, and did not reopen until
October 2020, which resulted in a loss of revenue. D also claimed for the cost of installing a
ventilation system, which it says was needed to keep its members and reduce its losses.
Hiscox initially turned down the claim. Hiscox said the policy provided cover in the event of
physical damage to the property which would prevent the operation of the business but that
was not the case here. Hiscox also said there was potentially cover for losses arising as a
result of D not being able to use its premises following closure by a public authority, as a
result of an occurrence of a notifiable disease within the vicinity of the insured premises.
However, it said that the Government restrictions in March 2020 had been a national
response to the pandemic and not as a result of any specific occurrence of Covid-19 in the
vicinity of Ds premises.
In 2020, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued a business interruption insurance
test case in which it asked the courts to consider a sample of policy wordings and how they
should respond to the pandemic. One of the policies considered in this case had the same
wording as Ds policy with Hiscox. The Supreme Court handed down its judgment in January
2021.
Hiscox reconsidered Ds claim after that judgment was made and as a result it confirmed
that it accepted that D was required to close the sporting element of the business between
24 March and 25 July 2020 and the club bar from 21 March to 4 July 2020, and that the
claim was therefore covered. These were the dates that the Government imposed
restrictions on bars and sporting venues respectively and the dates the restrictions were
lifted.
Hiscox assessed the claim and offered to pay £9,994.00 in total, which was paid in August
2021. After D complained Hiscox apologised for some service issues but said it had
considered the claim as quickly as it could given it was entitled to wait for the court to
consider the test case. However, Hiscox paid £250 compensation for the service issues. 
Hiscox said the cost of the ventilation would not be covered, as the policy only covers
increased costs of working which have the sole purpose of minimising the reduction of
income during the indemnity period. The ventilation system was installed after July 2020, so
did not minimise the losses incurred during the period of indemnity and therefore was not
covered.
D also claimed for losses caused to it during the further periods of Government restriction in
November 2020 and January 2021. Hiscox turned these down, as it said D didnt renew the
policy in October 2020, so there was no cover in place at the time of those lockdowns.
D was not happy with the amount offered and has made a number of submissions in in
support of the complaint. Ive considered everything D has said but have summarised the
main points below:
The definition of indemnity period is the period beginning when the damage occurs
and ending when the results of the business cease to be affected by the damage but
not exceeding 24 months.
The FCA stated that the indemnity period may extend beyond the expiry of the policy,
and covers from the date the damage occurred to the date the insured ceases to be
affected by the damage.
As the policy has a 24 month indemnity period, the policy should cover the
interruption to its business for up to 24 months. This means that the other periods of
business interruption, as a result of Government restrictions, for up to 24 months
from March 2020, should be included in the settlement.
It is therefore irrelevant that it did not renew its policy with Hiscox in October 2020.
Hiscox has not acted in line with the Supreme Court judgment or the guidance issued
by the FCA as to how insurers should deal with claims.
All three lockdowns happened during the 24 month indemnity period, so are covered.
It had to install a ventilation system, in compliance with the policy terms requiring it to
mitigate its losses and as advised by its governing body, the cost of which should
have been covered. Without this expenditure, it would potentially have lost members
and therefore lost revenue.
Hiscox would have applied this clause (requiring it to mitigate its losses) in its favour
if possible.
It has incurred legal costs which it asks be reimbursed.

After D complained, Hiscox reviewed the matter. In June 2022, Hiscox said the offer was
correct but said it would also pay interest at 8% per annum on the settlement offered in
recognition of the time taken to settle the claim (based on the dates it could have made
payment of the claim in 2020). This meant a total payment of £11,420.81. In March 2023,
having conducted a further review it also offered compensation of a further £250.
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. She did not recommend the complaint be
upheld, as she was satisfied Hiscoxs settlement offer was in line with the policy terms and
conditions.
D did not accept most of the Investigators assessment. The only aspect of her
assessment that D accepted it that it has no cover for legal costs in relation to this matter.
However, it asked that in the interest of fairness, this service consider paying for a written
opinion to be obtained from Ds barrister ourselves.
D also asked for cover for extra work done by its in-house financial adviser in pursuing the
claim. D says it paid £750 for this and has a receipt from the financial adviser.
As the Investigator was unable to resolve the complaint, it was passed to me. I issued a 
provisional decision on the matter in April 2020. I have copied the main part of my 
provisional decision below: 
Its evident from Ds submissions that the Covid-19 pandemic has had a significant 
financial impact. However, I dont intend to uphold its complaint. Ill explain why.Business insurance policies provide protection for some of the common things which 
might happen to a business. No policy will cover every eventuality however and each 
policy may provide different cover.
I have considered the section of cover that both parties agree is relevant to this claim 
below:
The policy provides cover for loss as a result of business interruption under the 
following term:
Public Authority
7. Your inability to use the business premises due to restrictions imposed by a 
public authority during the period of insurance following
b) any occurrence of a notifiable human disease...
Indemnity period
The policy defines the indemnity period as being:
The period beginning at the date of the insured damage, the date on which 
the loss of licence takes effect or the date the restriction is imposed, and 
lasting for the period during which your income is affected as a result of such 
insured damage, loss of licence or restriction, but for no longer than the 
number of months shown in the schedule.
The months shown on the schedule is 24 months.
The insured event in this case is the closure of the business due to restrictions 
imposed by a public authority, which is what happened in March 2020.
I have to now consider whether the losses sustained by D throughout the maximum
indemnity period are as a result of that one insured event. Having done so, I dont 
think the losses were as a result of this one insured event because I think that the 
cause of Ds loss in March 2020 was different to the cause of the loss which occurred 
from the date it reopened in July 2020 onwards and during the separate periods of 
lockdown.
The policy only covers losses arising from an inability to use the premises, as a result 
of restrictions following an occurrence of a notifiable human disease. After July 2020, 
D was able to use its premises, so the insured event (the inability to use the 
premises) had ended.
The inability to use has to be absolute for interference with or hindrance would not be
enough. It follows that any losses arising from the date D was able to reopen each 
part of the business in July 2020, were not directly as a result of the Governments 
enforced closure in March 2020 but the pandemic generally. There were further 
lockdowns (in November 2020 and January 2021) but these were new and separate 
events. The start date of any
event has to be within the period of insurance for there to be cover.
I therefore consider Hiscox has acted reasonably in determining the indemnity period 
as being 21 March to 4 July 2020 for the club bar and 24 March to 25 July 2020 for 
the sporting elements.
I understand that D had an expectation of cover for ongoing losses, as a result of the FCA guidance about Covid-19 claims. However, whether a claim is covered or not 
depends on the specific policy terms. The FCA guidance that D has referred to says 
that the indemnity period may extend beyond the expiry of the policy, which is 
correct, but as stated the start date of any clam has to occur within the policy period.
The insured event here is the closure of the business as a result of Government 
restrictions. While D continued to suffer some loss after reopening, the insured event 
had ceased. This is also supported by The Supreme Court declarations which say 
an insured cannot claim in respect of loss sustained before the commencement of or 
after the cessation of the insured peril.
D has also said that it has received legal advice that supports that its losses for the 
entire 24 month period flowed directly from the insured event. D invited us to obtain 
written advice on that. My role is to determine the fair and reasonable outcome to a 
complaint having considered all the circumstances of the complaint, including the 
evidence provided by both parties, industry guidance, good practice and the law.
It is not usually necessary for parties to have legal representation or provide legal 
opinions in support of their complaint. We are an informal service and do not have 
the same rules of evidence as a court. We consider everything provided to us and 
may also ask for further information from the parties. We would not obtain evidence 
on behalf of either party. 
Having considered everything provided to me and all relevant information, including 
the law, I do not consider that Hiscox has acted unfairly in assessing the claim 
indemnity period in the way it has.
Ventilation system
D says it installed a ventilation system in accordance with the express term in the 
policy requiring it to mitigate its losses and ensure it could offer a safe environment to 
its members. It was also in accordance with advice from its governing body. If it had 
not done so, it would have lost members. D says that the Investigator hasnt 
supported her argument that the cost of the system exceeded the losses it saved, so 
the cost should be covered.
The policy covers increased costs of working as a result of an insured event. 
Increased costs of working are defined as:
The costs and expenses necessarily and reasonably incurred by you for the 
sole purpose of minimising the reduction in income to your activities during 
the indemnity period, but not exceeding the reduction in income saved.
Theres no proof that the cost of the ventilation system (£20,000) was less than the 
losses it saved. It would be for D to establish this. But in any event, it was installed 
after D was able to reopen in July 2020, i.e. after the end of the indemnity period. 
Therefore it was not a cost incurred for the sole purpose of minimising the reduction 
in income during the indemnity period. I do not therefore consider Hiscox has acted 
unfairly or unreasonably in refusing to reimburse this cost.
Accountant fees
D accepted that legal costs are not covered by the policy but has asked for £750 for 
the extra work carried out by its in-house financial adviser. The policy provides cover 
for:
reasonable charges you pay to your professional accountant for producing information we require in support of a request for settlement.
D says its in-house financial adviser carried out extra work to support the claim. 
However, there is no evidence that this person is a professional accountant and no 
evidence that what they did was in relation to additional work (over and above the 
usual accounts and record keeping) solely to provide information Hiscox had 
requested.
I do not therefore consider there is enough evidence to require Hiscox to pay this 
sum.
Interest and compensation
D submitted the claim to Hiscox in March 2020. It was not until July 2021 that Hiscox
accepted the claim and make a settlement offer.
Whilst I understand the difficulties insurers faced with claims of this nature, the clarity
provided by the courts in the test case has shown that D had a valid claim and that 
the decision to decline the claim in 2020 was incorrect. I do therefore think that the 
underwriters should have paid Ds claim sooner.
My role is to consider what a business might or might not have done wrong and to 
put a customer back in the position they would have been in had things happened as 
they should have. Because Hiscox initially turned down Ds claim, it was without 
funds that it should have had.
Hiscox has already offered to pay interest on the settlement offered based on the 
dates that it could have made payment towards the claim at 8% simple per annum, 
which is our usual rate, up to when Hiscox made its final offer. Hiscox has said if the 
claim had been accepted when first submitted, it would likely have made a first 
interim payment on 21 May 2020 and then on 21 June, 21 July, 21 August and with 
the final payment on 25 August 2020. It calculated the interest up to 13 July 2022 
(and was paid on 26 June 2022). The way Hiscox has calculated the interest is 
generally in line with the way we would assess interest and I think this was fair and 
reasonable.
Hiscox also offered £500 total compensation for the delays in meeting the claim. 
Having considered all the circumstances, I think the compensation offered is 
reasonable and do not intend to make Hiscox pay any more.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold the complaint in part and agree that the claim
settlement proposed by Hiscox Insurance Company Limited after the complaint came 
to us is reasonable. This is as follows:
1. pay the sum of £9,994 in settlement of the claim, together with interest at 8%
simple per annum for the first months amount from 21 May 2020, the second
months amount from 21 June 2020, the third months amount from 21 July 2020 and
the fourth months amount from 21 August 2020 and the final instalment from 25
August 2020 all until 13 July 2022.
2. Pay the sum of £500 compensation for the delays in dealing with the claim, as
already offered.Responses to my provisional decision
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision with any further information or 
arguments they wanted considered. 
Bother D and Hiscox have confirmed that they accept my provisional decision and have 
nothing further to add. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no further information has been provided and both parties accepted my provisional 
decision, I see no reason to change my provisional findings. 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint in part and, if it has not done so already, Hiscox Insurance Company 
Limited should now do the following: 
1. pay D the sum of £9,994 in settlement of the claim, together with interest at 8%
simple per annum for the first months amount from 21 May 2020, the second
months amount from 21 June 2020, the third months amount from 21 July 2020 and
the fourth months amount from 21 August 2020 and the final instalment from 25
August 2020 all until 13 July 2022.
2. Pay D the sum of £500 compensation for the delays in dealing with the claim, as
already offered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2023.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman