DRN-3504268
The complaint
Mr A complains about the actions of Everyday Lending Limited when he found that he was 
having difficulty making loan repayments. Everyday Lending Limited trades as 
GeorgeBanco.com, and I will refer to it as GB.   
What happened
Mr A had a loan with GB. As a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, Mr A found that he was 
having difficulty making the monthly contractual payments. 
In February 2021 GB wrote to Mr A with a notice of arrears, as it was required to do. In June 
2021 it sent him a default notice. Again, it was required to do so under the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974. The default notice required Mr A to pay arrears of more than £800 before 8 July 
2021. It went on to explain what might happen and the steps GB could take in payment were 
not made. Those steps included seeking repayment of the loan  more than £4,000. 
Mr A complained that GB should not have taken the steps it did. He thought it should have 
been more sympathetic to his situation. He said too that he did not believe he had received 
the correspondence from GB or been properly advised about the effects of the default. 
One of our investigators considered what had happened but did not believe Mr A had been 
treated unfairly. Mr A did not accept the investigators assessment and asked that an 
ombudsman review the case.       
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where a borrower is having difficulty meeting payments due to a lender, we would expect 
the lender to consider carefully what options might be available to assist. What is appropriate 
depends on the circumstances, but actions might include the suspension of interest and 
charges, payment breaks or agreeing a payment plan. 
Unfortunately, however, there are cases where none of those  or other  options is realistic, 
and so the lender has to default the account and seek payment. Indeed, it may be unhelpful 
to borrowers to allow arrears to continue to build up. In addition, the Information 
Commissioner takes the view that not registering a default after an account has been in 
arrears for three to six months can be a breach of data protection legislation, because that 
might mean that information provided by the lender about a borrower is not accurate. 
In this case, Mr A and his guarantor made proposals for a payment arrangement, but they 
fell some way short of what GB thought was reasonable. They were not able to commit to a 
sufficiently high monthly payment, relative to the outstanding debt.
Mr A has said that he feels he is being punished for a situation which was outside his 
control. I do not however believe that he is being punished. GB simply took steps in line with 
the loan agreement. Whether or not it was Mr As fault that he could no longer comply with 
the loan terms (and I accept it was not his fault), GB was entitled to take the steps it did.
Mr A says too that he was given incorrect information in two telephone calls on 16 and 26 
July 2021. GB has provided recordings of both calls. I do not believe that Mr A was given 
incorrect information. It was explained that making the payments Mr A mentioned might 
prevent the account from being passed to third parties for collection but would not stop the 
account from defaulted. Mr A thinks that GB should have explained in more detail what a 
default might mean, but I would not expect it to do so in the level of detail he expects. In any 
event, the default notice itself explained what the consequences of a default might be.    
Mr A says too that he did not receive the default notice, but I note that it was properly 
addressed and was not returned to GB. I think therefore that he probably did receive it, 
although I accept he may have overlooked it. GBs obligation was however only to send it, 
not to ensure Mr A received it. 
Mr A says too that other lenders told him that the default notice was only a formality and that 
he could safely ignore it. I think he may have misunderstood what he says he was told. In 
any event, the notice set out clearly what he needed to do and the consequences of not 
doing that. In the circumstances, I do not believe he can reasonably have thought the letter 
was no more than a formality.  
Mr A has my sympathy. He appears to have fallen into difficulties through no fault of his own, 
but I do not believe that GB treated him unfairly.    
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Everyday Lending Limited to do 
anything further to resolve Mr As complaint.    
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman