DRN-3299259
The complaint
Mr P complains about Admiral Insurance Company Limiteds handling of claims under his 
home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr P has a home insurance policy with Admiral. He made claims relating to escapes of water 
at his home, in April 2019 and in January 2020. Admiral accepted both claims  and in both 
cases arranged for repairs to be carried out.
Mr P wasnt happy with the way the claims were handled and made a complaint to Admiral, 
in June 2020.
In summary, Mr P said there were unnecessary delays in dealing with the first claim, Admiral 
made promises which were then broken, and the cost of the repairs was excessive  which 
Mr P thought had affected his policy premiums at renewal.
He said the second claim was also handled badly. The first attempt at the repairs led to a 
further escape of water  which led to further repair work. Admiral failed to pay electricity 
costs related to the drying out process. The repair work wasnt completed or signed off. 
There was little or no contact with Admiral throughout the process. And the same contractors 
were used, despite the issues with the first claim.
In response to Mr Ps complaint, Admiral paid him £114.90 for electricity costs incurred due 
to the drying out process. And they paid a further £450 in compensation for Mr Ps trouble 
and upset caused by poor handling of the claims.
Mr P then made a further complaint about the contractors failure to contact him about the 
final completion of the works. Admiral apologised and said theyd instruct the contractor to 
be in touch as soon as possible. And they paid Mr P a further £75 in compensation.
Mr P wasnt happy with the outcome of his complaints, so he brought them to us. Our 
investigator looked into it and didnt think Admiral needed to do anything more to put things 
right for Mr P. She thought the compensation theyd paid to Mr P was fair and reasonable 
given the trouble and upset hed suffered as result of their failings.
Mr P disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
I agreed with our investigator that Admiral didnt need to do anything more for Mr P, but I 
came to that conclusion for very different reasons. So, I issued a provisional decision. This 
gave both Mr P and Admiral a chance to provide further information or evidence and/or to 
comment on my thinking before I made my final decision in this case.
My Provisional Decision
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When this complaint was referred to me for a final decision, I was concerned that we 
might not yet have all the information we needed. Mr P had evidently made two 
complaints to Admiral. The first - and more substantive - complaint was made in June 
2020, but there was also a later complaint about the contractor failing to get in touch 
with Mr P about the remaining repairs.
Admiral had sent us a copy of a final response letter dated 22 September 2020. That 
appeared only to address the second of Mr Ps complaints  the one about the delay 
in contact from the contractors. We didnt appear to have their final response to 
Mr Ps first complaint, which he made in June 2020.
This is important because the way we operate is governed by the dispute resolution 
(or DISP) rules, set out by the Financial Conduct Authority. In brief, these rules say, 
amongst other things, that we cant look into a complaint if its brought to us more 
than six months after the complainant received the businesss final response  
unless the business consents to our doing so or there are exceptional circumstances 
to explain why the complainant could not bring their complaint to us within the time 
limit.
Mr P brought his complaint to us on 3 March 2021. He got Admirals final response to 
his second complaint to them on 22 September 2020. So, we can look into that 
complaint  Mr P brought it to us within six months of Admirals final response to him.
Admiral have now  only after the case was referred to me for a final decision  
provided a copy of their final response to Mr Ps first complaint  the substantive 
complaint that he made in June 2020.
Its extremely disappointing that weve only now received that document, particularly 
given the impact it has on Mr Ps case. However, it is clearly dated 26 August 2020. 
That meant Mr P had until 26 February 2021 to bring that complaint to us. And in 
fact, he didnt make his complaint to us until 3 March 2021.
I know Mr P went on to have further correspondence with Admiral about his claims 
and about the issues he had with the way those claims were handled. But, that final 
response letter, dated 26 August 2020, clearly states that it is a final response and it 
clearly sets out Mr Ps right to refer the complaint to our service if hes unhappy with 
the outcome. And it says that he must do so within six months (this line in the letter is 
in bold type). It also says that if Mr P refers the complaint to us after the time limit has 
expired, Admiral will not consent to our looking into it.
Mr P hasnt suggested that there were exceptional circumstances which meant he 
couldnt bring his complaint to us before he in fact did so. And I can see that during 
the relevant period (the six months after the final response in August 2020) he was 
continuing to correspond with Admiral about the case. So, I dont think he could claim 
that hed been unable to register his complaint with us during that same period.
The August final response from Admiral deals with the main substantive points in 
Mr Ps complaints (to Admiral and to us). It specifically lists Mr Ps complaint points 
as being about: the electricity payments; the works being incomplete; poor 
workmanship (including that leading to a further escape of water); failure to sign-off 
repair work; lack of contact from Admiral themselves; the increase in premiums; delays with the repair work; Admirals use of the same contractors on both claims; 
and issues with the alternative accommodation provided.
Under the DISP rules, we cant look into any of those matters, because the complaint 
was brought to us more than six months after Admirals final response.
We can look into the issues raised in Mr Ps second complaint  which received a 
final response from Admiral in September 2020. Mr Ps complaint was that there had 
been a delay in the contractors contacting him about completion of the repair works.
Admiral accepted there had been a delay, apologised, took steps to ensure the 
contractors were in touch with Mr P as soon as possible and paid Mr P £75 in 
compensation for his trouble and upset.
Im satisfied that was a fair and reasonable response to that second complaint. And I 
dont think Admiral needs to do any more to put things right for Mr P on that particular 
issue.
I can appreciate that Mr P wont be pleased with this outcome. And Id like to 
apologise that we didnt realise sooner that the main part of his complaint might be 
outside our jurisdiction because of the time limits set out in the DISP rules. But we 
are bound by those rules  we cant choose to ignore them. And so, put simply, we 
cant look into the issues raised in Mr Ps first complaint to Admiral.
And I concluded that, for those reasons, my provisional decision was not to uphold Mr Ps 
complaint.
Comments on my provisional decision
Admiral havent commented on my provisional decision or provided any further information 
or evidence.
Mr P did respond to my provisional decision. Im very grateful to him for accepting the 
outcome. Id also like to say that I was very sorry to hear about the health problems Mr P has 
been suffering recently.
Mr P said he contacted our office by telephone, possibly about a month or so before he 
actually made his complaint, to enquire about our process. But he recognised that the 
complaint was in fact only made in early March 2021, after the six-month deadline.
Mr P also said that he has an outstanding issue with Admiral about a further payment for 
added electricity costs during one of the periods when his house was drying out after an 
escape of water. Id expect Admiral will pick up that issue now and give Mr P an answer. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked again at the information we have on file and Ive considered Mr Ps most recent 
comments on this case. I havent changed my mind about the outcome, or my reasons for 
coming to the conclusions I have. 
As I explained in my provisional decision, most of the complaint points Mr P brought to us 
arent things we can look into, given the deadlines for bringing complaints set out in the DISP rules. The complaint was made  and recorded as such on our database  only in early 
March 2021. If Mr P contacted us before that time, as he suggests he may have done, then 
that contact was clearly handled as a general enquiry and not as a complaint.
As for the issues we can look into  the delays in the contractors approaching Mr P to agree 
the final steps in the works to his home before September 2020  I dont think theres any 
dispute that the compensation Admiral paid to Mr P was fair and reasonable, bearing in mind 
the extent of the trouble and upset he was caused.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mr Ps 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2022.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman