DRN-3238469
The complaint
Mr S complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC, trading as Tesco Bank, recorded a 
marker against his name on a fraud prevention database.
What happened
Mr S and his wife applied to Tesco for a mortgage in early 2019. Tesco approved their 
application and made a mortgage offer  but just before completion it withdrew the offer, and 
told Mr S it had been unable to confirm his income and employment details. It also recorded 
a marker for application fraud against Mr Ss name with Cifas, a fraud prevention database.
Mr S complained to Tesco about the marker in 2020. Tesco said it wouldnt remove the 
marker. 
Our Investigator didnt think Tesco had applied the fraud marker unfairly, and he didnt 
recommend that the marker be removed now. He found that Tesco had, amongst other 
things, asked whether Mr S was employed, or whether he was employed and owned more 
than 30% of the shares in the company he worked for. Mr S owned 100% of the company 
which owned the holding company which employed him, and the Investigator concluded that 
Mr Ss statement of himself simply as employed  rather than employed but also a 
shareholder  on the mortgage application wasnt accurate.
Mr S didnt accept that conclusion. He maintained that he had answered the questions he 
was asked correctly  he didnt own the company which employed him, or any shares in it, 
and he was paid via PAYE.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S is confident that he answered the questions on the mortgage application in 2019 
correctly, on the basis that he was employed by a company he didnt own. He says he used 
to own the company, but he sold it shortly before he made the mortgage application, and 
Companies House hadnt updated its records straight away. He says the new owner and 
director then asked him to run the company full time. He sent Tesco a copy of his contract of 
employment, with a start date of 1 March 2019 and an annual salary of £80,000.
Its not in dispute that Mr S still owned 100% of the shares in the holding company which 
owned the limited company he was employed by. But Mr S says he wasnt asked about that 
 he says he was also employed on a full-time basis, so thats what he put on his mortgage 
application. I note, however, that there was an option on the online application to add more 
than one job or income source. And, as the Investigator pointed out, as owner of the holding 
company, Mr S was the overall controlling party. 
In any event, Tescos records satisfy me that Mr Ss answer to this particular question wasnt 
Tescos only concern when it reviewed his application. It says it had other reasons to think 
Mr S tried to mislead it in order to obtain a mortgage. It also had concerns about payments 
made to and from Mr Ss employer on his bank statements, and anomalies on the payslip he 
provided. 
Cifas members should only record markers on the Cifas database where they have clear 
and rigorous evidence of fraud, such that they could confidently report the matter to the 
police. They arent required to make such a report, but thats the necessary standard of 
evidence  and is the standard Ive kept in mind in considering whether Tesco acted fairly 
here.
In all the circumstances, I think Tesco had reasonable grounds to record the marker it did 
about Mr S on the fraud prevention database, and I dont require it to remove the marker 
now.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2022.
 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman