DRN-1855705
The complaint
Mrs O has complained about the sale of payment protection insurance (PPI) policies taken 
out in connection with loans which she took out in May 2005 (account ending 2230), May 
2006 (account ending 9522) and June 2007 (account ending 1631).
What happened
Mrs O says that she was told she had to have PPI in order to obtain a loan. She says that 
she shouldnt have been forced to take the insurance out.
Santander says that Mrs Os complaint about the sale of the PPI policies has been made too 
late, and it doesnt agree to us looking at it. It says that documentation sent after the sales in 
2009 ought to have made Mrs O aware of cause for complaint then.
Our adjudicator agreed the complaint was made too late. Mrs O disagrees with this so the 
case has come to me to make a jurisdiction decision.
My decision will only be considering whether we have the power to look at Mrs Os case. I 
wont be looking at the merits or the case or whether or not the complaint should be upheld.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The rules say that where a business doesnt consent, I cant consider a complaint which is 
made more than six years after the event complained of, or if later, more than three years 
after the complainant became aware, or ought reasonably to have become aware, of cause 
for complaint. Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R can be found in the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook of rules and guidance (available online).
Mrs O says Santander mis-sold her the PPI policies so the date the policies were taken out 
are the events she is complaining about for the purpose of the first part of the time limit. 
Mrs O took out the loans and associated PPI policies in May 2005, May 2006 and June 
2007. She first complained to Santander about the mis-sale of the policies in June 2019, so 
this falls outside the six year part of the time limit. But I also need to consider whether 
Mrs Os complaint was made within three years of when she became aware, or ought 
reasonably to have become aware, that she had cause to complain. This is so that I can 
work out whether her complaint was made within the second part of the time limit.
Mrs O says that she was told she had to have PPI in order to obtain a loan. She says that 
she shouldnt have been forced to take the insurance out.
Santander has provided copies of documentation sent to Mrs O after the sale in May 2009 in 
respect of each of her PPI policies. The letters indicated that there may have been a 
problem with the sale of Mrs Os PPI policies. They summarised key points about the 
policies and confirmed the information which should have been provided when Mrs O 
purchased them. One of the points highlighted in the letter was that PPI is an optional policy 
and was not a condition of the personal loan. Taking out the PPI would not have enhanced 
your chances of being successful in obtaining the loan There was also a follow up letter 
sent. 
So I think these letters ought reasonably to have made Mrs O aware that the policies were 
optional. And I think this would have given her cause to complain if she hadnt been made 
aware of this at the time the PPI policies were taken out. This would have given Mrs O until 
My 2012 to make her complaint under this limb of the rules. As Mrs Os complaint was made 
after this, and more than 6 years after each of the polices were taken out, her complaint is 
out of time under the rules I must apply.
Mrs O says that she didnt receive any of the letters in 2009. Santander has provided 
records showing the letters were sent to Mrs Os correct address. I accept that doesnt 
necessarily mean the letters wouldve been received, particularly as some post does go 
missing. But the vast majority of correctly addressed post is correctly delivered (and 
therefore received). Mrs O may not remember receiving the letters but without anything to 
suggest that they were returned as undelivered I think its more likely they were sent to her 
correct address and received.  As Mrs Os complaint was made more than three years after 
the letters were sent, her complaint is out of time under the rules I must apply.
Im allowed to investigate complaints made out of time where Im satisfied the failure to 
comply with the time limits was due to exceptional circumstances. This means 
circumstances which would have prevented Mrs O from referring her complaint in time had 
she chosen to do so.
But other than what Ive considered above, Mrs O hasnt provided any potentially exceptional 
circumstances for me to consider. And Ive seen nothing else to suggest they apply. So Im 
satisfied Mrs O could have complained in time. Therefore this service cannot look into her 
complaint.
I know Mrs O will be disappointed that Im reaching this conclusion. Im sorry we cant help 
her on this occasion.
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about the non 
disclosure of commission where PPI was sold. 
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties. So to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should pay back the amount of commission and profit share that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
But these rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship provisions 
in the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions  which were added to 
the Consumer Credit Act in 2006  came into force on 6 April 2007. The changes made in 
2006 explained that the unfair relationship provisions would only apply to credit agreements 
taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements taken out before then, which were still 
running on 6 April 2008. Santander has provided information that shows Mrs Os loan ending 2230 was taken out in 
May 2005 and ended in May 2006 and her loan ending 9522 was taken out in May 2006 and 
ended in May 2007. So based on what Ive said above, I dont think the unfair relationship 
provisions in the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment, or the rules and 
guidance made by the FCA in relation to the non-disclosure of commission apply here.
So Santander doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mrs O may have paid for the 
PPI she had with her loans ending 2230 and 9522.
But Santander has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs O in relation to the loan 
ending 1631 because it does fall within the dates above and: 
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs O about that. Because it didnt tell Mrs O, that was 
unfair. 
To put that right, Santander has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my decision is that I dont have any power to help with Mrs Os 
complaint about her PPI policy because it was made out of time and exceptional 
circumstances do not apply.
 
Rachel Ellis
Ombudsman