DRN-4015169
The complaint
Mr B complained that he was given unsuitable advice to transfer his defined benefit (DB) 
Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS), to a type of personal pension.
Although trading at the time under a different name, KBFS Financial Limited is now 
responsible for answering this complaint. To keep things consistent, Ill refer mainly to 
KBFS.
What happened
In 2017 Mr B approached KBFS for advice about his existing DB scheme. Information was 
gathered about his circumstances which were broadly as follows:
Mr B was 44 years old, married and with three dependent children. He was in good 
health.
He was a current and contributing member of his OPS.
The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of the pension was around £985,032 and 
the normal retirement age (NRA) was 65.
Mr B earned around £65,000 per year. He and Mrs B owned a home valued at 
approximately £600,000 and had a mortgage of £240,000. They had no other 
savings or liabilities.
KBFS set out its advice in a suitability letter in July 2017. It advised Mr B to transfer out of 
his DB scheme and invest the funds in a type of personal pension arrangement. Mr B 
accepted this advice and so transferred from his DB scheme to a personal pension shortly 
after. 
Mr B says that he then became aware of having a cause to complain. He first complained to 
KBFS about its advice, saying he shouldnt have been advised to transfer out of his DB 
scheme. In response, KBFS said it hadnt done anything wrong and was acting on the 
financial objectives Mr B had at the time. 
Mr B then referred his case to our Service. One of our investigators looked into the complaint 
and said it should be upheld. As KBFS hasnt agreed and the complaint couldnt be resolved 
informally, its come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered with great care, the final response from KBFS. Ive also taken into account 
relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of 
practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. This includes 
the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS). 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions on 
the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened 
based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of KBFS's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability and the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
I have further considered that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in 
COBS 19.1.6 that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is 
unsuitable. So, KBFS should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate 
that the transfer was in Mr Bs best interests. 
Ive used all the information we have to consider whether transferring away from the OPS to 
a personal pension arrangement was in Mr Bs best interests. 
I dont think it was, so Im upholding his complaint.
Financial viability
KBFS referred in its transfer recommendation to a critical yield rate. The critical yield is 
essentially the average annual investment return that would be required on the transfer 
value - from the time of advice until retirement - to provide the same annuity benefits as the 
DB scheme. The critical yield is part of a range of different things which help show how likely 
it is that a transferred personal pension fund could achieve the necessary investment growth 
for a transfer-out to become financially viable. 
In Mr Bs case, KBFS said the critical yield required to match the benefits of the DB scheme 
he was in at the time, at the age of 65, was 5.16%. It didnt calculate a critical yield if he 
intended to take a tax-free cash lump sum and a reduced pension. Nor did KBFS calculate 
any critical yield rates if Mr B was to retire earlier. As KBFS itself bases much of its transfer 
rationale on him potentially taking early retirement, I think this was a notable omission and 
one which would have caused Mr B to have less information than he needed to make an 
informed decision.
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case.The relevant discount rate published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period 
before October 2017 was only 4.5% per year for 20 years to retirement (age 65), which is 
below the critical yield figure of 5.16%. The discount rates for retiring earlier were lower. Its 
important to bear in mind that small parts of a percentage point matter in these assumptions 
as what were talking about here is year-on-year growth over more than two decades. Ive 
also kept in mind that the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle 
projection rate was 5%, and the lower projection rate was 2%. 
At the time, KBFS said Mr Bs attitude to risk (ATR) was balanced. So, when thinking here 
about his ATR, Ive also considered Mr Bs circumstances as a married father with three 
dependent children, no savings, and a mortgage. Ive also noted the eventual fund 
recommendation from the KBFS adviser amounted to generally balanced risk funds. Indeed, 
the projected growth rates referred in the illustration for the recommended funds were also 
below the critical yield figure  the mid-rate, for example, was only 4.94% per year.
Taking all these things into account, I think a future growth assumption towards the lower 
half of the regulators projections, close to the discount rate, and near to the fund illustration 
projection was most relevant here. All were below the critical yield figure, so I think this 
shows that achieving 5.16%, year-on-year, upon transferring out was more unlikely than 
likely, in Mr Bs case. 
Ive noted too, that KBFS said that in order to purchase an annuity to provide benefits of an 
equal value to the existing scheme at retirement at the age of 65, the funds required would 
be around £2,032,628. This, in my view, provides a revealing window into the value Mr B 
could lose if he transferred out to a personal pension.
So, all these things were indicating that Mr B would likely receive lower pension benefits 
overall as a consequence of transferring away from the DB scheme. And there would be little 
point in Mr B giving up the guarantees and benefits available to him through his existing 
scheme only to achieve a lower level of benefits in a personal pension in the long term. 
Of course, according to KBFS itself, its recommendation that he should transfer out to a 
personal pension was not based on the financial comparisons with his current scheme 
alone. Rather, KBFS said Mr B had different reasons to transfer away, so Ive thought about 
all the other considerations which might have meant a transfer was suitable for him, despite 
providing the overall lower benefits Ive mentioned. Ive considered these below.
Other reasons given for the transfer advice
Ive used the documentation from KBFS at the time to help list some of the themes the 
recommended transfer-away was based on. Our investigator also highlighted some themes 
when he issued his view. These were:
The ability to start taking benefits at age 55. 
The option of flexible income to suit [Mr Bs] financial needs.
To protect the full value of his fund in the event of his death.
Ive also considered what KBFS said in its responses to Mr B and to our Service. Ive noted, 
for instance, that KBFS says Mr B himself recorded some handwritten notes about why he 
thought transferring might be good for him. 
However, what Mr B wrote on the transfer documentation was no more than some basic 
thoughts; things he hoped might be realised if he transferred his pension to a different scheme. His comments were rudimentary, barely 15 words long and based on information 
already published in the suitability letter and given to him by the adviser. In my view, what Mr 
B wrote down was merely aspirational statements about his pension and what anyone might 
hope for in their retirement when it eventually came.
On the other hand, Mr B was paying KBFS a considerable sum of money for the regulated 
financial advice. So KBFSs job here wasnt to simply transact what Mr B might have thought 
he wanted at the time. Its job was to really understand his circumstances and provide advice 
that was in his best interests. I dont think KBFS did this and, in my view, the supporting 
rationale and analysis it provided in its advice was poor and demonstrated the fundamental 
failures of KBFSs advice process. 
For example, whilst KBFS listed as a major objective that Mr B wanted to retire early, at the 
age of 55, I think this was no more than a stock objective used by KBFS to justify the 
overall transfer recommendation. I say this because there was no detailed financial analysis 
of a retirement at 55. And the most obvious issue here was Mr Bs comparatively young age. 
At only 44 years old at the time, he unsurprisingly had no concrete plans for retirement. His 
NRA was over 20 years away and it simply isnt credible that he had an idea of what his 
retirement might look like, even if it was hoped for earlier, as implied by KBFS. This 
assumption is evidenced not only by his comparatively young age, but by his personal 
circumstances. He and his wife had young children who had their whole life ahead of them 
so planning Mr Bs pension arrangements so far in advance was always going to be subject 
to change.
I therefore think the early retirement age of 55 was used for no other reason than it was the 
minimum age when someone could legally access a defined contribution (DC) pension 
scheme  the type Mr B was being advised to transfer into. And so, whilst retiring at 55 could 
have possibly been a somewhat far off aspiration, there was no other evidence showing 
either party had a credible and / or costed plan. 
In my view, there was a failure by the KBFS adviser to properly assess whether Mr Bs 
apparent desire for an early retirement was even financially achievable. The fact-find 
certainly didnt indicate retiring early was credible since it wasnt a detailed enough 
document; it contained many omissions and no steer on his detailed financial situation. But 
what we do know is that Mr and Mrs B had three young children, they had no savings at that 
point and still had a substantial mortgage yet to pay. So, against this backdrop, retiring early 
certainly didnt seem obvious. There was also no analysis produced of what Mr B might need 
by way of a detailed retirement income if he did retire so early. KBFS was therefore 
recommending he transfer away from his existing DB scheme without any real knowledge of 
what hed have left to live on after he met all his and Mrs Bs expenses.
Of course, even if Mr B really did have aspirations to retire early he could have still 
considered doing this as a member of his existing scheme. I dont think this situation was 
likely and planning for it as an eventuality would have still been some years away because of 
Mr Bs age and family situation. But even if retiring at 55 was being considered, in these 
circumstances there would have been merit in providing Mr B with all the details of what this 
might look like from a financial perspective and assessing them against his likely financial 
liabilities. There would have probably been an actuarial reduction caused by early retirement 
from the existing scheme which would have meant Mr Bs pension benefits would have been 
somewhat different due to him accessing the pension earlier and for longer, so this would 
have needed to have been factored in. But Ive seen no evidence this existing opportunity 
within his present pension scheme was really discussed with a view to assessing whether it 
was more in his best interests, rather than him just being advised to transfer away 
altogether.Mr B also seemed to still be an existing and contributing member of his DB scheme and so 
these contributions together with any employer contributions would have been added to the 
overall value of his pension in the years ahead. Transferring out whilst still working for the 
same company would have likely seen these contributions stop. 
So, everything Ive seen here shows that this was probably much too soon to be 
recommending that Mr B ought to irreversibly transfer away from his existing DB scheme. 
Neither Mr B nor KBFS could have had an idea at that time of whether hed be able to retire 
at 55. Nor could either party realistically judge what hed need to financially maintain a 
retirement if he did so. In all likelihood this would have been substantially hampered by his 
comparatively young age at the time and retirement being such a distant concept. 
Flexibility 
KBFS said that transferring would provide greater flexibility and choice as to how and when 
to take the [pension] benefits.
However, I cant see that Mr B required flexibility in retirement in the way KBFS implied. As 
Ive said, KBFS did a very poor job at identifying what Mr Bs retirement income 
requirements might be and there were already limited degrees of flexibility still available to 
Mr B around retiring early in his existing scheme which KBFS failed to comprehensively 
explore. There was no evidence to support that Mr B needed flexibility at all and the concept 
of flexibility wasnt really defined by the adviser. In my view, evidence of why Mr B wouldnt 
use the DB pension in exactly the way it was designed, is absent.
Theres also no evidence showing that Mr B had either the desire or capacity to manage 
these funds. Theres some suggestion that Mr B understood the basic concepts of investing 
in money market type funds. However, he had no such investments at the time and KBFS 
recorded that his investment experience was limited. So, theres nothing to suggest he was 
knowledgeable enough in these pension related matters or that he had investment 
experience to call upon.  
I therefore think the issue of flexibility was used to merely help justify the transfer-away 
recommendation. And at just short of £1 million in total value, I think Mr B would have 
needed significant help and advice to manage the scale and complexity of the funds. Given 
their value, this would have come at an ongoing and considerable cost which he didnt have 
with the scheme he was already in.
Death benefits 
In my view, what KBFS said about the death benefits of both types of schemes was 
misleading. It said that transferring enabled you to meet your objective of freeing your 
pension planning from [the existing scheme] to protect the full monetary amount in the event 
of your death.
This may have sounded good, but it needed careful explanation, particularly as Mr B was still 
only 44 years old and in good health. For example, as an existing and contributing member, 
there would have been some benefits payable, most likely to Mrs B, if Mr B passed away 
before he started drawing from his DB pension scheme. If he died after starting to draw his 
pension, the pension payable to Mrs B could have been over 60% of the annual pension 
amount Mr B was receiving. In addition to these spousal benefits, there were likely wider 
child-related benefits whilst his children remained within full-time education. I think these 
were of use to Mr B, particularly given that his youngest child was still only five years old in 
July 2017. Overall, these were very good death-related benefits and they increased in value 
annually through indexation with certain inflation measures.On the other hand, whilst the entire value of a pension in a personal scheme could be 
passed on, the whole point of a pension is to pay for ones retirement. As Ive said, Mr B was 
in good health and only 44 years old. If he had lived a long life, its highly likely there would 
be very little left in the personal pension fund to pass on. The amount in a personal scheme 
was also at risk to market volatility and it wasnt index linked.
So, although KBFS implied that the death benefits were discussed at the time and the 
personal pension arrangement would better enable the retention of the value of the funds if 
Mr B died, this isnt strictly the full picture. I therefore think the likely death benefits attached 
to the DB scheme were substantially underplayed. The spouses pension provided by the DB 
scheme would have been useful to Mrs B if Mr B predeceased her and I dont think KBFS 
made the value of this benefit clear enough. KBFS should not have encouraged Mr B to 
prioritise the potential for higher death benefits through a personal pension over his security 
in retirement.
Like our investigator, I also saw that life insurance was discussed during the advice session. 
But the discussion looks like it was clearly restricted to a whole of life quotation  a 
comparison of the cost to match the full transfer value of his entire pension CETV. However, 
at his age, a term cover policy may have been a reasonably affordable product if Mr B really 
did want to leave a legacy for Mrs B and /or his children if he passed away. 
Overall in this case, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a 
personal pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr B. It was not 
helpful to Mr Bs situation and it wasnt in his best interests.
Suitability of investments
KBFS recommended that Mr B invest in certain funds. As Im upholding the complaint on the 
grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mr B, it follows that I dont 
need to consider the suitability of the investment recommendation. This is because Mr B 
should have been advised to remain in the DB scheme and so the investments in the funds 
wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been given.
Summary
In this decision Ive explained why I dont think the advice to transfer away from his DB 
scheme was in Mr Bs best interests. He was giving up a guaranteed, risk-free and 
increasing income within his current scheme. 
Mr B was still over 20 years from his NRA. I explained why, in these circumstances, I 
thought it was far too early to recommend that he transfer away from his DB scheme. He 
was still a contributing member to his DB scheme and there were no other justified financial 
reasons for transferring. The evidence shows he would be more likely to receive lower 
benefits in the longer-term as a result of transferring away.
As for the flexibility KBFS says Mr B required, I dont doubt that this and the control KBFS 
said he could have over the transferred funds, would have sounded like attractive features to 
Mr B. Similarly with the death benefits, where KBFS implied these suited Mr Bs situation 
much better in a personal pension plan, rather than the DB scheme he was then a member 
of. 
But KBFS wasnt there to merely transact what Mr B might have thought he wanted. Mr B 
wasnt experienced in these matters and he went looking for regulated financial advice. He 
was also paying a substantial amount for it. The advisers role was to interpret Mr Bs 
circumstances and to use their skills, training and professional experience to recommend what was in his best interests. Instead, they recommended an irrevocable transfer based on 
a series of stock objectives which I believe bore very little resemblance to Mr Bs situation.
I therefore think KBFS ought to have advised him against transferring out of his DB scheme. 
In my view, Mr Bs circumstances were much more aligned to him retiring from the DB 
scheme when he was ready to do so and drawing a regular income. In this context, the 
suitable option was for him to access his DB pension in the way it was originally intended.
In light of the above, I think KBFS should compensate Mr B for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr B, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr B would have 
most likely remained in the occupational pension scheme if suitable advice had been given. 
KBFS must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
For clarity, Mr B has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age (65), as per the 
usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Bs 
acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, KBFS should:
always calculate and offer Mr B redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr B before starting the redress calculation that:
- the redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr B receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr B accepts KBFSs offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr B for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Bs end of year tax position.Redress paid to Mr B as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, KBFS may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Bs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
I have also considered the impact on Mr B of the unsuitable advice and transfer. Our 
investigator recommended that a sum of £300 should be paid to Mr B by KBFS for what he 
referred to as the distress and inconvenience caused by this unsuitable transfer. Ive taken 
into consideration Mr Bs age, circumstances and the substantial amount hed built up in his 
pension to that date; Mr B had built up his pension over a long time. Also, by retirement this 
DB pension would have been a very substantial part of his overall pension entitlement so I 
think the thought of losing benefits would have negatively impacted Mr B. 
So, I agree that KBFS should also pay Mr B £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused 
by the unsuitable advice which has likely had an impact on his retirement planning.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and I direct KBFS Financial Limited 
to pay Mr B the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of 
£170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
KBFS Financial Limited pays Mr B the balance. 
If Mr B accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on KBFS Financial Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr B can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. 
Mr B may want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to 
accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2023.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman