DRN-4193144
The complaint
Mrs Z complains that Advantage Finance Ltd (AFL) approved a Hire Purchase Agreement 
for her without completing adequate affordability checks.
What happened
In July 2019, Mrs Z acquired a used car from a dealership, financed through an agreement 
with AFL. The cash price of the car was around £9,000 and Mrs Z put down a deposit of 
around £1,750 consisting of the part-exchange of her existing car and £200 cash. 
The agreement required Mrs Z to make 59 monthly repayments of £216.06, followed by a 
final repayment of £416.06 on month 60. Mrs Z made each repayment until she cleared the 
outstanding balance in January 2023, settling the agreement early after her car was involved 
in an accident.
Also in January 2023, Mrs Z complained to AFL that had they carried out adequate 
affordability checks at the time of her taking out the agreement, they wouldnt have gone on 
to approve it. She said that they checked her income but didnt check her expenditure. She 
also said they didnt take into account that she was in financial difficulties at the time  she 
said she was in a debt management plan and had two defaults on her credit file. She said 
even though she met the repayments, because of the finance being approved her debt 
elsewhere increased, and she fell behind paying other committed bills.
AFL didnt think theyd done anything wrong and said they were satisfied the finance 
approved was affordable. They said at the point of the application Mrs Z told them shed 
been working full time for the previous ten years, earning £1780 a month. They said Mrs Zs 
income was verified and that whilst a credit search had showed shed defaulted on some 
accounts in the past, as a specialist lender for consumers who may have had historic 
financial problems, they considered the agreement to be neither excessive nor 
disproportionate for the purpose it was required for. They also said there was no evidence of 
a debt management plan on the credit file they reviewed at the time.
Because Mrs Z remained unhappy, she referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service.
One of our investigators looked into things but he didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. He said whilst he didnt think AFL had carried out proportionate checks, had they 
done, he thought they still wouldve approved lending to Mrs Z. Our Investigator said after 
reviewing Mrs Zs income and expenditure, he was satisfied the monthly repayment was 
affordable and thought it was likely AFL wouldve seen the same, so he didnt think theyd 
done anything wrong by granting the agreement. 
Mrs Z disagreed with our Investigators opinion. She said his calculation of her disposable 
income was incomplete. She also said her bank statements from the months leading up to 
the loan being agreed showed payments to debt collection agencies and payday loan 
companies and hed made no reference to a debt management plan she was in at the time.
Our Investigators opinion remained unchanged. As Mrs Z remained unhappy and no 
agreeable resolution could be reached, this case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. I realise this will be a disappointment to Mrs Z, so Ill 
explain why.
But first, Im aware Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than has been provided, and 
Ive done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive 
concentrated on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this. 
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every detail to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully looked at everything Mrs Z has said and provided, but I also must consider 
what AFL knew at the time of the application and take into account the relevant rules put in 
place by The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), the regulator at the time.
How we handle complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending is explained on our 
website. Its this approach Ive used when deciding Mrs Zs complaint. AFL needed to ensure 
that it didnt lend irresponsibly which in practice, means they needed to carry out 
proportionate checks to be able to understand whether any lending was affordable for her 
before agreeing to provide the agreement.
The rules that apply to credit agreements are set out in the FCAs consumer credit 
sourcebook (CONC). Section 5.2A of CONC is relevant here, as  among other things  it 
talks about the need for businesses like AFL to complete reasonable and proportionate 
creditworthiness assessments before agreeing to lend someone money. 
Ive considered these rules by asking the following questions:
1) Did AFL complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy themselves Mrs Z 
would be able to meet the repayments of the borrowing without experiencing 
significant adverse consequences?
If they did, was their decision to lend to Mrs Z fair?
If they didnt, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mrs Z 
could sustainably repay the borrowing?
2) Did AFL act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did AFL complete reasonable and proportionate affordability checks?
Whats considered reasonable and proportionate in terms of the checks a business 
undertakes will vary dependant on the details of the borrowing and the consumers specific 
circumstances at the time. 
Here, the total amount repayable under the agreement was around £14,900, with monthly repayments of £216.06 over a five-year term. The agreement required Mrs Z to make an 
increased repayment of £416.06 in the final month.
This was therefore a relatively significant and lengthy credit commitment for someone to 
enter into, so my starting point is that Id expect to see AFL to have completed a thorough 
affordability check.
AFL say relevant checks were completed because Mrs Zs credit report showed she had 
what they considered to be a readily serviceable level of debt at the time. And they said 
whilst shed defaulted on some accounts a number of years prior, it was likely because of 
this the lending had been referred to them as a specialist lender, and Mrs Zs profile at the 
time suggested her accounts were well maintained and up to date.
AFL also say they verified Mrs Zs income via a third-party income check which measured 
current account turnover data from her primary bank account. And AFL say they completed 
their own affordability assessment using a range of data including the income verification 
and the credit report data theyd gathered, and statistical expenditure data. AFL also say 
they took into account Mrs Zs existing debt repayment commitments and factored in the 
allowance of a generous buffer to account for any other household expenditure.
Whilst Ive not been provided any detailed results of the income check AFL completed, Ive 
seen Mrs Zs payslips and shes confirmed she was in receipt of child benefit at the time  
both of which together amount to the stated income provided to AFL. Ive also seen from 
AFLs system notes that feedback was provided to the dealer to confirm Mrs Zs stated 
income had been verified successfully, so Im satisfied on balance this check was 
completed.
But looking at the credit report obtained by AFL at the time, in summary it shows Mrs Z was 
in debt by a total of around £3,500 and that shed defaulted on two unsecured loans several 
months prior, which appeared to remain in default at the time of the application.
The credit report also showed Mrs Z to be in an arrangement to repay a credit card which at 
the time remained £39 over the agreed credit limit.
I acknowledge AFLs comments that it may be these very entries on the credit report which 
led to the lending being referred to them. However, that doesnt mean what they saw 
shouldnt have given them some cause for concern, and I think they ought to have done 
more to assess the agreements affordability for Mrs Z.
To do this I think AFL ought to have tried to find out more about Mrs Zs committed 
expenditure outside of her active credit commitments. This is because they were asking her 
to commit to not an insignificant monthly payment for a term of five years.
In summary I dont think AFL carried out proportionate checks given the amount and 
duration of the loan and considering the results returned on Mrs Zs credit file.
If AFL had carried out proportionate checks, what would they have found?
I cant be sure what information and evidence AFL wouldve asked for or received had it 
carried out a reasonable and proportionate check but as Ive said above, I think it would 
have involved them finding more out about Mrs Zs expenditure.
AFL were aware that Mrs Z was married, so they assumed she was sharing living costs, 
including the statistical monthly cost of accommodation and halved these figures when 
calculating her disposable income. They didnt include any income for her spouse when assessing the affordability of the loan.
AFLs income and expenditure assessment shows a net monthly income of £1,780, rental 
payments of around £430 per month, utility and council tax payments of around £210 per 
month, and revolving credit repayments of around £115 per month. AFL also allowed 
headroom of around £550 for other household expenses such as groceries before 
calculating the maximum amount they would lend.
To determine what else AFL might have found if theyd done more checks, Ive looked at 
what Mrs Z told us about her expenditure and looked at her bank statements for the three 
months preceding the lending decision.
Mrs Z has shown us she was in a debt management plan at the time. But looking at the 
credit report AFL received, there is nothing aside from the defaults and the arrangement to 
pay that I think ought to have indicated to them this was the case. And Im not persuaded 
she wouldve offered up this information. I say this because there is no record of AFL being 
told this at the time and this was clearly an important purchase for Mrs Z  shes said herself 
the vehicle was important as it was the only one in the household and was relied upon for 
commutes to both work and school.
Mrs Z says AFLs understanding she had no dependent children was incorrect. Whilst she 
says she wasnt responsible for any rental payment (which her spouse paid), purchasing 
food and groceries was her responsibility in full and amounted to around £500 per month. 
Mrs Z also said other expenses such as commuting costs, other household bills, haircuts, 
school expenses and clothing amongst others werent accounted for. And she was in a debt 
management plan at the time.
Looking at Mrs Zs bank statements though, I havent seen evidence that her non-
discretionary expenditure was grossly dissimilar to the statistical data used by AFL.
From what Ive seen, Mrs Z was spending on average around £480 per month on utilities, 
council tax and other essential commitments. She was spending on average another £72 a 
month on car tax and insurance and around £29 a month on school related fees. And whilst 
it varied from month to month, Mrs Z also made debt repayments averaging £166 a month 
over the three-month period. Without accounting for any groceries, this is a monthly total on 
average of £747, slightly less than AFLs estimate of £757.
Mrs Z also appeared to spend approximately on average £100 a month on groceries from 
what Ive seen on her statements. That however is very low for what a family of four would 
have likely needed to have spent and other transactions such as ATM withdrawals could 
also account for some essential expenditure such as food. So, Ive included a figure of £500 
a month for the benefit of calculating Mrs Zs disposable income.
Mrs Zs statements also show both income and non-essential expenditure which Ive 
excluded from my calculations. Ive not included a cash deposit made into Mrs Zs account 
for £1,500. She says this was deposited to pay a bill at a later date for a family member and 
wasnt income.
And Ive also excluded a monthly childcare payment of approximately £455. This is because 
Mrs Z confirmed this was for nursery fees which were ending due to her son starting school. 
Mrs Z has said this dispute is about her financial position at the time and the fact the 
payment was ending isnt relevant, but I disagree. It was for AFL to determine both if the 
lending appeared to be affordable for Mrs Z and her ability to sustainably make the 
payments over the life of the agreement, considering any known changes to her finances  both increases and decreases. This significant payment was ending and wouldve been an 
amount Mrs Z no longer had to pay out.
Taking everything into account, Ive calculated Mrs Zs monthly disposable income using her 
average income of £1,750, not including any rental expense, but allocating her a 100% 
share of her stated approximate grocery costs (£500 per month). Ive included the cost of 
repayments to the credit commitments shown on her statements and all other visible 
essential expenditure. This suggests Mrs Z had disposable income of around £500 per 
month at the time the lending decision was taken. This isnt dissimilar from AFLs estimated 
maximum monthly budget of £477 after they had deducted headroom of £545 to cover other 
household expenditure such as food.
The monthly repayments to the agreement were £216.06, so this would have left Mrs Z with 
around £285 disposable income per month after taking out the agreement. Because of this, 
Im satisfied even if AFL had done more thorough checks, they couldve fairly decided to 
lend to Mrs Z.
Did Black Horse act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Taking into consideration everything Ive seen; Im not persuaded that AFL acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in some other way.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2023.
 
Sean Pyke-Milne
Ombudsman