DRN-4012205
The complaint
Mr V complains that ATLANTA 1 INSURANCE SERVICES LIMITED (Atlanta) set up a motor 
insurance policy without his consent and chased him for a debt he didnt think he owed.
What happened
Mr V held a motor insurance policy with another business. Atlanta took over from that 
business and auto-renewed Mr Vs policy.
Mr V says he wasnt made aware of this and didnt give his consent for this to happen. So, 
he complained to Atlanta. He said he was charged £22.83 and chased for an outstanding 
balance of £126.36  including being told the debt will be passed to a debt agency.
Atlanta didnt uphold the complaint, so, Mr V brought it to us.
Our investigator recommended Mr Vs complaint be upheld. She said Atlanta hadnt provided 
enough to show it made Mr V aware of the policy auto-renewing. And she said Mr V had 
provided evidence to show he was insured elsewhere  so she didnt think it fair he was 
paying for insurance twice. She recommended Atlanta refund the £22.83, stop chasing any 
outstanding balance and pay Mr V £250 compensation.
Mr V accepted this assessment. Atlanta initially agreed to refund what Mr V had paid it and 
stop chasing the outstanding balance. But it thought £100 was a fairer offer of 
compensation.
Our investigator explained why they thought £250 was fairer, and Atlanta said theyd raise 
payment. The case was initially closed on this basis.
But Mr V has let us know hes not received anything from Atlanta. And after chasing Atlanta, 
weve received no response. So, the case has been passed to me to issue a final decision 
on.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding it. Ill explain why.
Our investigator explained that Mr V had insurance elsewhere, and that Atlanta hadnt done 
enough to show it let him know it would be taking over and auto-renewing his policy.
Our investigator recommended that Atlanta should refund what Mr V had paid toward this 
policy (£22.83) and stop chasing him for the outstanding balance relating to this policy 
(£126.66).
Atlanta agreed to do this. And Ive nothing further to add other than to say I agree thats the 
fair and reasonable thing to do.
Mr V would be extremely unlikely to be paid twice on a claim by having two insurance 
policies covering the same thing. So, its not fair he pays for two policies  because hell only 
ever benefit from one of them.
Hes shown he had a policy elsewhere, so Atlanta should refund/stop chasing all costs 
relating to the one it auto-renewed  because it hasnt shown it made Mr V aware it was 
doing so.
I also agree that £250 compensation is fair to reflect the distress and inconvenience this 
involved. Mr V received multiple letters chasing him for a balance he didnt owe. Some of 
these refer to passing the balance to a debt collector, increasing the distress caused. And 
he's also had to spend time trying to sort this with Atlanta to no avail.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Vs complaint and require ATLANTA 1 
INSURANCE SERVICES LIMITED to
Pay Mr V £22.83 as a refund of what he paid toward this policy
Write off and stop chasing any outstanding balance relating to this policy
Pay Mr V £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman