DRN-3126228
The complaint
Mrs E and Mr S complain that London and Country Mortgages Ltd says it sent documents 
back to them by special delivery, that they had provided as part of their mortgage 
application, but the documents never arrived. 
Mrs E and Mr S say London and Country should have done more to assist them in locating 
the missing items. They say they have experienced significant inconvenience trying to 
replace the lost items.
What happened
I understand that Mrs E and Mr S were using London and Country to arrange a mortgage for 
them. As part of the application process Mr S was asked to provide his passport and 
residency permit.
London and Country have provided evidence to show that the items were sent back to Mrs E 
and Mr S on 29 March 2021 by special delivery. Unfortunately, they were never received. 
Mrs E and Mr S contacted London and Country when the documents failed to arrive. It gave 
them what it said was the relevant Royal Mail tracking number. But when Mrs E and Mr S 
input the tracking number it was not recognised by the track your item function on Royal 
Mails website. Mrs E and Mr S say they also visited their local post office, the delivery office, 
and rang Royal Mail in an attempt to trace the lost package. However, it was not found.
Mrs E and Mr S complained to London and Country as they felt it had not done enough to 
help them trace the lost documents. 
London and Country didnt uphold their complaint. It said that it had provided the correct 
tracking number so that Mrs E and Mr S could try to trace the missing package. And it said 
that once post had been collected from its offices it was the responsibility of Royal Mail. It 
said it could not do anything further to assist Mrs E and Mr S to trace the missing package 
and suggested that they should raise any concerns regarding this with Royal Mail directly 
as this is outside of our control.
Mrs E and Mr S werent satisfied with London and Countrys response and referred the 
matter to this service.
Our investigator said he felt London and Country could have done more to assist Mrs E and 
Mr S, particularly given the importance of the documents that had been lost and the difficulty 
Mr S would face in trying to replace them.
He noted that London and Country had checked whether other special delivery items it sent 
at the same time as Mrs E and Mr Ss package had been received. It also spoke to Royal 
Mail and was advised to log the missing package, in order for an investigation to be carried 
out. 
But, for whatever reason, it appeared that London and Country didnt log the missing 
package with Royal Mail, or put in a claim for compensation. Likewise it appeared that 
London and Country hadnt told Mrs E and Mr S that if the documents were found by Royal 
Mail they would be sent to its National Returns Department, who would in turn send them to 
the embassy of the country of origin. 
He accepted that it was more likely than not that Royal Mail had lost the documents. But he 
said he felt London and Country should have done more to assist Mrs E and Mr S once they 
notified it that they had not received the documents it had sent to them.
He noted that Mr S would have to pay for a replacement passport, and he would also have 
the inconvenience of having to arrange to replace both the passport and the proof of 
residency. Mr S told this service that an application for a new job had also been delayed as 
he had not been able to provide the necessary documentation.
The investigator said he felt London and Country should pay Mrs E and Mr S £150 for the 
trouble and inconvenience its failure to assist them had caused. He said he felt London and 
Country was in the best position to trace the missing items, because as the sender it had the 
proof of posting. But he said he was also mindful that Mrs E and Mr S could have put in a 
claim for the missing package with Royal Mail and it wasnt clear to him why they hadnt 
done so.
London and Country did not accept our investigators view. It said it felt strongly that it had 
acted responsibly by using Royal Mails special delivery service to return the documents it 
had requested. And it said it felt Royal Mail was responsible for the documents once it had 
collected the package. 
It reiterated that it felt any distress and inconvenience Mrs E and Mr S had suffered was 
caused solely by Royal Mail as it is them, not us, who lost the items
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, like our investigator I think London and Country should have done more to 
assist Mrs E and Mr S once it became aware that the documents it had posted back to them 
had not arrived.
I accept that it is most likely that the package was lost by Royal Mail. But I am mindful that 
London and Country may have failed to apply the special delivery bar code sticker to the 
envelope. This would explain why Royal Mail did not recognise the tracking number London 
and Country held. 
However, even if I accept that the package was lost by Royal Mail, and I do think this seems 
the most likely explanation, I dont agree with London and Countrys view that the trouble 
and upset this matter caused Mrs E and Mr S was caused solely by Royal Mail. Ill explain 
why.
London and Country knew how important the documents that had been lost were. I think it 
also ought reasonably to have known that replacing the documents would cause Mr S some 
difficulty and would be likely to incur costs for him. As this was the case I think it would have been reasonable for London and Country to have 
registered a claim with Royal Mail as soon as it was made aware that the package hadnt 
arrived with Mrs E and Mr S. I note that the Citizens Advice website says:
Its usually easier for the sender to claim because theyre more likely to have the evidence 
thats needed.
I appreciate that London and Country provided the evidence it held to Mrs E and Mr S but, I 
think that in the circumstances of this complaint, it could have done more to assist them. 
This is particularly the case as Royal Mail didnt recognise the tracking number that it held so 
there was a possibility that the package had been lost due to a failure by London and 
Country to attach the tracking barcode to the package.
As London and Country will know, it is required to treat its customers fairly. In this case, 
given the importance of the missing documents and that the package may have been lost 
due to an error by London and Country, I think it should have promptly made a claim for the 
missing package with Royal Mail and it should also have advised Mr S to contact his 
embassy to cancel his passport in order to stop anyone using it to impersonate him.
However, I do accept that Mrs E and Mr S could have logged a claim with Royal Mail, and it 
is not clear to me why they didnt do so. 
As this is the case, I think the £150 our investigator recommended that London and County 
should pay Mrs E and Mr S is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Putting things right
London and County Mortgages Ltd should pay Mrs E and Mr S £150 for the trouble and 
upset its failure to assist Mrs E and Mr S more fully in this matter has caused.
My final decision
My decision is that, for the reasons I have set out above, I uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman