DRN-2300328
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Aviva Insurance Limited turned down a claim for storm damage under 
his building insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S contacted Aviva to make a claim for storm damage to his boiler. He said that during 
torrential rain water overflowed the guttering and entered the boiler through an external flue. 
He wanted Aviva to cover the cost of calling out a plumber to deal with the damage. 
However, Aviva turned down the storm damage claim as it didnt find that there were storm 
conditions when water leaked into the boiler and the positioning of the external flue was 
unlikely to have allowed water to enter. However, it agreed to pay £312 as it couldnt rule out 
that, for non-storm related reasons, water had been retained within the condensate pipe.
Mr S complained to Aviva and provided a report from a plumber about the damage to the 
boiler. Aviva considered this and maintained its decision to turn down the claim for storm 
damage. 
Mr S complained to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said that there 
were severe rain or storm conditions in the area and that the boiler hadnt had any problems 
since this incident. He said that Aviva should pay the cost of the boiler repair.
As Aviva did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 28 September 2020. In my provisional decision, I 
explained the reasons why I was planning not to uphold the complaint. I said:
When we look at a storm claim complaint, there are three main issues we consider:
1.    do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
2.    is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Were only likely to uphold a complaint where the answer to all three questions is yes.
Looking at the first question, weather data for the area doesnt indicate that there were storm 
conditions at the time that this incident happened. However, I have read a local news report 
for the day of the incident that said that there was torrential rain and flash flooding in some 
parts of the area. So, I dont rule out that there were storm like conditions on the day, 
although I reserve judgment on this point.
The next issue is whether the damage was typical of damage caused by a storm. Mr S 
provided a report from the plumber he called out. This said:
On arrival to site found water leaking from heating boiler. Heating boiler re-filled and no 
internal leak found. Water could only have entered boiler from outside source, possibly from 
gutters overflowing or rainwater pipes to condense drainage pipework.
The report also noted that there were heavy flash floods in the local area on the day in 
question.
Ive also considered the assessments carried out by Aviva. The first assessment said that it 
was highly unlikely that rainwater from a gutter would fall vertically and then travel through 
90 degrees and travel within the flue outlet to the inner chamber of the boiler. The rainfall 
patterns were also at a normal level and not of the ability to prevent the gutters from coping. 
It was possible for water to be retained in the condensate pipe, sometimes caused by a 
blockage in the pipeworks. Photographic evidence also suggested internal progressive rust, 
indicative of potential wear and tear, suggesting the boiler might have reached the limits of 
its capability. Aviva also quoted parts of the service record to support this. Whilst Aviva 
thought the most likely cause was aged parts, and although there wasnt any evidence to 
support a blockage in the pipework, it was unable to exclude water retained in the 
condensate pipe as the cause. It therefore suggested accepting an element of the claim, 
paying a proportion of the costs.
When Mr S asked Aviva to review its decision, it carried out a further review. Avivas 
surveyor said that the flue was located in a sheltered area and large foliage nearby would 
reduce the ability for wind to drive rain water into the flue. Mr Ss plumber was present during 
the surveyors visit and the surveyor commented that the plumber had said that water was 
still coming through the system when he arrived, but that the rain had stopped, and that 
when he looked through the system, he couldnt find a leak. The surveyor also commented 
that the plumber had also said that in over 25 years, he had only seen one other case where 
rain had entered via the flue. The surveyor said that he had seen no cases of this type. The 
weather data also didnt indicate a storm and there wasnt an increase in storm claims due to 
severe rain during that period.
Having thought about this, Im currently of the view that I dont think this damage is typical of 
a storm. A properly angled flue pipe shouldnt normally allow rain water in. Even if I factor in 
that there might have been torrential rain, I still dont think that this would typically result in 
water entering a flue pipe. Im also mindful that for it to have done so, there would most likely 
have needed to be strong winds as well in order to change the direction of the rain as it fell 
or if it overflowed from the gutter above, but I havent seen evidence of this. Avivas surveyor 
also assessed that due to the location of the flue pipe there was unlikely to have been 
sufficient wind to blow the water into the pipe. It also seems that the surveyor, and based on 
the surveyors account of what Mr Ss plumber said, was of the view that water entering the 
pipe through the flue would be a very rare occurrence, and therefore not typical. This isnt to 
dismiss what Mr Ss plumber himself said, which was that an external source was likely to be 
the cause, but it still doesnt persuade me that damage caused in this way is typical. So, 
thinking about this point, in my view, this type of damage isnt typical of a storm, so I think 
the answer to this question is no.
Looking at the final question, on whether storm conditions were the main cause of the 
damage, given Ive already said that I dont think that the damage is typical of a storm, I also 
currently think its more likely than not that the main cause of the damage was something 
other than a storm. Aviva has said that it might have been due to water retained in the 
condensate pipe and offered to make a payment to Mr S on this basis. Although I dont think 
that it is conclusive that this was the cause, and I note that Aviva didnt think this either, I 
think that Aviva gave credible reasons for why it thought this could be the case. I think it also 
gave a credible alternative reason, aged parts, but chose to give Mr S the benefit of the doubt and offered to make a payment to him based on the possibility of the condensate pipe 
being the cause.
So, thinking about all of the above, I currently think it was reasonable for Aviva to turn down 
the claim for storm damage because I dont think there was sufficient evidence to show that 
a storm was the cause of the water entering the boiler. So, I dont currently intend to uphold 
this complaint or to require Aviva to take any further action.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 28 October 2020.
Mr S said the boiler hadnt been problematic before and that he didnt think it was 
coincidental that the issue started at the time of a torrential downpour. He said this was a 
straightforward issue and that Aviva was just shirking its responsibilities. He said that there 
were times when a combination of heavy rain and strong winds created water penetration 
and this appeared to be a classic case. He said Aviva was relying on conjecture.
Aviva didnt provide any comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am aware that Mr S feels very strongly about this matter and I understand his reasons for 
this. However, the weather data for the day in question doesnt show that there were storm 
conditions. Ive read a news report that suggested that there was heavy rain locally, but that 
still doesnt show me that it was of such intensity that it was a storm. When Aviva assessed 
the claim it found that a highly unusual set of circumstances would have needed to take 
place for water to enter the boiler in the way Mr S said he thought it had happened. Aviva 
also assessed the condition of the boiler after the incident and provided a credible 
explanation for how it thought the damage happened, which wasnt as the result of a storm. 
So, on that basis, I think it was reasonable for Aviva to turn down the claim. As a result, I 
dont uphold this complaint or require Aviva to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that this 
complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2020.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman