DRN-3708862
The complaint
Mr M complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank increased the 
credit limit on his credit card without checking his ability to afford it, and that it took no action 
concerning his gambling.
What happened
Mr Ms credit card with Tesco was opened in April 2015 with a limit of £5,400. In January 
2017 it was increased to £5,900, then in February 2017 to £7,400. Both increases were 
requested by Mr M. He made all the payments due (frequently more than the minimum) until 
September 2018 when he had been advised by a debt advice charity and he set up a 
repayment plan. 
Mr M complained that due to health issues and problems he had with gambling hed been 
unable to afford the increases in the limit. He further complained that Tesco took no action 
when it would have seen he was carrying out substantial gambling transactions on his 
account.
Tesco said that it had carried out the appropriate checks at the time of allowing him the 
credit limit increases. It said that before the credit limit increases he wasnt using his card for 
gambling. In respect of later gambling it explained that, at the time, it couldnt discriminate 
against him and not allow gambling transactions. Up until September 2018 he had kept his 
account in good order so it didnt see the need to take any action.
On referral to this service our investigator said that the checks carried out at the time of the 
increases appeared to show the limit increases were affordable to Mr M. In respect of 
subsequent gambling she noted that he had managed his account well, despite spending 
substantial amounts on gambling until September 2018. So she said that Tesco didnt need 
to do any more.
Mr M disagreed, and the matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did Tesco complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr M 
would be able to repay the credit advanced in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr M would have been able to do so?
Bearing in mind the circumstances at the time of each application, was there a point 
where Tesco ought reasonably to have realised it was increasing Mr Ms indebtedness in 
a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so shouldnt have provided 
further credit?
Should Tesco have taken further action when it saw that he was using the card for 
gambling?
Mr M complains about the increases in credit limit that Tesco provided, at his request in 
January and February 2017. He says that bearing in mind his health and gambling problems 
he was in increasing debt which he couldnt afford to repay.
At the time of providing both credit limit increases (£500 and £1,500), Mr M hadnt carried 
out any gambling on his card. Also theres no indication that Tesco was made aware of 
Mr Ms health problems before September 2018. The checks carried out showed he had a 
net income of around £2,667 a month. The credit searches showed Mr M had no IVAs, CCJs 
or debt management plans and his external borrowing was £10,418 in January 2017 and 
£10,180 in February 2017. I think it was reasonable to assess that the increases in the limit 
were affordable. On the face of it those checks didnt reveal anything untoward or any 
indication that Tesco should have carried out further checks. Thus if Mr M had gambling 
debts on other credit cards or his bank account this wouldnt have shown in the checks 
Tesco carried out. His Tesco credit card account was also well managed.
Considering the amount of increase in the limit and the way Mr M had managed his account 
up until the time of his requests for these increases, I think that the checks carried out were 
reasonable and proportionate. So I think Tesco acted fairly in providing the increases to the 
limit.
As for whether Tesco could or should have taken any action in respect of his gambling, Ive 
noted after February 2017 Mr M did spend considerable amounts on gambling. This 
amounted in total to about £18,500 over eighteen months (including a transaction in 
December 2017 for £1,800 which was immediately refunded by the betting company). 
However Ive noted in that time that Mr M kept well within his credit limit, except in the 
August 2018 statement when it increased to £7,100 out of the £7,400 limit. However by that 
time he had approached the debt advice charity. At the time of the first increase he had 
transferred a balance of £1,400 from another account for which he would have got a 
preferential rate of interest. And at one stage, in September 2017, he paid off the entire 
balance (by card so no indication of a loan). And he did then from time to time pay off large 
amounts.
So although Mr M was spending a lot on gambling there was no indication from his credit 
card account and the way it was run that he was in financial difficulties. If Tesco had taken 
action to reduce the credit limit for example I dont think that wouldve affected the way Mr M 
was using the card. And it could have given him advice about agencies or activities who 
could have helped him with debt or gambling problems. I dont know whether that might have 
prompted Mr M to take any earlier action. However I dont think again from the way the 
account was run that Tesco would have been able to say that Mr Ms gambling was causing 
him problems. 
So I think that Tesco acted appropriately in respect of Mr Ms gambling and in providing the 
credit limit increases.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman