DRN-2320977
The complaint
Mrs K has complained that the premiums St Andrews Insurance Plc charged her for home 
buildings insurance between 2005 and 2018 were too high. 
I appreciate that Mrs Ks communications about this matter have been with her mortgage 
provider, but they were acting on behalf of St Andrews so I have referred to St Andrews 
throughout this decision for the sake of ease.  
What happened
Mrs K took out a home buildings insurance policy with St Andrews through her mortgage 
provider in 2005 and paid an annual premium of £194.03. She renewed it every year up until 
2018 when the annual premium was £765.89. She found out from her neighbours that they 
were paying a lot less for their buildings insurance and she complained to St Andrews about 
this in 2018. St Andrews rejected Mrs Ks complaint on the basis what it had charged her 
year on year was fair. So Mrs K complained to us.
We asked St Andrews to provide the information we needed to investigate Mrs Ks 
complaint and they responded by providing this along with an offer to pay £731.88, plus 
interest. This was on the basis they hadnt treated Mrs K fairly and had charged her too 
much between 2010 and 2018. 
One of our adjudicators assessed Mrs Ks complaint and concluded the offer put forward by 
St Andrews was reasonable. And she told Mrs K she thought them paying this would be a 
fair and reasonable outcome to her complaint. 
Mrs K doesnt agree and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. She thinks St Andrews 
incorrectly applied a flood risk rating and have overcharged by a lot more than £731.88.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the rules covering the sale of general insurance policies and as a matter of good 
industry practice St Andrews needed to treat Mrs K fairly. This means they werent simply 
entitled to charge her whatever they wanted to make as much profit as possible and totally 
ignore the risk they were insuring in doing so. However, it doesnt mean St Andrews werent 
entitled to build in some element of profit, as well as charging enough to reflect the risk and 
covering their expenses. 
I appreciate Mrs K has provided a letter from her local council setting out the actions they 
took after flooding in her postcode area in 2007 to reduce the flood risk moving forward. 
However, Ive checked the Government website and it still shows the flood risk for Mrs Ks 
address as high on the basis it is susceptible to surface water flooding. And St Andrews has 
also explained how their model rated Mrs Ks property so far as the flood risk was 
concerned. So I think it was reasonable for St Andrews to treat Mrs Ks address as in a high 
flood risk area and take this into account when calculating her premium. 
As our adjudicator explained, St Andrews accept that they took advantage of the fact that   
Mrs K wasnt engaging about her renewal premium. And they accept that they should have 
realised this and charged her less from 2011 onwards. St Andrews has provided a 
breakdown of the premiums it thinks it should have charged between renewal in 2011 and 
renewal in 2018 and have based their offer of £731.88 plus interest on this. And I think this 
offer is fair, because it reflects the fact that up to 2011 St Andrews was most likely still 
making up for any discounts they had applied when Mrs K first took out the policy and that 
there must be a period of time before they can be expected to have realised Mrs K wasnt 
engaging on price at each renewal. 
I cant provide Mrs K with the detailed information about why the amount St Andrews have 
offered is fair, as most of the information St Andrews have provided is commercially 
sensitive. But I can say I have checked all the information and I am satisfied that they have 
calculated what is due correctly. And I can also say that I think paying it to Mrs K plus 
interest is fair and reasonable in response to her complaint.  
The interest St Andrews has offered is at 8% per annum simple from the date of each 
overpayment of premium to the date they pay the amount due to Mrs K. I also think this is 
fair and reasonable, as it is the interest rate wed expect St Andrews to use and it 
compensates Mrs K for the fact she did not have this money. 
I also agree St Andrews should pay Mrs K compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
they caused her by overcharging her. And Im satisfied the £100 theyve offered is fair and 
reasonable. 
Ive noted the point Mrs K made to our adjudicator about how much St Andrews paid out on 
her flood claim in 2007. But their records show they paid out just over £59,000 and I think it 
is highly unlikely they would have recorded the wrong amount. Plus, the evidence Ive seen 
suggests it was the reduction in the no claims discount that had the biggest impact on the 
premium as a result of the claim, as opposed to the amount St Andrews paid out.
Putting things right
In summary, I think what St Andrews has offered to put right the fact they charged Mrs K too 
much premium is a fair and reasonable outcome to her complaint.   
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that St Andrews Insurance Plc must pay 
Mrs K £731.88 in total to refund the extra premium it shouldnt have charged her. They 
should also pay her interest at 8% per annum simple1 from the date she paid the extra 
amount she shouldnt have paid each year to the date of actual payment. St Andrews must 
also pay Mrs K £100 in compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2021.
1 If St Andrews considers that theyre required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest, they should tell Mrs K how much theyve taken off. They 
should also give Mrs K a certificate showing this if, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.  
Robert Short
Ombudsman