DRN-2182730
The complaint
Mr U complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) didnt 
compensate him fully when it agreed to him rejecting a faulty car.
What happened
In April 2019 Mr U acquired a second-hand car costing £17,980 funded by a deposit of 
£2,931 and the balance with a hire purchase agreement. It was several years old and had 
covered 32,172 miles. Shortly after taking delivery Mr U identified a number of faults. These 
included problems with the NOx sensors, Exhaust Gas Recirculation valve and cooler. The 
water pump was also found to have a leak and was replaced under warranty.
Mr U complained to MBFS requesting rejection of the car and his finance agreement. MBFS 
agreed and offered to accept rejection which meant it would refund his deposit plus interest 
at 8% simple, refund 15% of the rental payments Mr U had made, plus £250 to compensate 
for any inconvenience he had suffered.
Mr U thought all his payments should be refunded and he brought his complaint to this 
service. It was considered by one of our investigators who noted Mr U had been able to 
cover 3,828 miles while in his possession. The finance agreement allowed for an annual 
mileage of 20,000 and our investigator said that this equated to 1,666 miles a month.  Given 
he had only used it for an average of 765 miles a month she thought he should be entitled to 
a refund of 55% of his five monthly payments.
He also noted that there was some dispute as the deposit paid and Mr U may have made a 
cash payment to the dealer. He concluded there was no basis for asking MBFS to refund 
any more than it had done in terms of the deposit. 
MBFS didnt agree and said Mr U had been kept mobile when his car was in the garage 
apart from one day. It also asked for evidence of the intended mileage of 20,000 and 
suggested we consider Mr Us insurance policy. Our investigator obtained a copy of the 
policy which showed Mr U had notified the insurer that he would cover 4,000 miles a year.
Our investigator concluded that Mr U had been able to drive the car as intended and the 
settlement offered by MBFS had been fair and reasonable. Mr U didnt agree and asked that 
the matter be considered by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr U was disappointed by the offer made by MBFS, but I consider it was fair. I 
will explain why.
When Mr U complained about the quality of the car and told MBFS it wasnt fit for purpose it 
acted promptly and agreed to rejection. That was a fair and reasonable decision. Mr U has 
told us that the car was faulty on three occasions. Repairs were carried out and Mr U was 
kept mobile, but in the end he emailed MBFS on 31 August to reject the car. It agreed to this 
within a few weeks.
This service seeks to put people back into the position they would have been had the fault 
not occurred. In situations such as the we would expect the deposit to be returned with 
interest and some compensation for the distress and inconvenience. However, we recognise 
that when a consumer has use of the asset, in this case, the car, it is right that they pay 
something towards that use. Our role is to be fair to both parties. 
Mr U had use of the car for some five months and it is only right that he pay something 
towards that use. MBFS in addition to offering him compensation also offered to return 15% 
of his monthly payments. I consider that to be fair and reasonable. 
It is clear from his insurance documents that he didnt anticipate covering a significant 
mileage and the 3,828 miles he did cover reflects more that his anticipated mileage. It seems 
therefore that apart from the few days the car was in the garage he was able to make fair 
use of the car.
I have also reviewed the sales documentation which shows Mr U paid a deposit of £2,931 
and while I appreciate Mr U says he paid more this may have been for other items which 
were not part of the contract. 
In conclusion, I can see no basis for telling MBS to do any more than it has done. I have 
presumed from the correspondence that MBFS has already paid the sum it offered to Mr U, 
but if it has not it should do so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman