DRN-2727801
The complaint
Miss E complains that Bank of Scotland plc wont refund money she lost following her falling 
victim to a scam.
What happened
 Miss E has told us that in May 2020 she fell victim to a scam.
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat it in detail 
here. But in summary and based on the submissions of both parties, I understand it to be as 
follows.
Miss E has told us she was approached by a friend about an investment opportunity, 
involving Forex trading. Miss Es friend had told her he had been investing with a company 
for a few months and the performance had been positive. Miss Es friend was able to show 
her the trading platform he was using, which included details of his trading history and profit 
and loss.
At the time Miss E has said she was going through a difficult time and was particularly 
interested, as she felt the opportunity may help her with her financial circumstances. Miss E 
has told us she found the companys website online and saw that it appeared to be regulated 
in Canada. Miss E was also provided details of a Customer Support Manager contact at the 
company, who confirmed the company was registered and, alongside being regulated in 
Canada, had an application submitted to also become regulated in the UK.
Believing this to be a genuine investment opportunity Miss E went ahead and, in May 2020, 
started to deposit money into the trading account that had been set up for her. Between May 
2020 and August 2020, Miss E made the following international payments from her Bank of 
Scotland account to the trading account, totalling £48,541;
Date Amount
26/5/2020 £4,100
3/6/2020 £2,500
3/6/2020 £7,000
5/8/2020 £20,000
10/8/2020 £4,990.50
24/8/2020 £9,950.50
Miss E has said that her trading account was showing a profit and she was allowed to make 
the following withdrawals from her trading account;
- 16/7/2020 £4,412.81
- 10/8/2020 £4,857.91
- 28/8/2020 £2,980.00
But Miss E became suspicious when another friend compared the activity on the company, 
against other brokers graphs and realised the details were being manipulated.
Miss E complained to Bank of Scotland. In summary she said none of the payments she had 
made had flagged, so she considered there had been a clear due diligence error made. 
Bank of Scotland issued its final response on 13 January 2021. In summary it said it 
considered the first three payment Miss E made were in line with the way she conducted her 
account, in that the payments were for amounts similar to other transfers she had made  it 
added that as Miss E authorised them through her online banking, it had no reason to query 
them.
But it thought it could have provided a better service and spotted unusual payments from the 
time Miss E made her fourth payment (for £20,000). In view of this it offered to refund this 
payment for £20,000, along with the two subsequent payments. In total Bank of Scotland 
offered to refund £34,981, along with 8% interest and £50 compensation.
Miss E didnt accept Bank of Scotlands decision, as she considered the first three payments 
she made also ought to have flagged. One of our investigators looked into things and 
concluded that she didnt consider Bank of Scotland could have done anything to prevent the 
first three payments made. She said this as she didnt consider these payments to be so 
unusual or out of the ordinary that it should have raised Bank of Scotlands suspicions. And 
she didnt think Bank of Scotland missed an opportunity to identify the payments could 
potentially have been in relation to a scam.
But our investigator did agree that at the point Miss E was attempting to make her fourth 
payment, for £20,000, there was enough going on that Bank of Scotland ought to have 
intervened. And our investigator thought that, had it done so, the scam could have come to 
light at this point and Miss E wouldnt have lost this money, or the money from her future 
payments. Our investigators recommendation was broadly in line with what Bank of Scotland 
had already offered, in that it should refund Miss E the money she lost from the point she 
attempted to make the payment for £20,000, along with 8% interest. Our investigator also 
considered the impact the scam had on Miss E and recommended Bank of Scotland should 
increase its offer of compensation from £50 to £200.
Bank of Scotland agreed with our investigators view. But Miss E didnt accept our 
investigators view. In summary she didnt agree that the first three payments she made to 
the fraudsters were comparable to how she usually run her account  she said this as they 
were international payments to people she hadnt paid before. Miss E also disagreed with 
our investigators comment that she was an experienced investor. Overall, Miss E expected 
that the payments should have flagged.
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has now been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the
time.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been 
provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on 
what I think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to 
do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and
conditions of the customers account. And I have taken that into account when deciding what
is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story and taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider Bank of Scotland should fairly and reasonably:
 
- Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
- Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
- In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
This means that, particularly with the increase of sophisticated fraud and scams in recent
years, there are circumstances where a bank should fairly and reasonably take additional
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to
make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.
In this case, I need to decide whether Bank of Scotland acted fairly and reasonably in its 
dealings with Miss E, when Miss E made transfers to a fraudster and when she reported the 
fraud, or whether it should have done more than it did.
In making the payments through her online banking Im satisfied Miss E authorised the 
transactions. Because of this, Bank of Scotland had an obligation to follow her instruction. 
But there are some situations in which it should reasonably have had a closer look at the 
circumstances surrounding the transfers - as Ive explained, I consider that as a matter of 
good practice Bank of Scotland shouldve been on the lookout for unusual and out of 
character transactions.
So, Ive thought about whether the transfers Miss E made were out of character and 
unusual. To decide this, Ive reviewed the activity on Miss Es account statements, from 
which the payments were made, for the months leading up to the scam. This is often a finely 
balanced matter, and Bank of Scotland has a difficult balance to strike in how it configures its 
systems to detect unusual activity or activity that might otherwise indicate a higher than 
usual risk of fraud.
But on balance, I cant fairly say that the first three transactions Miss E made were so 
unusual or suspicious in comparison to her usual account activity, that they ought to have 
alerted Bank of Scotland that Miss E may have been at risk of financial harm. Miss E regularly made (legitimate) transactions of over £1,000 and for sums larger than the 
transactions made here.
Ive thought carefully about what Miss E has said, in that these were international payments 
to people she hasnt paid before. But I have to consider the account activity in the round, and 
it doesnt automatically follow that because these were international payments that they 
ought to have prompted Bank of Scotland to intervene. On balance I dont consider these 
first three payments were so out of character in comparison to how the account was typically 
run, that I could fairly or reasonably have expected Bank of Scotland to have had concerns 
and to have intervened and had a conversation with Miss E before allowing the payments to 
be made. 
It follows that I dont think Bank of Scotland was wrong to allow Miss E to make these 
transactions without questioning her about them. There simply isnt enough here for me to 
think Bank of Scotland should have suspected Miss E might be about to fall victim to a fraud. 
Bank of Scotland has already agreed that it ought to have intervened when Miss E 
attempted to make a payment of £20,000 and has agreed to refund this and the subsequent 
payments, along with interest. I think this offer is fair and reasonable and is in line with what I 
would have expect it to pay in the circumstances. So, there is no need for me to consider 
these later payments further in this decision.
I understand Miss E has mentioned that she wanted this complaint to be considered under  
The Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM code). But the CRM code doesnt cover 
international payments, so I cant take it into consideration when deciding this complaint.
Bank of Scotland acknowledged that it could have provided a better service to Miss E and in 
recognition of this it initially offered to pay £50, but agreed to increase this to £200 following 
our investigators recommendation. I think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Putting things right
 I direct Bank of Scotland to;
- Refund Miss E £34,941, being the sum of the three payments she made from her 
Bank of Scotland account between 5/8/2020 and 24/8/20 (less any funds that have 
already been refunded to her)
- Pay 8% interest from the date of the transactions to the date of settlement (less any 
interest already calculated and paid)
- Pay £200 for the trouble and upset caused (if this has not already been paid to her)
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 September 2021.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman