DRN-2621269
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Santander UK Plc treated her unfairly when she tried to re-mortgage 
and extend her lease. She says shes been left out of pocket.
What happened
Mrs C and her ex-partner took out a joint mortgage with Santander in 1993. The mortgage 
was on an interest only basis. The property was let out, with Santanders consent. The term 
expired in March 2018 with an unpaid balance.
Mrs C applied to remove her ex-partner from the mortgage and re-mortgage. Santander said 
shed need to extend her lease before it could offer a mortgage. There were problems, and 
in late 2019 Mrs C decided to apply to another lender. 
Mrs C says she was assured by Santander it would offer a mortgage if she extended the 
lease. She asks that it compensates her for costs related to extending the lease and her 
legal fees. Mrs C says Santander caused delays with her application.
Our investigator said Santander had dealt with Mrs Cs mortgage application fairly. She said 
while Santander had caused some delays, the £150 compensation it offered was fair.
Mrs C didnt agree, saying shed acted on advice from Santander. By the time it told her the 
mortgage was declined shed already paid lease extension fees and legal fees. She says 
this is money shes lost. And she had to chase Santander throughout. She says some of the 
information provided by Santander and referred to by the investigator was incorrect. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While Mrs C said some of the information provided by Santander and referred to by the 
investigator was incorrect, she didnt provide further details of what these inaccuracies are. I 
should say here that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach 
my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. With that in 
mind, Ive set out below what I think, on balance, happened here  in brief and based on the 
evidence Ive received from both parties.
Mrs C had an interest only mortgage in joint names with her ex-partner. The term expired in 
March 2018. The property is let out.
In late 2018 Mrs C asked Santander for a new mortgage and to remove her ex-partner from 
the mortgage account. Santander said shed need to extend the property lease before it 
could offer a mortgage. 
Mrs C had a choice of options when extending the lease. In brief, paying a larger premium 
upfront meant a lower annual ground rent; paying a smaller premium meant higher ground 
rent.
Mrs C applied to Santander for a mortgage in April 2019. Her application was declined after 
the valuer raised concerns about the short term left on the lease, and the amount of ground 
rent as a proportion of the property value if it was extended on the terms Mrs C proposed. 
The valuer said the property wouldnt be readily saleable or mortgageable. Santander 
accepts it made an error which caused a delay between April and June 2019. 
Mrs Cs solicitors asked Santander what option for extending the lease was acceptable. 
Santander referred the solicitors to the UKF Lenders Handbook as to its requirements about 
ground rent, and said Mrs C needed to contact her financial adviser to discuss this further. I 
think Mrs C and her solicitors knew one of the three options wasnt acceptable, as the valuer 
had already said the amount of ground rent with this option was excessive. Mrs C had to 
choose between paying a premium of about £6,000 (with ground rent of about £244 per 
year) or about £11,500 (with no ground rent). 
While Mrs C says she made a mortgage application on the basis shed pay a premium for 
the lease extension so that no ground rent would be paid, I havent seen evidence of this 
application. 
There was further correspondence about the ground rent options, until early September 
2019 when Mrs Cs solicitors asked if Santander would offer a mortgage if the lease was 
extended for the smaller premium. Santander checked with its valuer and, in late October, 
said it would consider offering a mortgage on this basis. This would include additional 
borrowing to cover the premium for extending the lease. It said it had been partly responsible 
for delays and would re-open Mrs Cs mortgage application. However, it needed her to 
provide up to date income information.
Mrs C decided instead to apply to another lender, and raised a complaint with Santander. 
Santander sent a cheque for £150, as a goodwill payment for the delays it accepts it caused 
and inconvenience.  
Did Santander treat Mrs C unfairly?
I understand Mrs Cs frustration about the time this matter took. I think Santander did cause 
some delays. But I must take into account that this wasnt a straightforward re-mortgage. 
Santander made it clear from the outset it wouldnt lend unless the lease term was extended. 
Thats not the same as saying it would certainly lend if the lease was extended.
Mrs C incurred costs related to the lease extension. I appreciate shes upset that Santander 
then declined her mortgage application. But I dont think it was wrong or unfair for Santander 
to decline to lend when its valuer said the property wasnt suitable security due to the terms 
on which Mrs C proposed extending the lease. 
After some to-ing and fro-ing in August and September 2019, Santander said it would 
consider lending if the lease was extended so that lower ground rent was payable. However, 
Mrs C didnt go ahead with her application to Santander, telling Santander shed decided to 
apply elsewhere. 
I appreciate this must have been stressful for Mrs C: she had the legal issues related to the 
lease extension, her mortgage term had expired and she had the added complication of her ex-partner being on the mortgage account. But Santander wasnt responsible for these 
problems. 
While this matter has gone on for some time, I dont think this was due solely to errors by 
Santander. I dont know if a re-mortgage would have completed smoothly if Mrs C had 
provided updated information and continued with a mortgage application in late 2019. It was 
Mrs Cs decision to apply elsewhere. 
I dont think it was unfair for Santander to say it wouldnt lend unless the lease was 
extended, given the likely effect a short lease term would have on the value and 
marketability of the property and, therefore, its security. I dont think it was unfair for 
Santander to decline Mrs Cs application when the valuer said the property wasnt suitable 
security. Mrs C was responsible for extending the lease and the related costs. And while 
some delays were due to an error by Santander, I dont think it caused delays such as to 
make it fair and reasonable to require Santander to compensate Mrs C for her legal and 
other costs related to the lease extension.
Mrs Cs mortgage term expired in March 2018, almost three years ago. Mrs C told 
Santander shes in the process of re-mortgaging, however it seems her re-mortgage hasnt 
yet completed. Santander says it will allow some leeway, given these difficult times, but does 
need regular updates. If Mrs C has extended the lease, there seems no reason she cant 
make a new mortgage application to Santander if she hasnt secured a mortgage elsewhere. 
Mrs C should keep Santander informed of the steps shes taking to repay the mortgage. 
Due to the Covid-19 pandemic and related Government restrictions, the regulator issued 
guidelines to lenders. Current guidelines say other than in exceptional circumstances 
lenders shouldnt enforce repossession before 1 April 2021. Santander should take this, and 
any further guidance, into account.
Hopefully Mrs Cs re-mortgage will proceed and shell be able to repay her mortgage with 
Santander. Id urge her to keep Santander informed about how this is progressing. I must 
remind Santander of its duty to treat Mrs C fairly. And it should of course take guidance 
issued by the regulator into account. But ultimately if Mrs C isnt able to repay her mortgage 
it will be entitled to take possession as a last resort. 
Putting things right
Santander offered £150 for the delays it caused. I think this is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
My final decision
My decision is that Santander UK Plc should pay £150 to Mrs C, as it has offered to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman