DRN-1631599
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy about the service he received from Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) 
when making a claim on his travel insurance policy  including delays repatriating him home. 
What happened
Mr C had the benefit of an annual, multi-trip, travel insurance policy underwritten by URV 
which covered him from August 2018 to August 2019.
Mr C and his wife, who Ill call Mrs C, travelled abroad in May 2019 and whilst away, in early 
June 2019, Mr C became very unwell and had to be hospitalised. He was discharged from 
hospital on 12 / 13 June 2019 and was repatriated back to the UK on 18 June 2019.
Mr C is unhappy about the way in which URV handled his claim, including that it:
failed to communicate, proactively update him or his family, and didnt return their 
calls or reply to emails;
unreasonably delayed his repatriation home as he didnt fly home until six days after 
he was discharged from hospital;
didnt pay him the hospitalisation benefit he was entitled to under the policy;
didnt arrange for a hotel for him and his wife to stay at near the airport; 
didnt arrange for a nurse escort to travel back to the UK with him with an oxygen 
tank.
 
Mr C also says URV should be held responsible for the taxi it arranged to pick him and his 
wife up to go to the airport, not turning up. 
URV accepts that it couldve communicated with Mr C in a timelier manner, that it couldve 
acknowledged correspondence it had been sent and provided call backs more promptly than 
it did. It also accepts it couldve provided Mr C with more regular updates and information 
about what it was doing. Its apologised and offered £600 in compensation. 
However, URV doesnt accept that it unreasonably delayed Mr Cs repatriation back to the 
UK. Nor did it agree to pay him the hospitalisation benefit under the policy which says that 
for each 24 hours in a hospital, Mr C will be paid £25. It said that benefit is only paid if those 
covered by the policy are being treated in a public hospital, and Mr C was in a private 
hospital. 
Mr C says family members  particularly his daughter  spent many hours trying to contact 
URV to find out what was going on and without their persistence and support; he doesnt 
know how long it wouldve taken URV to repatriate him home. Further, he says the (distant) 
relatives his wife was staying with whilst Mr C was in hospital  and who he also stayed with 
after being discharged from hospital  were unnecessarily put to inconvenience. He also 
says he had help from other people when trying to get answers from URV whilst he was 
abroad. He says the amount of £600 URV has agreed to pay by way of compensation is in 
no way reflective of all of the unnecessary distress and inconvenience this had on him, Mrs 
C or on those who supported him during this time. Our investigator partially upheld Mr Cs complaint. She agreed that Mr C shouldve received 
£200 as he was in hospital for eight complete days. She said that the policy doesnt say that 
the benefit is only payable if staying in a public hospital, so it wasnt fair for URV to deprive 
Mr C on that payment because he was in a private facility. 
However, she didnt think URV had unreasonably delayed his repatriation to the UK. All in 
all, she felt that £600 fairly reflected the trouble and upset Mr C experienced. Although 
conscious of the trouble and upset that may have been caused to others, she explained that 
as they werent named beneficiaries under the policy Mr C had with URV, our Service 
doesnt have the power to direct URV to pay any compensation to them caused to them by 
what URV did wrong.  
URV ultimately agreed with our investigators recommendation and agreed to pay the 
hospitalisation benefit in the sum of £200. 
Mr C doesnt agree and has raised many points in response to our investigators opinion. His 
complaint has now been passed to me to consider everything afresh and make a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, now that URV has 
agreed to pay the hospitalisation benefit in the sum of £200, I dont think it needs to do 
anything more.
I know Mr C will be unhappy with this, and my decision is in no way intended to be 
dismissive of the very difficult time he went through in the earlier part of June 2019; it 
mustve been a very worrying and distressing time for him and his family. 
Although Mr C has raised a number of points which Ive considered in full, Ive limited my 
decision to what I consider to be most relevant issues in this complaint. By doing so I mean 
no disrespect to Mr C by not commenting on each point raised, and I appreciate that the 
documents hes put together mustve taken him (and Mrs C) a lot of time. 
URV has an obligation to handle claims fairly and promptly and it mustnt unreasonably 
decline a claim.
delay in repatriating Mr C back to the UK after 12 June 2019
There was a delay of around six days between Mr C being discharged from hospital and 
repatriated back to the UK. 
URVs system notes reflect that it didnt receive the discharge report until 14 June. Before 
then, the last report reflected that Mr Cs saturation levels were at 90% - so URVs medical 
team werent confident they were  high enough to safely fly him home. 
The discharge summary reflects that as of 12 June, saturation levels had increased to 95%. 
URV concluded that Mr C should therefore be fit to fly subject to how he felt and it would 
expect his saturation levels to improve further.
On 14 June, URV told Mr and Mrs Cs daughter that it would be looking to arrange flights 
back to the UK. Although I accept that it doesnt look like Mr C was kept up to date as to 
what was happening, I can see that URV was looking for flights. It was advised that the first 
available flight back to the UK with Mr and Mrs Cs preferred airline, and the route they 
wished to take to get back to the city closest to wear they lived in the UK, via a stop-over, was due to depart on the evening of 17 June. However from what Ive seen Im satisfied that 
it was the airline who advised that a fit to fly certificate would be required before it would 
allow Mr C to travel with it. Thats because Mr C had been diagnosed with pneumonia whilst 
in hospital.
Even though the discharge summary didnt say Mr C wasnt fit to fly, neither did it expressly 
confirm that he was fit to fly. So I dont think URVs request that Mr C have his saturation 
levels tested again - and obtain a fit to fly certificate - was unreasonable, as I dont think the 
airline wouldve allowed him to travel without one.
But Im also satisfied this wasnt communicated to Mr and Mrs Cs daughter (who made 
regular attempts to contact URV around that time) as quickly as it shouldve been. From its 
system notes, it appears as though URV knew that Mr Cs saturation levels would need to be 
checked again, and a fit to fly certificate issued, before it could book the flights from as early 
as the morning of 15 June. However, this wasnt communicated to Mr and Mrs Cs daughter 
until later the next day. 
Had URV let her know about this earlier, its most likely that Mr C wouldve been able to get 
his saturation levels tested again in time for URV to book the flights departing on 17 June. 
Even if that had happened, Mr and Mrs C wouldve, at best, been repatriated back to the UK 
24 hours earlier than they were. Thats because Mr and Mrs C were still able to be booked 
on a flight home in the evening of 18 June as Mr C attended a walk in-centre on 17 June, 
and its reported that his saturation levels were at 98% and he was deemed fit to fly. 
Ive taken this into account when considering whether the level of compensation offered by 
URV for trouble and upset is fair and reasonable, and although in the context of this 
complaint that delay in getting home is comparatively small and they had somewhere to 
stay, I accept what Mr and Mrs C say about being desperate to get home. So being abroad 
for an extra day is likely to have raised their anxiety levels further, at an already difficult time.
other issues
Mr C says that a representative of URV told his daughter that it would arrange for a nurse to 
travel with him and Mrs C on the flight back to the UK and they would have an oxygen tank 
in case he needed it. URV has said that even if Mr and Mrs Cs daughter had been told this, 
given his saturation levels on 17 June, this assistance was no longer needed from a medical 
perspective. I dont think thats unreasonable  particularly as Mr C had been certified fit to 
fly without any mention of any additional assistance. 
Whilst Mr C was in hospital, and before URV was able to confirm whether cover was in 
place, Mrs C and her daughter made enquiries about whether URV would agree to cover the 
costs of Mrs C staying in a hotel. I think URV reasonably advised, at that stage, it wasnt 
able to authorise the accommodation costs. However, theres a further conversation after 
URV confirmed coverage  on 12 June  during which accommodation for Mrs C is 
discussed again. Mr and Mrs Cs daughter confirms that Mrs C is staying with relatives for 
now but if she and Mr C require alternative accommodation once hes discharged, she would 
contact URV. So, I dont think URV was required to do anything more at that stage. 
Mr C says after he was discharged from hospital a request was made - on 14 June - to book 
him and his wife to a hotel near the airport the night before they were due to fly home, so 
they were nearby. However, by that stage, a flight hadnt been arranged so URV couldnt be 
expected to know when they would be repatriated. So, although it doesnt look like URV 
replied to this communication at the time, which I think it shouldve and I accept that 
wouldve caused further disappointment to Mr C, had it replied agreeing to that request, I 
dont think that wouldve made much difference in this particular case, given what happened subsequently. URV wasnt able to confirm flights back to the UK until the morning of 18 June 
and that was for a flight later that evening. So, there wasnt an opportunity for it to book a 
hotel near the airport as before then, it didnt know when Mr and Mrs C would be repatriated 
home.
URVs system notes reflect that it arranged for a taxi to collect Mr and Mrs C from their 
relatives home to take them to the airport. Its also reflected that their daughter called URV 
to say the taxi hadnt turned up. Although URV arranged the taxi, Im satisfied its not 
responsible for the driver not turning up in this particular case  the driver isnt under their 
control or employed by it. And once it knew what had happened, its system notes reflect that 
it did try to contact its agents to find out more about why it hadnt arrived. 
Mr C says URV shouldve arranged for another taxi to have collected them.  I agree that this 
wouldve been one option available to it but that mightve taken some time to do, as that 
request wouldve needed to have gone via URVs agents and time was of the essence. And 
even if I accept what he says about URVs representative enquiring whether Mr and Mrs Cs 
relatives could drive them to airport in time, I dont think that was unreasonable in the 
circumstances, given the time pressures involved.  Ultimately, thats what happened and I 
can see that its agreed to pay Mr C £70 to cover the journey costs of his relative. Although 
Mr C says that this isnt enough, and is less than the cost of the likely taxi fare, as Mr Cs 
relatives are not a beneficiary under the policy, I dont have the power to consider whether 
that amount fairly reflects the time and expense spent driving Mr and Mrs C to the airport  
albeit, I accept that by doing so, URV saved on the taxi fare, whatever that might have been. 
 And in any event, as Ive explained above, I dont think I can reasonably hold URV 
responsible for the taxi not showing up in the circumstances of this particular complaint. 
Ive also taken into account what Mr C says about not being told of the possibility that should 
Mr and Mrs C not make their flight, it had made enquiries about whether there would be 
seats available on a later flight (which I understand there were). He also says he wasnt told 
that URV had planned for them to stay at a hotel near the airport that night in case they 
missed their scheduled flight and didnt want to take the later one. If he had known this, he 
says it wouldve taken the pressure off him and he and Mrs C may have waited until the next 
day to see if there was another flight home, rather than inconvenience his relatives. I, of 
course, understand the point Mr C makes but, from the system notes, it appears that URV 
considered making those arrangements after they were on the way to the airport. 
Mr C is also unhappy that URV has only agreed to pay half of the costs claimed for Mrs Cs 
food and drinks whilst he was in hospital. However, these are costs that were incurred by 
Mrs C and shes not a beneficiary under the policy. In any event, food and drink costs arent 
covered under the policy and the purpose of the hospital benefit  as explained in the policy 
terms and which URV has now agreed to pay  is to provide a notional payment to cover the 
additional expenses incurred whilst Mr C is in hospital including for things like food and drink 
for Mr C, or his visitors. 
conclusion
URV accepts that it couldve communicated with Mr C in a timelier manner and that it 
couldve acknowledged correspondence it had been sent and provided call backs more 
promptly than it did. As Ive said above, Im also persuaded that by failing to notify Mr and 
Mrs Cs daughter earlier than it did, that Mr C needed his saturation levels checked and a fit 
to fly certificate, delayed his and Mrs Cs repatriation by 24 hours.
Ive considered the impact this all had on Mr C when considering whats a fair and 
reasonable amount of compensation for URV to pay him. URV has already offered Mr C £600. That amount is within the substantial band of 
compensation that our Service can award.  Im satisfied that sum fairly reflects the trouble 
and upset Mr C personally experienced as a result of the things URV did wrong here.  
Ive taken into account what Mr C says about his family  particularly Mrs C and their 
daughter  being put to the unnecessary trouble and distress by what URV did wrong. That 
included having to chase URV on a number of occasions and receiving inconsistent 
information, which mustve been very frustrating. 
However, as our investigator has explained, Mrs C, her daughter, the other relatives Mr and 
Mrs C were staying with before being repatriated back to the UK and other people who 
assisted Mr C arent named beneficiaries on his policy and they dont have a contact of 
insurance with URV. So, whilst they may have all been inconvenienced by what URV did 
wrong to varying degrees, I dont have the power to award any compensation directly to 
them, as part of this complaint, for distress and inconvenience - or any financial losses - they 
suffered. 
I accept that knowing his daughter had to chase URV so frequently and her not receiving 
responses and call backs wouldve further exacerbated Mr Cs own worry and distress at an 
already difficult time. This is evident from the tone of the communication Mr C sent URV 
shortly after being discharged from hospital. But Ive taken that all into account when 
concluding £600 is a fair and reasonable sum for URV to pay Mr C for the trouble and upset 
its failings in this case caused him. 
My final decision
Now that Union Reiseversicherung AG has agreed to put things right by paying a further 
£200 to Mr C to represent the hospitalisation benefit due to him under the policy, my final 
decision is that it doesnt need to do anything more . 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2020.
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman