DRN-2593823
The complaint
Miss L complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement 
with Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Miss L, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss L acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then VWFS, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied to Miss L. The car 
here was around four years old and had completed almost 40,000 miles. So, I think a 
reasonable person would expect some wear and tear to be present.
The relevant legislation says that if there is a fault, that was present or developing when the 
car was supplied, the business are allowed an opportunity to repair the vehicle. If the fault 
occurs within the first six months it is assumed that the fault was present when the car was 
supplied, and the onus is on the business to demonstrate otherwise. But if the fault was 
identified later than that, as is the case here, it is for the consumer to demonstrate the fault 
was most likely present when the car was supplied.
is there a fault with the car?
Miss L complains of a groan from the engine. The dealership have reviewed the issue on 
many occasions but have been unable to find fault with the car. 
Miss L has provided some videos for me to review. Ive listened to those but Im afraid I dont 
think they demonstrate a fault either. They are very short, there are no dashboard warnings 
illuminated and, whilst to my ear there could be a whining noise on start-up, Im not 
persuaded theres sufficient evidence to suggest its abnormal or theres any fault with the 
car. 
Ive also considered the other issues Miss L has had with the vehicle. I can see that within 
the first six months there was a problem with the wipers not working properly that needed to 
be repaired. As that fault was reported soon after the car was supplied to Miss L I think its 
likely it was present from the beginning. VWFS were required to rectify that fault and I can 
see that they did so.
There have been some issues with the car that have occurred after Miss L has had the 
vehicle for more than six months. In those circumstances the onus would be on her to 
demonstrate they were faults that were present from the beginning. But Ive not seen 
evidence of that, and I think if they were issues that were present from the start Miss L would 
have been unlikely to have been able to travel the distance she has in the vehicle (about 
7,000 miles when the first of those issues, the coolant leak, was identified).
Overall, Im not persuaded there is sufficient evidence this car has not been of satisfactory 
quality and Im not asking VWFS to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman