DRN-4516135
The complaint
Mr M is the sole trader of a business Ill refer to as M. He complains about the way Society of 
Lloyds (SOL) handled a claim under Ms Commercial Combined insurance policy. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are known to all parties, so I wont repeat them again here. 
Instead, Ill summarise my understanding and focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
M used a premises as a gym and fitness centre, and it incepted a policy with SOL in June 
2021 for its equipment, amongst other things. The gym was closed in 2021 due to a 
structural problem with the premises. Then, in early 2022, a storm resulted in water ingress. 
M therefore raised a claim to SOL it says totalled roughly £177,000. 
SOL appointed a loss adjuster who obtained reports from specialists to validate the claim. 
They concluded, broadly, that only three items of equipment were damaged as a result of 
the storm. And other items were damaged due to wear and tear as a result of them not being 
used and flash rust while the premises was closed. 
SOL also had concerns over the adequacy of the sum insured and evidence M provided as 
proof of ownership of the equipment. M says it provided SOL with everything it could. It says 
the equipment was purchased over a number of years, was never rented, or borrowed, and it 
no longer held receipts. 
M had also become a sole trader after a limited company Mr M was a director of was placed 
into administration. This happened roughly four months before the policy started. And M 
says it purchased equipment back from the insolvency practitioner but wasnt provided with 
an itemised invoice showing the value of items purchased, or ownership, amongst other 
things. This cost M roughly £18,000. It said it had to sell and scrap equipment as it was 
forced to leave the premises by the landlord. 
SOL continued to request information from M to validate the claim. it also asked M to provide 
a value at risk to establish whether underinsurance could impact any claim settlement. 
SOL also said the entity named as the insured on the policy wasnt M as a sole trader. And 
said the previous limited company Mr M was a director of had an unsatisfied County Court 
Judgement (CCJ) that wasnt declared when M bought the policy. SOL says had it known 
about this information, it would have increased the policys premium by 37.5%. 
The claim has been running since early 2022 but hasnt progressed to settlement due to 
several issues raised by SOL. It says it will settle the claim for damaged equipment subject 
to further information from M  information it says it cant provide. M told SOL it wasnt happy 
with the way the claim had been handled, and delays caused M financial impact, distress, 
and inconvenience. As Mr M remained unhappy, he brought a complaint to our Service on 
M's behalf. 
The Investigator recommended the complaint be upheld in part. He didnt think SOL had 
demonstrated M was underinsured as it hadnt provided what it considered to be an 
adequate sum insured. He thought SOL had demonstrated it had a remedy under the 
Insurance Act 2015 to proportionately settle any claim. 
He thought the claim hadnt progressed as SOL were asking M to provide further information 
M couldnt provide. And he was persuaded that, on balance, M had an insurable interest in 
the items damaged as part of the claim. He therefore recommended SOL reconsidered the 
claim in line with the remaining terms. 
A resolution couldnt be agreed following our Investigators view, so the case was passed to 
me. I issued a provisional decision on 6 December 2023 which set out the following: 
What Ive provisionally decided  any why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Underinsurance 
SOL say the claim settlement could be reduced because it doesnt think the sum insured 
provided by M when it took out the policy was sufficient. The relevant law about this is the 
Insurance Act 2015 (The Act). It sets out the duty on the policyholder when taking out the 
policy  and potential remedies available to the insurer if the policyholder doesnt fulfil their 
duty. So, Im satisfied its fair and reasonable to take into account the law in the 
circumstances of this case. 
The Act requires a policyholder to provide a fair presentation of the risk. So, my starting point 
is considering the question SOL says M answered unreasonably. In this case, the policy was 
sold through a broker. M says the broker asked it what the value of the gym equipment was. 
SOL isnt responsible for the sale, the question(s) asked, or any surrounding guidance or 
support provided during the sale. But its responsible for setting out to the broker what 
information is required in order to fairly assess the risk. 
SOL queried the adequacy of the sum insured during the claim validation process. M asked 
whether this meant the value of the equipment if replaced as new, or was based on the 
condition it was in. This suggests M was merely asked for the value of the gym equipment. 
Ive not seen any supporting evidence from SOL which shows the information it asked the 
broker to gather for it to assess the risk. 
M also says it based its answer on previous accounts information which showed the 
equipment on the books was roughly £90,000. And the equipment not on the books was 
estimated to be worth £50,000. The sum insured was £172,500 and the declared value was 
£150,000. It seems this is the amount M requested to be insured for. SOL havent provided a 
sum insured amount they consider to be adequate, and its been unable to do this because 
M is unable to provide a value at risk. 
It's important to say the onus is on an insurer to show the answer provided by M was 
unreasonable. Im not satisfied its done that here. Therefore, I currently dont think SOL has 
demonstrated theres been a qualifying breach under The Act. Therefore, it follows, I 
currently dont think it would be fair or reasonable for SOL to make a deduction to the claim 
settlement for underinsurance. 
Previous liquidation and CCJ SOL say M failed to provide a fair presentation of the risk it was required to under The Act 
when not declaring a previous insolvency record and CCJ for the liquidated company Mr M 
was a director of. It says had it been made aware of this when M took out the policy as a 
sole trader, the following action would have been taken: 
As there is a single CCJ and a single liquidation wed consider each risk on its individual 
merits and these two factors wouldnt have presented the risk in the best light. That said, our 
underwriting guide would let us write a risk with these issues. 
A risk with a single CCJ can be written with a 10% load and a risk of a single previous 
liquidation can be written with a 25% load. So it is possible the risk could have been written 
with a total loading of 37.5%. 
NOTE: the loading of 37.5% has been achieved by loading the original rate by 10% then 
loading that rate by 25%. 
I also note, however, within a report dated 10 May 2022, carried out on SOLs behalf, the 
agent made the following comments: 
3.11. The adverse financial information was referred to you in relation to claim reference [X] 
and Underwriters advised the following: 
It seems we were not aware of the insolvency or the CCJ, however the only SOF is dated 
2016 and I believe both the insolvency and the CCJ post-date that. In that sense we have 
not asked the question (in the form of requesting a revised SOF) of the Insured and I dont 
think we can [rely] on the non-disclosure in any sense. Its probably fair to say that the 
insolvency which may have been caused by, or at least exacerbated by, the COVID-19 
pandemic would have been viewed very sympathetically and would not have affected the 
terms applied. 
The report also states the circumstances surrounding the insolvency were said to be related 
to the Covid-19 pandemic. 
Further, M has provided a proposal form which the broker sent to SOL in November 2021. 
Importantly, M was asked to: Please elaborate on any statements which are inaccurate and 
provide further information that you feel is material in the space below or on a separate 
sheet of paper. In the space below, it is noted the limited company Mr M was a director of 
was put into administration in 2021 and the gym started again with M as a sole trader. 
It's not clear whether SOL were informed of this information at the time the policy was taken 
out. I say this because the proposal form sets out it required cover to start from June 2021 
but was later signed and dated by M in November 2021. It was then emailed to SOL by the 
broker the following day. But its fair to say SOL were aware of a single insolvency record 
several months prior to the 2022 claim  but didnt take any action with this information. And 
the comments noted in the report Ive included above suggest SOL wouldnt have relied on 
non-disclosure in any case in respect of the limited companys previous CCJ or single 
liquidation. 
SOL later said M failed to provide a fair presentation of the risk in this respect. It classified it 
as neither deliberate nor reckless. But given what Ive set out above, Im not satisfied I could 
fairly conclude M failed to provide a fair presentation of the risk. Therefore, I dont think SOL 
has demonstrated theres been a qualifying breach under The Act here either. It follows, I 
currently dont think it would be fair or reasonable for SOL to proportionately settle any claim 
settlement in respect of the 2022 insured event. The claim 
As mentioned above, a storm damage claim has been running since early 2022 without 
progress. SOL asked M to provide further information to validate the claim. M said it 
provided everything it possibly could to SOL given the challenges surrounding the length of 
time thats passed since purchasing equipment. And the insolvency practitioners inventory 
list doesnt make clear what items were owned by M / Mr M following the purchase of items 
totalling roughly £18,000. What isnt disputed here is M did purchase equipment back from 
the limited company, and theres no evidence to support equipment was borrowed or rented 
in the past. Therefore  all things considered  Im satisfied that, on balance, its fair to 
conclude M had an insurable interest in the equipment that was damaged by the insured 
event. Ill return to this point later. 
SOLs loss adjuster arranged for specialists to inspect the equipment while on the premises. 
It was found three items of equipment were directly damaged as a result of the insured peril. 
I acknowledge M thinks other items were damaged, and Ive reviewed the videos it provided. 
But I find the specialist report most persuasive here. 
An initial report dated May 2022 set out the agent was satisfied there was an incident of 
water ingress. They considered some of the damage was attributed to equipment left 
standing within the premises for an extended period without being used, following closure of 
the premises, in 2021. Therefore, a specialist report was recommended be undertaken to 
investigate further. 
A further report was provided following a physical inspection at Ms premises. This 
concluded, broadly, that while water did run across the gym floor, only three items, which 
were directly below where the ceiling collapsed, had any form of contamination from the 
insured event. The contamination sustained was determined to be minor. 
The other equipment within the gym was said to have also had some level of contamination 
to it, in the form of flash rust, and this was deemed to be unrelated to the insured event. It 
concluded damage to other equipment was caused by a combination of use of the 
equipment and the closure of the gym since 2021. SOL relied on these findings during the 
claim validation process when assessing the damage. Im satisfied it was fair and 
reasonable for it to do that. 
The items said to have been damaged were two cross-trainers and a treadmill. Within the 
insolvency practitioners inventory list, SOL point out some items are noted as saying 
Property of Director & excluded, suggesting these items were owned by the previous limited 
company. But other items  such as treadmills and cross-trainers  do not include this note. 
Returning to my earlier point  Ive not seen anything to show these items were owned by 
the limited company. 
M also requested indemnity under the business interruption section of the policy. SOL said 
the policy wouldnt cover this given the premises was closed prior to the 2022 claim, in 2021. 
I think thats reasonable. I say this because I dont think the business interruption section of 
the policy is intended to cover these circumstances. 
Included in Ms claim were items such as a fire alarm system, flooring, turnstiles, and CCTV, 
amongst other things. Within the videos provided by M, water can be seen dripping through 
one of the CCTV camera fittings in the ceiling. 
M was directed by SOL to raise a claim for these items against its landlords buildings 
insurance policy. These items werent assessed and reported on by the specialists, but that 
report does set out the resultant damage  in their professional opinion  was limited to three items of equipment. It seems SOL didnt take steps to assess and validate these items M 
claimed for. 
As with any insurance claim, its for a policyholder to demonstrate theyve suffered loss or 
damage resulting from an insured event. Therefore, M will need to substantiate its claim for 
these items, and SOL should consider this as part of the claim, in line with the policy terms. 
Summary 
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for SOL to 
make a deduction to any claim settlement because Im not satisfied its shown M failed to 
make a fair presentation of the risk under The Act. To be clear, this is in relation to 
underinsurance, and the CCJ and single insolvency record concerning a limited company Mr 
M was a director of. 
Im satisfied that, on balance, M had an insurable interest in the equipment SOL concluded 
was damaged as a result of the 2022 insured event. Therefore, to progress this longstanding 
dispute, SOL must reconsider Ms storm damage claim in line with the remaining policy 
terms. It should also consider Ms claim for other items it was told to redirect to the landlords 
buildings insurance policy. 
My provisional decision 
For the reasons Ive set out above, my provisional decision is I uphold the complaint. I intend 
to require Society of Lloyds to settle Ms complaint in line with my instructions above. 
Responses to my provisional decision 
SOL didnt agree. It set out, broadly, that: 
- It is unreasonable for a claim to progress without M providing the further information 
it requested. And it shouldnt be too onerous on M to go and obtain it. 
- It is unreasonable for SOL to be expected to consider a claim for items it redirected 
M to claim under its landlords buildings insurance policy. Based on the evidence 
currently available, these items would be covered by a buildings policy rather than 
Ms policy with SOL. 
- It is reasonable to consider a proportional settlement due to potential 
underinsurance. 
- The policy was sold to M by a broker. It was the brokers responsibility to ensure M 
had the correct cover in place. Therefore, it is reasonable to proportionately settle 
any claim had cover been arranged correctly. 
Mr M, on behalf of M, responded to say, broadly, that: 
- Neither the structural problems with the premises nor the water ingress incident were 
as a result of something M had caused. And water ingress could have been avoided 
if a contractor had replaced the guttering system following the works done by the 
landlords contractor. 
- If SOL would have put right the damage straight away, then M could have started 
trading again. 
- The specialist who visited the property only inspected the equipment directly 
underneath the damaged ceiling. The equipment was later inspected with a view to 
decontaminating all of it. 
Ill now go on to set out my final decision on what I consider to be a fair, reasonable, and proportionate resolution to this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I havent been persuaded to deviate from the outcome I provisionally 
reached, for broadly similar reasons I set out within that decision. 
I say this because Im not satisfied SOL has demonstrated theres been a qualifying breach 
under the Insurance Act 2015. I say this in respect of its concern over potential 
underinsurance, and the previous CCJ and liquidation of a limited company Mr M was a 
director of. It was Ms broker who informed SOL through the proposal form of the previous 
liquidation of the limited company to correct things. Information SOL didnt take any action 
with despite receiving it several months prior to the 2022 claim. 
I set out my reasons in detail within my provisional decision, and so I dont intend to repeat 
them again here. It follows, however, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for SOL to 
make a deduction, or proportionately settle, any claim settlement in respect of the 2022 
incident. 
This is a longstanding dispute thats been running since early 2022. My role here is to weigh 
up all the evidence and decide what I consider to be a fair, reasonable, and proportionate 
resolution to this complaint. 
Regarding the claim, I set out I was most persuaded by the specialist report here on the 
items damaged as a result of the 2022 incident. Those items included two cross-trainers and 
a treadmill. M says the specialist only inspected items directly underneath the damaged 
ceiling, but Im not persuaded to agree that was the case here. I say this because the report 
commented on the condition of other items of equipment located in other areas of the 
premises. 
I also note M says a quote was provided to decontaminate all items of gym equipment. But I 
couldnt fairly conclude that this repair work was SOLs liability for the claim. I say this 
because, as explained above, Im most persuaded by the specialist report that three items of 
equipment were damaged as a result of the 2022 incident. And while a full quote to 
decontaminate all items was provided, SOLs liability would be limited to covering repairs to 
the items damaged by the insured event only. Thats because the report said other items 
were damaged due to wear and tear, and flash rust, not considered to be as a result of the 
2022 incident. 
I acknowledge central to this complaint is SOLs concerns over proof of ownership. M says 
its provided everything to SOL it possibly could against the backdrop of challenges faced 
with the time thats passed since items were purchased. Ive seen no evidence to show M 
had borrowed or rented equipment previously. Given what was reported to have been 
damaged by the claim, Im not satisfied that, on balance, its fair, reasonable, or 
proportionate for the claim to continue running without any progress. Im satisfied, based on 
all the evidence and information Ive seen, M had an insurable interest in the items said to 
have been damaged by the 2022 incident. 
As mentioned previously, the specialist didnt report on the other items said by M to have 
been damaged by the 2022 incident. I note SOL say these items should be considered as 
items that would be covered by the landlord of the buildings insurance policy. But it doesnt 
seem a validation process was carried out by SOL in this respect. So, I think its fair and reasonable for these items to be considered by SOL, in line with the remaining policy terms. 
Finally, M argues if SOL would have put right the damage straight away, then M could have 
started trading again. But Ive kept in mind the specialist report that found the majority of the 
equipment damage wasnt related to the 2022 incident. So, I cant safely conclude if SOL 
would have settled the claim based on their liability for it (as set out by the specialist), its 
more likely than not M would have started trading sooner. 
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for SOL to 
make a deduction to any claim settlement because Im not satisfied its shown M failed to 
make a fair presentation of the risk under the Insurance Act 2015. This is in relation to 
underinsurance, and the CCJ and single insolvency record concerning a limited company Mr 
M was a director of. 
Im satisfied that, on balance, M had an insurable interest in the equipment SOL concluded 
was damaged as a result of the 2022 incident. Therefore, Im satisfied requiring SOL to 
reconsider Ms storm damage claim in line with the remaining policy terms to be fair, 
reasonable, and proportionate here. So, it must now do that. It should also consider Ms 
claim for items it was told to redirect to the landlords buildings insurance policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, my final decision is I uphold the complaint. I now require 
Society of Lloyds to settle Ms complaint in line with my instructions above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman