DRN-2174489
The complaint
Mrs L complains about Fairmead Insurance Limited trading as Legal and General 
(Fairmead) declining her claim for storm damage under her buildings policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Fairmead doesnt dispute there was a storm on the date Mrs Ls garage was 
damaged, nor do they dispute the damage to Mrs Ls garage was typical after a 
storm. But for Mrs Ls claim to be successful, Fairmead needed to be satisfied the 
storm was the main cause of the damage. Thats because Mrs Ls policy excludes 
wear and tear and damage that happens over a period of time.
Fairmead appointed a surveyor who inspected Mrs L garage. Their report said storm 
damage was evident on the ageing garage structure which through gradual age 
related material deterioration is reaching the end of its serviceable life. Recent 
weather conditions have highlighted the pre existing vulnerable areas of the garage. 
The surveyor took photos and said they clearly indicate, storm is not the cause of 
the damage. Given the exclusions in Mrs Ls policy, I dont consider Fairmead 
treated her unfairly when they declined her claim after reviewing this report.
Following our investigators view, Mrs L obtained her own report. This surveyor said 
Mrs Ls garage structure has deteriorated over the years but this should not detract 
from the damage that we consider is solely related to the storm... The report went on 
to describe the damage and how the surveyor considered it was caused by the 
storm. Fairmead didnt think this report was enough to change their decision. That 
was because they didnt think it was credible to ignore the condition of the Mrs Ls 
garage and say it played no part in the problem. Fairmead maintained they didnt 
consider the damage was consistent with a one-off storm. I dont consider its 
unreasonable to expect detail on why the deterioration of Mrs Ls garage didnt 
contribute to the damage caused during the storm. And having reviewed the report 
from Mrs Ls surveyor, I can understand why Fairmead would have wanted more 
clarity on this point. So, Im not persuaded Fairmead did anything wrong when they 
explained their decision on Mrs Ls claim remained the same.
Fairmead commented on the fact Mrs Ls report was dated around six months after 
the damage occurred. Mrs L is unhappy with this as she says Fairmead didnt tell her 
she could provide her own report. Ultimately, its for a consumer to prove their claim 
meets the criteria set out in their policy, and I wouldnt expect an insurer to explain all 
possible ways a consumer could do that. Moreover, the main reason her claim 
remains declined isnt because of the date of Mrs Ls report, its down to the fact 
Fairmead isnt satisfied theyve seen enough information that demonstrates the 
condition of Mrs Ls garage (before the storm) didnt contribute to the damage shes 
claiming for. 
For these reasons, although I understand Mrs Ls frustration, I do not uphold this complaint.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Fairmead Insurance Limited 
trading as Legal and General.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2020.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman