DRN-1345575
 
complaint
Mr and Mrs J say Bradford & Bingley Plc (B&B) mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy on a mortgage in 1993. Mr and Mrs J say the PPI was mis-sold. For 
simplicity, Ill refer to the business as B&B for most of the rest of this decision.
background
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. B&B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Js case. 
Its not straightforward to decide a case when the documents available from the time of the 
sale are not conclusive. The sale happened over 26 years ago. Where there isnt much 
evidence for me to consider, I need to make my decision based on a balance of probabilities 
 that is to say, Ill consider what I do have, look at what both sides have said, and make a 
decision based on what I think most likely happened. 
So, the questions I need to consider are whether B&B gave Mr and Mrs J information that 
was clear, fair and not misleading in order to put them in a position where they could make 
an informed choice about the insurance they were buying. And whether in giving any advice 
or recommendation, B&B took adequate steps to ensure the product it recommended was 
suitable for their needs. 
B&B has said it did not give Mr and Mrs J any advice about whether they should take out the 
policy. But Mr and Mrs J say advice was given. I need make no firm finding on this because, 
having assessed this case on the lower test  a non-advised sale  and for the reasons 
given below, I do not think that B&B ensured Mr and Mrs J were in a position to make a 
properly informed choice. 
I am upholding Mr and Mrs Js complaint because I think that Mr Js employment status 
would have made it hard to claim under the terms of the policy, most likely. I say this 
because Mr J has told us that he was employed on a fixed term contract at the time of the 
sale. 
B&B told us that the terms that apply to this policy state that unemployment cover is not 
provided if the unemployment occurs from the completion of, a fixed term service contract 
for your services. So, it seems that Mr J would have not been able to claim for 
unemployment benefit if he was unable to find work when his contract finished. I think this is 
something that he wouldve thought important.There is no language on the mortgage application form or on the PPI application form about 
the terms that apply to people on a fixed term contract. It has not been made clear how the 
representative was supposed to position this information with a consumer, if at all. And its 
not clear what documentation would have been available to Mr and Mrs J at the time of 
making the decision to take the policy out.
The term is found in the policy document that B&B has provided. But as this was, most likely, 
provided on acceptance, its hard to see how Mr and Mrs J could have relied on this 
document to make them aware of this important limitation, as it wasnt available at the time 
they were asked to decide whether to buy the PPI. In any event it can be found only by close 
reading as it is on page 9 of a 16 page closely worded document. I dont think it has ever 
represented good industry practice to rely on post sale documentation to make up for 
missing or mis-leading information at the point of sale.  
B&B has also provided a summary document. The information is over half-way down the 
second of the four pages in the document, which is again, closely worded. But this term was 
a significant one and needed to be sufficiently highlighted to Mr and Mrs J. Im not 
persuaded that either of these documents adequately highlight this important term to Mr and 
Mrs J.
In any event, its not clear if this document was provided during the sale or whether it was 
provided later. But if it was present during the sale, Id need to know how it was positioned 
with the consumer to know what weight to place on it. As I've said the mortgage application 
contains no warnings about this limitation, which would have been particularly important to 
Mr and Mrs J.  And there are no warnings of the importance of reading accompanying 
literature in the mortgage application form, where they are asked to apply for the cover. 
Having looked at all the submissions made in this case, I do not think B&B 
have demonstrated that they made clear that there may be restrictions to when a person 
could claim for unemployment. So, I dont think Mr and Mrs J were given enough information 
about the policy when they decided to take it out.  
B&B has questioned whether Mr J was in fact working on a fixed term contract. Mr J told us 
he was. The mortgage application asks whether the applicant was self-employed. The No 
box is ticked in that section. The application makes no searching enquiry about the nature of 
the employed status; in this case whether Mr J was on a fixed term contract. But on the 
application form Mr J describes his occupation as a Foreman Roofing Contractor. 
This suggests to me that it's more likely that Mr J was working on a contract rather than 
being a permanent employee. Nothing in the mortgage application undermines Mr Js 
testimony. So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, I think its more 
likely that Mr J was employed on a fixed term contract at the time of the sale in 1993. 
Ive seen no evidence that unemployment cover was not at least as important to Mr J as the 
illness cover, indeed its possible that it was more important to Mr J. So, I think that if Mr and 
Mrs J knew about the exclusions that applied to those on fixed term contracts, they wouldve 
thought Mr J was only likely to benefit from part of the policy and wouldve thought the policy 
expensive because of that. So, I dont think they wouldve taken it out if properly informed.
I think that the policy was mis-sold and B&B needs to do something to put things right.
what the business should do to put things right
B&B should put Mr and Mrs J in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out PPI. 
The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and B&B should:Pay Mr and Mrs J the amount they paid each month for the PPI that covered Mr J.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
If Mr J made a successful claim under the PPI policy, B&B can take off what he got 
for the claim from the amount it owes Mr and Mrs J. If that means that no loss has 
been experienced by Mr and Mrs J, then B&B would not need to make any payment. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires B&B to take off tax from this interest. B&B must give Mr 
and Mrs J a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint and I direct Bradford & 
Bingley Plc to pay Mr and Mrs J compensation in accordance with the calculation set out 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 March 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman