DRN-1553211
 
The complaint
Mr A has complained about Builders Direct SAs decision to reject a claim he made for 
damage caused by a leaking roof under his home insurance policy.
All references to the insurer Builders Direct in my decision include its agents.
What happened
In September 2019 Mr A made a claim for water damage to his property. He told Builders 
Direct the damage was caused during a storm on 3 September 2019. Builders Direct 
instructed a Surveyor to inspect the damage. 
The Surveyor reported there were several areas of damage and evidence of poor repairs to 
Mr As roof. He concluded that the damage was caused by wear and tear over time. Storm 
conditions were not reported in the area when Mr A said the damage occurred. 
Builders Direct told Mr A that it wouldnt meet his claim as his policy excluded damage 
caused by wear and tear.
Mr A complained to Builders Direct. But it said its decision was correct. 
Mr A asked us to look at his complaint. Our investigator thought Builders Directs decision to 
reject Mr As claim was reasonable and in line with the policy. 
Mr A made a claim under the contents section of his policy which is being dealt with 
separately and doesnt form part of his complaint.
Mr A wants Builders Direct to cover the costs to repair his roof. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr As policy with Builders Direct has a common exclusion for wear and tear. I dont find this 
term unusual as insurers dont provide cover for every eventuality. 
Mr As policy says it will not provide cover for; damage caused by wear, tear or gradual 
deterioration, dryness or humidity, freezing, being exposed to light or extreme temperatures 
unless caused by fire or storm.
When we look at complaints related to storm damage, we consider the following:
             Did storm conditions occur on or around the date the damage was said to have              happened?
             Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
             Were the storm conditions the main cause for the damage?
We're likely to uphold a complaint if the answer to all three questions is 'yes'. However if 
the answer to one of the questions is 'no' we're unlikely to uphold a complaint
Builders Direct provided a weather report for the date of the incident and this showed light 
breezy conditions with no rainfall. 
The Surveyor reported that the general condition of pointing, flashing and gutters on Mr As 
roof were poor in numerous areas. He said there were numerous issues of water ingress  
some areas had temporary repairs but leaks had been ongoing for some time. He provided 
several photos to show the condition of the roof to support his opinion. 
I think Mr As policy clearly set out that it wouldnt provide cover for damage caused by wear 
and tear. And I think it was reasonable for Builders Direct to rely on the opinion of the 
Surveyor when deciding if Mr As claim was covered. From what Ive seen, Im satisfied that 
there was insufficient evidence to show the damage was caused by stormy conditions. I 
think from the information provided the damage was caused by wear and tear. 
I understand Mr A will be disappointed. But I think Builders Directs decision to reject his 
claim was fair and reasonable. So Im not asking it to do any more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2020.
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman