DRN-3322620
The complaint
Mr M complains that  Clydesdale Bank PLC trading as Virgin Money were unable to transfer 
money to another bank for him. As a result, he had to withdraw cash over several days and 
lost money on share dealing. He would like £250 compensation.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
Its difficult when there is a disagreement between parties as to what happened. Mr 
M says he wanted Virgin Money to make an electronic transfer for him, but it couldnt 
due to unfamiliarity with a new system. Virgin Money says this wasnt an issue and it 
offered a faster payment for Mr M but he wanted cash. As Virgin Money introduced a 
new system in February 2021 I would be surprised if it hadnt been able to action a 
faster payment by May 2021 when Mr M first went into the branch.
It seems Virgin Money didnt have sufficient cash for Mr M to make one withdrawal. It  
explained that unless advance notice is given for such withdrawals  which wasnt 
the case here - extra cash needs to be ordered in to cover larger requests and still 
leave funds for other customers. So, I am not surprised Mr M had to make several 
withdrawals
Mr M says he lost out on share dealing through not having the funds instantly 
available. But even if I accept Mr Ms statement that Virgin couldnt make an 
electronic transfer  which I think is unlikely - he hasnt provided any evidence of 
actual loss from  not having the money instantly available. So, I cant reasonably ask 
Virgin Money to compensate him as he would like.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman
