DRN-2007097
 
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold him a level annuity. Mr Ds 
representatives allege that Mr D wasnt made aware of more suitable alternatives such as 
low cost Income Drawdown. And that Mr D couldve then remained invested, allowing him to 
increase his purchasing power in the future and at least in-line with inflation. The 
representative also made the point that if he was to die the death benefits within Income 
Drawdown were advantageous in comparison for his spouse.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt uphold it. He explained that the report 
produced for Mr D at the time clearly showed the different annuity options available including 
escalating annuities but Mr D preferred a level annuity. The investigator also said that 
alternative retirement products such as Income Drawdown were signposted to Mr D but the 
documentation recorded at the time states that Mr D preferred the level annuity option.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The documentation from the time shows that the adviser did discuss the option of an 
escalating annuity with Mr D but he preferred a level annuity and reasons were given for 
this in relation to Mr Ds circumstances. So its clear this was considered and that Mr D 
played an active part in these discussions.
Options other than immediately taking his benefits were discussed but Mr D wished to 
start taking income then.
It was recorded that Mr D didnt want to take any investment risk and preferred to receive 
a higher level of income at the time to enjoy his retirement. A level annuity is suitable for 
this objective and more suitable than an escalating annuity.
Nationwide provided Mr D with information about alternative products such as Income 
Drawdown. These were clearly signposted.
Nationwide made clear to Mr D that it couldnt advise him on alternative products such as 
Income Drawdown. And that he would need to approach an Independent Financial 
Adviser (IFA) if he wished to consider this.
It was recorded Mr D preferred to know now what he would receive with a level annuity. 
And that his fund wouldnt be at risk of falling returns or falling annuity rates.
The annuity service provided by Nationwide was tied to the annuity products it could 
offer. Mr D was signposted to other products and that Nationwide could not advise on 
these.
If Mr D had instead wished to look into Income Drawdown he was given information 
about the product and he was signposted to an IFA. Mr D chose instead to take an 
annuity through the service provided by Nationwide 
The arguments made by Mr Ds representatives arent supported by what was recorded 
at the time.
Nationwide have provided documentation from the time that shows it discussed Mr Ds 
circumstances at the time. Made him aware of the limitations of its remit. Signposted him 
to other products and other advisers with a wider remit. And produced a suitability report 
and recommendation outlining why the annuity recommended was suitable for Mr Ds 
identified requirements and circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ds complaint and make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2020.
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman