DRN-3567977
The complaint
Mr C complains that First Holiday Finance Ltd has made an unfair claims decision under the
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
Mr C and the late Mrs C purchased a timeshare product from Business X in September 
2011. The timeshare was part funded with a loan provided by First Holiday Finance. The 
total amount of finance provided was £11,685.58 to be repaid over a period of 144 
months. The loan was repaid early with this being confirmed in writing to Mr C and the 
late Mrs C in October 2014.
Mr C and the late Mrs C purchased a points-based timeshare. This gave them the option 
to exchange their points for holidays each year provided through Business X. They were 
also enrolled into an exchange scheme for one year as part of the membership fee, this 
gave access to other resorts and providers.
In September 2020, with the assistance of a professional representative, Mr C raised a 
claim under the CCA. He made the following accusations:
He felt the benefits of the timeshare had been misrepresented at the point of sale.
The loan which financed the timeshare was void because Business X didnt have 
the correct permissions at the time of the sale and wasnt authorised. So the 
lawfulness of the loan had been misrepresented.
Mr Cs representative expressed concerns about Business X and its operating 
structure.
Mr C and his representative also claimed that First Holiday Finance failed to carry 
out the appropriate credit checks when the loan was taken out to confirm the loan 
was affordable.
Mr Cs representative said Mr C was not aware that the loan should be voided until he 
instructed its services. And he wasnt aware of any misrepresentations until many years 
after the sale when he experienced problems when trying to book holidays with the points.
First Holiday Finance said Business X held all relevant authorities to sell the loan to Mr C 
and the late Mrs C. It also said all affordability checks were completed when the loan was 
taken out and it confirmed there was no commission paid by First Holiday Finance. It 
passed on the concerns about the sale of the timeshare to Business X to respond to 
directly as it felt it was best placed to address what happened during the sale. Business X 
didnt agree the timeshare had been misrepresented and it also confirmed it had the 
relevant authority to broker the loan.
Our investigator said that she felt the claim for misrepresentation under s.75 of the CCA 
had been made too late. She said this needed to have been made within six years of the 
date of sale but as no claim was made until December 2019, she didnt think First Holiday 
Finance needed to consider this further.
Mr C and his representative disagreed. They argued that s.32 of the Limitation Act 1980 
(LA) was applicable because Business X concealed the fact that it had no authority to 
broker or sell the loan. It felt this meant the claim for misrepresentation was brought in 
time. It also highlighted that its point about the authority of the broker had not been 
addressed.
In response our investigator said her response to s.75 CCA had not changed and she still 
felt the claim for misrepresentation had been brought too late. She said in response to the 
authority of the broker that Business X was not an agent of Mr C or the late Mrs C either 
as matter of fact or by law.
I issued a provisional decision on Mr C and the late Mrs Cs complaint in August 2022. I said 
that I wasnt planning on upholding the complaint  but with additional considerations to that 
of our investigator. So to be fair to both sides ahead of issuing my final decision, I set out 
what I was planning on saying. My provisional findings are copied below:
Im not planning on upholding this complaint. I know this will be disappointing for Mr C, but  
Ill explain why Im intending on reaching this outcome.
Mr C and his representative has provided a great deal of information in support of his claim. 
I want to assure Mr C that Ive considered all the information provided. If I dont address 
every point thats been raised, its not because Ive not thought about them all. But Ive 
focused on what I think is relevant and material to reaching a fair and reasonable outcome 
within my decision.
First Holiday Finance hasnt directly addressed the claims about misrepresentation made 
by Mr C. It has instead passed these concerns on to Business X to respond to. The CCA 
means First Holiday Finance is required to consider claims for misrepresentation and/or 
breach of contract under s.75 CCA. Allegations of misrepresentation will relate to the 
supplier and information provided by Business X, but this doesnt mean First Holiday 
Finance shouldnt consider this as part of its claims decision. A CCA is relevant here as 
Mr C has alleged the relationship was unfair.
However, for the reasons Ill go on to explain in my decision, I dont think the lack of 
response on this makes a difference to the outcome of Mr Cs complaint.
Was Business X authorised to arrange the loan?
At the heart of Mr Cs argument is his belief that the loan was brokered without the correct 
authority and is voidable. Ive considered this first, ahead of considering the claims made 
under CCA.
When Mr Cs loan was sold, the regulation of consumer credit was handled by the Office 
of Fair Trading (OFT). First Holiday Finance has confirmed the OFT registration number 
in place for Business X at the time of the sale and Im satisfied it had the correct 
authorisation relevant at the time of sale.
Mr Cs representative has made reference to a number of parts of the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) handbook which it says Business X didnt adhere to when the loan was 
arranged. But as the FCA didnt regulate the sale of this loan, I dont think these are 
relevant.Mr Cs representative has said the Business X breached its authorisation by mis-selling 
the timeshare to Mr C and late Mrs C. Because of this, the loan was granted in contrary to 
the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA). But I think this is dealt with in the 
claims made under CCA. I dont think it follows that, as Business X may have acted in a 
way that gives rise to a legal claim, they will have acted without authorisation when 
arranging the loan.
The s.75 CCA claim
Mr C said that Business X misrepresented the nature and benefits of the timeshare. Under
s.75 CCA, First Holiday Finance would be jointly liable for a claim. But as our investigator 
said, these claims need to be raised by a certain point.
S.9 LA sets out that a claimant has six years to bring a claim from the date on which 
the cause of action occurred. The date the cause of action occurred is the point in 
time that everything needed to make a legal claim occurred.
Mr C and the late Mrs C purchased their timeshare in 2011 and it is from this point that 
they could have brought a claim under s.75 CCA. So it follows, they had six years from 
the date of the purchase to bring a claim. This is because this is the point in time Mr C 
and the late Mrs C would have lost out by relying on false statements of fact.
Mr C didnt bring a claim or raise any points of dissatisfaction with First Holiday Finance 
until December 2019. This is more than six years from the point when the cause for action 
occurs so I think s.9 LA would be applicable and First Holiday Limited would be entitled to 
rely on the time limit set out in the LA.
Could the limitation be extended?
Mr Cs representative have argued that the limitation period should be extended. They feel
s.32 LA is applicable and if applied, would extend the point in time from when the limitation 
period starts. S.32 states that when there has been fraud, deliberate concealment or 
mistake, the limitation period only starts to run from the point that the claimant discovers 
the fraud, concealment or mistake. Mr Cs representative has argued that Business X 
concealed the fact it lacked the relevant authority to broker the loan.
As Ive said above, I think Business X did have the relevant permissions to broker the loan 
when the timeshare was sold and there was no concealment of not having this permission.
Ive thought about everything else that Mr C and his representative have said about 
Business X. Having done so, Ive not seen anything that persuades me that s.32 LA 
would be applicable, or that the limitation period for the s.75 CCA claim should be 
extended.
The claim under s.140A
Mr C has made reference to a number of things within his letter of claim that could give rise 
to a claim under s.140A. And his representative has quoted this within the letter of 
complaint. Under this section a court can make an order under s.140B in connection with a 
credit agreement if it decides that the relationship between the lender and creditor arising 
out of the agreement is unfair. Only a court has the power to make such a determination 
but I think this is relevant law and Ive taken it into account.Ive taken account of the actions taken by Business X when deciding whether Mr C and the 
late Mrs C have been treated fairly as the timeshare agreement is a related agreement to 
the credit agreement under s19 of the CCA.
Ive also taken into account the relevant regulations applicable to Business X as a timeshare 
provider at the point of sale. Its not my role to decide Business Xs legal liability in regard to 
these regulations. But they are relevant in determining a standard of commercial conduct 
expected of Business X. Any potential breach of the rules isnt determinative of the question 
posed by s.140A, but it may have a legitimate influence on whether an unfair relationship 
existed between Mr C and First Holiday Finance.
S.56 of the CCA is relevant and means Business X acted as First Holiday Finances 
agent when conducting the negotiations with Mr C and the late Mrs C. And this can 
include all communication, advertisement and representations made by the negotiator. 
This can be considered when considering whether things have been done or not done 
when thinking about s.140A (1)(c) 1.
S.140A is also subject to time limitations under the LA. But Im satisfied Mr C and his 
representative brought their complaint/claim about an unfair relationship within the 
prescribed time. So Ive considered whether First Holiday Financial should have done 
more when considering this.
As section 140A (2) sets out, a court will take account of all matters it considers relevant, 
both in relation to the creditor and debtor. This means I must also take into account Mr C 
and the late Mrs Cs individual circumstances when the sale took place. Considerations 
which may be relevant to the fairness of the relationship include Mr C and late Mrs Cs 
previous experience with timeshare products and the suppliers sales presentations, their 
sophistication or vulnerability, and their level of knowledge about the product they were 
buying.
I also have in mind the judgement of the Supreme Court in the case of Plevin v. Paragon 
Finance Ltd [2014] UKSC 61, where it was held (in summary) the question is whether the 
relationship between the creditor and debtor is unfair, not whether the creditor or anyone 
else has breached a duty. It was also held that relationships between businesses and 
consumers are often characterised by large differences of knowledge, which can make a 
relationship unfair if the imbalance is sufficiently extreme.
Keeping all of the above in mind, I have considered all of the evidence and submissions in  
this case, to determine whether I think its likely a court would find an unfair relationship 
existed between Mr C and the late Mrs C and First Holiday Finance under section 140A 
(1)(c), by virtue of anything Business X did or didnt do on First Holiday Finances behalf.
Mr C has argued that Business X misrepresented the timeshare to such an extent that the 
agreement should be void as this gave rise to an unfair relationship. He said the following 
in relation to this:
A presentation given at the time of sale showed the quality of accommodation to 
be far superior to what he says he was able to obtain.
He was promised the timeshare would provide him with fractional ownership 
over the properties but no guidance was provided on how this could be 
obtained.
He was told hed be able to sell the timeshare at any point but this hasnt been 
the case.The maintenance fees would not increase but these have increased year on year.
Hes says this information provided at the point of sale together with the pressure applied 
led him to buy the timeshare. He also feels the high interest rate applied to the loan 
demonstrates that the relationship is unfair.
I appreciate that the nature of timeshare sales means it was likely that Business X made 
it difficult for Mr C and the late Mrs C to say no to the timeshare. But Ive not been 
provided with anything which persuades me that Business X didnt allow them to do this.
Ive looked at the sales documentation provided at the point of sale. This gives 
information about the timeshare, including the ongoing fees, whether it can be sold 
(including whether Business X operates a resale programme) and information about how 
the timeshare works and whether it may have a trade in value against other schemes. I 
dont think this supports what Mr C says happened during the sale. Hes mentioned 
products different to his own and it might be he didnt fully understand what he was buying 
but I dont think this indicates Business X did anything wrong at the point of sale.
Overall, thinking about their circumstances at the time of the sale and how the sales 
process took place, I think it is unlikely a court would determine this created an unfair 
relationship under s140A of the CCA.
Mr C has also said that he believes First Holiday Finance lent to him irresponsibly as it 
failed to complete adequate checks to ensure the loan was affordable. He has provided 
very little in support of this. First Holiday Finance has said it completed the correct checks 
at the time of the borrowing.
This service can consider complaints about unaffordable lending and in order to uphold 
a complaint of this nature, Id need to be satisfied the lending was unaffordable to Mr C 
and the late Mrs C at the time and theyve lost out as a result.
Ive not been provided with evidence to persuade me that, at the time of sale, Mr C and 
the late Mrs C had any affordability issues and were unable to afford the loan repayment. 
So in the absence of this, I am unable to uphold the complaint for this reason.
Overall, Ive not seen anything to persuade me that First Holiday Finance Ltd needs to 
take any action based on its claims decision.
 
First Holiday Finance had nothing further to add in response to the provisional decision. 
Mr Cs representative reiterated a number of points made within the original submission. 
It said that s.32 LA should be applied to extend the limitation period of s.9 LA meaning that 
Mr Cs claim under s.75 CCA could be considered. And that the misrepresentations made 
were done to such an extent and relied on by Mr C, that it would be likely a court would 
agree that it gave rise to an unfair relationship under s.140A CCA. It felt more weight should 
be applied to Mr Cs testimony in reference to this.
No response was provided in relationship to my answer on the complaint points brought 
about the affordability of the loan.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reconsidered everything on this complaint as well as the information provided by Mr C 
and his representative in response to my provisional decision. As Ive mentioned above, 
most of what has been provided is a reiteration of the information submitted with the 
complaint originally. 
But in answer to its point that more weight should be given to Mr Cs testimony, weight has 
been given to this. But I also need to consider the other evidence provided, including what 
the contract says he was purchasing and how this would operate. Mr C has said he was 
given information which was directly contradictory to the information within the sales 
document. This information was provided at the point of sale and so I think its unlikely that  
any representations were made by Business X that didnt follow what the product was or 
how it would operate. 
Mr C hasnt provided anything new for me to consider on this point and because of this, I 
remain of the opinion that it is unlikely that, based on the information provided at the time of 
the sale, a court would determine this would create an unfair relationship.  
Overall, I see no reason to depart from the decision set out in my provisional findings above.
My final decision
For the reasons set out within the provisional decision included within the background of this 
complaint, I dont uphold Mr C and late Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and the 
estate of Mrs C to accept or reject my decision before 11 October 2022.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman