DRN-3882684
The complaint
Mr F has complained that the poor service received by Aviva Life and Pensions UK Ltd 
(Aviva) has caused him to lose out financially in relation to his employers workplace pension 
scheme.
What happened
In April 2022 Mr F joined his employers workplace pension scheme. On 30 April 2022 he 
received a welcome pack, followed by a confirmation of plan details letter on 5 May. He 
noticed that the total amount stated as being one years payments was £1,471.73, rather 
than £1,485.12 which represented 12 months contributions including tax relief.
He phoned Aviva who agreed that there appeared to be an error and arranged to send 
updated paperwork.
This was not issued and on 30 May, Mr F called Aviva again as he was aware that he was 
close to the end of the one month opt-out period for the plan (the period in which a person 
can leave the scheme and have their contributions refunded). Later that day he received an 
email confirming that it was the last day of the opt-out period and that his query had been 
referred to a specialist team.
In July 2022 Mr F had not received the amended paperwork as expected and contacted 
Aviva again for an update. He requested that the one month opt-out period be extended due 
to the delay in Aviva responding to his query, but was told that this was not possible. A 
complaint was raised and at that point Mr F ceased membership of his workplace pension 
scheme. He had made two payments, totalling £247.52 (including tax relief) which 
subsequently fell in value.
Aviva responded to the complaint in August 2022, apologising to Mr F for the customer 
service received, and paid him £150 compensation. It said it couldnt refund Mr Fs 
premiums because doing so after the one month opt-out period would be considered an 
unauthorised payment by HMRC. Mr F was not happy with this as he had not received the 
amended paperwork as requested or an explanation for the figures in the illustration in time. 
Following further correspondence and investigation, in October 2022 Aviva explained that 
the figures in the original paperwork were in fact correct, and the reason for the apparent 
discrepancy was due to an allowance being made for inflation. Aviva did not increase their 
compensation paid as requested by Mr F.
Mr F was unhappy with this outcome and forwarded his complaint to this service. Having 
considered the facts of the case, the investigator agreed that Aviva could have handled Mr 
Fs query better, and accepted that it had damaged Mr Fs confidence in Aviva as a pension 
provider. However, he found that the compensation paid by Aviva to Mr F was 
commensurate with the level of inconvenience experienced by Mr F and did not uphold the 
complaint. Mr F did not agree with this assessment and the complaint has been referred to 
me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator and do not uphold 
Mr Fs complaint.
I have considered the factors that have caused Mr F to complain. These relate to the 
apparent errors in the initial illustration and delays in providing an explanation for this, the 
fact that Mr F was unable to extend the one month opt-out period until a resolution to his 
query had been provided, the fact that he is unable to obtain a refund of the two 
contributions paid into the Aviva pension, and the investment performance of the fund.
Following the correspondence with Mr F and the subsequent investigations, Aviva have 
confirmed that the figures provided in the initial illustration were in fact correct, that the 
reason that they did not match what Mr F expected was due to adjustments for inflation. This 
information was provided on 3 October. This is longer than would be expected.
I agree that Aviva have fallen short of the level of customer service that Mr F could 
reasonably have expected and the delays in providing the requested information were 
excessive. I understand that this has caused Mr F inconvenience and frustration as he has 
sought to understand the rationale behind the figures outlined in his illustration. Aviva have 
acknowledged that errors were made and the delays were excessive and have paid 
compensation of £150 in respect of this. I have considered whether this level of 
compensation was fair. I believe that it was. The amount paid, £150, is in line with what I 
would expect for delays or poor communication and in line with the level that would be 
awarded by the Financial Ombudsman Service in cases such as this. Aviva have now 
provided an explanation for the apparent discrepancy in the illustration provided at the outset 
of the policy, which was in fact correct. I do not believe they need to do anything further in 
respect of this.
I recognise that the time taken to get information on his policy means Mr F thinks he wasnt 
in a position to opt-out in time in order to have his premiums refunded. I disagree. Yes, Mr F 
spotted a discrepancy in the figures Aviva provided and Aviva wasnt able to explain that 
discrepancy at the time. But the discrepancy was actually rather small and cant reasonably 
be considered a major factor in the merits, or otherwise, of continuing with the pension. On 
balance, Im satisfied that Mr F had enough information to decide whether he should have 
opted out or not and his failure to do so wasnt Avivas fault.  
Turning now to the opt-out period. Mr F had one month from the start of his active 
membership to opt out of the scheme by returning the opt-out notice to his employer, which 
he did not do, pending a response to his query relating to the apparent discrepancy in the 
illustration provided to him. Due to the delay in receiving the requested explanation, Mr F 
requested that the one month opt-out period was extended. Aviva told him that this would 
not be possible.
A persons right to choose to opt out expires at the end of the opt-out period. If someone 
wants to leave the scheme after the opt-out period has expired, opting-out and receiving a 
refund of contributions paid is not available, and instead they must cease active 
membership. I note that Mr F did subsequently do this.
Aviva have confirmed that it is not possible for them to provide a refund because this would 
be an unauthorised payment under HMRC rules. The rules around authorised and 
unauthorised payments are strict, and notwithstanding the unauthorised payments charges, are not within Avivas powers to override them by purposefully transacting an unauthorised 
payment.
Mr F has stated in his correspondence with this service that due to his employer only offering 
the Aviva pension scheme, he now has no option of a pension scheme. He is therefore 
considering changing his employment in order to ensure he has a workplace pension 
available to him. Whilst I understand Mr Fs frustration, this appears to be a disproportionate 
response to the issue at hand. Mr F has the option of the Aviva scheme through his 
employer and has opted out of the scheme due to poor service for which Aviva have 
apologised and compensated him. This is Mr Fs choice to make and he may decide to 
reinstate premiums in the future. Regardless of his future actions, the contributions made by 
Mr F remain in his ownership and can be retained with Aviva or transferred then withdrawn 
when he reaches retirement age.
Mr F has stated that his fund has reduced in value. I recognise Mr Fs frustration with the 
investment returns achieved by his pension. Whilst regrettable, disappointing investment 
performance is not a matter this service will usually consider as part of a complaint because 
it is not an indication that the policy provider has done something wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2023.
 
Joanne Molloy
Ombudsman