DRN-2345622
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy BUPA Insurance Limited has refused to refund the premiums paid for his 
private dental insurance policy, for the time period where services were restricted due to the 
Covid-19 outbreak. 
What happened
Mr S is a member of his employers group BUPA dental plan, of which he is a contributing 
member and beneficiary. 
On 23 March 2020, the UK government imposed a national lockdown due to the Covid-19 
pandemic, leading to the closure of NHS and private dentists to prevent the spread of the 
virus. 
After receiving his membership renewal certificate, Mr S got in touch with BUPA to ask if 
hed be able to access dental treatment if required. BUPA advised him that while services 
may be restricted to emergency treatment only, some dentists were open. Mr S was 
provided with the contact details for dental practices in his area. 
After contacting all his local practices, Mr S called BUPA to explain that they were all closed 
and could only provide emergency treatment. He asked whether hed be entitled to any 
refund of premiums, due to being unable to use the full services the policy is designed to 
cover. BUPA told Mr S that refunds wouldnt be offered for dental insurance policies. 
Mr S was unhappy with BUPAs decision and he asked us to look into his complaint. 
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ss complaint should be upheld. He said that the terms of Mr 
Ss policy didnt entitle him to any premium refund if the policy benefits werent used. He 
considered the closure of dental practices was outside of BUPAs control and he felt it had 
still been covering the risk of claims, had Mr S needed emergency treatment. 
Mr S disagreed. He said: 
BUPA has no right to expect members to continue paying premiums for services it is 
unable to provide.
Other subscription-based service providers froze membership payments during the 
lockdown.
BUPAs advisers agreed with his grievances when he called but maintained an unfair 
position to retain premiums which shouldnt be defended.
 
As no agreement has been reached, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered the Financial Conduct Authoritys guidance for insurance firms on 
product value and coronavirus. Having done so, I dont think BUPA has treated Mr S unfairly 
and Ive explained why below. 
The closure of private and NHS dental practices was a result of government restrictions to 
prevent the spread of Covid-19. This was an unprecedented and unforeseen circumstance 
which was entirely outside of BUPAs control.
Mr Ss dental plan is an annual contract and the terms and conditions say that premiums 
must be paid for cover to be provided during each policy year. Insurance policies are 
designed to cover the risk of an unforeseen event happening over the duration of the 
contract. If no successful claim is made during the policy term, an insurer is entitled to retain 
the premiums paid to cover the risk during that time. 
Mr Ss cover renewed on 1 April 2020, with a cover end date of 31 March 2021. Dental 
practices were temporarily impacted by closures and restricted services between 23 March 
and 8 June 2020. This means Mr S would have been able to avail of the full benefits 
provided by the policy for the majority of both policy years affected. Im therefore satisfied 
BUPA is entitled to retain the premiums paid to cover the risk of a claim being made during 
that time. 
While dental services were restricted for a limited period of time, BUPA was still offering its 
policyholders cover for emergencies or remote dental consultations. It also enhanced other 
benefits available under the policy. And where non-urgent treatment was unavailable, it 
wouldve still been possible to claim for this at a later date when services resumed. I 
therefore dont agree that premiums were paid for a policy that was unusable.  
Mr S has mentioned that he needed a filling, which he considered to be emergency 
treatment due to the nature of his job role. Ive seen no evidence of this being discussed with 
BUPA throughout his communication regarding his request for a premium refund. However, 
its not BUPAs role to determine what would be considered as urgent or non-urgent dental 
treatment. Had Mr Ss treatment been considered as an emergency by the treating dental 
practice, Im satisfied BUPA wouldve considered the claim in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy. 
Mr S has also referred to other subscription-based services, such as gym facilities, freezing 
payments during the time they were closed. I understand he feels the same expectation 
should be placed on BUPA. However, I disagree as a gym membership is a different type of 
contract to an insurance policy. As Ive explained above, Mr S had the opportunity to benefit 
from his dental insurance policy regardless of the temporary restrictions on dental services. 
Based on the above, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable in the circumstances of this 
case to require BUPA to refund any premiums. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. And I make 
no award against BUPA Insurance Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2021.
 Gemma Warner
Ombudsman