DRN-4206010
The complaint
Mrs S and Mr S complain about the price quoted by Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited 
(Lloyds Bank) to renew their home insurance policy. They also complain about the service 
received when they called Lloyds Bank and about the delay in them receiving the renewal 
invite. 
What happened
Mrs S and Mr S say, on 5 January 2023, they received a letter dated 4 December 2022 with 
a quote to renew their policy. Mrs S and Mr S say the price was five times more than what 
theyd paid the previous year and was due to renew the following day on 6 January. Mr S 
called Lloyds Bank to complain but they didnt register a complaint and he had to make 
several calls before a complaint was registered. Mr S complained about the price quoted and 
about Lloyds Bank taking into account two claims made the previous year  which he feels 
should only have been one. Mr S also complained about the delay in him receiving the 
renewal invite, which left him with insufficient time to find an alternative policy and about the 
customer service received when phoning Lloyds Bank. 
Lloyds Bank responded and explained Mrs S and Mr S had been transferred to a new policy 
as they no longer offered the previously held policy. Lloyds Bank said theyd made the 
decision to move all customers from their older products on to their new product which is 
available to new customers. Lloyds Bank said the price Mrs S and Mr S received in the 
recent renewal reflected changes theyd made following rules introduced by the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA). They explained this meant existing customers couldnt be 
charged more than new customers. They explained they regularly update their view of 
changes in claims trends across different areas and different types of property. They said, in 
relation to Mrs S and Mr Ss policy, one of the main reasons for the price increase is that 
they updated their view and now believe the insured property is more likely to suffer damage 
from leaking water and windstorm. Lloyds Bank explained theyd sent the renewal invite a 
month before the renewal date so they cant be held responsible for any delay in this being 
received. In relation to the phone call, Lloyds Bank accepted the service had fallen short, so 
they paid £100 compensation.  
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs S and Mr S. He thought Lloyds Bank hadnt 
treated Mrs S and Mr S unfairly in relation to the pricing. And he agreed the £100 
compensation paid was reasonable. Mrs S and Mr S disagreed so the matter has come to 
me for a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mrs S and Mr S will 
be disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
Renewal price
The role of this service when looking at complaints about insurance pricing isnt to tell a 
business what they should charge or to determine a price for the insurance they offer. This is 
a commercial judgement and for them to decide. But we can look to see whether we agree a 
consumer has been treated fairly  so is there anything which demonstrates theyve been 
treated differently or less favourably. If we think someone has been treated unfairly, we can 
set out what we think is right to address this unfairness.
I can see Mrs S and Mr Ss premium for their 2022 renewal was £462.68. They were then 
quoted £2,418.17 to renew their policy in 2023. So, I do understand why Mrs S and Mr S are 
concerned about the increase in the premium. Lloyds Bank have provided me with 
confidential business sensitive information to explain how Mrs S and Mr Ss premiums were 
calculated. Im afraid I cant share this with them because its commercially sensitive, but Ive 
checked it carefully. And, Im satisfied the premium theyve been quoted has been calculated 
correctly and fairly and Ive seen no evidence that other Lloyds Bank customers in Mrs S and 
Mr Ss position will have been charged a lower premium. 
I acknowledge Mrs S and Mr S will likely want a more detailed breakdown showing the 
reason for the increased premium. As mentioned above, I cant provide specific detail about 
Lloyds Banks risk model, but I can see one factor relates to new rules for general insurance 
pricing introduced by the FCA in January 2022. They apply to motor and buildings insurance 
only and insurers need to make sure they comply with these rules when offering renewals. 
The rules arent retrospective and only apply to renewals generated from 1 January 2022. 
The rules were put in place to remove the risk of existing customers paying more than new 
customers. It places an obligation on insurers to make sure they charge renewing customers 
the same as new customers. The FCA refers to this as the equivalent new business price 
(ENBP). The ENBP needs to be reflective of the new business price the day the renewal 
invite is generated. It is accepted the view of risk can change and the rules dont mean all 
insurers need to charge the same price and the FCA accepts that policies bought through 
different brands will likely offer similar cover at different prices. It also understands that 
different sales channels for the same brand might result in different prices and it accepts this 
is fair. The new pricing rules were in place when Mrs S and Mr S were offered their renewal 
by Lloyds Bank in 2023, so they did need to follow these at the time. 
Lloyds Bank have described how they changed their approach to comply with the FCA rules 
by transferring all existing customers holding an older product on to a new product  which is 
available to new customers. I acknowledge Mrs S and Mr S say this wasnt a like for like 
policy when comparing this with their previous policy. Another reason which has led to the 
price increase is Lloyds Banks change in view of the likelihood of Mrs S and Mr Ss property 
suffering damage from leaking water and windstorm. Lloyds Bank have provided information 
which demonstrates how this has impacted the price. I acknowledge Mrs S and Mr S may 
feel such a significant increase is unfair and they also point out theyve held home insurance 
with Lloyds Bank for many years but leaking water and windstorm have never previously 
been raised as an issue. 
Lloyds Bank, like all insurers, will review their approach to risks at different points and this 
will result in changes to the premium. They have explained this, together with the ENBP and 
transferring existing customers to a new product, was a change across all their policies as 
they changed their approach. So in short, they have treated all customers the same with the 
change and Mrs S and Mr S havent been treated differently or unfairly when they chose to 
change their approach. 
In addition to this, Ive seen the renewal letter sent to Mrs S and Mr S in 2023 and I can see 
Lloyds Bank did remind Mrs S and Mr S that they could shop around to see if they could get 
a better price. As there have been at least four renewals, then section 6.5 of the Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) requires a business to provide specific wording 
about the benefits of shopping around. So, as well as treating Mrs S and Mr S fairly, I think 
theyve also acted in line with requirements set out under ICOBS. 
Claims recorded on policy
I understand Mrs S and Mr S are concerned about two claims being recorded on their policy, 
when they believe one of these carried no benefit for them. The claim theyre referring to 
relates to a collapsed drain, which Lloyds Bank declined. I do therefore understand why   
Mrs S and Mr S are concerned about this potentially impacting the renewal price when the 
claim was declined. But Ive seen from information provided by Lloyds Bank, they arranged 
for investigative work to be carried out to identify the problem  and paid out costs for this. 
While I accept they declined the claim, its not unreasonable for Lloyds Bank to take into 
account a claim which led them to pay out contractor fees. 
Delay in receiving the renewal invite
I acknowledge Mrs S and Mr Ss concern about the delay in receiving the renewal quote  
and in particular, their concern that the policy was due to renew automatically the day after 
the invite was received. I note Mr S says, given the very limited timeframe, he had little 
option but to continue with the policy until he found an alternative policy. I understand Mrs S 
and Mr S then cancelled this policy after finding a cheaper policy. 
We would expect insurers to send renewal information in sufficient time to enable a 
customer to review the key information, including price, and make an informed decision on 
whether to continue with the policy. A sufficient time period also allows a customer to look for 
an alternative policy. In this case, its unfortunate the renewal invite was only received a day 
before the policy was due to renew, but Ive seen the letter and its dated 4 December 2022 
 which is around a month before the renewal date. I can see Mr S acknowledges there 
were postal strikes around this time, but he doesnt believe this wouldve affected post for 
over a month. I acknowledge Mr Ss points, but I cant hold Lloyds Bank responsible for any 
delays which mightve occurred with the postal service. I do understand this left Mrs S and 
Mr S in a position where they had very little time to shop around for an alternative policy 
before the renewal date, but I cant say Lloyds Bank delayed in sending renewal details. 
Customer service       
In relation to Mrs S and Mr Ss complaint about the phone call, the key facts about this part 
of the complaint arent in dispute. Lloyds Bank have admitted they got things wrong when  
Mr S had to make several calls in order to register a complaint. The only issue I have to 
decide is whether their payment of compensation is fair and reasonable. I think its right that 
Lloyds Bank should compensate Mrs S and Mr S for the frustration and inconvenience 
caused. I can see Mr S called to complain about the renewal price and, although a complaint 
was registered a few days later, it took several calls before this was done. 
So, while theres been an error, I think the impact was limited given that a complaint was 
then registered a few days later. So, I think the £100 already paid is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances.  
I understand Mrs S and Mr S will be disappointed, and I fully understand why the 2023 
renewal price led them to complain. But I hope my reasoning provides them with 
reassurance that they havent been treated unfairly or differently to other customers in the 
same circumstances. I wish to reassure Mrs S and Mr S Ive read and considered everything 
theyve sent in, but if I havent mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt 
because I havent seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. This isnt intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of the informal 
nature of our service.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 August 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman