DRN-3138451
The complaint
Mrs B has complained Shawbrook Bank Limited wont do anything to help her with a fixed-
sum loan which she believes was unsuitable and misrepresented.
What happened
In November 2017 Mrs B took out a fixed-sum loan for a conservatory. The total charge was 
more than £66,000 to be repaid over eight years.
In late-2019 a professional representative (who Ill call H) brought Mrs Bs complaint to the 
ombudsman service. She believes the loan was missold. Mrs B was offered a discount on 
the price of the conservatory in return for taking out the loan. H believes this contravenes 
various regulations set by the regulator. Mrs B will end up paying more than £20,000 in 
interest for taking out the credit agreement which she didnt need as she had access to 
enough finance to pay for the capital costs in cash.
Shawbrook pointed out the cost of Mrs Bs conservatory exceeded the single cost limit under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 which meant they wouldnt consider any breach 
of contract or misrepresentation under that legislation. 
Our investigator did feel he could consider the points raised under section 56 of the 
legislation. However he didnt believe it was clear there was any misrepresentation. He also 
didnt believe there were any affordability issues under this agreement.
H brought further points to our attention, including the agreement being unclear about the 
costs of credit to Mrs B. Our investigator didnt agree with this assessment. Mrs Bs 
complaint has been referred to an ombudsman for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint above in far less detail than H has done on 
Mrs Bs behalf and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every 
single point made by H. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I 
think are the key issues here. 
If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied 
I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the 
right outcome. This also reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts.
Im also aware of the detail contained in our investigators views of 19 August and 
24 September 2021. This covers what happened in detail and the different claims H has 
made. I wont be repeating all this information again but I have taken it into account.
H has continued to respond to our correspondence citing various requirements that they 
believe Shawbrook hasnt met.
Firstly Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 allows a customer to submit a claim for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation by a supplier to their credit provider. This applies 
when customers use certain types of credit to buy goods or services. In this case Mrs B paid 
for a conservatory using a fixed-sum loan with Shawbrook.
However there are certain provisions that need to be met for a transaction to qualify as a 
claim under section 75. One of these is the cash price of the goods or service must be more 
than £100 but no more than £30,000. I dont believe I can ask Shawbrook to do anything 
further relating to the misrepresentation under section 75. Theres no dispute Mrs Bs 
conservatory cost more than £45,000. Section 75a doesnt apply where misrepresentation is 
at issue.
Like our investigator considered though, I agree the supplier of the conservatory acted as 
credit broker for the sale of the fixed-sum loan. Under section 56 of the legislation, 
Shawbrook can be held for antecedent negotiations.
That said, Im not going to uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Theres not enough evidence to show there was a misrepresentation of the finance here. I 
think the documentation is clear about any discount being applied to the cost of the 
conservatory; and that the costs of credit exceed £20,000 meaning Mrs B will pay more than 
£66,000 in total. I can also see that an APR of 17.9% applied to this loan. This  including 
the total price  will all have been information available to Mrs B before she agreed to take 
out the loan.
I appreciate H believes the information was presented in a confusing manner. I dont think it 
was and meets the requirements of the relevant legislation. I would mention Mrs B had 
cancellation rights and theres nothing to indicate she opted to take this up.  
Ive also looked at the affordability issues that H has raised, I suspect, half-heartedly. I say 
this because at the same time H stated Mrs B was in a position to pay for the full costs of the 
conservatory upfront because of a legacy. Ive looked at the checks Shawbrook undertook to 
assess affordability. Whilst this may have seemed quick to Mrs B when she was making the 
decision to take out credit, I believe these were the checks we may expect to see in a similar 
situation. Its clear from those checks that Mrs B had enough funds to pay for this credit in a 
sustainable manner.
H has raised the issue that Mrs B shouldnt have been permitted to sign-up to a long-term 
financial agreement because of her age. In fact if Shawbrook had refused Mrs B credit 
because of her age that would have been discriminatory.
And finally H has alleged Mrs B was pressured into taking out the finance. I note she was 
offered a discount on the cost of the conservatory. I believe Mrs B would have been able to 
compare the cost of the conservatory and the cost of the discounted conservatory along with 
a £20,000 cost of taking out credit.
I also note Mrs B has not paid off the loan early which remains an option open to her to 
defray future interest costs. Overall I dont believe its fair and reasonable to ask Shawbrook to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mrs Bs complaint against 
Shawbrook Bank Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2022.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman