DRN-3639588
The complaint
Mr S complained that HDI Global SE (HDI) has unfairly declined a claim under a commercial 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S contacted HDI to make a claim for an escape of water that damaged a property he 
owned. HDI assessed the claim and declined it because it said, due to the property being 
unoccupied, Mr S didnt have cover in place for this type of claim.
When Mr S complained, HDI maintained its decision to decline the claim. It said Mr S had 
confirmed that at the time the damage occurred the property had been vacant/ not in use for 
a period of 30 days or more. However, it accepted that it hadnt always provided an 
appropriate level of service. It offered £200 compensation.
So, Mr S complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said it 
was reasonable for HDI to decline the claim on the basis of the property being unoccupied 
for more than 30 days. He also said £200 compensation was reasonable in response to the 
poor service provided. Following further comments received from Mr S about a visit he had 
made to the property, our investigator asked HDI to look at the claim again. HDI considered 
the information about Mr Ss visit and said it didnt consider the information to be enough to 
show Mr S had visited or that it re-set the occupancy period. So, the complaint was referred 
to me to make a decision.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 27 July 2022. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I was planning not to uphold the complaint. I said:
The policy documents provided cover for an escape of water but had an exclusion for Loss 
or damage where the housing unit has been unoccupied for more than 30 consecutive 
days. The definition given in the policy for unoccupied was Vacant, empty, untenanted or 
not in use.
Mr S told HDI, due to Covid-19 restrictions, he hadnt been to the property and hadnt lived in 
it for nearly a year before the damage was found. HDI declined the claim as it said the 
property was unoccupied. While the complaint was with this service, Mr S explained he had 
been to the property a few weeks before the claim, on 24 September 2020, as he had a 
meeting nearby. He said he spent about 30 minutes at the property, although it might have 
been shorter or longer than that depending on whether he made some work phone calls 
while there. He said he went to the flat to check it was ok.
When this service asked HDI to consider what Mr S had said about his visit to the flat, it 
didnt accept that Mr S saying he had visited was sufficient evidence of his visit. It also said 
that even if the details of the visit were accurate that what HDI described as the incident 
date and the date of discovery was 43 days after this visit, on 6 November 2020. 
According to the records provided by HDI that seems to be incorrect. HDIs records said that 
Mr S found the damage on 16 October 2020. The records also said that Mr S said he had 
last visited on 2 October and there was no evidence of damage at that time. The records 
also showed that the leak itself seemed to be repaired by another party on 5 November 
2020. So, I currently think there is evidence to suggest Mr S visited the property, possibly on 
two occasions, within the 30-day period before the date the damage was found.
So, the issue then is whether the property was unoccupied. Based on what Mr S has said, 
his visit on 24 September seems to have been brief and primarily an inspection. I dont think 
that meant it was occupied, as I dont think an inspection and a fairly brief visit indicate it was 
in use. I havent seen anything about the 2 October visit other than what it said in HDIs 
records, where it was described as a visit. Again, I dont think this was enough to show it 
was in use.
Im aware that Mr S has said Covid-19 restrictions prevented him from visiting the property. 
However, if I accept that Mr S was able to visit the property on two occasions in the period 
before he found the damage then I think that shows he was able to visit.
HDI also offered Mr S £200 compensation because of delays during the claim. Looking at 
everything that happened, I currently think that was reasonable in the circumstances.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, I currently think it was reasonable for HDI to decline the 
claim on the basis of the flat being unoccupied at the time of the incident and I dont intend to 
require it to do anything further.
I should note that I have slightly updated the above to ensure HDI is correctly referred to 
throughout. I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted 
me to look at by 24 August 2022. Both parties replied before that date.
HDI said it didnt have any further comments.
Mr S asked for some final points to be considered. He said it was a difficult assessment with 
different conclusions reached previously. He said my decision was wrong and should be 
altered.
Mr S commented on the definition of unoccupied in the policy and that if any of the 
conditions given in that definition didnt apply then the property wasnt unoccupied. He said 
the flat was in use and the claim should have been allowed. In use wasnt qualified by 
time or primary requirement and it was perverse to conclude a visit to check on the flat only 
wouldnt satisfy the policy condition, when arguably it was the most valuable reason for a 
visit.
Mr S confirmed he visited the property on 24 September, which was within 30 days of the 
incident date. He said this was evidence, even if it wasnt independent. He also said he 
didnt recall visiting the property on 2 October, but HDIs records indicated that he did. He 
said this was also further evidence the flat was in use. He said it would be wrong to conclude 
this was simply a checking visit in the absence of his recollection or record he was there.
Mr S said he felt able to visit the flat because his meeting was nearby. Covid restriction at 
the time permitted only essential travel. As the meeting was so close by, he took the view it 
was acceptable to visit the flat and to make calls or check emails whilst there. He said he 
couldnt recall how long he was there for, but under the definition, it didnt matter. The policy 
definition made no reference to how long it needed to be in use for or that the use, rather 
than carrying out a check, needed to be the primary purpose of the visit. Going to the flat for 
non-essential visits wasnt permitted under Covid restrictions, which was why he wasnt 
using the flat each month. He said there was no contradiction in his behaviour by him visiting 
the flat on 24 September.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint and for the reasons given in my 
provisional decision. I have to decide what is fair and reasonable based on the evidence and 
information Ive seen. As part of that, Ive considered the further comments provided by Mr 
S, but this doesnt change my view. 
When I made my provisional decision, I thought carefully about the definition and how it 
defined unoccupancy and what, if any of it, was relevant in Mr Ss circumstances. As I 
explained in my provisional decision, I thought about whether what Mr S described could 
fairly be used to show that the property was in use. I also considered whether the Covid 
restrictions made a difference to this. Having thought about this again, including taking into 
account Mr Ss further comments, I remain of the view that the circumstances that have 
been described werent enough to show the property was in use or that the unoccupancy 
conditions shouldnt apply.
So, having considered this complaint again, I dont uphold it or require HDI to do anything 
further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that this 
complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman