DRN-2981352
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that WDP Insurance Limited (WDP) charged him for the replacement 
mobile phone provided under his phone insurance.
What happened
Mr S had mobile phone insurance with WDP. He made a claim and WDP explained it would 
send him a replacement phone and he should send his faulty one back to it in the prepaid 
envelope it provided.
WDP sent three reminders but Mr S says he lost the envelope. He asked for a new envelope 
and sent his broken phone back. WDP says it didnt send him a second envelope and it 
didnt receive his phone. Therefore, WDP refused to refund the payment it had taken from 
the card Mr S used to pay the excess.
Our investigator didnt think WDP had done anything wrong because Mr S didnt follow the 
correct process for returning his phone and the proof of postage showed it was sent to a 
different address.
Mr S didnt agree because he simply sent his phone back in the second prepaid addressed 
envelope WDP provided. The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I understand Mr S will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold his complaint for 
broadly the same reasons as our investigator. Ill explain.
The issue is that Mr S doesnt think WDP shouldve charged him for the replacement phone 
because he returned his broken one in the envelope it provided.
On the first page of the policy, the terms state:
Return any damaged or faulty device in the pre-paid packaging provided with
your replacement  or youll be charged a non-return fee (based on the market
value of the non-returned model)  see Section H for details.
Section H states:
As soon as you receive your replacement device, the original claimed-for device (the faulty 
or damaged device or the lost or stolen device, if later recovered), becomes the property of 
the Insurer and must be returned to us within 15 days. Otherwise, well charge a non-return 
fee (based on the market value of the non-returned model), to the payment card used to 
pay your claim excess fee. The device is your responsibility until it arrives with us. Please 
make sure you get proof of postage from the Post Office (this is a free service), and 
confirmation of the weight of the package you are returning to us. 
I think the terms are clear. If Mr S didnt return his broken phone, WDP would charge the 
cost of the replacement phone to the same card he used to pay his excess. WDP applied the 
charge to his card because it didnt receive the phone, so Im satisfied it acted in line with the 
policy terms.
Ive thought about whether other circumstances wouldve made it unreasonable for WDP to 
charge Mr Ss card. Theres no dispute that WDP sent the prepaid envelope because Mr S 
confirmed that he lost it. However, Mr S says he sent his phone back in the second envelope 
he asked for. WDP says he didnt ask for a second envelope and it didnt provide him with 
one. Ive looked at the proof of postage Mr S provided and the Royal Mail tracking service 
details, and I can see that the parcel was addressed and delivered to his mobile network 
provider. Mr S has since confirmed that it was the network provider he contacted to ask for a 
prepaid return envelope.
Based on this evidence, Im satisfied that Mr S didnt return his broken mobile to WDP, and 
for that reason, I see no reason to ask it to refund the charge it applied to his card.
I can see that WDP got in touch with the network provider to see whether it had received the 
phone. It said it hadnt, but it would send the phone to WDP if it arrived. I think it was fair that 
WDP took this additional action to trace the phone in an attempt to resolve the matter for Mr 
S.
As a final point, Mr S may wish to contact his mobile network provider himself, to see 
whether it has any record of the phone and/or delivery of his parcel. He may also wish to 
consider whether there has been any confusion regarding what was sent in that particular 
packaging. Thats because the proof of postage is clear evidence that he sent a parcel, but 
the weight of the parcel recorded on the receipt is 650g. Thats significantly more than the 
mobile phone he returned, which weighs a little over 200g.
Overall, Mr S hasnt provided evidence that he sent his broken phone to WDP, therefore, Im 
satisfied that WDP charged his card for the cost of the replacement phone in line with the 
terms of the policy. I wont be asking WDP to refund the payment.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman