DRN-2636046
The complaint
Mr D complains that Vanguard Asset Management, Ltd (Vanguard) completed his cancelled 
regular payment instruction and then sold units in his Individual Savings Account (ISA) to 
cover the shortfall left on the account.
What happened
In March 2020 Mr D updated his regular payment instruction, with an understanding that 
Vanguard would use £400 to purchase units in the chosen fund on the 1 April 2020. Mr D 
then cancelled his regular payment direct debit instruction online on 26 March 2020  four 
business days before it was due to happen. 
On 1 April 2020 Mr Ds account was credited with the amount Vanguard expected to receive, 
and 2.2124 fund units were purchased. The next day, Vanguard received a BACS 
notification that Mr Ds direct debit was unpaid. This left a shortfall on the account.
Vanguard contacted Mr D to notify him of his options. It explained he could top up his 
account to make up for the shortfall, or Vanguard would cover its losses through the sale of 
some of his fund units if cash wasnt available. It gave Mr D a timescale of seven business 
days to decide.
Mr D didnt make a payment by the deadline, so Vanguard sold units held in his account to 
cover the shortfall. As the unit price had increased in value Vanguard only had to sell 1.9861 
units to cover the shortfall when combined with £9.44 of existing cash in Mr Ds account. 
This left an additional 0.2263 units in his ISA.
Mr D complained. He felt his ISA shouldnt have been touched and he shouldnt be held 
responsible for Vanguards processes and system errors. He also felt Vanguards terms 
werent clear about who would be responsible for costs in this scenario. He felt confident that 
if the situation was reversed, he wouldnt have kept any profits. Vanguard disagreed, it felt it 
had acted according to its terms and that the regular payment screen Mr D accessed to 
cancel the instruction stated changes had to be made eight business days before the next 
due date.
Mr D referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator thought Vanguard had acted 
fairly and provided enough warning about the eight business days notice required to cancel 
the instruction. They felt that it was only fair for Vanguard to then recuperate its losses. 
Mr D disagreed, he felt Vanguards terms were incomplete around who would be responsible 
for any loss when a direct debit is cancelled. As he felt this scenario was not covered in 
Vanguards terms, he didnt think it was fair for him to bear any costs. He felt the fund value 
had decreased and he was concerned his loss couldve been the full amount had the units 
completely lost their value. Mr D asked for an ombudsman to consider the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about whether Vanguard did enough to make Mr D aware of the implications of 
cancelling his regular payment instruction within eight working days of its due date. Ive also 
considered whether Vanguards terms were clear that Mr D would be liable for any losses or 
charges from failed payments and that units could be sold to cover any amount due. Having 
done so, Im satisfied Vanguard has acted reasonably. Ill explain why.
Mr D believes Vanguards terms arent clear around the implications of cancelling his 
instruction when he did. Ive considered the terms of Mr Ds account carefully, and Im 
satisfied they provide enough detail about the time needed to successfully cancel an 
instruction. They state:
1.4.8 With a Regular Savings Plan, you can adjust or stop your payments at any 
time via your online Account. We will continue to collect your payments until you 
change the instructions on your Account. You must make any change at least 
eight Business Days before the next scheduled payment date if you want the 
change to take effect from then.
At least eight business days notice were required to cancel the instruction. Vanguard has 
also provided a screen shot of its regular payment screen which shows Mr D was informed 
of the same timescale before cancelling his instruction.
Mr D cancelled the instruction four business days before the next scheduled payment. So, I 
think Vanguard provided clear enough warning that his regular purchase in April was still 
going to go ahead. I think Mr D shouldve reasonably been aware that the cancellation of his 
direct debit would only prevent the funds being transferred to Vanguard  instead of 
cancelling his instruction for Vanguard to purchase fund units in April.
 
Mr D believes the subsequent purchase Vanguard made is a result of bugs in Vanguards 
system, but Im not convinced this is the case. The instruction wasnt cancelled in time and 
was therefore still in place. Vanguard rightly proceeded with the order and Mr Ds 
cancellation of his direct debit resulted in a failure to fund the instruction.
I can see Vanguard notified Mr D promptly once it had received BACS notification that his 
direct debit was unpaid. It provided Mr D with options  make a payment for the missing 
amount or Vanguard would cover the shortfall with the sale of units held in his account. I 
think it also provided Mr D with a reasonable amount of time to make his decision, seven 
business days, and arrange a payment if he wanted to.
Mr D feels that Vanguards terms are also unclear and silent on whether hed be responsible 
for any costs and losses caused by his failed direct debit. I cant agree, as the terms Mr D 
agreed to state:
6.1.4 We take responsibility for your Vanguard Funds when cleared funds are 
received by us. We are not responsible for any loss or delay in the payment or 
transfer of money to us. If we do not receive your payment within seven 
Business Days of accepting your instructions, we may cancel any transaction, in 
which case you agree to compensate us for any resulting costs or losses.
Im satisfied Vanguard made it clear it wasnt responsible for any loss or delay in the 
payment of money to itself. So, I think its clear the responsibility fell on Mr D. If Mr D wasnt 
willing to fund the account  the only fair solution was for Vanguard to reverse the trade and 
recover the amount from his account.Mr D is unhappy his cash balance is not at the level that it was prior to the events  and feels 
this means hes suffered a loss. But I dont think this is the case, as this amount is 
essentially now just invested. This is a consequence of Vanguard following its terms and 
using a combination of his balance and the sale of units to cover the amount left unpaid by 
Mr D after seven business days. As this is a result of Mr Ds own actions, I dont think it 
would be fair to ask Vanguard to do anything to resolve this for him even if there was a loss 
as a result of the transactions. I have, however, noted that Mr D has ended up with more 
units in his account than prior to the transaction.
I dont think Vanguard has treated Mr D unfairly in the circumstances. Vanguards terms 
provided clear notification that Mr Ds regular payment instruction needed to be cancelled 
eight business days before it was due. Mr D was provided with enough information to know 
that cancelling his direct debit wouldnt stop Aprils instruction. Vanguard provided Mr D with 
the opportunity to make a payment to make up the shortfall, and when a payment wasnt 
made it correctly followed its terms by selling units to make up the shortfall.
As I think Vanguard acted correctly when purchasing and subsequently selling the fund 
units, I wont be asking it to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2021.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman