DRN-2566077
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy as he says that Openwork Limited mis-sold him an unemployment policy.  
What happened
In 2016 Mr W took out a policy which covered him in the event of unemployment. At that 
time he had recently re-mortgaged his house, following a change in his personal 
circumstances. Unfortunately, in 2019 Mr W was made redundant, at very short notice.
When he claimed on the policy he was told that he wouldnt be able to receive a policy 
benefit for 6 months, as that was the deferred period on the policy. Mr W would have also 
needed to continue to pay the policy premium for that period in order to make a successful 
claim. Mr W says that the policy wasnt right for him and made a complaint. He also 
cancelled the policy. He explained that if it hadnt been for friends, he could have lost his 
home. 
Openwork looked into what had happened. They said that Mr W would have been provided 
with the key facts about the policy and discussed it with Mr W. They highlighted that the 
policy benefits referred to the different qualification periods and that the selected qualification 
period suited both Mr Ws requirements and affordability at the time. So they didnt uphold 
the complaint. Unhappy, Mr W complained to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and upheld Mr Ws complaint. He noted that 
Mr W had taken on a significant new financial commitment, as the sole earner and that 
government benefits wouldnt have filled the gap in his income for six months. So, he didnt 
think that the policy was suitable for Mr Ws needs. He recommended that Openwork repaid 
the premiums plus 8% simple interest, plus £100 compensation. 
Mr W accepted the investigators recommendation. Openwork didnt agree  they said that 
the policy documents clearly disclosed that the deferred period was six months and Mr W 
accepted the recommendation on that basis. They said that some unemployment cover was 
better than none. So, I need to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Openwork provided Mr W with advice about the unemployment policy. The relevant rules 
and industry guidelines say that Openwork had a responsibility to ensure that the policy was 
suitable for his demands and needs. And it also needed to give him enough information to 
ensure that the policy was right for him. Im upholding Mr Ws complaint because: 
I dont think the policy was suitable for Mr Ws demands and needs, based on the 
evidence Ive been provided with. Mr W had recently taken over sole financial 
responsibility for his home and had additional debts. He had some financial 
protection via his employer and another insurance provider, but not for 
unemployment. Mr Ws total outgoings were around £1350 per month and he had 
no other short-term income protection in place. So, on the basis of the advice given, 
there was a significant gap in cover, as Mr W had no protection in the event of 
unemployment for the first six months and the benefit covered less than half his 
monthly outgoings 
Theres no record to explain why the advisor recommended this deferred period or 
the level of cover he did. And theres no evidence that he recommended a different 
policy, which Mr W rejected. Ive looked at the fact-find and other documents 
provided by Openwork and theres no record of the actual advice given, what was 
discussed, or why Mr W ended up with a policy which had significant gaps in the 
level of cover given his circumstances at the time 
Based on Mr Ws earnings, and disposable income, he could have afforded a more 
expensive cover, and with richer policy benefits. Theres no evidence to suggest 
that he was looking to keep the cost of the policy down or restrict what he paid to a 
particular amount  
 Ive also taken into account the other information Mr W was provided with. The 
application for insurance refers to the Qualification Period as being 180. So, I 
dont think it would have been clear to Mr W that this meant hed need to wait 180 
days for the benefit to start. Theres no supporting information on the form to explain 
what it means. Ive been provided with the policy terms and conditions. They 
mention the different levels of cover and various deferred periods available. But, 
based on the evidence from the sales process, Im not persuaded that Mr W would 
have understood how this linked to the qualification period mentioned in the 
application form 
Overall, I havent seen enough evidence to persuade me that Mr W was 
recommended a policy that was suitable for his demands and needs at that time. If 
Mr W was advised to take out a different level of cover, with a higher level of 
benefit, then Id expect to see a record that the advice was provided, and rejected 
by him. Based on the evidence Ive seen thats not what happened in this case - 
Mr W was advised to take out this policy, and acted on that advice
Mr W was made redundant and had the added upset of realising that he didnt have 
the level of cover hed expected. The policy hasnt benefitted him and hes 
cancelled it. When Mr W made his complaint to our service he explained that he 
wanted a refund of his premiums and he accepted our investigators 
recommendations. I think that, in the circumstances of this complaint, a refund of 
the premiums and  is a fair and reasonable pay to put things right. 
Putting things right
Openwork should put things right by paying Mr W compensation. They should pay the total 
value of the premiums Mr W paid between the inception of the policy and the date it was 
cancelled. They should add 8% simple interest from the date the premiums were paid to the 
date of settlement. 
They should also pay Mr W £100 for the distress and inconvenience of being mis-sold a 
policy which added to the stress he was under at an already difficult time.Openwork must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr W 
accepts my final decision. 
If Openwork considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr W how much its taken off. It should also give him a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
Im upholding Mr Ws complaint and direct Openwork Limited to put things right in the way 
Ive outlined above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2021.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman