DRN-3513755
The complaint
Mr D complains HSBC UK Bank Plc caused delays in releasing security which he says 
caused him financial and non-financial loss.
What happened
Mr D looked to redeem his mortgage with HSBC in late 2021. As part of the redemption 
process Mr Ds solicitor identified an additional charge HSBC held which appeared to be in 
relation to previously redeemed borrowing with HSBC. As part of this redemption process 
Mr Ds solicitor asked HSBC to confirm both charges had been released. Mr D says his 
solicitor didnt release the proceeds from the redemption until it received confirmation that 
both charges had been released. Mr D says this caused a delay of around a month and a 
half between the mortgage being redeemed and his solicitor releasing the funds. 
Mr D complained to HSBC. He said hed incurred additional costs because of the delay it 
caused when confirming it had released both charges. He said his solicitor had charged him 
an additional £500 for the extra work it completed due to the delay; and Mr D said some of 
the funds from the sale were to be used for vital surgery for a family member and house 
renovations. Mr D said not having the use of the funds for the extended period of time led to 
financial loss and that he suffered distress and inconvenience. 
HSBC upheld Mr Ds complaint and offered him a total of £1,000. It said £500 was for the 
additional costs his solicitor had charged; and £500 was to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience the situation had caused. 
Our investigator reviewed Mr Ds complaint and felt HSBC should do more to resolve it. She 
said HSBC should also make a payment to cover a period Mr D didnt have the use of the 
funds following redemption while his solicitor was awaiting confirmation the charges had 
been released. Following further communications, the latest position is that HSBC has 
agreed to compensate Mr D for the loss of the use of funds for a period of 28 days; in 
addition to the £1,000 compensation already offered. It has calculated the loss of funds to 
total £1,270.08. 
Mr D says HSBC should cover the full period that he didnt have access to the funds, so he 
asked for an ombudsmans review. As such the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D has made further submissions since our investigators view questioning why HSBC still 
held the additional security when the borrowing it related to had been previously repaid; and 
that he is looking for answers in relation to this.  
I cant consider matters that werent part of Mr Ds original complaint and that HSBC hasnt 
had the opportunity to review; unless HSBC has agreed that our service can, which in this 
instance I cant see it has. Mr D would need to raise these new concerns with HSBC and 
allow it time in line with its regulatory responsibilities to provide him with an answer before 
our service could consider these new complaint points. 
However, I dont think these new matters stop me from fairly reaching a decision on this part 
of Mr Ds complaint. I say this because while Mr D has said he wants clarification and an 
explanation as to why HSBC still held security used for other borrowing when he says this 
had been repaid; as part of this decision Im considering that HSBC has acknowledged 
errors with the security it held, and that it has confirmed this other charge should have been 
released previously. Mr D doesnt seem to have suffered a financial loss because of this, 
other than what he has told us as part of this complaint, as it only came to light as part of the 
redemption process here. 
Our service cant look to compensate for hypothetical situations, so while I appreciate Mr D 
has concerns and would like to know why this other charge hadnt been previously released, 
it doesnt appear to have caused him any additional financial and/or non-financial loss in 
addition to what he has told us here. So, the compensation awarded in relation to this 
complaint does reflect HSBCs error in still holding the additional charge. 
In relation to the complaint Mr D initially brought to our service about the delays in releasing 
the charges and receiving the funds from his solicitor; both parties appear to agree there is 
no longer an active dispute here. HSBC has acknowledged errors and confirmed both 
charges have been released; and it has put forward an offer to resolve the complaint. So, my 
decision here solely considers whether HSBCs offer is fair and reasonable in resolution of 
this complaint. 
This redemption process was different to most  in that Mr Ds solicitors were looking for 
confirmation that the two charges (one related to this borrowing and one related to 
previously repaid borrowing) were released before it was satisfied the redemption process 
had completed and it would release the excess funds to Mr D. 
So, in the individual circumstances of this case, I can understand why Mr Ds solicitor looked 
to exercise caution and obtain assurances from HSBC that both charges had been released 
before it would send the funds to Mr D. And I think HSBC was aware of the approach Mr Ds 
solicitors were taking from the outset and throughout the time HSBC took to confirm the 
charges had been released; as the evidence shows Mr D and his solicitor contacted HSBC 
numerous times to chase confirmation and request updates, with many of these requests 
going unanswered. 
So, I think it was clear to HSBC why Mr Ds solicitors were taking this approach, even if it 
wasnt necessarily the approach a solicitor would usually take when redeeming a mortgage. 
And in any event HSBC has confirmed it incorrectly still held a charge relating to previously 
repaid borrowing  so this needed to be resolved. But I cant agree HSBC should be 
accountable for compensation covering the full period Mr Ds solicitors decided to withhold 
funds; as ultimately this was Mr Ds solicitors decision. HSBC has agreed to cover 28 days 
where Mr D didnt have the use of the funds. It has calculated this to be from the date 
paperwork was sent to the land registry to remove the charge relating to this borrowing, and 
the date paperwork was sent to the land registry to remove the other charge, and 
confirmation of this sent to Mr Ds solicitor. I consider its offer to refund the 28 days for loss 
of the use of funds to be fair  and I cant fairly or reasonably conclude HSBC should 
compensate Mr D for the loss of the use of funds outside of the 28 days HSBC has 
identified. I say this because there would likely have always been some period of time for the 
paperwork to be sent to the land registry for the release of the security relating to this 
borrowing; and it appears Mr Ds solicitor took around a week after it had received 
confirmation from HSBC that both charges had been released to send Mr D the funds. Having reviewed all of the available evidence on the file I consider HSBCs latest offer of 
£2,270.08 to be fair and reasonable in resolution of this complaint. I say this because:
HSBC has covered the additional solicitor fees Mr D has said hes incurred for the 
additional work completed;
I consider the award for distress and inconvenience is in line with what I would expect 
when an error has caused a considerable impact, which Mr D has told us in his 
testimony it did, based on what he had expected to use the funds for, and for the period 
of time the error had an impact on him; and
HSBC has accepted there were delays in releasing the charges it held and notifying 
Mr Ds solicitor, and it has made a fair offer to compensate for this.
Putting things right
As Ive found above, in the individual circumstances of this complaint, Im satisfied HSBCs 
offer of £2,270.08 for the financial and non-financial loss caused is fair and reasonable in 
resolution of this complaint. 
This is broken down as:
£500 to cover additional solicitor fees
£500 for the distress and inconvenience caused
£1,270.08 to cover lost use of funds
My final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding Mr Ds complaint about HSBC UK Bank Plc and direct 
it to put things right as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Richard Turner
Ombudsman