DRN-4176611
The complaint
Mr H complains, via an appointed representative, that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited 
(Moneybarn) irresponsibly granted him two conditional sale agreements he couldnt afford 
to repay.
What happened
In May 2016 Mr H acquired a used car costing £4,200 financed by an agreement 
(agreement 1) from Moneybarn.
Under the terms of agreement 1, everything else being equal, Mr H undertook to make
45 monthly repayments of £179.91. The total repayable under agreement 1 was £8,095.95 
at an APR of 47.3%.
Mr H made all the repayments required of him under agreement 1 (albeit one was paid late 
due to an oversight) before he took the decision to settle the agreement in June 2017.
In July 2020 Mr H acquired a used car costing £7,499 financed by an agreement 
(agreement 2) from Moneybarn.
Under the terms of agreement 2, everything else being equal, Mr H undertook to make an 
advance payment of £1,800 followed by 59 monthly repayments of £192.15. The total 
repayable under agreement 2 was £13,136.85 at an APR of 36.9%.
Mr H, as I understand it, has made all the repayments required of him under agreement 2.
Mr H says that Moneybarn didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it
had, it would have seen the agreements werent affordable. 
Moneybarn didnt agree. In respect of agreement 1 it said it believed Mr H had complained 
too late for our service to be able to investigate an affordability complaint about it. But even if 
we disagreed it had performed several different checks before agreeing to lend which 
included:
a full credit search (with a credit reference agency) which provided details of Mr Hs
current borrowing levels and repayment history (including any arrears and defaults)
an independent check of Mr Hs declared net monthly income of £1,728.01 against 
two pay slips (provided by him)
and from these checks it was able to establish:
Mr Hs existing borrowing was low
Mr H had no missed repayments recorded against him
Mr H had one or more defaults, but the latest of these was more than 14 months
old
Mr H had no county court judgements registered against him
Mr H hadnt been declared insolvent
Mr H had a disposable income of £432 from which to meet the monthly repayment of 
£179.91
Moneybarn also pointed out that Mr H signed to say that the monthly repayment of £179.91 
was affordable and he envisaged nothing that would prevent him from meeting each monthly 
repayment required of him under the agreement.
In respect of agreement 2 Moneybarn said it had performed several different checks before 
agreeing to lend which included:
a full credit search (with a credit reference agency) which provided details of Mr Hs
current borrowing levels and repayment history (including any arrears and defaults)
an independent check of Mr Hs declared net monthly income of £1,383.06 against 
four pay slips (provided by him)
the use of statistical data from the Office for National Statistics (ONS) to estimate
Mr Hs level of non-discretionary expenditure (including housing, council tax utilities
and vehicle costs)
the use of information (from a credit reference agency) to assess Mr Hs ongoing
monthly borrowing commitments
and from these checks it was able to establish:
Mr Hs existing borrowing was low
Mr H had one or more defaults, but the latest of these was more than 9 months
old
payments were being made by Mr H towards all defaults registered against him
Mr H had one county court judgement registered against him, but this had been 
recorded as settled
Mr H hadnt been declared insolvent
Mr Hs non-discretionary expenditure had been estimated at £783.43
Mr H had a disposable income of £559.76 being £1,383.06 less £783.43 less £39.87 
(an additional allowance to allow for variations in any estimates made)
its lending, at a monthly cost of £192.15, equated to 34.33% of Mr Hs calculated net
disposable income
Moneybarn also pointed out that Mr H signed to say that his net monthly income was no
less than £1,383.06 and his non-discretionary expenditure was no more than £783.43.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Hs complaint. 
In respect of agreement 1 she came to the view that our service had no power to 
consider Mr Hs complaint because this had been referred to our service too late, it 
being referred more than six years of the event being complained about and more 
than three years from the point in time Mr H ought to have known he might have 
grounds to complain to our service.
In respect of agreement 2 she came to the view that Moneybarn had carried out 
reasonable and proportionate checks and its decision to lend was fair.Although Mr H had said on his complaint form that he didnt realise that Moneybarn 
may have paid a commission to the supplying dealerships she wasnt in a position to 
express a view on this point on the grounds this particular point appears to have 
never been raised with Moneybarn or addressed by it.
Mr H didnt agree and so his complaint has been passed to me for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Hs appointed representative confirmed to our service that it accepted that we had no 
power to consider Mr Hs complaint in respect of agreement 1 (on the grounds of time) and 
that the commission element[had] been resolved. So, this means that all Im required to 
decide in this case is whether Moneybarn acted responsibly in granting Mr H agreement 2.
Moneybarn and Mr Hs appointed representative will be familiar with all the rules, regulations 
and good industry practice we consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable 
and irresponsible lending. So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this 
decision. Information about our approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
The investigator came to the view that Moneybarn carried out proportionate checks before it 
agreed to lend to Mr H. Now I dont necessarily agree. But I need make no finding on this 
point because Im satisfied that further checks by Moneybarn, for example by the 
undertaking a review of Mr Hs bank statements, wouldnt have caused it to conclude, or 
shouldnt have caused it to conclude, it shouldnt lend to him.
Ive reviewed Mr Hs bank statements for the period 1 April to 30 June 2020. These show 
that Mr H was never overdrawn and had no payments (such as standing orders and direct 
debits) refused by his bank. 
They also show that after deducting debits that could fairly and reasonably be described as 
non-discretionary expenditure (rather than discretionary) from his account credits he had 
sufficient surplus income to meet the monthly agreement payment of £192.15.
I appreciate Mr H will be disappointed but taking everything into consideration Im satisfied 
that Moneybarn made a fair lending decision (in respect of agreement 2) and it need do 
nothing in respect of it.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 July 2023.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman