DRN-1720240
 
The complaint
Mr G complains that he received a text message in error from Clydesdale Bank Plc trading 
as Virgin Money to say his account had gone into overdraft. He says the text, and the 
problems contacting the bank, caused him and his wife significant stress and he doesn't feel 
the compensation offered reflects this. 
What happened
Mr G is bringing this complaint on behalf of himself and his wife, Ms L, as it relates to their 
joint account but for ease of reference I'll refer to Mr G throughout.
At 10.17 on 17 December 2019 Mr G received a text message to say that his account with 
Clydesdale "is now in an arranged overdraft on 16 Dec 2019. You may be charged for this".
Mr G knew this couldn't be correct and became worried that there'd been fraudulent activity 
on the account. He tried to call the bank but got a message saying calls couldn't be 
answered at that time. He also tried to log in online but the passcode sent by the bank was 
rejected. He tried the bank's secure chat service but got no response and although he did 
make contact on Facebook, the bank couldn't answer his specific query on this platform. He 
says he was forced to call repeatedly for 75 minutes before his call was answered. 
When he did get through he was told the text had been sent in error and that the bank was 
aware of this and was taking steps to prevent it happening again. The call handler also 
confirmed the account balance, which was correct, and that there'd been no unauthorised 
activity. 
Mr G is unhappy at the way Virgin Money dealt with his. He says if it knew the first text had 
been sent in error, it should have been able to send another one explaining this. He doesn't 
feel Virgin Money appreciates how stressful this was for him and his wife and that this was 
made worse by the problems he had in getting through to check his account.  He says he 
was so worried at the thought the account could have been compromised that his wife had 
set off to visit the local branch in person before he finally made contact. He'd like Virgin 
Money to acknowledge the impact of its error, to offer a proper explanation for the systems 
problems and adequate compensation for the stress and inconvenience, including the time 
he and his wife had spent in trying to resolve the matter.
Virgin Money accepted there'd been a systems error that had generated a number of 
incorrect texts. One of these had gone to Mr G. It said it was working on this to ensure it 
didn't happen again and offered Mr G £50 for his upset and inconvenience.
Our investigator felt Virgin Money had dealt with the complaint fairly. She could see how 
anxious Mr G had been at receiving this text and his frustration at the delay in getting 
through. However once he did get through, the bank had explained the text was a mistake 
and his account was secure.  On that basis she was satisfied there'd been no actual 
detriment. In the circumstances she felt £50 was a fair offer for the upset and inconvenience.Mr G didn't agree and said £50 didn't reflect the stress and upset caused by this text or the 
time he and his wife had spent in trying to contact the bank.  He asked for the complaint to 
be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G got a text saying his account with Clydesdale Bank had gone into overdraft  He knew 
this shouldn't be the case so I can fully understand that he might think the account had been 
compromised in some way.
And I can also understand that the longer it took for him to contact the bank, the more 
concerned he became. However I'm pleased to see that when he did make contact, Virgin 
Money confirmed the account was secure and the message was a mistake. The question, 
therefore, is the impact of this mistake on Mr G and his wife.
I've seen Mr G feels that if Virgin Money knew an incorrect text message had been sent out, 
it could have sent another one to put matters right. I can't say if that was possible as it would 
depend on the cause of the error but, in any event, the way in which Virgin Money manages 
it operations is a commercial matter and outside of the scope of this decision. I have 
however looked at the way it dealt with Mr G's concerns.
Mr G has described very clearly how difficult he found it to get through to the bank that 
morning. It seems that the error message had gone out to a number of customers  which, in 
turn, had prompted a large number of calls. Unfortunately this led to the delay in Mr G being 
able to get through.
I'm not seeking to minimise the distress caused by this but have to take into account that 
although it was not as quick as Mr G would have liked, he was able to speak to someone 
within an hour and a half and get reassurance  that his account was secure.
I've also seen that Virgin Money apologised for its mistake, explained what had happened 
and confirmed that it was looking into the problem to avoid it happening again. It also offered 
£50 compensation for the inconvenience caused by what had happened and realistically I 
don't think there was much more it could have done at that time.
I realise Mr G feels £50 isn't enough to reflect the upset and the time spent resolving this 
issue. But on the basis that the problem was effectively resolved within two hours I consider 
£50 is a reasonable amount for the impact of the bank's error.   I understand Virgin Money 
has already paid this to Mr G so I won't be asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Ms L to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 August 2020.
Cerys Jones
Ombudsman