DRN-2669537
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy Santander UK Plc refused his request to increase his overdraft limit. He 
also complains about issues hes encountered when using an ATM, and with Santanders 
decision to close some branches.
What happened
In September 2020 Mr D contacted Santander to request an increase to his overdraft limit. 
But Santander didnt agree, it said it had carried out the necessary checks and  based on 
the information it had  it wouldnt increase the limit.
 
Mr D was unhappy with the decision, so he complained. He said if he didnt obtain an 
increase to his overdraft limit, he wouldnt be able to meet an arranged standing order 
payment.
 
Santander sent its final response to Mr D on 25 September 2020. It said it used an 
established credit-scoring system to review requests like Mr Ds, taking into consideration 
the general management of an account; an accounts credit turnover; and information 
provided by Credit Reference Agencies (CRA). And having carried out these checks on 
Mr D, it had decided not to increase his overdraft limit at the time.
 
Moreover, Santander explained to Mr D that he wouldnt incur any charge for an unpaid 
standing order. And it advised him to contact the third party  who Mr D was supposed to 
pay  to explain the situation.
  
Mr D remained unhappy, so he referred his complaint to our service. He said Santander 
shouldnt have declined his request because hed recently obtained credit from elsewhere. 
And if that business would approve him for credit, so should Santander. Mr D also raised 
some further, more general, issues that he had with Santander. Specifically; he encountered 
regular problems using a particular branch ATM, which had caused him some recent 
inconvenience when trying to make a deposit. And he was unhappy with Santanders 
decision to close some branches.
  
An investigator here looked at Mr Ds complaint, and he set out that he didnt think 
Santander had done anything wrong when it declined the overdraft limit increase. Thats 
because it didnt have to agree to lend if it felt Mr D didnt meet its criteria. He also said 
Santander had dealt with Mr Ds ATM issues fairly. He noted that it had apologised and paid 
some compensation to reflect the inconvenience Mr D had experienced. Further, the 
investigator explained that Santander could make the decision to close branches if it wished.
 
Mr D disagreed. In summary, he said he was only asking for a temporary increase to his 
overdraft. Hed been given increases before so felt he shouldve been able to obtain one 
when he asked for it. He said the public hadnt been consulted on branch closures, and 
instead, customers were simply told to use online banking. Mr D also said he had an 
ongoing health condition, so visiting branches could be difficult, and hed been verbally 
mistreated by local branch staff so didnt want to visit it. Lastly, Mr D said the ATM 
malfunctioned frequently because of the volume of customers using it. And he linked this to 
wider branch closures.
 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me to review and 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In support of his complaint, Mr D has made several detailed and extensive points. Ive 
summarised things in far less detail, and I may not have commented on everything Mr D has 
raised. I dont mean any discourtesy by this, and nor do I intend to downplay what happened 
or how Mr D feels about it. 
Rather, my summary of Mr Ds concerns reflects the informal nature of our service. But I 
want to assure Mr D and Santander, that I have thought very carefully about everything that 
has been said, even though I may not have commented on everything they have told me.  
And Ive focussed my findings on the key issues that I think are relevant to decide this case.
Mr D raised more than one issue of complaint, which he discussed at length with Santander 
across several phone calls. In this decision Ive considered the three main issues Mr D has 
brought to our service, which are:
Santanders decision not to increase his overdraft limit;
frequent ATM issues which causes him inconvenience; and
the closure of some Santander branches. 
Ive not seen that Santander issued separate final response letters for each issue  or 
commented on all of them in one letter. But, nonetheless, given Mr D raised multiple 
concerns  often at the same time  Ive considered them as one complaint. For clarity, Ive 
separated my findings to deal with each issue in turn. 
Mr Ds request to increase his overdraft limit
Mr D has applied to increase to his overdraft limit more than once, and hes previously been 
successful. Santanders notes show it increased his overdraft in both January and 
February 2020.
 
It appears Mr D attempted to increase his limit twice more after February 2020. First in June 
and then again in September. Santander decided not to increase Mr Ds limit in June, and he 
complained. But things seem to have been resolved during the same phone call and, from 
what Ive seen, Mr D didnt take the matter any further at the time.
 
Its important to remember that, for accounts like Mr Ds, Santander doesnt offer customers 
a guaranteed overdraft. Whether or not to provide one is a decision for it to make on a case-
by-case basis. And Santander will consider every application for credit on its own merits and 
in accordance with its lending criteria. Moreover, Santander doesnt need to provide a detailed reason why it might turn down an application.
 
From what hes told our service, Mr D is still unhappy Santander declined his application on 
both occasions. He also pointed out that he was able to obtain credit from elsewhere around 
the time of his September application. So, hed like to know how credit scoring led to 
Santanders decision on that occasion.
 
Santander explained it takes several factors into consideration when it assesses such 
applications, including general account management and the account balance turnover  as 
well as information provided by CRAs. And Im also aware that the rules Santander needs to 
follow  when providing an overdraft to customers  require it to consider whether the credit 
would be affordable for the borrower.
I dont have a copy of Mr Ds credit file, but I have been provided with a running statement of 
his current account. And from the time he made both applications, in June and September, I 
can see he was consistently either very close to  or exceeding  his agreed overdraft limit. 
And with that in mind, Im satisfied Santander had genuine reasons to decline Mr D. So, I 
dont think it acted unfairly or unreasonably by basing its decision on the information 
available to it at the time. 
Issues with Santanders ATM
Mr Ds highlighted persistent issues with an ATM he uses regularly, which he says causes 
him inconvenience by having to use an alternative.
 
On the occasion hes complained about here, Mr D wanted to make a cash deposit via the 
ATM. He was unable to deposit the cash due to a fault with the machine  so he decided to 
deposit a cheque that he made out to himself instead.
 
Mr D complained about the ATM fault and how it had impacted him. He said the money was 
to cover outgoing payments but, because he couldnt deposit the cash, hed since spent it  
and was concerned hed be left short. So, Mr D wanted Santander to reimburse him £30. 
Mr D was also concerned about the cheque he deposited, he said it hadnt been credited to 
his account and he wanted to know the reason why.
 
At the time, Santander said Mr D would have to wait for the reason to become clear while 
the cheque went through the clearing process. But it did arrange to pay Mr D £30 to 
acknowledge the inconvenience hed suffered as a result of repeated ATM issues. Since 
bringing his complaint to our service, Mr D has made it clear hes still very unhappy with how 
Santander dealt with the problems hes had using the ATM.
  
Ive thought about what Mr D has said, and Ive no doubt that regular ATM trouble is 
frustrating. But even so, Santander isnt intentionally taking its machines out of service. And 
if  as Mr D has said  the machine breaks regularly because of other customers using it 
incorrectly, thats not something I can fairly hold Santander responsible for.
 
In fact, I think Santander dealt with Mr Ds concerns rather generously in the circumstances. 
It provided a reasonable explanation, apologised for the lack of ATM service and paid him 
compensation for the inconvenience. Further, it ensured feedback was given to the branch in 
question and that Mr D knew what alternative facilities he could use. 
Regarding Mr Ds cheque, Santander has provided evidence to show it was returned unpaid 
because it was drawn from the same account it was then deposited into. In effect Mr D paid 
himself from one account, so the cheque cancelled itself out. So, Im satisfied it wasnt 
unpaid because of something Santander did wrong.Branch closures
Mr Ds explained why its difficult for him to access a branch thats not close to where he 
lives. So, I understand why hes unhappy Santander has decided to close some of its 
branches over recent years.
That said, its not for this service to instruct banks  or any business  on where to open 
branches. Put simply, the decision to open or close branches is Santanders. So, while I 
understand Mr Ds reasons for being unhappy, I cant say Santander has done something 
wrong by making a commercial decision to close a branch. 
Overall
To sum up, its clear Mr D has several issues with Santander that hes unhappy about. Im 
sorry to hear about the impact hes said theyve had on his health, and how distressing hes 
found the matters hes brought to the attention of this service.
 
That said, while I know Mr D will be disappointed by what Ive set out, for the reasons Ive 
explained, I dont think Santander has done anything wrong. So, I dont require it to take 
further action and I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2021.
 
Simon Louth
Ombudsman