DRN-3886395
The complaint
Mr P complains that Aviva Insurance Limited is responsible for a mistake in connection with 
his motor insurance policy.
Where I refer to Aviva, I refer to the above-named insurance company and I include 
employees and others insofar as I hold Aviva responsible for their acts or omissions. 
What happened
The subject matter of the complaint is a car which Mr P has said he acquired as an ex-
demonstrator in 2009. I will refer to it as the car. Mr P has said that he also had other cars 
including a similar car which I will refer to as the similar car.
In 2014, Mr P had the car insured on a policy with Aviva. He made a claim for damaged 
glass. Aviva incorrectly told MIB (Motor insurers Bureau) that the car was a write-off in what 
was then category D. So MIB put an incorrect flag or marker to that effect on MIAFTR (Motor 
Insurers Anti-Fraud and Theft Register). 
In the summer of 2022, Mr P tried to sell the car. On about 12 July 2022, he found out that 
Aviva was responsible for the write-off marker. When he contacted Aviva, it said it would 
correct the information within a day.
On 13 July 2022, Mr P complained that Aviva hadnt corrected the information within a day. 
He complained to Aviva that its mistake had restricted his ability to shop around for 
insurance and to sell the car.
By a final response dated the same day, Aviva accepted that it had incorrectly said it would 
take one day to correct the information. Aviva apologised and offered Mr P £150.00.
Mr P brought his complaint to us without delay. 
On 22 July 2022, we asked Aviva for its file. By a further final response dated 28 July 2022, 
Aviva increased its offer to £500.00.
Our investigator thought that Avivas offer was fair and treated Mr P fairly.
Mr P disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
Aviva shouldve found its error.
Some other insurers will treat the flag differently to Aviva. 
Some cheaper insurers declined to quote.
Some other insurers wouldve offered different premiums.
He had to stay with Aviva. 
He was able to insure the similar car for a lower premium elsewhere.
In recent years, he was able to find insurers willing to quote and be cheaper than 
Aviva, so he switched from Aviva to other providers.
He could not sell the car when he wanted to and needed the money. He missed the 
summer car- buying slot and would need to sell it at a reduced price. 
During the investigation Aviva incorrectly said he was insured with them for years 
when he was not.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service deals with an individual consumers complaint about one 
or more acts or omissions in regulated activities by a regulated financial firm. Where we 
uphold a complaint about unfair acts or omissions, we look at the actual impact on that 
consumer. That impact may include financial loss and non-financial loss such as distress 
and inconvenience.
We assess compensation at a level intended to put right that impact. We dont assess 
compensation at a level intended to punish or deter unfair acts or omissions.
We accept that different insurers will assess and price risk in different ways at different 
times. We cant say that a lower premium is fairer than a higher one.
If  instead of paying to repair the car in 2014 - Aviva had paid Mr P the market value of the 
car before the damage, then I wouldve expected Aviva to have told Mr P that it was writing-
off the car as a total loss. But he had only made a claim relating to glass. 
Aviva made a bad mistake by telling MIB that the car was in category D. But that was a 
mistake at the end of Avivas handling of the claim. So I wouldnt expect Aviva to have told 
Mr P that it was writing off the car as a total loss. And I wouldnt expect Aviva to review what 
it had told MIB or to uncover the mistake.
Mr Ps recollection is that some of Avivas competitors declined to quote for insurance for the 
car. He now believes that this was due to the mistaken record that the car had been a write-
off. He has provided some general information about insurance of cars in category D or the 
new category N.
But in my view the evidence shows that different insurers will assess and price risk relating 
to such cars in different ways at different times. Mr P hasnt shown that Aviva was the only or 
cheapest provider of insurance for such cars. 
Avivas final response dated late July 2022 included the following:
now that the data has been corrected, you should be able to contact the relevant 
insurer(s) and request confirmation of whether this has affected your insurance 
premiums historically. Upon provision of the correct data and proof that this was 
incorrect (which this letter confirms), you should be able to request that this data is 
updated and that any incorrect premium is rectified and any refund provided where 
appropriate as the premium would have been based on incorrect data.
Mr P replied the same day including the following:I am sure you will understand the inconvenience and impracticality of this as it spans 
eight years for which I also doubt that I hold records for in their entirety
Aviva gave Mr P contradictory information about when he had the car insured with Aviva, in 
particular for the year from June 2019. After he challenged the information, Aviva said that it 
had insured the car from July 2012 to June 2019. Mr P hasnt shown any evidence that this 
was incorrect. 
Further, Mr P hasnt shown us any evidence of what he paid to insure the car or the similar 
car in any of the years since 2014  not even the recent years from June 2019, June 2020, 
June 2021 or June 2022 when he wasnt with Aviva.
Mr P hasnt explained why he didnt sell the car after the marker was removed in mid-July 
2022. So I dont accept that Aviva caused him to miss the opportunity to sell it in the summer 
of 2022.
Taking all this into account, I consider that Mr P has fallen short of showing that Avivas 
mistake caused him a financial loss. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Aviva to 
pay compensation for financial loss.
Nevertheless, I accept that Avivas mistake caused Mr P some wasted time in contacting 
MIB and Aviva. I also accept that he was troubled by the thought that Aviva had unfairly cost 
him money  and by the thought that DVLA mightve pursued him for not telling it about the 
marker. 
Putting things right
Overall, Im satisfied that Avivas offer of £500.00 is more than fair and reasonable 
compensation for such distress and inconvenience. As that offer was in a final response, I 
find it fair and reasonable to direct Aviva to pay Mr P £500.00 for distress and 
inconvenience. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I  
direct Aviva Insurance Limited to pay Mr P £500.00 for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman