DRN-2951621
The complaint
Mrs F is unhappy about the way Amtrust Europe Limited (Amtrust) has handled her claim 
under her Guardsman Furniture Protection Plan Insurance.
Mrs F is represented in this complaint by Mr F, but for ease, Ill refer to Mrs F throughout.
What happened
Mrs F brought two sofas from a furniture retailer in 2019. At the same time, she took out a 
protection plan provided by Guardsman, to cover the sofas against accidental damage or 
stains. 
A few months later, Mrs F made a claim under the policy after nail polish accidently stained 
one of the sofas. 
Amtrust sent a technician who tried to remove the stain however this was unsuccessful, so 
Mrs F was offered the option of having the damaged areas replaced or taking a cash 
settlement. 
Mrs F opted for the sofa to be repaired and replacement parts were ordered from the 
manufacturer. When the parts were received, Amtrust arranged for the sofa to be uplifted 
and for a technician to carry out the repair. The sofa was returned to Mrs F after the repair 
had been completed.
Four months later, Mrs F contacted Amtrust to say the repaired sections of the sofa were a 
totally different colour to the original material, and the fabric was puckering where the repairs 
had been completed.
After being unable to establish a colour difference from photographs, Amtrust arranged for a 
further technician to inspect the sofa. The technician didnt agree the sections which had 
been replaced were the wrong colour in comparison to the original material. They did note 
the front boarder was lighter in colour but said this panel hadnt been replaced, and instead it 
was due to fading over time as a result of the sofa sitting in direct sunlight.
Amtrust told Mrs F the colour match was within tolerance, and the terms and conditions of 
the policy state an exact colour match cant be guaranteed when a repair is carried out.    
Mrs F disagreed so a complaint was raised.
Mrs F said the replaced sections were a totally different colour to the original material, and 
that she wasnt told about tolerances in colour when she brought the policy. She was also 
unhappy with the length of time taken to resolve the claim.
Amtrust investigated but said after reviewing the technicians report, they found the replaced 
parts to be within tolerance so no further action would be taken with the claim. They said 
whilst they appreciated Mrs Fs comments as to being unaware of possible tolerances in 
colour, they referred to the terms and conditions agreed to when the policy was taken out. 
Regarding the time taken to resolve the claim, Amtrust acknowledged delays and a lack of 
communication, paying Mrs F £50 compensation.
Mrs F remained unhappy so brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator looked 
into things, but she didnt think Amtrust needed to do anything more.
Our investigator said she thought there was a noticeable difference in the material colours 
when reviewing the photographs, but the terms of the policy set out an exact colour match 
cant be guaranteed when a repair is carried out. And when the technician compared the 
original fabric against the sections which had been replaced, she felt they were similar in 
colour and the replacement parts were likely correct for the sofa. 
Our investigator said she was satisfied the terms of the policy had been explained clearly 
and felt Amtrust had acted in line with them. Mrs F disagreed saying shed never been told 
verbally that a colour match wasnt guaranteed and that shed expect this to have been 
highlighted.
As Mrs F remained unhappy, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs F has provided a lot of information about her complaint, especially photographic 
evidence she says clearly shows the replaced parts look totally different to the original 
material of the sofa. I want to reassure Mrs F that I've read and considered everything she 
has provided, even if I do not mention it in detail. Ive summarised this complaint in far less 
detail than has been provided, and Ive done so using my own words. Our rules allow me to 
do this. And I'm satisfied I understand the crux of the problem; Mrs F is unhappy with the 
standard of the repair to her sofa.
I think its important to say I understand Mrs Fs concerns, especially after having paid out a 
large amount of money to purchase the furniture. But its also important to say that my role 
isnt to re-underwrite the claim, rather to decide whether Amtrust acted fairly and reasonably 
when applying the policy terms to their claim.
Ive looked at the policy terms that were issued to Mrs F when she took the policy out, these 
are the same terms that have remained in place to date. They say:
SECTION 6  CLAIMS PROCEDURE
6. Guardsman will settle valid claims by, sending out a specialised stain 
remover (if appropriate), or by cleaning or repairing your damaged product at 
their discretion up to the value of your product and not exceeding the 
maximum liability. Where a satisfactory clean or repair is not possible 
Guardsman will replace the damaged product.
The relevant term goes on to say:
b. Although Guardsman will always do its best, we do not guarantee an exact 
match of grain, sheen or pattern in the event of your product being repaired or 
replaced. Neither is exact colour match guaranteed, replacement parts will be 
matched to an inconspicuous area of the item. In such circumstances liability 
is limited to the best endeavours of a Guardsman approved technician.
I understand Mrs F says a colour match not being guaranteed was never pointed out to her, 
ultimately because she was never verbally explained to her at the point of sale, throughout 
her conversations with Amtrust or when the technician visited her property, but Im satisfied 
the terms were made clear.
I can see from the evidence provided Amtrust initially sent a technician to attempt to remove 
the stain from the sofa. When this failed Amtrust offered Mrs F the option of having the 
damaged areas of her sofa replaced or accepting a cash settlement. Ive looked at the letter 
Amtrust sent to Mrs F, and regarding the option for a repair to be carried out it says:The last thing to make you aware of is as these parts are made to order we are 
unable to guarantee an exact match of colour, pattern or grain which may be an 
issue if your furniture is well worn or has faded significantly since new. We will do all 
we can to get as close a match as possible however putting a new part on an older 
item of furniture may highlight differences between them.
So, whilst I wasnt there at the time of the sale and I cant be sure if the terms were 
explained verbally to Mrs F, Amtrust werent required to do this verbally and Im satisfied the 
terms were set out clearly in writing at the time the policy was taken, and again that an exact 
colour match wasnt guaranteed prior to the repairs being carried out.
Thats not to say I wouldnt still expect Amtrust to carry out the repairs to a high standard, 
and certainly to follow up any concerns Mrs F has. Again, Im satisfied they did this and have 
acted fairly and reasonably when deciding to take no further action with the claim.
I say this because after reviewing the photographs provided by Mrs F, Amtrust were unable 
to conclusively decide one way or another if the repairs had been completed to a satisfactory 
standard, so they arranged for a further technician to examine the sofa.
The technician didnt agree the replacement parts were of a different colour to the original 
material providing comparisons as evidence. Amtrust looked at what the expert report had to 
say about the repairs and decided they were within tolerance of the original material colour. 
Im happy this is a fair way of investigating a claim and that Amtrust acted reasonably on the 
evidence provided to decide a satisfactory repair had been completed.
Mrs F also remains unhappy with how long it took to resolve the claim. I agree things 
couldve been done more promptly at times on Amtrusts part. Theyve acknowledged both 
this and the lack of communication and paid Mrs F £50 by way of compensation. I think, 
taking everything into account, that is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case.
It follows I think Amtrust acted fairly and reasonably when investigating Mrs Fs claim and 
applying the policy terms, so I dont think they need to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2021.
 
Sean Pyke-Milne
Ombudsman