DRN-3948535
The complaint
Mr M and Mrs R complain that Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead) have poorly 
handled renewals on their home insurance policy.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known, so Ive summarised events.
Mr M and Mrs R held their home insurance with Fairmead for several years. In 
November 2021 they say they attempted to renew their policy believing it was still 
running. However, they discovered it had expired sometime prior  in 2020.
Mr M and Mrs R say when they logged in to their online account, it showed the policy 
as still active. And they say they had previously messaged Fairmead online to 
attempt to pay but no one had responded. So, theyve told this Service they assumed 
the money was taken and the policy was still live.
Mr M and Mrs R complained to Fairmead saying they had been without home 
insurance for a year. And they wanted it to take steps to improve its systems and 
award them compensation for the stress caused and time wasted.
Fairmead said it had sent renewal documents in 2020 and a reminder letter to say 
payment was due. But as no payment was made, and Mr M and Mrs R had not 
contacted Fairmead to make payment, the policy was automatically cancelled in 
January 2021. It also said while the account showed as active, its correspondence 
was clear in showing the policy wouldnt be automatically renewed. 
One of our Investigators looked into things and didnt uphold the complaint. He said 
the online account appearing as active couldve been clearer. But Mr M and Mrs R 
never paid for the policy, so it was right it wasnt renewed. The Investigator said the 
renewal documents provided by Fairmead were clear in setting out Mr M and Mrs Rs 
obligations, and it was reasonable to conclude they knew this given they had 
renewed this way in previous years.
Mr M and Mrs R disagreed, and said the policy had appeared as valid when they looked 
online. So, they asked for an Ombudsmans final decision on the matter and the complaint 
has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
The crux of this matter is Mr M and Mrs Rs belief they were left without insurance 
due to Fairmeads lack of communication or misleading actions.
Mr M and Mrs R have said they believe their policy ended in 2019. This isnt 
accurate, and Fairmead has provided evidence to show it ended in January 2021.
Fairmead has provided a copy of the renewal documents sent to Mr M and Mrs R for 
the 2020/2021 renewal. This was dated 30 October 2020 and is clear that Mr M and 
Mrs R need to take steps for the policy to renew.
Its also evident to me Mr M and Mrs R use their online system and were capable of 
renewing the policy in this way as they had done this for a number of years prior to 
the 2020/2021 renewal.
Mr M and Mrs R say they had reached out to make a payment but not heard back 
from Fairmead. Ive seen Mrs R messaged Fairmead on 16 November 2020 to ask if 
the policy would be renewed automatically and charged to the same payment 
method as the year prior. Fairmead responded on 18 November 2020, saying:
With regards to your query, your policy will not be renewed automatically as it 
needs to be reviewed and renewal confirmed.
You will need to make a manual card payment to pay the premium.
Ive seen no further messages beyond this date prior to the renewal. Nor have I seen 
anything to suggest Mr and Mrs R paid for the policy. This suggests the renewal 
didnt take place due to Mr M and Mrs Rs inaction at this time.
Mr M and Mrs R have mentioned the policy appearing active on their online 
account. Even if I agreed this could be misleading, Im satisfied Fairmead was clear 
in its surrounding correspondence that Mr M and Mrs R shouldve reasonably been 
aware the policy would not automatically renew  and that ultimately no payment was 
taken from them.
So, Im satisfied Fairmead did everything it needed to let Mr M and Mrs R know of 
their obligations at renewal. And Im not persuaded Fairmead has made a mistake.
My final decision
For the above reasons Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 March 2023.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman