DRN-2785117
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A are unhappy with the settlement Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Ltd 
(LV) offered under their contents insurance following a theft of jewellery from their home.
The policy was in joint names but, for ease, Ill refer only to Mrs A throughout my decision. 
What happened
Mrs A made a claim for a substantial amount of jewellery stolen from her home. Her 
jewellery collection was made up of antique, vintage, bespoke and inherited items, and held 
special memories. Understandably, Mrs A found the theft very distressing.
LV accepted the claim and the valuation for each piece of jewellery. In accordance with Mrs 
As preference, it offered a cash settlement for most of the collection, and retail vouchers for 
a small number of remaining items. However, Mrs A was unhappy because LV hadnt 
offered the full cash value and, after checking with local jewellers, it was apparent that she 
wouldnt be able to use the vouchers in the second-hand market. Mrs A provided two further 
valuations which gave more information about whether the jewellery could be replaced. LV 
increased its cash offer for the pieces which couldnt be replaced or replicated, but it 
maintained its decision to offer a discounted cash settlement and vouchers for those items 
which could be replaced or replicated.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She thought that Mrs As additional valuations 
suggested a further 10 pieces of the jewellery couldnt be replaced except through the 
second-hand market. For that reason, our investigator thought LV should pay the full cash 
value for those items rather than offer a voucher. She also said that a small increase to the 
value of the voucher was appropriate for six named items. But, because of the 
inconsistencies in the valuations, and the small number of pieces sampled, our investigator 
didnt think that LV should pay the full valuation costs. She recommended that LV pays for 
the first valuation in full and pays a contribution of £100 towards the second. 
LV agreed to the suggested settlement, but Mrs A didnt think it went far enough. She 
pointed out that the approach taken for some of the items hadnt been applied to other items 
on her loss list. Also, she didnt agree that other items could be replaced using a voucher or 
for the cash settlement offered.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold the complaint, but I havent changed the outcome from that 
recommended by our investigator. I realise Mrs A will be disappointed, so Ill explain my 
reasons.
Firstly, Im genuinely sorry that Mrs A suffered this loss. I cant imagine how upsetting it 
wouldve been to find that her jewellery collection of almost 150 pieces, collected over 40 
years, had been stolen. The sentimental value cant be replaced, so its understandable that 
whatever the settlement offered, Mrs A is unlikely to feel that she has been indemnified for 
her loss. Im afraid that my decision may well make that a rather harsh reality, because my 
role is to look at what the policy covered in material value rather than sentimental value. And 
its for me to decide whether LVs settlement offer was fair and in line with the terms of the 
policy. 
Both sides seem to accept our investigators findings on the general approach to settling the 
claim, which is that certain items only available from the second-hand market will be paid in 
full. The remaining items will be settled by vouchers or, if Mrs A prefers, by cash less the 
discount LV receives for settlement by voucher. The overriding issue is whether LV has 
included all relevant items in its cash settlement offer at the full valuation price, but Mrs A 
doesnt think it has. I dont think theres any benefit in repeating all the details here, but for 
completeness, having looked at the evidence, I agree with the investigators approach for the 
reasons she gave on this issue. I think its fair that LV settles the claim including the higher 
value for the further 16 items listed on the valuation spreadsheet, as agreed.
Ill now focus on the reasons why Mrs A didnt agree with our investigators view, and which 
she asked me to consider in my review of her complaint.  
Mrs A doesnt think LV met the terms of the policy, which state:
If were unable to offer repair or an equivalent replacement is not available, we'll pay the 
nearest cash equivalent or current market value of the item at the time of the loss.
However, the policy doesnt state this term in isolation. Immediately before, the policy states:
Cash payments
If we can offer a repair or replacement through one of our suppliers and you choose not to 
have the item repaired or replaced, well not pay more than the amount we would have paid 
our supplier.
LV offered vouchers for the full value of those pieces of jewellery it determined could be 
sourced through retailers, and it offered a jewellery service which would re-create other 
pieces to Mrs As specification. LV offered the full cash value for those pieces it didnt think 
fell into either of these categories. Mrs As preference was to cash settle so she could 
replace her collection through the second-hand, vintage and antique market. I can see why 
shed want to do that because it would enable her to enjoy the sourcing and purchasing 
experience. But, to be clear, at that point LV was entitled to offer the cash equivalent of what 
it wouldve cost it to provide vouchers and/or a personal jewellery service. Thats in line with 
the policy terms stated above. So, I cant agree that LV failed to make a settlement offer in 
line with the policy terms.
Mrs A says that retailers wont accept the voucher for jewellery of the type she collects. I 
know Mrs A made enquiries with many retailers in her area and I have no reason to doubt 
what she says about those suppliers. But, having looked at the description of the pieces for 
which LV offered vouchers, I dont think its offer is unfair. LVs preferred jewellery supplier 
said it could replace or recreate the pieces, and Mrs A could source similar items from 
suppliers which accept the voucher. Here, LV isnt suggesting Mrs A will find an identical 
piece of jewellery, but she will be able to replace, for example, an 18ct yellow gold ring 
bought for a special occasion with another 18ct yellow gold ring, which is the material item 
covered under the policy. It wont hold the sentimental value, but it would be replacing the 
ring with an equivalent one based on description alone. Therefore, Im satisfied that its reasonable for LV to offer the full value in vouchers or its discounted value in cash, in line 
with the terms of the policy, for the items which could be replaced or recreated.
Ive looked at the three valuations Mrs A provided. The first valuation was provided soon 
after the burglary and LV accepted it in full, without question. LV based its settlement offer 
on Mrs As valuation. Because she was unhappy with LVs offer, she asked for two further 
valuations based on a relatively small sample of her jewellery. Mrs A thinks LV should 
extrapolate the findings across the whole collection. Obviously, these two valuations were 
not based on a physical examination of the jewellery, so they were based on paper evidence 
or Mrs As description of the pieces. The first valuation was based on physical inspections of 
a higher proportion of the collection some years earlier. Therefore, its difficult to see why the 
second two valuations should carry more weight than the original. That said, LV accepted 
our investigators recommendation that more of the collection should be settled at the full 
cash value if it was clear that the pieces could only be sourced through the second-hand 
market. I think thats reasonable where there is clear evidence, but it doesnt mean that LV 
should settle all other items on the same basis or from whichever valuation best suits Mrs A. 
I see no reason to ask LV to increase its offer beyond that recommended by our investigator 
on the remaining items.
Following on from this, I understand Mrs A wants LV to carry out an in-depth valuation of all 
pieces it hasnt settled at the full cash value. While she may think that would be fair, its not 
LVs responsibility to prove her loss, and any further valuations would be based on 
paperwork or Mrs As descriptions of the stolen items. So, I cant see why that would carry 
any greater weight than the first valuation which was based on physical examination. LV 
agreed to pay for the first of Mrs As valuations and, following our investigators view, 
towards one other valuation, though not the full amount. As LV accepted the first valuation 
without challenge, and it agreed to contribute £100 towards the second valuation, I see no 
reason for it to pay any more towards the cost Mrs A incurred.
Mrs A also asked to see LVs rationale for its discounted offer. I appreciate she doesnt think 
its fair to share her calculations, yet not see LVs. However, its commercially sensitive 
information and not something I can share. I hope Mrs A will trust that Ive considered LVs 
evidence and Im satisfied its fair.
Mrs A asked me to consider increasing the settlement for some items which she didnt think 
had been classified consistently in our first view of her complaint. For reasons like those Ive 
explained above, I dont think any further valuation will be reliable. I dont have the expertise 
to determine whether jewellery can be replaced and nor am I expected to. So, I rely on the 
evidence provided by experts in the same way that LV does. LV based its offer on its expert 
jewellery services view after having accepted in full the valuation Mrs As first expert 
provided. It increased its offer after receiving further information from another expert, and 
again after our investigator considered the evidence. Given the subjective nature of valuing 
the collection, and deciding whether pieces can be recreated, I dont think its fair to keep 
asking LV to reconsider individual items. 
I know thats not what Mrs A wants to hear but I must be fair to both sides. Here, LV 
accepted without question Mrs As list of items without proof of ownership for many of the 
pieces, her initial valuation, and paid most of the claim to allow Mrs A to start her collection 
again without yet having settled the matter. I think its worth noting that Mrs A had contents 
cover for £150,000 inclusive of valuables and jewellery. Her claim was for jewellery valued at 
£120,000 and there was a further item of jewellery valued at over £12,000 listed on the 
schedule which, thankfully, wasnt stolen. That means Mrs As jewellery collection made up 
over 88% of her total home contents cover. I know LV made Mrs A aware that she was underinsured, yet it didnt apportion her claim. 
Nor did it take retrospective action to address the fact that it wouldnt have offered cover for 
contents valued at more than £150,000. LV couldve offered justification for taking either of 
these routes. So, overall, I think LVs offer, including its acceptance of the recommended 
increase, has been more than fair, and even generous in the circumstances.
In summary, I think LV has made a fair offer to settle what has been a complex claim with so 
much of the information being accepted at face value. I think its overall approach was 
consistent with what Id expect and, while it appears to have missed a couple of individual 
items from that approach, it helpfully accepted the recommendation to put those right to 
bring the matter to a close for Mrs A. I know Mrs A will be disappointed with my decision 
because Im not asking LV to offer a full cash settlement, but I hope she can at least 
understand why Ive reached my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and Liverpool 
Victoria Insurance Company Ltd must:
pay the amended cash amount for 10 items and the amended voucher amount for 6 
items, both of which are detailed on the valuation spreadsheet which reflects the 
changes it previously agreed;
reimburse the cost of the first valuation in full on sight of a receipt confirming 
payment, and
pay £100 towards the cost of the second valuation on sight of a receipt confirming 
payment.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 July 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman