DRN-1072607
 The complaint
This is a complaint that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to 
Mr W. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 2002. Bank of Scotland sold 
Mr W the policy at the same time that he applied for the card.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mr W disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive considered what Mr W and his representatives have said, but Ive decided the policy 
wasnt mis-sold. I will explain why.
The PPI is presented on the credit application form as a choice, which you make by signing 
your name. This, on the face of things, suggests that Bank of Scotland presented Mr W with 
a choice and that he actively agreed to it by signing his name. 
Mr W points out that, where he has signed for PPI, there is a handwritten X and that it was 
common practice in prior years for sales people of all descriptions to simply ask the 
customer to sign the forms next to where they mark with a cross. 
I agree with him that it appears the sales advisor has put a mark telling him where to sign. 
But this isnt evidence that there was no discussion about what he was signing. And a 
customer does have some responsibility in checking what they are signing  and I can see 
there is a description of what the PPI is for, as well as the formula for how it would be 
charged. 
I agree also that its possible the adviser was underhand in trying to get Mr W to sign for 
something extra without his realising it. However, it wouldnt be fair for me to conclude this 
happened unless there was reasonable supporting evidence. But Mr W himself has said he 
doesnt remember the sale. And it wouldnt be fair to rely just on a suspicion based on the 
fact that such things have happened in some other cases. Where someone has said another 
person or organisation has done something wrong, fairness requires that the person making 
the allegation should present evidence that this probably did happen. It wouldnt be fair to 
require someone to prove they didnt do something, especially when it was such a long time 
ago. 
I realise this also puts Mr W in a difficult position in proving something so many years later. 
But, as Ive explained, it would be more unfair to require Bank of Scotland to prove its innocence. And, as Ive also said, the form did set out the purpose of the PPI, and some cost 
details, for Mr W to read before he signed. 
Bank of Scotland says it recommended the PPI to Mr W, which means it had a higher 
standard to reach  it had to make sure the PPI was suitable for Mr Ws circumstances. But 
it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable, based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the 
time. The PPI could have helped pay the credit card bill for a period longer than Mr Ws 
employment sick pay and other resources lasted. And it would have paid out at the same 
time as any sick pay or redundancy pay, so leaving Mr W more financially secure for longer. 
It would have meant Mr W wouldnt need to fall back on any other resources so soon.  So, 
overall, the PPI was potentially useful. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  And I cant 
see any other reason why the recommendation was unsuitable.
Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But I dont think, in his circumstances, better information about costs and 
benefits is likely to have affected whether he took the PPI. And it doesnt look like hed have 
been affected by any of the significant exclusions in the policy. 
This means Bank of Scotland doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W. But 
Bank of Scotland has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr W because: 
Bank of Scotland got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of 
the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr W about that. Because Bank of Scotland 
didnt tell Mr W, that was unfair. 
 
To put that right, Bank of Scotland has paid back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this 
case.
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have to pay back to Mr W any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, and 
so Im not awarding any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2020.
 
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman