DRN-3894380
The complaint
Mr C complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC  trading as Tesco Bank (Tesco) didnt 
support him as a vulnerable customer.
What happened
Mr C had a credit card from Tesco. Between August 2019 and September 2022, the limit 
was £9,500. In June 2022, he was charged a late payment fee of £12. Between November 
2020 and September 2021, he made frequent payments to a third-party content provider 
(which I shall refer to as A).
Mr C complained. On the late payment fee, he said there had been a refund of £49 paid in 
and therefore this met the minimum payment amount (£25) needed. He said he told Tesco in 
2020 that he was suffering with depression and anxiety and this led to him becoming reliant 
on spending through A. He said Tesco failed to protect him and increased his limit  and this 
encouraged his spending even more. He wants a refund of the late payment fee, and an 
amendment to his credit file. And he also wants an apology from Tesco for their poor 
treatment of vulnerable customers.
Mr C also complained about a loan of £12,000 that Tesco provided in October 2021. He said 
this was lent to him irresponsibly. This is dealt with as a separate complaint and doesnt form 
part of this decision.
Tesco said the late payment fee was applied correctly. Mr C didnt make the minimum 
payment of £25 by the due date (8 June 2022). However, they refunded the fee of £12 as a 
gesture of goodwill. Tesco said gambling is allowed on their credit cards.  And unless a 
customer advises them that they have a problem, they dont make assumptions about a 
persons situation. They rely on customers to make their own decision on how to spend their 
money. If Mr C had advised them about his spending, they couldve put a block on his card - 
but he hadnt.
Mr C brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said Tesco acted reasonably. The late 
payment fee was charged correctly as Mr C didnt make the minimum payment in time. And 
the retailer refund didnt count towards the minimum payment. She couldnt see evidence 
that Mr C had told Tesco about his mental health issues prior to 2022. There wasnt any 
evidence of phone contact since 2017. And the transactions to A werent obvious gambling 
transactions which Tesco couldve recognised as such. So  Tesco couldnt be expected to 
review Mr Cs account or to not allow the transactions.
Mr C didnt agree. He said the onus was on Tesco to retain all calls. He asked that an 
ombudsman look at his complaint. And so, it has come to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I looked the late payment fee of £12. This was debited to Mr Cs account on 8 June 
2022  when Mr C hadnt made the minimum payment by that date. Mr C argues that a 
retailer refund of £49 (paid in on 18 May 2022) was the minimum payment. I looked at 
Tescos terms and conditions. And these say: Refunds to your account dont count towards 
your minimum payment. Therefore  Tesco were correct to charge the late payment fee. 
But they refunded it anyway as a gesture of goodwill. And Tesco told us that Mr Cs credit 
file wasnt affected  as he made payments of £1,450 into the account on 13 June 2022  
and this was within the period of grace they allow before notifying credit reference agencies. 
So  on that part of Mr Cs complaint, Tesco acted reasonably.
On Mr Cs complaints about his spending through A, I can see that Mr C made frequent 
payments to A between December 2020 and February 2022. He says this happened during 
a period of depression - when he turned to frequent spending. He says Tesco shouldve 
been aware of his situation because he told them about it  and that they shouldve realised 
from his spending patterns that something was not right.
I can see there were frequent payments to A between December 2020 and February 2022. 
These usually ranged between £1.99 and £9.99, with some payments up to £49.99. And 
they numbered 20 to 30 each month. Its not clear from the payment description what these 
payments were for - as these were in-app purchases. But looking at Mr Cs statements  
there was an increased spending pattern with A during that period. 
In those circumstances, we must consider whether Mr Cs pattern of spending was markedly 
different to before - or whether it was unusual. And  if there were clear signs of Mr C being 
unable to control his spending. An important thing to consider here is  were there signs of 
problems shown in the way his account was being managed. If there were, we might have 
expected Tesco to be aware of a possible problem and taken some action to support Mr C; 
for example, putting a block on his card.
I looked at Mr Cs statements. And he paid off his account in full each month between 
August 2019 and February 2021. And then, after that and up to September 2022  he paid 
almost all of the balance off each month. And he stayed well within his limit of £9,500. The 
highest balance I could see was in April 2021  when it was £5,905. And for most other 
months, it was well below that figure.  So  Mr C maintained his account well. If there had 
been evidence of financial difficulty  for example, if Mr C went over his limit or couldnt pay 
the credit card bill regularly - then we would have expected Tesco to have asked further 
questions of Mr C. That may then have revealed some issues - but there wasnt. 
We would expect firms to consider support for vulnerable customers if they were made 
aware of a customers situation. So - we asked Tesco whether there had been any contact 
from Mr C to say he was a vulnerable customer. They couldnt make available any calls 
before October 2017  as they havent retained those. But I dont think thats relevant to Mr 
Cs complaint  as thats before the period in question. Tesco showed us evidence that Mr C 
didnt contact them between 12 October 2017 and 30 May 2022. So  I dont think its 
reasonable to expect Tesco to have known about Mr Cs situation if they werent told about 
it.
Mr C also said that Tesco increased his limit and this encouraged his spending. I looked at 
his statements dated between August 2019 and September 2022 - and the limit was £9,500 
throughout. So  Tesco didnt increase the limit during the period.
In summary, Tesco were entitled to charge the late payment fee of £12 and refunded it 
anyway. His credit file wasnt affected. Im persuaded that Mr Cs account didnt appear to show signs that he was in financial difficulty  which might have caused Tesco to find out 
further information and take action; and there isnt any evidence to show that Tesco were 
made aware of Mr Cs health issues at the time.
And so, on the balance of the evidence Ive reviewed, I think Tesco acted reasonably, and 
Im not going to ask them to do anything here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman