DRN-3662899
The complaint
Mr Hs complaint is about a shared equity loan he took out when he bought his home. The 
loan was provided by the developer, but it is administered by Link Financial Outsourcing 
Limited trading as Elmwood Park. He is unhappy about how much Link said was needed to 
repay the loan and that it has now said a professional valuation needs to be completed on 
the property.
What happened
In 2011, Mr H bought his home with the assistance of a shared equity loan of £29,550 from 
the developer, on which monthly interest was charged. This represented 20% of the value of 
the property of £147,750. The loan had to be repaid by 26 October 2021 and the amount 
needed to do so would be calculated as 20% of the open market value of the property. In 
simple terms, this was the amount the property could be sold for, discounting any groeth in 
value created by improvements made by the buyer. The contract also set out what should 
happen if a figure for the open market value couldnt be agreed between the parties, which 
involved physical valuations being completed by professional valuers. Monthly interest was 
also payable on the loan.
In July 2021 Link wrote to Mr H and asked that he obtain valuations for the property from 
three estate agents so that it could determine the amount needed to repay the loan. Mr H 
confirmed that he was obtaining the necessary valuations, but raised concerns that the 
market values at that time were hugely inflated.
Three valuations were sent to Link in September 2021. Mr H raised concerns about the 
valuations, as they were higher than he had anticipated they would be, for which he credited 
the Covid-19 pandemic furlough scheme and stamp duty holidays. He said hed looked at 
alternative sources for the value of his home and figures of £190,000 and £185,000 were 
suggested. Mr H said that he was concerned that the values by the estate agents were 
reflecting the amount that could be obtained for the property if it were sold, rather than its 
actual value. The valuations were:
Agent A - £180,000 to £200,000
Agent B - £210,000.
Agent C - £189,950 with the possibility of up to £200,000
On 22 September 2021 Link confirmed the open market value, based on the valuations 
provided, was £198,325 and amount needed to repay the loan was £39,665 plus interest. 
Following a question about the average figure, Link confirmed that as agent C had said the 
value was £189,950 with the potential to sell at £200,000, an average of those two figures 
had been used (£194,975). Mr H didnt agree with that approach, and thought the open 
market value should have been calculated using the £189,950 figure.
Link confirmed that if there was a dispute about the market value of a property, both parties 
were required to commission a professional valuation. The average of the two valuations 
would then be used as the open market value. Mr H didnt agree.
Mr S then provided new valuations from two of the three estate agents. Agent B amended 
the value to £200,000 in light of it being a leasehold property, rather than freehold. Agent C 
simply removed comment to the possibility of the property selling for up to £200,000, and 
didnt provide an explanation of why it had changed its opinion. Mr H requested the open 
market value be recalculated accordingly. He also confirmed that he wasnt willing to pay for 
a valuer to complete a valuation on the property because he thought the underlying reason 
for the disagreement was flawed reasoning by Link.
Link didnt agree to review the open market value that had been calculated. Subsequently, 
Link offered to pay for a single professional valuation on which the open market value could 
be based. Mr H didnt accept the offer at the time. 
Mr H complained in October 2021 about the redemption figure Link required him to pay. He 
said he wanted to settle the loan by repaying the amount borrowed plus accrued interest. He 
subsequently paid a lump sum to Link, and Link stopped applying interest while the dispute 
was ongoing.
Link responded to the complaint by explaining how the shared equity loan worked and how 
the value of the loan repayment was calculated. It also confirmed the process if agreement 
couldnt be reached about the value of the property  a physical valuation by a surveyor. 
Link said that is what it proposed should happen. 
Mr H wasnt happy with the response he received and referred his complaint to us. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but he didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. He confirmed that under the loan agreement Mr H had entered into with the 
developer, if there was a dispute about the open market value established from estate agent 
valuations, professional valuations would need to be done. The investigator didnt think Link 
had been incorrect in deciding this was the way forward, given the circumstances. In relation 
to what date valuation should be done as at, he thought it should be done as at the date the 
valuer attended the property. This was due to it being Mr Hs decision to delay the process, 
and while he had made a payment to the loan, it hadnt been fully redeemed, so an up to 
date calculation would be appropriate.
Mr H didnt accept the investigators conclusions and asked that the complaint be referred to 
an ombudsman. He did, however, agree that a valuation could be done on the property, but 
said that didnt mean that he would accept the valuation. Mr H also said highlighted that he 
didnt think there was a disagreement about the open market value of the property, which is 
why he didnt consider a valuation was needed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H entered into a contract that required him to pay the developer 20% of the value of the 
property at the end of ten years. This was caveated, in that if he had done improvements to 
the property that would have increased its value, the increase in value created by the 
improvements wouldnt be taken into account. This is quite normal for this type of 
arrangement. 
So as the end of the loan term approached, Mr H was asked to obtain estate agent 
valuations. He did this and the developer used them to calculate an average value. Its clear 
that even before values were obtained, Mr H was concerned that the values would be higher 
than he believed the property was worth, due to the increase in property prices that had occurred during the stamp duty holidays. 
Where the estate agent gave a range for the value of the property, Link used a mid-point in 
the range for the purposes of the calculation. Link then asked Mr H to pay 20% of the 
average of the three figures. This appears to be in line with the terms of the loan, so I cant 
find that it was wrong to do so.
Mr H wasnt happy with the figure produced and questioned it. He then returned to the estate 
agents for revised valuations. It isnt clear if he approached all three, but it would seem a 
reasonable approach. The first valuation was not replaced. The second was revised down by 
£10,000, with the reason that the estate agent had incorrectly valued the property as 
freehold rather than leasehold. The third estate agent simply said the property was worth the 
lower end of the range it had previously detailed, but didnt explain the change. Link declined 
to review the open market value on the basis of the revised estate agent valuations. It 
concluded that Mr H providing new valuations was effectively him disputing the previous 
ones, and therefore, the open market valuation that had been established. I dont think that 
conclusion was unreasonable.
Estate agents are not usually professional valuers and while they may be experienced 
enough to give a reasonable estimate of a property value, it is generally considered that a 
suitably qualified specialist surveyor will provide a more accurate figure for a propertys 
value. Indeed, many contracts like Mr Hs require such a valuation as standard, so that there 
can be no argument about the value of the property. However, as such a valuation has a 
cost associated with it, it appears the developer decided that it would take a different option, 
which wouldnt necessarily cost its customers anything. 
A surveyor will provide a definitive professional opinion in line with the standards its 
professional body sets it. However, it is possible that an estate agent could be influenced by 
a borrower, so I dont think in the circumstances of this particular case, it was unreasonable 
for Link to accept the estate agents first opinions. When Mr H didnt accept the open market 
valuation calculated from the estate agents valuations he initially obtained, I dont consider 
that it was unreasonable of Link to require a professional valuation to be done. When Mr H 
said he didnt want to incur that cost, it suggested it pay for a single valuation on which the 
open market value could be based. Usually in this situation Mr H would have been expected 
to at least contribute to the costs incurred for a valuation, so I cant find Links offer was 
anything other than reasonable in this regard. 
Mr H remained unhappy that Link wouldnt reassess the open market valuation and didnt 
accept the offer of it commissioning and paying for a valuation. Almost a year has now 
elapsed since the loan was due to be repaid, and while I note that Mr H has made 
substantive payments to it during that time, it has not been repaid because of this dispute. 
As such, while Mr H wants the valuation he has now agreed to, to be backdated to 
October 2021, I dont consider I can reasonably ask Link to do that, as the loan is still in 
place and money owed, at the present time. 
Overall, I dont consider that Link acted inappropriately or incorrectly in relation to its 
administration of his loan.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 
13 October 2022.
 
Derry BaxterOmbudsman