DRN-3335145
The complaint
Mrs B and Mr W complain that Yorkshire Building Society (YBS) didnt do enough to protect 
them when they fell victim to an impersonation scam. 
What happened
Mrs B and Mr W took out an instant access savings account with YBS in June 2020. 
In December 2020 they made two payments of £20,000, believing that they were going to a 
reputable company (Ill refer to as A) that was offering two-year fixed term savings bonds. In 
February 2021 Mrs B and Mr W discovered theyd been the victims of an impersonation 
scam, after their son had tried to contact A and got a recorded message saying the company 
was being investigated and may be part of a scam. 
Mrs B and Mr W contacted YBS to seek its help to try to recover the sums that had been lost 
to the scam. 
YBS explained that it wouldnt refund the first £20,000 lost as the transaction had been 
properly authorised and YBS had followed the correct procedures when it processed the 
payment instruction. But it offered to refund the second £20,000 transaction. It 
acknowledged that while the payment had flagged on YBSs systems, it hadnt carried out 
sufficient checks before processing the payment instructions. It confirmed that it had 
enquired with the beneficiary bank to see whether the first transaction could have been 
recovered had YBS intervened sooner, but it had received confirmation that no funds from 
the first transaction remained in the account by the time the second transaction was 
processed.  
Mrs B and Mr W complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service, as they felt theyd been 
treated unfairly. Our Investigator didnt uphold their complaint. The Investigator explained 
that whilst the first transaction was for a significant sum of money, it wasnt necessarily 
unusual or uncharacteristic for the type of account Mrs B and Mr W held. She was 
persuaded by YBSs argument that it wasnt unusual for a large sum of money to be 
withdrawn from the account, particularly as it coincided with a reduction in the applicable 
interest rate. 
Mrs B and Mr W disagreed and asked for their case to be considered by an Ombudsman for 
a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator and for largely the same 
reasons. I know this will come as a disappointment to Mrs B and Mr W. I realise they were 
the innocent victims of a sophisticated and targeted scam and lost a considerable sum of 
money as a result. In the circumstances, I can appreciate why they want to do all they can to 
recover the money they lost. But I need to decide whether YBS can fairly and reasonably be 
held responsible for their loss. For the reasons Ill go on to explain, I dont think YBS can and 
overall, I cant say Mrs W and Mr B have been treated unfairly.
As YBS has refunded the second payment of £20,000, I dont intend to consider it any 
further. So, my decision will focus purely on the first payment instruction made on 
29 December 2020. 
Its accepted that Mrs B and Mr W authorised the payment of £20,000 from their online 
instant access savings account. While they didnt intend the money to go to the scammers, 
under the Payment Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of their account, 
theyre presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of
practice and good industry practice, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate 
for YBS to take additional steps or make additional checks before processing a payment to 
help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
YBSs first obligation is to follow the instructions that Mrs B and Mr W provide. But if those 
instructions are sufficiently unusual or uncharacteristic for the usual use of the account, Id 
expect YBS to intervene and to ask more about the intended transaction before processing 
it. 
Did YBS do enough to identify the risk of financial harm from fraud?
So, the starting point here is whether the payment instruction YBS received on 
29 December 2020 was unusual or uncharacteristic in relation to the typical account activity. 
YBS has explained that Mrs B and Mr Ws payment instruction didnt flag on its system as 
suspicious. It explained that it has systems in place to highlight potentially suspicious 
transactions but that the first payment instruction didnt trigger this warning system. Unlike, 
the second transaction it didnt use more than 50% of the available account balance and 
there were no other factors that would cause YBS to intervene. I dont consider YBSs 
position here to be unreasonable.
Unlike a current account, where a large transfer may appear on the face of it unusual or 
uncharacteristic, its less likely to appear unusual when made from a savings account. 
Savings accounts arent generally used for day-to-day spending and its not unusual for 
consumers to make large one-off payments, for example because they want to move their 
money to an alternative savings account or to invest elsewhere. In Mrs B and Mr Ws case 
theyd only used their account on four occasions since opening it, and this was to deposit 
large sums into the account. I dont think a single large transfer out of the account would 
have appeared suspicious. YBS has also highlighted that the applicable account interest had 
dropped significantly in the weeks before the transfers were made, which made it more 
plausible that Mrs B and Mr W were just looking to move their money to invest elsewhere. 
Overall, while I appreciate £20,000 was a significant sum to transfer, I dont think it was 
particularly unusual or uncharacteristic for the type of account Mrs B and Mr W held. As 
such, I cant conclude YBS acted unreasonably by processing the payment instruction 
without making further checks with them first. 
Did YBS do enough to attempt the recover the lost funds? 
YBS has provided evidence to show that once notified of the scam it contacted the 
beneficiary bank to see if any funds remained in the scammers account that could be returned to Mrs B and Mr W. Unfortunately, no funds remained by the time the scam was 
notified, and the receiving bank confirmed that the funds had been moved before the second 
transaction was completed. 
YBS is only required to attempt recovery on a best endeavours basis. This means YBS is 
only required to make a reasonable attempt to recover the funds lost to the scam. If the 
money no longer remains in the beneficiary account YBS is not required to refund this 
money itself. As such, Im satisfied it did all it was required to do, and I cant ask it to do 
anything further in respect of the lost funds. 
Overall, while I appreciate Mrs B and Mr Ws understandable disappointment and distress at 
falling victim to an impersonation scam, I cant hold YBS responsible for their loss. Im also 
satisfied that YBS did all it reasonably could do to help recover the lost funds. In the 
circumstances I cant say YBS treated Mrs B and Mr W unfairly and I cant ask them to do 
anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 June 2022.
 
Lisa De Noronha
Ombudsman