DRN-3572801
The complaint
Mr Ds complaint is about charges hes been asked to pay by Mercedes-Benz Financial
Services UK Limited (MBFS).
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in March 2022. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I agree with most of the investigators findings I dont agree that the
charge for damage to the left-hand front wheel is fair and I think MBFS should provide some
compensation to Mr D. Ill explain why.
Mr D acquired his car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.
The terms of the finance agreement held Mr D responsible for keeping the car in good
condition. He would be responsible for any damage if the car wasnt returned in the correct
condition.
The damage charges that remain
Whilst MBFS have their own vehicle return standards the industry guidelines for what is
considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are returned at the end of their lease, is
provided by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA). So, I think that
industry standard is the fairest gauge of whether charges have been levied fairly and Ill use
that when considering the damage in the inspection reports. Ive considered the photographs 
of the damage in the second report and compared the damage to the BVRLA standard.
Left hand front wheel
MBFS removed a charge for damage to the left-hand front tyre as they correctly noted the
tyre wasnt the same make as the one recorded on this wheel in the first inspection.
The photograph in the second inspection report for the damaged front left wheel also shows
a wheel with a different tyre on than was reported to be present on the car when it was
collected. I dont therefore think this is a photograph of the same wheel and I dont think its
fair to levy any charge for damage. MBFS should therefore remove the charge of £110.
Rear tyres
Ive reviewed the photographs in both inspection reports and the tyres dont appear to be the
correct type. The BVRLA guidance says that tyres should comply with the manufacturers
recommendations of tyre type. So, Im persuaded the charge MBFS have levied is
reasonable.
Right hand front tyre
The BVRLA guidance says there must be no damage to side walls and the photograph in the
second inspection shows a small but noticeable gouge. I think the charge is therefore
reasonable.
Door shuts
The photographs show several dents to both door shuts. The BVRLA guidance says that
dents of less than 15mm are acceptable as long as there are no more than two per panel. I
think the photographs show the damage to be outside of this standard and therefore
reasonably chargeable.
Seat cover cut
The BVRLA guidance says the upholstery should have no tears or scratches and the
photograph shows cuts to the seat. Im persuaded the damage is outside of the BVRLA
guidance and is therefore chargeable.
Right hand front door pad
The same guidance applies here, and I can see MBFS reduced the charge to a repair which
I think was reasonable. The damage is outside of the BVRLA standard.
The process
I understand Mr Ds frustration here as the first inspection revealed no damage charges and
the subsequent inspection identified in excess of £1,400 of damage.
Its for MBFS to decide their processes and its for them to decide how they identify any
excess wear and tear that could be chargeable under the agreement.
They explained to Mr D in May 2021 that they would be completing two inspections on the
car. MBFS arent members of the BVRLA, the organisation that provide the industry 
guidelines on what is considered fair wear and tear when a car is returned at the end of a 
lease. But it is reasonable to expect MBFS to be mindful of that industry guidance.
The BVRLA guidance explains that whilst some companies may provide a condition report
on collection of the car, others may complete the final inspection off site.
So, I dont think it was unreasonable for MBFS to complete a further and final inspection.
The BVRLA guidance recommends that drivers (or nominated representatives) are present
when vehicles are collected. It says that all readily apparent damage and wear will be
documented when the vehicle is collected, and the driver will be given an opportunity to
agree with the condition report.
Mr D was given an opportunity to attend the first inspection and to agree to the condition
report but that initial inspection didnt identify any of the extensive damage that was noted
during the second inspection.
He wasnt given an opportunity to attend the second inspection and Ive therefore thoughtabout whether this disadvantaged him and whether the results would have been different
had he been present.
I think the charges for the left-hand front tyre and wheel wouldnt have been made if Mr D
was allowed to be present. I say that because I think its clear he would have noticed it was a
different wheel/tyre.
Mr C has therefore been inconvenienced by not being allowed to attend that second
inspection. And hes had to escalate his complaint to this service when I think it may have
been resolved earlier had he been present.
Ive reviewed the video evidence Mr D provided of the initial collection/inspection. The
inspector explained the car was in good nick and suggested there was just some damage
to a mirror. Whilst the inspector does mention that MBFS will go through it again I think the
inspector left Mr D with the impression that all was good, and no charges would be applied.
I think that was unfair and I question the point of the first inspection at all if it fails to identify
over £1,400 worth of damage. If it was simply a collection by an unqualified inspector I think
MBFS should have clearly explained that to Mr D. The failure to do so and the failure to
invite Mr D to the subsequent inspection have inconvenienced him and I can imagine it
would have been distressing to receive a bill for a lot of money when the initial inspector had
suggested that wouldnt be likely.
In those circumstances I think MBFS should pay Mr D £250 in compensation for the distress
and inconvenience caused.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im expecting to uphold this complaint in part and to tell
Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited to:
Waive the charge of £110 for the left-hand front wheel damage.
Pay Mr D £250 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience caused.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
MBFS accepted my provisional decision and Mr D didnt provide any further information. So, 
Ive not been provided with any further information that would lead me to change my 
provisional decision on this complaint.
Putting things right
My provisional decision therefore becomes my final decision on this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint in part and tell Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited to:
Waive the charge of £110 for the left-hand front wheel damage.
Pay Mr D £250 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or reject my decision before 10 August 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman