DRN-3023043
The complaint
Mr G complains that Tesco Underwriting Limited (Tesco) avoided his home insurance policy
and refused to pay his claim for water damage. 
What happened
Mr G took out a home insurance policy with Tesco in March 2020. In February 2021 there
was a water leak at the property and Mr G made a claim on his policy.
Mr G completed his application for the policy on a price comparison website. He was asked
how many bedrooms the house had, and he answered five. When Mr G first reported the
water damage, he told Tesco that the property had six bedrooms. When this was queried, he
corrected this to five bedrooms and provided a copy of the floor plan in support. Tesco then
made further enquiries and concluded that the property had six bedrooms. Tesco said that
Mr G had made a careless misrepresentation when he applied for the policy. They said that
they would not have insured the property had they known it had six bedrooms and so
avoided the policy from the beginning. They refunded the policy premiums to Mr G. They
declined to deal with his claim for water damage.
Mr G complained to Tesco. He said that he had initially been told to proceed to investigate
the leak and carry out repairs. He said that he had bought the property as a five-bedroom
property with a small upstairs study. He said that this room had always been used as a study
and that he had completed the policy application correctly.
Tesco did not uphold the complaint. They said that they had found sales advertising
information online that listed the property as a six-bedroom property. They said that during
the online policy application Mr G had been asked about the number of bedrooms and to
include any that were now being used for something else, such as a study. They said that Mr
G had made a careless misrepresentation by answering five. As they did not insure
properties with more than five bedrooms, they had correctly avoided the policy and declined
the claim.
Mr G was not happy with Tescos response and brought his complaint to us. As well as the
claim itself, he also claims compensation for distress and inconvenience as the work to
repair the damage has been left unfinished and has caused him and his family a lot of
stress. Our investigator looked into the matter but did not think the complaint should be
upheld. He agreed that the property had six bedrooms. He thought there had been a
qualifying misrepresentation and that it was careless rather than deliberate or reckless.
Because of this he thought Tesco was entitled to avoid Mr Gs policy and decline his claim.
Mr G responded by saying that the study had never been a bedroom and was too small to
be used as such. He also said it was built with a telephone point for use as a study. He
provided a copy of the sales particulars showing the house had been marketed as a five-
bedroom property. He did not agree with our investigator and asked for the matter to be
referred to an ombudsman. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 9 August 2021. I said:
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not 
to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The 
standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Tesco thinks Mr G failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he
stated in his insurance application that his house had five bedrooms and not six.
Ive looked at the question that Mr G was asked in the application process. He was asked
how many bedrooms the house had and to include rooms that were originally built as a
bedroom and any that have been converted for another use, e.g. a study or office. I think
that the question asked is clear. If Mr Gs study had originally been a bedroom, he should
have declared it as such.
It is not disputed that Mr G said in his policy application that the property had five bedrooms.
The question is  was this correct? If Mr G answered the question correctly, there can be no
misrepresentation.
Tesco maintain that the house has six bedrooms. They say that they were alerted to this by
their conversation with Mr G when he first rang to report the leak. They say that the property
was sold to Mr G as a six-bedroom property, and they rely on a property advertising website
which says that the property had been listed for sale in 2018 as a six-bedroom property.
Mr G accepts that when he first reported the leak, he said the house had six bedrooms but
says that this was just a mistake, and that he had corrected himself immediately this was
pointed out to him. He says that he was suffering considerable stress at the time due to the
leak and trying to organise a plumber to stop the leak as soon as possible. It was this
comment by Mr G that led to Tesco investigating the claim. Although I accept that this
comment is not helpful for Mr G, I do not think on its own it is enough to satisfy me that the
house has six bedrooms as Mr G has provided an explanation for his mistake.
Tesco have provided a screenshot of the property advertising website listing that they rely on
to support their case. This clearly lists the property as having six bedrooms. However, I note
that the floor plan attached to the listing shows that the property has four bedrooms, a study
and a bedroom/office above the garage. Mr G has said that the bedroom/office was declared
as bedroom five in his insurance policy application. It is therefore the study that is the issue
in this case. I have also searched the property advertising website and the property is now
listed as having four bedrooms. Bearing in mind the differing information, I do not think that
this website is a reliable source of information on the number of bedrooms.
Mr G says that when the property was sold to him it was sold as a five-bedroom property. He
has provided a copy of the sales particulars which refer to it as an individually built 5
bedroom family home. However, the particulars go on to describe a master suite and four
further bedrooms on the first floor. There is no mention of a study. The room above thegarage is described separately as a studio/hobby room and not as a bedroom. This would
suggest that the study on the first floor of the main house is one of the five bedrooms
referred to.
However, I have also looked at the floor plan that was provided as part of the sales
particulars. The plan refers to four bedrooms and a study on the first floor, and a
bedroom/office above the garage. This would suggest to me that the room above the garage
is bedroom number five. The text in the sales particulars does not correspond with the floor
plan, and I dont therefore find the sales particulars helpful in determining the number of
bedrooms.
Mr G says that he purchased the property as a five-bedroomed house. As far as he is aware
the room was built as a study with a dedicated phone line. I have seen photos of the room
being used as a study now and one from the previous owner also showing the room being
used as a study. I have not seen any evidence showing that the room has ever been used
as a bedroom or was originally built as a bedroom. All the floor plans I have seen, provided
by Mr G and Tesco, refer to it as a study.
Mr G also says that the study is too small to be a bedroom. I can see from the
measurements that the room is very small. It measures 2.48m by 1.96m, and so is 4.86
square metres. Mr G says that this is below the size suggested by building regulations as
being suitable for an adult bedroom. Although I am not sure the regulations are legally
binding in a private home, they do provide some guidance on room size. Even if the room is
small for an adult bedroom, I think it could be used as a childs bedroom. However, if the
room were built as a childs room or nursery, I would expect it to be next to, or at least near
to, the master bedroom, which it isnt. I would also not expect a bedroom to have a
dedicated phone line.
Ive not been provided with any original plans for the house or any other evidence to show
how many bedrooms the house had when it was built, so I must base my decision on the
information I have. It is for Tesco to satisfy me that it is more likely than not that Mr G
answered the question on the application incorrectly, and I dont think they have done this.
For the reasons given above, I dont think that it is reasonable to rely on the information
provided on the property advertising website. In addition, I think Mr G has provided
information which suggests that it is more likely the study had never been a bedroom. On
balance I am satisfied that he answered the question correctly, and that the house has five
bedrooms. There can, therefore, be no misrepresentation and I intend to uphold the
complaint.
Mr G is entitled to be put back into the position he would have been in had Tesco not made
a mistake. Tesco must reinstate the policy and deal with the claim for water damage. Mr G
had his policy unfairly avoided and would have had to declare that when taking out further
house insurance. If this has cost Mr G more as a result, I ask Mr G to provide evidence of
this and I will consider compensation to cover the additional cost. Tesco should also ensure
that any note of the policy being avoided is removed from internal and external records.
I also have to consider compensation for distress and inconvenience. Mr G and his family
would always have suffered some inconvenience due to the repairs being completed.
However, Tescos mistake has caused delay and I think that it is fair for compensation to be
paid. Mr G also says that the process of his claim being declined, and his policy avoided,
has caused him a lot of stress and anxiety. I accept this must have been a stressful situation.
I therefore intend to make an award of £250 compensation to reflect the distress and
inconvenience caused.
Response to my provisional decisionTesco pointed out that Mr Gs policy cannot be reinstated as such as the policy was not 
renewed and has now expired. However, they agreed that it can remain valid up until the 
renewal date. They also said that as the policy had been avoided, they had refunded the full 
years policy premiums to Mr G. This amounted to £230.51. They asked that this sum be 
returned to them before they deal with the claim.
Mr G accepted my provisional decision. He also understood that the premiums would need 
to be repaid.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the additional comments made by Tesco. I agree that the premiums should 
be repaid by Mr G. This will reflect the fact that the avoidance is being removed and Mr G 
will be getting the benefit of the policy. I think the simplest way to do this is to deduct the 
sum of £230.51 from the compensation. Mr G is aware of this.
Apart from taking into account the above, I see no reason to change my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right, I require Tesco to:
1. remove the avoidance on Mr Gs home insurance policy so that it remained effective 
up until the date of renewal;
2. deal with the claim for water damage under the policy;
3. remove any record of the avoidance from both internal and external databases; and 
4. pay compensation of £250 for distress and inconvenience less the value of the policy 
premiums of £230.51.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Gs complaint and require Tesco Underwriting Limited to 
put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2021. 
Elizabeth Middleton
Ombudsman