DRN-2043622
The complaint
Miss R complains about a hard credit search that was completed when she was looking for 
car finance with Carfinance247 Limited.
What happened
Miss R made an enquiry for car finance with Carfinance247. She was unhappy with the APR 
she was offered and asked Carfinance247 whether a lower rate could be obtained. Miss R 
says she agreed to Carfinance247 making enquiries provided that a hard credit search 
wasnt carried out.
Miss R says she had to chase Carfinance247 several times and was eventually advised that 
a lower APR wasnt available. She subsequently discovered that a hard credit search had 
been carried out and complained to Carfinance247.
In response, Carfinance247 acknowledged that it had advised Miss R that hard searches 
would not be carried out until she was happy to proceed. It acknowledged that as a result of 
its actions, the proposal to the lender had triggered the lender to carry out a hard credit 
search. Carfinance247 apologised to Miss R. It said it had asked the lender to remove the 
hard credit search from Miss Rs credit file and offered her compensation of £25.
Miss R wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service. She said shed had 
to contact Carfinance247 multiple times to raise a complaint and didnt feel that the level of 
compensation reflected the level of inconvenience caused to her.
Our investigator didnt think Carfinance247 had acted fairly. She thought the compensation 
should be increased to £50 to reflect the inconvenience caused.
Miss R didnt agree. She thought she should be awarded more compensation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the time Miss R enquired about car finance, it was on the understanding that there would 
be no hard credit searches. Carfinance247 has acknowledged that it made an error which 
resulted in a hard credit search being carried out. 
I appreciate that Miss R feels that it took some time for Carfinance247 to register her 
complaint. Im unable to comment specifically on this because I havent been provided with 
any information to show how many times Miss R tried to register a complaint. A business is 
allowed up to 8 weeks to investigate a complaint and I can see that Carfinance247 issue a 
response within the time limit.
I can see that Carfinance247 apologised to Miss R and arranged for the hard search to be 
removed. This is what I would expect it to have done. The search was performed on 6 
August 2019 and was removed on 18 September 2019, so it was on Miss Rs credit file for 
around 6 weeks. Miss R has said that she was concerned about the negative impact of this. 
However, I havent seen any evidence that Miss R was negatively impacted or had her ability 
to apply for finance affected in any way.
The nub of this complaint relates to the level of compensation offered by the business. Ive 
thought about whether £25 was a reasonable offer. On balance, I dont think it was enough. 
Miss R was concerned about the hard search being recorded on her credit file for around 6 
weeks, which is a significant period of time. Im persuaded that this wouldve caused her 
distress. Miss R was also inconvenienced at having to complain about something which 
shed been assured wouldnt happen. I think a fair and reasonable amount of compensation 
in the circumstances is £50.
Putting things right
Carfinance247 must pay further compensation to Miss R.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Carfinance247 Limited must pay total 
compensation of £50 to Miss R for trouble and upset.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 January 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman