DRN-3999365
The complaint
Mr M says Standard Life Assurance Limited (SLAL) delayed a fund switch within his 
pension. He instructed the switch on 27 September 2022 and it was completed on 30 
September 2022. He says the delay resulted in a financial loss, because the transaction 
generated £2,627 less on 30 September than it would have generated on 27 September. 
SLAL concedes that execution of his instruction was delayed by a day, but it says the unit 
price on 27 September would never have been used for the transaction in any case. It also 
says that the delayed execution happened on a higher and more favourable price than the 
price a day earlier, so Mr M benefitted from it and he did not make a financial loss.
Both sides acknowledge that a separate matter about Mr Ms customer service experience 
has been resolved by a compensation payment to him. The present complaint is only about 
execution of his instruction.
What happened
One of our investigators looked into the case and reached a conclusion that agreed with 
SLALs position. 
He found that the terms and conditions for the fund confirmed switches would be made on 
the second or third business day after receiving instructions; that Mr M was informed to this 
effect during his telephone call with SLAL on 27 September; that there is no evidence of 
execution values being discussed during the call and no evidence of a basis for him to 
expect the execution value to be calculated on 27 September prices; that his instruction on 
27 September should have been executed on 29 September; that instead it was executed on 
30 September, at a higher value than was available on 29 September; that there is no 
financial loss; and that the customer service compensation he received fairly covers the 
whole matter.
Mr M disagreed with this outcome and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. He highlighted 
that the customer service matter was beyond the investigators remit, because it had already 
been resolved and it was not the matter referred to our service. He maintains that 
compensation for his financial loss claim remains outstanding. 
He says he expected the transaction to be akin to a bank transfer; that he was led to form 
the understanding his instruction would be executed on the day it was given (27 September), 
hence evidence of him raising queries and concerns the next day (and onwards) when he 
saw the switch had yet to happen; that the three days execution period was mentioned only 
during an earlier call with SLAL when he enquired into his options, but it was not mentioned 
during the call in which he gave the instruction; that he was given no notice that the 
execution value could go down or up during this period; and that this period is unclear in the 
terms and conditions, so it was reasonable for him to have the expectation he had.
The matter was referred to an Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with Mr Ms comment about the customer service experience matter. There is 
available evidence that it has been resolved, through compensation from SLAL to him, and 
that he confirmed at the outset that only the fund switch execution issue has been referred to 
us. 
However, it appears that the investigator was expressing his finding that the compensation 
Mr M received for the trouble and upset caused to him by the customer service before the 
execution stage is enough to cover any additional trouble and upset caused to him during 
the execution stage. Hence the investigators reference to the whole matter. I take the same 
view. As I explain below, execution of the instruction was delayed by only one day, and that 
delay created a financial benefit (not loss) for Mr M, so in this context I do not find grounds 
for additional compensation for any trouble and upset caused by the delay. 
The above relates only to consideration of trouble and upset, and should not be confused 
with Mr Ms claim for financial loss, which is distinct and is addressed next.
The terms and conditions for the policy are not unclear about the execution period for fund 
switches. In fact, a brief but meaningful description of what to expect is given in the relevant 
section  which Mr M ought reasonably to have consulted to inform his decision making and 
instruction.
Evidence that has been shared with us includes a copy of sections 5.24 and 5.25 of the 
terms, which address Switching between funds. Mr M instructed the switch from an 
invested holding to a cash holding, in order to safeguard his assets from market volatility at 
the time. He was essentially liquidating the former and placing the proceeds in the latter. 
Section 5.25 says the liquidation or switch would normally happen on the second or third 
business day after receipt of instruction, but it warns that this could be delayed for reasons 
given in an earlier section. 
Those reasons broadly relate to the forward pricing basis for the fund and problems that 
could arise in its operation. I do not say or suggest that such problems existed in the present 
case. However, the forward pricing basis for the fund is a relevant fact  one that was also 
covered in the terms and one that SLAL reminded Mr M of within its complaint response. It 
said  
We apply forward pricing to all fund switches to ensure fairness between investors leaving 
any individual fund and those remaining. The value of a plan on any given day reflects the 
value of the underlying investments at close of business the previous day. When a fund 
switch request is received we cant offer the current plan value, as that is effectively 
yesterdays value. To do so, would allow an investor to potentially benefit at the expense of 
other investors in the fund. Similarly, we cant offer the price which will be published the 
following day as, again, this could allow an investor to take advantage of market movements 
on the day that the instruction is received. That is why the plan terms and conditions specify 
that two business day forward pricing will be applied to all switches.
The above explanation was rooted in the terms for and operation of the fund, an operation 
that was/is similar to the methods used in liquidating units in other funds of the same type. In 
real terms, the unit price on 27 September would never have been applied to Mr Ms 
instruction. SLAL did not promise him that and I have not seen evidence that it led him to 
expect that. If he formed such an expectation by himself, SLAL does not share responsibility for that. Indeed, there is telephone transcript evidence showing that SLAL clearly informed 
him about the two to three days execution period (including the instruction day), so his 
expectation of execution on the instruction day was inconsistent with the notice he had been 
given.
Due to the time at which the instruction was received (on 27 September) and when it was 
picked up by the relevant official (on 28 September), SLAL explains that execution ought to 
have settled on the third day (29 September). Unfortunately, in terms of process, that was 
not the case. The liquidation and switch transaction was completed on 30 September. 
However, fortunately for Mr M, the value of the transaction on 30 September was more than 
it would have been on 29 September. The difference was not a great amount, but a higher 
value was achieved nevertheless. I am persuaded that there was no financial loss in the 
transaction caused by the delay of one day.
Mr M says SLAL assured him on 27 September that his instruction would be actioned 
immediately. He also says we do not appear to have been given the full transcripts for the 
entire contents of the telephone conversations between both sides on this date, including the 
assurance he asserts. However, this assertion does not amount to evidence that SLAL 
undertook to execute and settle the transaction on this date. There was a process to follow. 
On balance, I consider it more likely (than not) that any such statement from SLAL about 
actioning the instruction would have meant no more than beginning that process. As I said 
above, due to the time at which his instruction was received the process began the next day.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 May 2023.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman