DRN-3813786
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) avoided his policy, 
declined his claim, and retained the policy premiums. 
What happened
In May 2017, Mr P took out a motor insurance policy with Advantage via a price comparison 
website which he renewed each year. 
In March 2022, he made a claim on his policy as his car was stolen. While considering the 
claim, Advantage said Mr P answered the questions he was asked about his occupation 
incorrectly and considered this to be a reckless qualifying misrepresentation. As a result, 
they avoided the policy, declined the claim, and retained the policy premiums. 
Mr P then raised a complaint with our service, but our investigator didnt uphold it. He agreed 
Mr P had made a qualifying reckless misrepresentation and said Advantage had acted fairly 
by avoiding his policy in response.
Mr P disagreed and requested a final decision. In doing so, he said he was particularly upset  
Advantage had treated his honest mistake as a reckless misrepresentation. He also said he 
was unhappy with the way Advantage carried out their investigation as they'd relied on 
information posted online about him. Our investigator considered his comments, but his 
opinion remained the same.
So, Ive considered the complaint afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as -  a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show they would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Advantage thinks Mr P made a qualifying misrepresentation when he applied for the policy in 
May 2017 and declared his occupation.
Ive looked at the questions Mr P was asked when he applied for the policy and Im satisfied 
they were clear. He was asked:
What job do you do?
What industry do you work in?
Do you do any other work?
Mr P responded to these questions by selecting the following answers from a drop down 
menu: teacher, education, and no.
This information was incorrect as based on the employment contracts hes provided - Mr P 
was employed as a sports coach for a professional club. This had also been his role for 
several years before he took out the policy.
Ive also seen the list of possible job titles Mr P could have chosen, these include many 
suitable options including coach and professional sports coach. So, I dont think Mr P took 
reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation.
Mr P has said his role in 2017 included some elements of teaching and educating others, but 
I dont think this would reasonably justify selecting teacher and education as the appropriate 
job title and industry. I also acknowledge Mr Ps comment that he previously worked in a 
school, but as he wasnt asked about his previous occupation, and hed been working in his 
current position for several years, I also dont think this information should reasonably have 
impacted his answers. Hes also said he doesnt remember there being a more suitable 
option, but as mentioned above, Im satisfied this wasnt the case. There were several 
options, relating to coaching and sports, which he could reasonably have selected including 
professional sports coach.
Based on Mr Ps employment contracts, Im satisfied his occupation remained incorrect for 
each policy year including 2022, when he made the claim. While he did have a change of job 
title a few years after taking out the policy, he was still working as a different type of 
professional sports coach. I also note that Mr P received a renewal notice each year, that 
asked him to confirm all the information hed previously provided remained correct. So, he 
had many opportunities to change or clarify his occupation. 
Advantage have provided their underwriting criteria, and this shows that had Mr P declared 
his occupation accurately, they wouldnt have provided him with a policy in 2017, or in any 
subsequent policy year. So, this means Im satisfied Mr Ps misrepresentation was a 
qualifying one under CIDRA. 
Advantage have said Mr Ps qualifying misrepresentation was reckless, as he provided an 
incorrect occupation for many years, despite having several opportunities to change it.
CIDRA explains that  A qualifying misrepresentation is deliberate or reckless if the 
consumer
(a)knew that it was untrue or misleading, or did not care whether or not it was untrue 
or misleading, and
(b)knew that the matter to which the misrepresentation related was relevant to the 
insurer, or did not care whether or not it was relevant to the insurer.Im satisfied the above definition reflects the circumstances here. As based on the evidence 
Ive seen and the explanations given, Mr P should reasonably have known the occupation he 
disclosed was relevant to Advantage, and that it was untrue. I also note that he didnt 
attempt to change or clarify his occupation, following receipt of the statement of insurance or 
any of the annual renewal notices. So, while I appreciate Mr P feels strongly that he just 
made an honest mistake, I dont think Advantage have concluded unreasonably that his 
misrepresentation was reckless.
CIDRA also explains that in the event, a qualifying deliberate or reckless misrepresentation 
takes place, the insurer can avoid the policy, decline all claims and retain the policy 
premiums. As that reflects the circumstances here, Im satisfied Advantage have applied 
CIDRA appropriately and treated Mr P fairly.
Mr P has said Advantage shouldnt have relied on online research to determine if his 
occupation was correct. I appreciate this felt intrusive, however, insurers are entitled to verify 
disclosed information, and this can include checking online resources. In addition, as Mr P is 
aware, the employment evidence hes since provided our service, supports Advantages 
conclusion that the occupation he declared when he took out the policy was incorrect. So, 
even if Advantage had reviewed his employment contracts, the outcome of their 
investigation would still have been the same. Im also satisfied that before they reached their 
outcome, they gave Mr P a fair opportunity to explain the discrepancy with his occupation 
and provide any evidence he thought was relevant. So, under the circumstances, this is all 
Id reasonably expect them to do. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2022.
 
Claire Greene
Ombudsman