DRN-3011399
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) declined his claim for damage caused by 
an escape of water and cancelled his home insurance policy.
What happened
Briefly, Mr K suffered an escape of water from the tank in his loft which caused significant 
damage to his bathroom, bedroom, hallway, kitchen and living room. UKI carried out some 
initial work, including testing for asbestos containing materials and drying out, and it paid for 
alternative accommodation (AA) while doing this. However, after assessing the damage, UKI 
thought Mr K was claiming for damage already settled in previous claims. UKI said Mr K had 
made a fraudulent claim and cancelled his policy. 
Our investigator thought UKI had provided enough evidence to support its decision to cancel 
the policy. She didnt think UKI had treated Mr K unfairly.
Mr K didnt agree because he didnt think he was required to use the cash settlement from 
previous claims to replace or repair any damage. He thought it was unfair that UKI cancelled 
his policy so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise this is a serious matter for Mr K. UKI isnt paying for the damage to his home and it 
cancelled the policy in a way which may have implications for him obtaining insurance in the 
future. So, I understand that Mr K will be disappointed with my decision not to uphold his 
complaint. Ill explain my decision now.
Theres a lot of information about this and previous claims Mr K made, and Ive looked 
through everything provided. The detail is well-known to both Mr K and UKI, so I havent 
described the claims in any great detail here. Thats because the key issue of complaint is 
UKIs decision to decline the claim and cancel the policy, and whether it was fair to do so for 
the reasons it gave. Ill comment on any relevant evidence where appropriate to explain my 
decision.
The fact that Mr Ks home was damaged by an escape of water is not in dispute. The issue 
is that UKI thought Mr Ks claim overlapped previously settled claims. UKI cancelled the 
policy because it thought he was trying to benefit in a way that his policy didnt entitle him to. 
UKI considered his claim fraudulent.
So, Ive gone on to look at the evidence to see whether UKI demonstrated that it had good 
reason to suspect fraud and, therefore, cancel the policy. As Ive said, theres a lot of 
information about this claim so Ill concentrate on some of the main points.
Claims
Mr K made a claim under his policy with UKI following escape of water in each of 2014, 
2015, and 2016. UKI didnt offer to renew the policy after these claims and Mr K says he had 
cover elsewhere for two years. Mr K then bought a new policy with UKI in 2018 and claimed 
for accidental damage in 2019. The claim in dispute now is a further escape of water which 
happened in 2020. 
Each of the claims between 2014 and 2019 were cash settled at a total value of just under 
£125,000. The estimated value of Mr Ks 2020 escape of water claim was in excess of 
£100,000.
Carpet
Mr K claimed under his policy for damage to his carpet. On investigation, UKI found that it 
was the same carpet for which he claimed in 2014 and 2016. While carpets can be matched 
easily, Ive seen the photos and description which show that damage to the backing is the 
same as that evident in 2014. During the 2016 claim, Mr K provided a pro forma invoice 
showing the cost of the replacement carpet and later asked UKI to reimburse him for the 
additional cost when the supplier reduced the discount available to him. He also asked UKI 
to pay the VAT and cover the cost of a skip to dispose of the carpet, which it did.
Its clear from the photo evidence here that Mr K hadnt replaced his carpet after his first 
claim, and Mr K confirmed that. So the subsequent claims for damage in 2016 and again in 
2020 were for the same carpet. If Mr K had replaced the carpet after each claim and it was 
damaged again, then it wouldve been fair for him to claim. However, the evidence shows 
that he didnt replace the carpet although he received payment for it again along with 
disposal costs. So, his claim for cash settlement in 2020 wouldve been for financial gain 
rather than indemnifying him for loss. I think it was fair that UKI considered this a fraudulent 
claim.
Bedroom furniture
Mr K claimed for water damage to his bedroom furniture. UKI inspected the damage and 
took photos. Ive looked at the photos alongside those taken by UKI during Mr Ks 2016 
claim. Its clear from the woodgrain pattern that the bedroom furniture is the same as that 
previously claimed for. While Mr K says he claimed for the inside of the wardrobes only, UKI 
cash settled his 2016 claim having received a pro forma invoice from him showing the doors 
were replaced and vinyl wrapped. 
Based on this evidence, Im satisfied that UKI fairly concluded that Mr K had made a second 
claim for furniture repairs which it had already paid for. I think it was reasonable that UKI 
considered this a fraudulent claim. 
Lounge furniture
Some of Mr Ks suite was damaged by the escape of water and he claimed for replacement 
of the full suite. His policy covers undamaged matching items. Mr K provided a replacement 
quote from a furniture retailer. The following day UKI challenged the claim because it was for 
electrically operated rather than manually operated reclining furniture. Mr K provided a 
further quote, but UKI noted that it was the same as the original quote, including the date 
which was before it asked for the evidence, and appeared to have been amended to say 
manual rather than electric.
Further, I note that Mr K had claimed for lounge furniture in 2016 and UKI cash settled the 
claim. However, UKI recorded that the retailer confirmed it hadnt supplied a new suite to him. Mr K said that UKI couldve taken the furniture away in line with the policy terms when 
he received a cash settlement in 2016 but it didnt do so. While that may be the case, I dont 
think that means its reasonable to make a second claim for the same furniture. I can see 
why UKI considered this further evidence of fraud.
I must be clear that these are just a few examples from the claim that UKI felt were duplicate 
or unwarranted claims. Amongst others, it also challenged Mr Ks claims for: AA which 
wouldnt have been needed because repairs werent done; AA for which Mr K couldnt 
provide a receipt; additional costs for work to move a boiler which he didnt actually have 
moved, and invoices from a retailer who confirmed to UKI that it didnt do the work detailed 
on the invoices Mr K submitted as evidence for his claims.
Mr K asked where in his policy it says that he cant have repairs done at a lower cost than 
the cash settlement, or that he must even have the repairs done. I know Mr K thinks he was 
entitled to use previous cash settlements in any way he saw fit because UKI wouldve 
discharged its responsibility under the policy when it made the payment. I understand the 
point hes making. If he chose not to replace his carpet after UKI paid for a replacement, that 
was his choice. But UKI would no longer have any responsibility to him for that same carpet. 
Therefore, when he made a further claim for the carpet which he hadnt replaced, he was 
deceiving UKI, whether or not he intended to. As UKI had already cash settled for damage 
which appeared again on his claims, I cant fairly conclude that Mr K was simply mistaken on 
each occasion.
Overall, Im satisfied that UKI provided enough evidence to show that it was reasonable to 
suspect fraud.
The Insurance Act 2015 sets out what an insurer can do where it suspects fraud:
It doesnt have to pay the claim.
It can ask the consumer to return any money paid for the fraudulent claims.
It can cancel the policy from the date of the fraudulent act.
It doesnt have to refund any premiums the consumer paid.
Ive looked to see whether it was clear to Mr K when he took out his policy, the options 
available to UKI if it believed he hadnt provided a true account of events. The policy states:
Fraud
You must be honest in your dealings with us at all times. We will not pay a claim that is in 
any way fraudulent, false or exaggerated. If you, any person insured under this policy or 
anyone acting on your behalf attempts to deceive us or knowingly makes a fraudulent, false 
or exaggerated claim:
your policy may be cancelled
we may reject your claim and any subsequent claims
we may keep any premium you have paid.
What happens if we discover fraud
We have the right to cancel any other products you hold with us and share information 
about your behaviour with other organisations to prevent further fraud. We may also involve 
the relevant authorities who are empowered to bring criminal proceedings. If a fraudulent, 
false or exaggerated claim has been made under any other policy you hold with us, we may 
cancel this policy.
Im satisfied that the terms are clear, and that cancellation of the policy was an option 
available to UKI if it discovered fraud or any attempt to deceive it with false information.Ive looked at the other issues Mr K raised. He complained that UKI gave him incorrect 
information when he first made a claim. UKI said he didnt have matching items cover, which 
it later realised was a mistake. I agree that was a shortfall on UKIs part but, as the claim 
was declined, I dont think Mr K has suffered any loss or been disadvantaged by its mistake.
Finally, I understand that more recently Mr K said he didnt actually make a claim so he cant 
be held to have made a fraudulent claim. I havent seen any evidence to support what he 
says, but there is plenty of evidence to show that he did make a claim. Mr K reported the 
loss, asked for AA, and accepted payments in lieu of UKI accepting his claim. I cant fairly 
conclude that Mr K wasnt intending to make a claim. 
Overall, Im satisfied that UKI provided Mr K with enough evidence and information to show 
why it reached the conclusion that hed provided false information when making his claim. 
Therefore, I think it was reasonable that UKI declined the claim and cancelled the policy in 
line with the relevant terms and the Insurance Act 2015. I see no reason to ask UKI to 
reinstate the policy or accept Mr Ks claim.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman