DRN-4286429
The complaint
Mr D complains about the way 247 Money Group Limited has dealt with him in respect of a 
hire-purchase agreement used to acquire a car.
What happened
In January 2022 Mr D entered into a 52-month hire-purchase agreement with 247 Money for 
a used car. The car was first registered in May 2011 and had an odometer reading of around 
60,000 miles. It was priced at just under £9,000. The total amount payable under the hire-
purchase agreement was shown as £16,249.48.
A couple of weeks after taking delivery Mr D contacted 247 Money to say that the car was 
losing power when driven at more than 60 miles per hour. He says the dealer initially fixed 
the problem, but that it later recurred and that when he sought to exercise his right to cancel, 
247 Money wouldnt allow him to do so. Mr D also raised concerns over tyre scuffs, a roof 
problem and recall notices hed received from the car manufacturer.
Mr D describes that he spent many hours in communication with 247 Money, causing him 
stress and anxiety. He further believes the lender breached data protection regulations in its 
calls to him. He says that 247 Money continued to chase him for payment after it collected 
the car from him, and that it unfairly recorded adverse payment information on his credit file.
247 Money says that when Mr D first raised the loss of power issue it took steps to assist by 
providing him with financial support towards the cost of alternative transport and liaised with 
the dealer on his behalf to try to arrange the repair. It says that the tyre scuffs and recall 
notices werent issues amounting to a breach of the obligation to provide a vehicle that was 
of satisfactory quality. It has no record of a second power failure, and says that while Mr D 
mentioned the problem with the car roof, he didnt provide any evidence to substantiate the 
problem in response to its request.
In respect of any outstanding issues, 247 Money told Mr D it wasnt willing to accept his 
rejection of the car without supporting evidence. It offered him £150 towards the cost of any 
repair or to offset against the cost of an inspection report to support his claim. It says Mr D 
declined this proposal. As Mr D had stopped paying, 247 Money recorded this information on 
his credit file and took steps to recover the vehicle, holding him liable for the remaining 
balance less the resale value of the car. In respect of Mr Ds concerns over the telephone 
numbers used to call him, 247 Money said it found nothing to indicate it had breached data 
protection regulations.
Our investigator wasnt persuaded that, given the cars age and mileage, the repairs 
undertaken indicated it wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied to Mr D. Those repairs 
had been carried out at no cost to Mr D. In the investigators view the evidence of further 
problems wasnt enough to support a finding that the car was not of satisfactory quality.
In addition, the investigator was satisfied that 247 Money had defaulted Mr Ds account due 
to arrears, following the appropriate default notice being sent to him. He didnt consider 247 
Money had been wrong to terminate the agreement or take possession of the car. He further 
concluded that there was no persuasive evidence of any breach of data protection 
regulations or that Mr D had been caused any material loss or other impact even if the calls 
had been made from mobile numbers.
The investigator acknowledged what Mr D had said about the impact the matter had on his 
mental health and offered to provide details of support organisations. But in terms of Mr Ds 
dispute with 247 Money, the investigator didnt recommend that it take any further action.
Mr D didnt accept the investigators assessment and asked for this review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see from my review of the correspondence between Mr D and 247 Money  and his 
correspondence with our service  that the situation has caused him to feel distressed and 
anxious. I have empathy with him over this, as anyone would. But Im afraid I am going to 
disappoint him once again when I say that Ive reached a similar conclusion to our 
investigator, and for much the same reasons as have previously been explained.
Due to the provisions of the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA), the agreement between 
247 Money and Mr D is to be read as including a term that the car would be of satisfactory 
quality. That means the quality a reasonable person would expect in the circumstances  
taking into account, for example, the cars age, price and mileage.
When he took delivery of it, Mr Ds car was already over ten years old, and while its mileage 
was perhaps below average for its age, its price was significantly lower than a similar car 
would have cost new. I think its reasonable to expect that such a car might need some 
repairs during the course of the hire-purchase agreement  not because of any inherent fault 
but due to the general wear and tear that happens to mechanical parts. The issue with the 
car roof and the tyre scuffs would likely fall into that category.
I take a similar view in respect of the vehicle recall notices. Ive no reason to think that these 
would provide Mr D with a valid claim in breach of contract. It is, unfortunately, common 
enough in the motor industry for manufacturers to issue such notices from time to time. 
According to the Driver & Vehicle Standards Agency, any outstanding recall should be fixed 
by the dealer prior to selling a car to a consumer. But here, the recall notices werent issued 
until after Mr D acquired the car. As such, I think its likely theyd be considered one of the 
many inconveniences that go hand in glove with running a car.
By the time Mr D acquired the car, it had travelled some 60,000 miles over ten years. Whilst 
many cars of that age and mileage will not develop serious faults, I dont think I can safely 
assume that this car was not of satisfactory quality simply because it had a problem with the 
power at that stage of its life. Even if this was the case, it seems Mr D was looking to have 
the problem investigated at that point, and steps were taken to try to rectify the loss of 
power, at no cost to Mr D.
While Mr D says the problem recurred after the car had been in the garage, Ive not seen 
anything to support that position. His correspondence with 247 Money doesnt show that he 
asked anyone  a garage or vehicle inspection service, for example  to look at the car. In 
the absence of such corroborative evidence I cant reasonably find that theres enough to 
support Mr Ds claim that the car was not of satisfactory quality such that he would be able to 
exercise the cancellation provisions of the CRA.I accept, of course, that this wasnt Mr Ds view, and its this belief that I think has led to 
some of the subsequent issues he has raised. Mr Ds firm belief that he was entitled to 
cancel and return the car is evident throughout his correspondence with 247 Money, 
notwithstanding the latters explanation of why it wasnt willing to accept cancellation.
From what I can see, Mr D took the view that the collection of the car meant he had nothing 
further to pay 247 Money. Regrettably, I dont think that I can agree with him on this point. 
247 Money took possession of the car because Mr D had stopped paying, rather than 
because it accepted he was entitled to cancel. Before it did so, it issued him with default and 
termination notices. Noting the arrears that had developed on the account due to non-
payment, 247 Money doesnt need to amend or remove this record from Mr Ds credit file.
As such, the termination provisions of the hire-purchase agreement (section 5.2 of the 
agreement terms and conditions) mean that Mr D remains liable to repay the total amount 
payable under the hire-purchase agreement, less any applicable interest rebate and the 
resale value. While I recognise that leaves Mr D with a financial burden even after the car 
was collected, I dont think theres any basis on which I can properly disregard the position 
clearly set out in the contract and to which he agreed at inception.
I am conscious that Mr D has made a point of questioning the apparent use of mobile phone 
numbers to call him, which he asserts as a breach of data protection regulation. Although 
this doesnt directly impact on his claim about the quality of the car, there are some aspects 
of smartphone or other mobile device use that can make them subject to security 
compromise. So I can see why its important to Mr D to feel secure in this respect.
The use of mobile telephone numbers to call consumers isnt prohibited by data protection 
regulation. And 247 Money has said it did not use a personal mobile phone to call Mr D; 
rather, that it uses system generated numbers. I havent seen anything that leads me to think 
Mr D was called from a mobile device that put his personal data at risk of compromise. I 
hope this at least gives him some reassurance.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not require 247 Money Group Limited to take any further steps 
to resolve Mr Ds complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr D to accept or reject my decision before 30 November 2023.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman