DRN-3848075
The complaint
Mr M complains that TSB Bank PLC (TSB) refused to refund the multiple transactions made 
to an online chat service. These transactions total around £8,000 and were made between 
June and October 2021.
What happened
Mr M has appointed representatives to help with his complaint, but for ease of reading Ill 
refer solely to Mr M in this decision
In June 2021, Mr M joined a website offering dating services. Mr M provided his personal 
details and TSB debit card information in order to use the website services. Between June 
and October 2021 a large number of payments were made to this website, with associated 
overseas transactions fees. Mr M said he used the website, but didnt realise what he was 
being charged. And, he wasnt monitoring his account at the time as was relying on family to 
do so in view of his personal circumstances. 
When he discovered the amounts hed been charged, Mr M contacted TSB to explain what 
had happened and asked it to refund the money. But the bank didnt think it was liable for his 
loss. Unhappy with this, Mr M raised a complaint with TSB. Through his representatives, it 
was explained that Mr M is vulnerable due to health issues which impaired his decision 
making. It said he struggles to manage his own finances as a result and his sister helps him 
with this. As well as other things, Mr M explained that he had found evidence that the 
website involved was a scam, designed to take money from its victims, and that he took no 
actions that would justify the amounts he was charged. Mr M said TSB shouldve identified 
that the transactions were out of character and intervened, preventing his loss, and that it 
shouldve raised a chargeback in order to re-claim his money from the merchant. 
TSB said:
Mr M told it that he had used the website and had authorised payments. As such, it 
wasnt responsible for his loss.
It wasnt aware that Mr M was vulnerable.
There is no guarantee that the measures it has in place to identify unusual or out of 
character transactions will work on every occasion.
 
There is no automatic right for a chargeback, and there are strict conditions set by 
the card scheme which must be satisfied for a chargeback to succeed. 
Mr M remained unhappy and referred a complaint to this service. But our investigator didnt 
think TSB should have reasonably been expected to prevent the disputed transactions, or 
that it was responsible to refund them. Mr M didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans 
review and decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for reasons I set 
out below. 
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of their account. And Ive taken that into account when deciding what is fair and 
reasonable in this case. 
Here, its accepted by all that Mr M entered his personal information into the website, 
including his card details, to start using the services it offered. And he used the services for 
some time before realising how much hed been charged. It was only then that he contacted 
TSB to dispute the amounts.
Ive carefully considered Mr Ms comments in relation to the website being a scam to target 
vulnerable individuals into parting with their money. Ive also considered the information 
available to Mr M when he signed up to the website and entered his card details. Having 
done so, the website does explain that its not a free site, and that certain services are paid 
for using credits purchased through the website. Mr M has accepted that he made some 
payments and used the services of the website, and I think its more likely than not that he 
authorised all of the transactions  albeit I accept that he may not have realised how much 
he was spending at the time. The website does seem to have been providing a service  and 
its not necessarily up to TSB to know the underlying nature of the service and decide what a 
reasonable cost is. Therefore, I cant agree that Mr M was involved in a scam that would be 
covered under TSBs refund guarantee. 
The regulations relevant to this case say that generally speaking, a bank is entitled to hold a 
customer liable for authorised transactions. 
But the matter doesnt end there, Ive also taken into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. And I consider TSB should, fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including money laundering, the financing of terrorism, and fraud and 
scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
So, I need to decide whether TSB acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr 
M when he made the debit card payments he disputes, or whether it shouldve done 
something more.As Im satisfied on the balance of probabilities, that Mr M did authorise all of the transactions 
he disputes, TSB had an obligation to follow his instructions. Im satisfied each transaction 
was authorised because the technical evidence that Ive seen from TSB satisfies me that 
each transaction was individually authenticated each time, rather than by using a continuous 
payment authority. A continuous payment authority is when a merchant can take payments 
without requiring any information from the card each time, such as for example the last three 
digits on the back of it. But this wasnt the case here. However, despite my findings that Mr 
M authorised all payments, I think TSB should also have been on the lookout for unusual 
and out of character transactions.
With this in mind, Ive looked at Mr Ms bank statements for the months leading up to the 
disputed transactions. Having done so, I dont think the payments he disputes were so 
unusual or out of character that the bank shouldve intervened. Whilst I accept that some of 
the payments were higher in value than his usual spending, and more frequent in numbers, 
in the months leading up to the disputed payments, Mr M made a number of card not 
present transactions to online retailers. So even though the disputed payments were to a 
company Mr M had not used before, I dont think the payments were so unusual such that I 
think they ought to have been a cause for concern and prompted TSB to intervene.
I also note that during the period of the transactions, Mr Ms online banking was being 
accessed using his online banking credentials, and this happened on more than one 
occasion. I understand that this was Mr Ms ex-partner accessing his account rather than 
himself (with his authority). But I from this, I can also understand why TSB wouldnt have had 
cause for concern. I appreciate Mr Ms comments as to why he asked others to monitor his 
account. But it doesnt appear TSB were aware of this or wouldve had reason to believe that 
it was anyone else other than Mr M accessing his online banking to check the statements. 
Its also unclear why Mr M wasnt notified about the activity or spending on the website by 
the person hed asked to support him with his finances. It remains Mr Ms responsibility to 
monitor his account, whether directly himself or someone else hed allowed to use the 
account.
When Mr M contacted TSB in October 2021 to report the payments and ask for a refund, the 
bank cancelled his debit card and sent him a new one, with a different card number and 
security credentials. Ive seen evidence that the replacement set of card details were then 
used for further transactions to the same website. I appreciate the comments Ive received 
via Mr Ms representative, which say that Mr M didnt have access to the replacement debit 
card once it was sent. However, as Im satisfied that each transaction required individual 
authorisation, rather than the use of a continuous payment authority as Ive explained above, 
Im satisfied that Mr M, despite reporting the earlier transactions as disputed, visited the 
website again and made further use of its services using his new debit card details. In view 
of this, I find that Mr M continued to have a desire to use the services from the website, and 
any kind of intervention from TSB wouldnt have changed this. 
Mr M has questioned why TSB didnt raise a chargeback for the disputed payments, in an 
attempt to re-claim his money. His representative asked why TSB temporary refunded 
£5,800 to Mr M but then took it back again. It believes the bank didnt administer the 
chargeback process correctly. 
TSB is correct when it says chargeback is not an automatic right, and that certain criteria 
need to be met in order for the card provider to raise a chargeback through the relevant card 
scheme. From listening to calls Mr M had with the bank, its clear its advisor tried to 
understand what payments Mr M was disputing, as he said some of them were genuine. It 
seems this is why a temporary credit of £5,800 was paid to Mr M  as thats what it believed 
he was disputing. But, regardless of the amount TSB included within a possible chargeback claim, Im not satisfied that a chargeback wouldve resulted in a positive outcome for Mr M. I 
say this for the following reasons:
The website wouldve been able to provide all of Mr Ms personal details to show he 
had a genuine relationship with it. 
The website terms explain that its not a free site and that certain actions are paid for 
using credits. Again, I accept that Mr M used the services of the website, albeit 
without realising how much he was being charged. But this isnt grounds for a 
chargeback to be successful. 
As well as other things, chargebacks can be raised for services not received or for 
unauthorised transactions. Based on what Mr M has told us and the bank, I believe 
he did authorise the payments, and also received the services. So unfortunately, I 
think the merchant wouldve been able to successfully defend the chargeback. 
So, whilst I accept that chargeback can be a useful process in an attempt to re-claim 
disputed transactions from a merchant, Im not satisfied such attempt wouldve been 
successful in Mr Ms circumstances here. And in any event, Im satisfied he authorised the 
payments hes disputing.
I realise that this will be disappointing for Mr M. I was sorry to hear of the difficulties hes 
faced since discovering the disputed transactions on his account. But in the circumstances 
of this complaint, I cant fairly ask TSB to refund him for the disputed payments, for the 
reasons Ive explained. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2023. 
Lorna Wall
Ombudsman