DRN-3930878
The complaint
Mr N complains about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited referring him to an accident 
management company (AMC) after his car was damaged by a third party and he called 
intending to make a claim on his car insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Ns car was parked in a car park when it was hit by a third party. Mr N wasnt in the car at 
the time but saw the accident happen and called Admiral to claim on his comprehensive car 
insurance policy. 
As Mr N wasnt at fault for the accident Admiral passed his claim to an AMC to deal with. 
The AMC repaired Mr Ns car and provided him with a hire car while his was in for repair. Mr 
N was then later contacted to say the third party was disputing the hire car costs along with 
some others. Because of this, Mr N was told he could be liable for over £2,000 worth of hire 
car costs. Mr N didnt think he should be responsible for these costs and so complained to 
Admiral. 
Admiral reviewed the complaint and said Mr N had chosen to use the AMC for his claim and, 
as this was a separate company to Admiral, he would need to raise his concerns with them. 
Mr N wasnt happy with Admirals response and referred his complaint here. Our Investigator 
let Admiral know Mr N was also unhappy about being referred to the AMC and asked for its 
response to this as it wasnt included in the final response letter. 
Admiral reviewed its referral of Mr N to the AMC and said Mr N had chosen to use the AMC. 
It said as it hadnt heard from Mr N for another 6-8 months it didnt think there was anything 
wrong with the referral. However, Admiral was unable to provide the referral call to us when 
asked. 
Our Investigator looked into the complaint and recommended it be upheld. He found that 
since Mr N had originally raised concerns with Admiral about the AMC, hed had to support 
legal proceedings to recover the hire car costs. Our Investigator looked into how Admiral 
referred Mr N to the AMC and didnt think it had been properly explained at the time of the 
referral. He said if Admiral had correctly let Mr N know the possible implications of being 
held responsible for the hire car costs, he didnt think Mr N would have used the AMC as he 
had courtesy car cover under his policy with Admiral. 
Due to Admiral not properly explaining the difference between using an AMC and claiming 
on Mr Ns own policy he thought it had caused Mr N unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience. This was because Mr N hadnt realised the AMC are a separate company to 
Admiral or that he was entering into a hire agreement for the car he used while his was in for 
repair. Also, when he was told he could be responsible for the costs and had to assist with 
defending the cost in court, hed suffered additional unnecessary distress and inconvenience 
he wouldnt have had if hed claimed on his own policy and used the courtesy car. Because 
of this, our Investigator recommended Admiral pay Mr N £500 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the poor referral. 
Admiral disagreed, it said its notes showed Mr N chose to use the AMC and if it wasnt 
appropriate then the AMC would have passed Mr Ns claim back to Admiral. And as Mr N 
didnt get in contact with Admiral again for a few months it didnt agree the referral was poor. 
As Admiral didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Admiral has provided its contact notes which show that when Mr N called and was deemed 
to not be at fault for the accident, he was referred to the AMC. Admirals final response letter 
which addressed the referral to the AMC refers to listening to the referral call and says:
Our agent offered you two options for your claim, you could either claim via 
your won [sic] policy, or use the non-fault service provided by [AMC name] 
where there would be no excess to pay.
You confirmed you would like to use the non-fault service and the agent warm 
transferred you to [AMC name].
Unfortunately Admiral is now unable to provide the call for me to listen to. Ive therefore had to base 
my decision on the information it has been able to provide. And Im not persuaded this shows Admiral 
did what it should have. 
I say that because Admiral was obliged to provide Mr N with information that was clear, fair 
and not misleading, in line with its obligations under Principle 7 of the FCA Handbook: 
Communications with clients (see PRIN 2.1R The Principles) and ICOBS 2.2.2R (Clear, fair 
and not misleading rule). In the circumstances of this case, this means that when Mr N 
contacted Admiral to tell it about his non-fault claim for damage to his car, Admiral ought to 
have provided him with clear information about his options, so she could decide how best to 
proceed with getting his car repaired. 
Ive noted Admirals comments that one of its complaint handlers listened to the call and Mr 
N was given two options. But Im not persuaded this means Admiral did what it should have 
during the call. I say this because although the final response refers to Mr N being told he 
could claim through his own insurance policy, Im not persuaded he was presented options 
clearly and fairly as it refers to him not needing to pay his excess. This is because Mr N may 
have been able to claim his excess back from the third partys insurer as an uninsured loss, 
even if he chose to claim through his own insurance policy. 
Ive also noted that Mr N hasnt raised a need for a like for like car while his was in for repair, 
only that he needed a car and that is why he had courtesy car cover under his policy. As a 
courtesy car is also provided under his policy it is therefore not something Mr N would have 
been at risk of needing to pay for if the third party disputed anything. And given Mr N hasnt 
shown a need for a like for like car he is more at risk of the third party disputing the hire car 
costs, as it did. 
In regard to Admirals comments about Mr N not raising this with it until several months later, 
Im not persuaded that shows it referred Mr N to an AMC as it should have. This is because 
sometimes someone doesnt know theyve got a cause to complain until a later date and 
considering Mr N raised concerns with Admiral 6 months after the referral, Im satisfied he 
raised it when he knew he had a concern. This is also within the time limits allowed to raise a 
complaint with Admiral or this service and so I dont think Mr N raising his concerns several months later shows Admiral did what it should have when referring him to the AMC. 
So, when taking all of this into account Im not satisfied Admiral presented Mr N with 
sufficient information for him to make an informed choice about using the AMC. Im also 
satisfied from Mr Ns comments that if Admiral had done, he would have claimed on his own 
policy instead and therefore not gone through the unnecessary distress and inconvenience 
of having to defend the hire car costs. Mr N has also highlighted this was particularly 
stressful for him as he believed he may be liable for over £2,000 worth of hire car costs 
which he couldnt afford to pay. However, I am also aware the third party has now settled 
these as the court instructed them to do so. 
Ive therefore looked at what Admiral needs to do to put things right. And when taking into 
account all the unnecessary distress and inconvenience Mr N suffered, which he likely 
wouldnt have done if hed claimed on his policy. Im satisfied £500 is fair and reasonable 
compensation for this.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is I uphold this complaint. I require 
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to pay Mr N £500 for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2023.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman