DRN-3158481
The complaint
Mr S complains about end of contract charges when his agreement with Black Horse Limited 
ended.  
What happened
In April 2017 Mr S was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement with 
Black Horse.
At the end of the agreement the car was inspected. Black Horse asked Mr S to pay charges 
for damage which it said went beyond fair wear and tear.
Mr S disputed the charges. Black Horse agreed to waive some of the charges relating to the 
service history, V5 document and the bonnet. It said the rest of the charges had been fairly 
applied.
Mr S remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. He said he thought the 
damage was within acceptable wear and tear. 
Our investigator thought that Black Horse had acted unfairly by charging Mr S for damage to 
the rear bumper. He thought the damage wasnt visible in the images supplied with the 
inspection report and recommended that Black Horse waived this charge.  The investigator 
said the rest of the charges had been fairly applied.
Mr S didnt agree. He said the damage to the RHF door was within acceptable wear and tear 
because the dent was less than 5mm. He accepted that the damage to the LHF wheel and 
front and rear scuffs went beyond acceptable wear and tear and said he was happy to pay 
for these. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of the agreement say that Mr S must return the car in good 
condition and that any damage which exceeds fair wear and tear is the customers 
responsibility.
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been issued by the BVLRA and these guidelines are 
accepted as an industry standard in determining whether damage exceeds fair wear and 
tear.
Mr S has said that he accepts that most of the damage charges have been fairly applied. He 
disputes the charges relating to the dent in the front right-hand door. So, Ive focussed on 
this.
Ive looked at the inspection report and the images. Ive also had regard to the BVLRA 
guidelines. In relation to dents, the guidelines say that dents of 15mm or less in diameter are 
acceptable provided that there are no more than two per panel and provided that the paint 
surface isnt broken. The guidelines also say that chips within dents arent acceptable and 
that dents on the roof or swage line arent acceptable.
The image for the dent shows distortion around the dent area and the measuring tool used 
(which is visible in the image) shows that the affected area is more than 15mm. Taking the 
relevant guidelines into account, I think the charges for damage have been applied fairly.
Ive taken account of what Mr S has said about the dent being present prior to the start of his 
agreement. I appreciate that the car was around 3 years old at the start of the agreement, so 
its possible that there was some wear and tear. However, if there was any damage at the 
start of the agreement, I would have expected this to be noted, or (if it wasnt noted) for Mr S 
to have brought this to the attention of Black Horse at the time. Mr S has suggested that he 
may not have noticed the dent. However, looking at the images, I think the dent is significant 
enough that Mr S would have seen it when he took possession of the car if it was present at 
the start of the agreement. On balance, I dont think its likely that the dent was present at the 
start of the agreement. 
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that most of the charges for damage have been 
applied fairly. I agree with the investigator that the charge for the damage to the rear bumper 
should be waived, because it isnt clearly visible in the images. 
Putting things right
To put things right Black Horse Limited should waive the charges for the damage to the rear 
bumper.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint in part. Black Horse must take the steps Ive 
set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman