DRN-1141426
 
The complaint
Mr K, representing the estate of his mother, Mrs K, complains about poor service he 
received from Barclays Bank UK PLC following Mrs K's passing. 
What happened
In April 2019, Mr K visited a branch of Barclays to start the process of administering the 
closure of Mrs K's accounts. He experienced a number of issues over the following weeks, 
including, but not limited to: delays in branch, being sent incorrect forms, his bereavement 
case becoming 'corrupted' and problems with the subsequent replacement, poorly handled 
phone calls and unclear and incorrect documentation. 
Mr K complained to Barclays. It investigated the matter and after a series of correspondence 
made an offer of compensation - £400 for the trouble and upset it had caused, along with a 
payment of just under £400 to compensate for the loss of interest created by delays in the 
process. It also offered Mr K a wine hamper. 
Mr K remained very dissatisfied with Barclays' handling of the situation and its response to 
the complaint, so he referred the matter to this service. Our investigator concluded that 
Barclays' offer was broadly fair and explained that in any event we were unable to direct 
compensation payments to representatives, which was the capacity in which Mr K was 
acting. The investigator also added that one of the particular issues raised by Mr K - that 
Barclays had sent a letter addressed to his mother despite having by that point been 
informed of her passing - had been down to Barclays' system automatically generating the 
letter at around the same time. 
Mr K didn't accept the investigator's view, so the matter was referred to me to review. 
I considered all the information and submissions and felt that Barclays' offer in respect of the 
trouble and upset caused by its failings warranted a higher level of compensation. I 
suggested that it be increased to £600. 
Barclays accepted this but Mr K remained unhappy. He felt it was disappointing given the 
amount of time he'd had to spend on the matter when he should've been grieving with his 
family. He also pointed out that he'd engaged with Barclays at a senior level to provide 
feedback on its bereavement service, for which he felt he should be compensated.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I won't reiterate the fine detail of Mr K's experience. Suffice to say, the handling of the 
matter was clearly a major failing on the part of Barclays' bereavement service. Following 
the passing of a loved one, a customer has the right to receive a gold standard of service that properly reflects the very difficult circumstances. It's a time during which a 
business should be providing its highest level of care and attention. 
Mr K's experience was the opposite of that, and he has my sympathies, both for his loss and 
the series of mistakes he then had to endure with Barclays. 
Barclays has acknowledged its failings and has engaged with Mr K in what I accept to be a 
genuine attempt to learn from his experience. So, my role in this decision is solely to 
consider what represents fair compensation. 
As noted above, having reviewed the matter I was of the view that Barclays' offer didn't quite 
represent a fair resolution, so I thought it would be reasonable for it to increase the 
compensation payment. I recognise that even with this increase Mr K still feels the 
compensation doesn't go far enough. But in all the circumstances I think that, alongside the 
payment to make good the loss and the gesture of the wine (although I note Mr K's disdain 
for this), Barclays' offer as it now stands is fair.
I should note that, as highlighted by the investigator, my recommendation of the increase is 
on an informal basis as I'm unable to direct compensation payments to representatives. But I 
don't see this as being any hurdle to Barclays making payment as it's confirmed in writing 
that it's happy to do so.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that the increasedoffer now made by Barclays 
Bank UK PLC is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K as 
representative of the estate of Mrs K to accept or reject my decision before 
20 February 2020.
James Harris
Ombudsman