DRN-3982391
The complaint
Mrs H complains John Lewis Financial Services Limited trading as John Lewis Finance have 
unfairly charged interest on her credit card account. 
Mrs H is represented but Ive referred only to her for simplicity. 
What happened
Mrs H usually pays her credit card off in full each month via direct debit. The direct debit 
taken on 3 November 2022 was later returned unpaid. Because of this, John Lewis applied a 
£12 late payment fee and interest to Mrs Hs balance. 
Mrs H didnt think this was fair because, she says, she had made a payment by the due date 
and that it wasnt relevant that the direct debit was later returned. John Lewis said the 
interest and charges had been applied correctly but offered to refund the £12 late payment 
charge as a gesture of goodwill. 
Mrs H wasnt happy with this and so referred her complaint to our service. 
An Investigator considered what had happened. He said, in summary, he didnt think John 
Lewis had treated Mrs H unfairly. He said this because he found Mrs Hs payment had been 
returned unpaid so John Lewis were entitled to apply interest and charges in those 
circumstances. 
Mrs H didnt accept the Investigators findings. She said her direct debit had reached her 
John Lewis account on 3 November 2022, which was the due date for the payment that 
month. So, as she had made the payment by the due date, she had fulfilled her obligations 
under the terms of the account. 
As Mrs H didnt agree, the complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mrs Hs credit card set out how interest is calculated and in 
what circumstances it will be applied to the account. The relevant section says:
We charge interest from the date each transaction is added to your account until the 
amount you owe us has been repaid in full
There are two exceptions to this. We do not charge any interest on default charges. We also 
do not charge interest on any purchases shown in a statement if you repay the full amount 
you owe us on that statement date by the next payment due date.
Mrs Hs October 2022 statement required a minimum payment by 3 November 2022. 
Mrs Hs account statements show her direct debit  for the full balance - was collected on 
3 November but returned unpaid on 7 November. Mrs H says because the direct debit was 
collected and shows on her credit card statements as being credited to the account that day 
 she therefore met her obligations by making a payment of the full balance on that day. 
I see Mrs Hs point but Im afraid I dont agree. And, although Mrs H has pointed out the 
terms are silent on the matter of returned payments, Im required to consider whats fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case - as well as the terms of the agreement 
between the parties. 
I dont think I can fairly conclude Mrs H had made the required payment when it was later 
returned unpaid. I say this because the effect of that payment having been returned is that 
John Lewis hadnt received the money from Mrs Hs external account. John Lewis didnt 
receive a payment (that wasnt then returned) until Mrs H made further payments on 14 and 
17 November  so beyond the due date of 3 November 2022. 
John Lewis dont know why the direct debit was returned unpaid. But unpaid direct debits are 
usually caused by insufficient funds in the account the direct debit is being claimed from. We 
asked Mrs H to provide her current account statements to show whether she had sufficient 
funds available on the day the direct debit was claimed, but she didnt provide them. But its 
common industry practice for unpaid direct debits to be treated as no payment having been 
made for the purposes of credit agreements. 
In these circumstances, I dont think it was unreasonable for John Lewis to treat the returned 
payment as if it had never been paid at all. So Im satisfied John Lewis were entitled to apply 
interest and charges to Mrs Hs account following the late payment in November 2022. 
Im aware Mrs H was also concerned about adverse information about the late payment 
being recorded on her credit file. But she provided a copy of her credit file and I cant see 
any adverse information related to this account on there. 
Finally, Im also aware Mrs H was not willing to pay the disputed amount of interest until 
more recently and that, because of this, further interest was applied. That was her decision, 
but John Lewis werent obliged to waive interest and charges during this period. And John 
Lewis havent done anything wrong by applying interest and charges in line with the terms 
and conditions. 
John Lewis offered to refund the £12 late payment fee as a gesture of goodwill. Mrs H 
should contact John Lewis directly if she now wishes to accept this.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont think John Lewis Financial Services Limited trading as 
John Lewis Finance need to do anything to settle the complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2023.
 
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman