DRN-3045896
The complaint
Mr K complains about Equifax Limiteds actions when processing a change of name for him 
in connection with his credit reports.
What happened
Mr K changed his name and says he encountered the following issues getting Equifax to 
update it:
Delay between first asking for the name change on 5 May 2020, to it happening on 
30 July 2020
Despite Equifax being aware of his preference not to send and / or receive 
information electronically, they kept insisting he did so. He said they were exploiting 
the Covid-19 situation by doing this, rather than communicating by post as was his 
preference.
He asked for his statutory report to be sent to him by post, but this hadnt happened.
They sent him repetitive and confusing emails multiple times as well as continuing to 
address him by his former name  and responses were sent from different staff 
members. He said Equifax were deliberately antagonising him and trying to 
manipulate him into giving out more personal information than he needed to.
He said one of Equifaxs staff asked him why he changed his name, but no other 
organisation did and doesnt think they should have either.
Overall Mr K felt Equifax were deliberately causing him problems and discriminating against 
him.
Equifax said they understood Mr K had raised numerous cases with them to get his name 
updated on their system  and this had been done as of 30 July 2020. Equifax said due to 
system constraints they couldnt load alias records for males  but notes are added to a 
persons report in both names to let lenders know there has been a change. They said sorry 
for the delay Mr K had on this. And, for the inconvenience Mr K had experienced, they 
offered him £150 compensation.
Unhappy with this Mr K asked us to look into things. He said he didnt believe his complaint 
was treated fairly and said he should be compensated so much more than £150 for the 
amount of times hes had to contact them. Mr K also noted Equifax told him they couldnt 
add alias records for males  and said if that isnt another form of discrimination then he 
doesnt know what is. Mr K had also asked for his statutory credit report to be posted to him 
 but at the time of bringing his complaint to our service he said itd not been received.
Equifax sent us their case file, and in their covering email said it wasnt clearly explained 
what can and cant be done  explaining they could:
Change peoples names on their Equifax report application made online.
Change their name on the support account used to raise queries to Equifax.
Add a notice of correction to peoples reports to explain the change of name which 
appears to lenders who carry out a check
Equifax also said they cant change peoples names on the credit history  such as credit 
agreements, historic Electoral Rolls, searches, court information and so on. Equifax told us 
Mr Ks support account wasnt updated, which is why some communication was sent in his 
old name. 
Our Investigator upheld Mr Ks complaint. Although he couldnt say there was any 
discrimination towards Mr K, Equifaxs service fell well below the standard hed expect  so 
he awarded £300 compensation in total.
Equifax replied, and said they accepted this outcome.
Initially, Mr K did as well. But, two days later, he said he wasnt happy to accept the 
compensation offered due to the losses and damages he continues to incur. Because of 
that, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to firstly explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information 
provided by both parties, in reaching my decision. I say this as Im aware Ive summarised 
Mr Ks complaint in less detail than hes given our service. If Ive not reflected something 
thats been said in this decision its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it 
relevant to the crux of the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but 
merely to reflect my informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This 
also means I dont think its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every 
question raised unless I think its relevant to the crux of the complaint.
I also think its important to set out I can only consider Mr Ks complaint against Equifax in 
the context of whats happened. Ive noted Mr K has some wider concerns, but I cant 
consider those.
Mr K has raised a number of issues about Equifax which I can consider, and Ive separated 
those into sections below. Ill then consider what I think is a fair way to resolve matters in the 
summary section at the end.
Delay between first asking for the name change on 5 May 2020, to it happening on 
30 July 2020
I can see from the information provided by both parties Mr K first contacted Equifax about 
updating his name on their systems because hed been turned down for credit in his new 
name  and thought Equifax having his old name might be the reason for this. This was 
5 May 2020.
He asked about getting it updated and was told itd take a week. The same day, he called 
back as he had concerns with how the first call handler dealt with his query and this time 
was told the change would take two weeks.
On the same day he wrote and posted a letter to Equifax, containing the relevant evidence to 
change his name.Between then and 30 July 2020 Mr K called and spoke to Equifax on multiple occasions, 
trying to get matters sorted. He was given conflicting information about when his name 
change would take effect and given promises about matters being completed within a week 
which then werent met. 
Quite simply it shouldnt have been this difficult for Equifax to have dealt with this request far 
more efficiently than they did  nor for Equifaxs advisers to give Mr K clear and consistent 
information about what would happen and when. This is something Id likely expect Equifax 
to have dealt with on many occasions. So, I think this element of his complaint is worthy of 
compensation.
Repetitive emails from different members of staff with Mr Ks old name
Ive seen Mr K made ten calls in May, June and July 2020 in an effort to get this matter 
resolved. Equifax have only been able to provide five of those calls seemingly due to system 
issues. While thats unfortunate, Ive seen no reason to disbelieve Equifax when they say 
they can only provide five of these calls, so I draw no negative inferences from this.
When listening to the five calls that have been provided, I can hear Equifaxs advisers 
offering to raise complaints on Mr Ks behalf when his name change hadnt happened within 
a timeframe hed previously been told. I can also hear Mr K saying other advisers had 
already done this in previous conversations, but nothing happened off the back of this.
It seems Equifax have set up new complaints each time off the back of his phone calls, 
rather than assigning Mr Ks concerns to the existing complaint they were already 
investigating. This has then led to different staff members contacting him about the issue  
when hed already had an existing complaint that hadnt been answered.
Mr K has said Equifax have done this deliberately in an effort to confuse him  and have 
maliciously kept communicating with him in his old name to upset him. Equifax say different 
people replied because thats standard practice when handling queries  and they continued 
to communicate in his old name, because theyd not updated his name on the support 
account.
Ive seen nothing to suggest they did this deliberately to confuse or upset Mr K as hes 
suggested  but that doesnt mean it wasnt confusing or upsetting. Equifax had effectively 
one issue they needed to resolve, updating Mr Ks name on their systems which theyd failed 
to. Multiple people writing to Mr K, in his old name, about a complaint which was about the 
fact that theyd failed to update his name would suggest a real lack of care, attention to detail 
and customer focus when trying to resolve an issue.
So, although I dont think they did this deliberately, I do think Equifaxs actions have been 
confusing and upsetting for Mr K.
Equifax asked why Mr K had changed his name
Mr K says Equifax asking this is an invasion of his privacy, as no one else asked him why 
hed changed his name, and its none of their business. Our Investigator asked Equifax if this 
is information theyd usually required, and they told him no.
Unhelpfully, I dont have the call where Mr K says this happened  as having listened to the 
five calls I do have, this doesnt come up. Where information is incomplete, as it is here, I 
need to decide what I think is more likely than not, based on the information I do have. Its clear from the above information Ive set out, Equifax didnt handle things well, and 
regularly got things wrong. What Mr K told us was happening when he first contacted us  
such as delays, multiple people sending him information, the statutory report not being sent 
 are all points Ive ended up agreeing with once Ive looked at the evidence. 
Im satisfied that lends credibility to Mr Ks comments that he was asked this  even though I 
dont have the evidence to prove it. So, I think its more likely than not Mr K was asked by 
one of Equifaxs advisers the reason for his change of name  when there was no clear 
reason for them to have done so. I can see this really offended Mr K, so again Ill consider 
this at the end. 
Communicating electronically
I understand Mr Ks frustration here is that his preference isnt to always communicate 
electronically, and he says people should be able to do things by post if they want to. Mr K 
felt Equifax were exploiting the Covid-19 situation by making this their policy.
I can understand Mr Ks frustration on this, but I also think its important to recognise many 
companies these days will look to do things online as that often can be quicker and more 
preferable for people. In addition, the Covid-19 situation was unexpected and 
unprecedented, and meant financial businesses like Equifax had to adapt their 
communications with their customers. This did cause a number of issues for companies with 
how they might need to communicate. 
That said, Ive noted during Mr Ks conversations in the phone calls Ive listened to that took 
place in May, June and July where hes asked for some information to be sent by post 
Equifax have said theyd do that  and did.
So, overall, I dont think Equifax have done anything wrong on this point, as it seems despite 
Mr Ks concerns, they have posted information out to him when hes specifically asked for it.
Statutory report not being sent by post
Despite the above, Mr K has complained he didnt get his statutory report by post which hed 
asked for.
This isnt because Equifax wasnt sending information out by post, as Ive mentioned above, 
but because it seems they missed his requests for this. 
In Mr Ks letter of 5 May 2020, he asked for his statutory report to be sent out to him by post. 
In addition, Ive heard Mr K mention this in the phone call on 15 June 2020  which wasnt 
picked up by the adviser he spoke to.
So, clearly, Mr K did ask for his statutory report  but when our Investigator asked Equifax 
about this, they said they had no record of him asking for his statutory report.
Again, I think this is worthy of compensation given Equifax have made an error here leading 
to frustration for Mr K which could easily have been avoided.
Since then, things have moved on, and Mr K asked for the report to only be sent by email 
which our Investigator told Equifax. I include this information here to ensure Equifax dont 
misunderstand what Ive said, and now send one out by post  and for reassurance to Mr K 
to know his request for the report to only be sent by email has been seen.
DiscriminationI should stress that its not our role to say whether a financial business has breached
equality law by discriminating against a customer on the basis of a protected characteristic,
but we can consider whether a customer has been treated fairly. Ive taken the Equality Act
2010 into account when considering this part of the complaint  given that its relevant law 
but Ill ultimately make my determination on the basis of whats fair and reasonable. If Mr K
wants a legal finding to be made about whether Equifax breached the Equality Act 2010, 
then he would need to go to court.
Mr K has mentioned during the course of the complaint hes been discriminated against due 
to his sex  citing one specific example where Equifax said they cant add aliases to their 
reports. He said that was discrimination. 
As Ive said above, I cant decide that, I can only look at the impact on Mr K. Here, I can see 
Equifax said he could add a note of correction. Both the adding of aliases, and notice of 
corrections, are available for lenders to see  so, I dont think Mr K has been impacted by 
this himself and think Equifax offered a fair resolution.
Mr K has also referred to Equifaxs communication with him, suggesting communicating was 
sent by one party, which were actually being written by people who were discriminating 
against him. But, Ive not seen any evidence information was written by someone else to 
hide who the original author was.
Equifax have accepted that they provided Mr K with poor customer service. Mr K believes 
that what Equifax have done goes beyond poor customer service. Hes felt discriminated 
against. I can understand why Mr K feels this way, and I do think Equifax havent quite 
grasped how their actions have made Mr K feel.  So, in line with what Ive said above, Im 
going to set out the fair way to resolve matters in the following section.
Summary
I dont think Equifax have acted unfairly in the method of communication theyve used with 
Mr K. But I do think their customer service has been poor on multiple occasions.
Ive listed out the thoughts Ive had on all of these issues above, and I think these have had 
a significant impact on Mr K. By the time of the last call on 28 July 2020 he sounds deflated 
and despondent at Equifaxs inability to do what they said they would. I think the £300 
recommended by our Investigator is a fair way to compensate Mr K for the frustrations hes 
experienced.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold this complaint and require Equifax Limited to 
pay Mr K £300 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman