DRN-3357546
The complaint
X is unhappy that AXA Insurance UK Plc wont offer a cash settlement following a claim on 
his contents insurance policy for items stolen during a burglary.
What happened
X contacted his insurer after his property was burgled. AXA appointed assessors to validate 
his claim. But X had some difficulty providing full information for some of the jewellery stolen. 
X said AXA offered to have a jewellery company try and remake the lost items. But he 
wanted a cash settlement to reduce the risk of having too much jewellery in his home. And 
he wants AXA to agree the claim on a cash settlement basis.
AXA said the settlement options for the various items had been made in line with the terms 
and conditions of Xs contents insurance policy. Its appointed specialists were able to 
replicate the three items on a like for like basis. And therefore a cash settlement option 
wouldnt be available. But AXA said it was willing to offer vouchers instead.
X wasnt satisfied with AXAs response. So he contacted our service and our investigator 
looked into the matter. She thought the contents insurance policy supported the right to 
replace. And there was no obligation to cash settle. But she said our services approach was 
that it was unfair for an insurer to try and make a consumer accept a replacement or repair 
when theyd insisted on cash settlement. And she recommended AXA cash settle Xs claim 
for what it wouldve cost to replace or replicate the missing items.
AXA didnt agree with our investigator. Itd acted within the terms and conditions of the policy 
and wasnt obliged to offer a cash settlement. AXA had historically offered cash settlements 
even though it could replace items. But itd changed its approach because it was having an 
impact on the discount its suppliers were able to offer. So its asked for an ombudsmans 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties X has been experiencing following a burglary at his 
home. It mustve been a very upsetting time for him. 
The dispute in this complaint is about whether AXA has fairly chosen to replace the items in 
question  rather than provide a cash settlement as X has requested.
Ive begun by looking at the contents insurance policy documents. In the section headed 
how we settle claims it says we may repair, reinstate or replace the damaged property. If 
we cannot replace or repair the property we may pay for the loss or damage in cash or cash 
alternative (including vouchers and/or store cards). Where we can offer repair or 
replacement through a preferred supplier, but we agree to pay a cash or cash alternative 
settlement, payment will not exceed the amount we would have paid the preferred supplier.
It's not unusual to find terms such as these in insurance policies. In effect it means the 
insurer can decide how to settle the claim. And theres nothing unreasonable about that in 
principle. AXA is the one paying for the claim. But Id expect the insurer to take into account 
the specific circumstances of the policyholder and consider whats reasonable for them when 
deciding how to settle the claim.
In this case X has asked for a cash settlement instead of a voucher or replacement items. 
He says the three items were bought a long time ago and werent worn by anyone in his 
family. It would be difficult to accurately replicate them. And he was concerned about the risk 
that burglars would return in the expectation hed receive replacement items. X didnt want to 
have so much valuable jewellery in his home anymore. 
So I need to decide if AXA has acted fairly and reasonably by declining Xs request for a 
cash settlement. And after looking at everything X and AXA have said I dont think it has.
The terms and conditions of the contents insurance policy give AXA a number of options for 
settling Xs claim. And in deciding whats the most appropriate method Id expect AXA to 
take into account Xs concerns and consider whats reasonable for both AXA and X when 
settling his claim.
AXA says its fulfilled its liability to X by offering replacement items or vouchers to put him 
back in the position he was in before the loss. But on balance I think Xs request for a cash 
settlement for the jewellery items is reasonable in the circumstances. 
X has explained the reasons for his request. And the option of a cash settlement is available 
to AXA. Based on what Ive seen I think its the most appropriate settlement in this case. 
I understand AXAs concerns that policyholders selecting cash settlements is having a 
commercial impact on the sort of service it can offer. But that doesnt override AXAs 
obligation to treat customers fairly or reasonably.
Putting things right
To put things right AXA should pay X a cash settlement for the jewellery items in question to 
the value of the discounted replacement price it wouldve paid.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. AXA Insurance UK Plc should pay the award 
detailed in the section putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman