DRN-2025474
The complaint
 Mrs G complains that Studio Retail Limited hasnt credited her account for items shes 
returned. 
What happened
 In September 2019 Mrs G ordered a bed, together with other items, from Studio. She later 
received a text telling her that her furniture order would be delivered. She thought this 
related to the bed shed ordered and got rid of her old bed in preparation. However, the bed 
wasnt delivered. Mrs G contacted Studio several times and was told that the supplier had 
cancelled her order.
At around the same time, another item which Mrs G had ordered from Studio wasnt 
delivered. She was advised that the courier had failed to deliver it and it was declared as 
lost.
Mrs G was disappointed that two items hadnt been delivered and decided to return some 
other items. Having done so, she didnt think all of the returned items had been credited to 
her account. She didnt want to make any payments to her account until she was certain that 
the balance was correct She complained to Studio. In response. Studio apologised for poor 
service and sent Mrs G compensation of £30. 
Mrs G wasnt happy with the outcome and complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said Mrs G had received poor customer service 
when her orders didnt arrive. She also said that having checked the value of the goods 
returned by Miss G against the account, a sum less than the value of the returned goods had 
been credited. The investigator said Studio hadnt acted fairly by charging interest when it 
said it wouldnt. She also thought Studio couldve done more to show Mrs G how the returns 
had been applied to her account. In relation to the default, the investigator didnt think this 
was fair, because the reason Mrs G was refusing to make payments to the account was 
reasonable. She said Studio should ay a further £100 compensation and remove the default.
Studio didnt agree. It said although it may have failed to credit one of the returned items, 
this didnt mean that Mrs  should have refused to pay for other items that shed ordered and 
kept. It said it didnt think it should amend the credit file because it was Mrs G;s 
responsibility to ensure that her minimum payments were made on time. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that Mrs G didnt receive her bed. Studio has accepted that a text sent to 
Mrs G referred to her bed. It hasnt explained why the text was sent, but it has said that the 
order for the bed was cancelled by the supplier due to it being out of stock. Im aware that 
Mrs G got rid of her old bed having received the text and was left without a bed at all for 
some time. So the impact of the text was substantial. Im of the view that this was poor 
customer service, for which Studio ought to have paid more than the £30 offered.
In relation to the items returned by Mrs G, Studio has acknowledged that it may have failed 
to credit one of these to Mrs Gs account. This is the nub of Mrs Gs complaint  she says 
that because she didnt think all the goods shed returned had been credited, she was 
reluctant to make any payments to her account until this discrepancy was resolved. 
Ive looked at Mrs Gs account. Whilst in agree that there are discrepancies between the 
value of the items returned and the credits to the account, I can see that Mrs G had an 
account balance for items shed ordered and kept irrespective of the returned items. So I 
understand why Studio takes the view that Mrs G ought to have continued making 
payments.
That said, I can see that Mrs G contacted Studio about the account balance and was 
advised that it would be investigated and that interest would be frozen whilst this took place. 
In these circumstances, I dont think it was unreasonable for Mrs G not to make any 
payments whilst her account balance  was being investigated.
I think its likely that Mrs G would have made payments towards her account if Studio had 
been clearer about the refunds that had been credited. Prior to this, Mrs G had always paid 
her account on time. On balance, I dont think Studio acted fairly in registering the default. 
Mrs G had asked Studio to look into the balance and it had told her it was doing this. I dont 
think it was fair to expect Mrs G to make payments until that investigation had been 
completed. 
Based on what Ive seen, Mrs G was told by Studio that her account would be frozen whilst 
the credits were investigated. I think she made a reasonable assumption that she didnt need 
to make payments during this time.
I can see that it took Studio quite a long time to provide Mrs M with a breakdown of how the 
credits for the returned items had been applied. Although Mrs G didnt make payments 
during this time, I dont think she should be penalised for this delay. Im satisfied that Mrs G 
made it clear to Studio that as soon as the discrepancies on her account were resolved, she 
would settle the account in full. This is what she ultimately did.
Putting things right
 Taking everything into account, and whilst I have taken account of the points made by 
Studio, on balance I think Studio need to put thigs right here. It should increase the 
compensation payable to Mrs G to take account of the inconvenience caused by the non-
delivery of the items and the further distress caused by the discrepancies in her account. I 
think Mrs G had a good reason not to make payments whilst the dicrepancies were being 
investigated so I think the default has been applied unfairly and should be removed. Studio 
should also remove any charges associated with the missed payments. 
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Studio Retail Limited must:
Pay further compensation of £100
Remove the default from Mrs Gs credit file
Refund any charges added to Mrs Gs account as a result of the missed paymentsUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman