DRN-3433335
The complaint
Mr V is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund the money he was tricked into 
sending to one of its customers accounts.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont repeat it in full 
here. In summary, Mr V fell victim to a scam when trying to purchase a caravan. He has 
explained that he came across the advertisement online and after carrying out checks on the 
company selling the caravan, he agreed to purchase it. On 11 May 2020 he transferred 
€8,250 from his bank  S to a third-party account held with HSBC. He realised soon after 
that hed likely fallen victim to a scam. He reported this to S, HSBC, his local Police and 
Action Fraud. S informed HSBC but no money remained which could be returned.
HSBC believes there has been no bank error and doesnt agree to refund any losses. Our 
Investigator also concluded that there has been no failure by HSBC where it would be fair to 
ask it to provide Mr V with a refund. Mr V remained dissatisfied, so the complaint has been 
passed to me for a decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I cant uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. 
Firstly, Im very sorry to hear that Mr V has fallen victim to a scam. I understand that he 
would like the criminals to be stopped so that they do not take money from other innocent 
people. But an investigation into the criminal actions of the individuals is a matter for the 
Police  not HSBC or our service. My role here is limited to considering whether HSBC has 
done anything wrong and, if so, whether Mr V has lost out as a result. Id also like to clarify 
that it is the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) that is responsible for regulating the conduct 
of financial businesses and setting the rules they must follow and its their role to punish or 
fine businesses  not ours.
Also, an account that is later found to have been utilised fraudulently doesnt automatically 
entitle any victims who were tricked into sending funds to that account to a refund of their 
losses. I can only direct HSBC to refund Mr Vs losses if Im satisfied it reasonably failed to 
prevent those or did something wrong where it would be fair to ask it to provide a refund.
With that in mind, Ive carefully considered HSBCs actions when opening the account and 
monitoring its operation. I agree with our Investigator and am satisfied HSBC didnt miss an 
opportunity to prevent Mr Vs loss when opening the account. From the information HSBC 
has provided I can see it completed identification checks in line with its regulatory obligations 
and I dont think that there was anything at the time that reasonably couldve alerted it that 
the account it was opening would later be used to misappropriate funds. And taking into 
consideration the nature of the account and its expected use I dont necessarily think the 
activity prior to Mr Vs funds being spent was sufficiently suspicious where I can fairly say it 
ought to have given HSBC enough concerns about fraud where I would have expected it to 
have intervened. 
There also appears to be some confusion about when exactly HSBC were put on notice that 
its customers account had been utilised to receive fraudulently obtained funds. HSBC say 
that it was not on notice when Mr Vs funds arrived and were spent. From the information 
that has been provided to me I can see that:
- Mr Vs funds credited the beneficiary account on 12 May 2020. The majority was 
spent the same day and all by 14 May 2020. 
- HSBC received a payment recall request  not notification of fraud  in relation to 
another payment on 12 May 2020.
- Mr V contacted HSBC directly on 3 June 2020 to inform it about what had happened. 
He says he was asked to report this to S and/or visit one of its branches.
- Notification from S about Mr Vs payment was received by it on 5 June 2020. 
- On 11 June 2020 HSBC informed S no funds remain that can be returned.  
So based on the above the earliest point that I can reasonably say HSBC were put on notice 
that the beneficiary account had been in receipt of fraudulently obtained funds was when 
Mr V contacted HSBC on 3 June 2020. But even if HSBC had acted at this point it doesnt 
make a difference to what it couldve recovered as the money Mr V had paid into the 
beneficiary account had already been spent. So it isnt even the case that HSBC not taking 
action until it received notification from S resulted in a loss that otherwise wouldve been 
prevented.
Despite my natural sympathy for the situation in which Mr V finds himself, as I dont think 
HSBC couldve reasonably prevented his losses, I cant fairly tell it to do anything further to 
resolve this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman