DRN-2959326
The complaint
Mr B complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited has failed to deduct the correct 
amounts of income tax from annuity payments that he receives.
What happened
Mr B holds an annuity with Aviva that he says has been in payment for around ten years. 
Since its inception, Mr B says he has received the sum of £39.78 each month, and no 
income tax has been deducted from those payments.
In April 2020 Mr B says that the net amount of his annuity that he received from Aviva was 
reduced to £19.89. It remained at that level until November 2020 when it returned to the 
previous amount of £39.78. Aviva says those changes in the net annuity amount were as a 
result of changes in Mr Bs tax coding as notified by HMRC. It says it wrote to Mr B in July 
and October 2020 to tell him about changes to the income he would receive the following 
month.
Mr Bs complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He thought that Aviva had 
acted correctly in making the tax deductions as required by HMRC. So he didnt think that 
the complaint should be upheld.
Mr B didnt agree with that assessment. He said that HMRC had advised him that Aviva 
should have refunded the tax it had deducted between April and October 2020. So, as the 
complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to 
decide. This is the last stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr B and by Aviva. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words I 
have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
As Mr B is aware, annuity payments such as those he receives from Aviva are treated as 
income. So, those payments are generally taxed using the PAYE system. Periodically Aviva 
will receive information from HMRC about the amounts of tax that it needs to deduct from the 
payments it makes. Aviva will generally be unable to determine those amounts for itself as it 
would be unaware of any other taxable income that a consumer receives from elsewhere. So 
Aviva is entirely reliant on the information it receives, in the form of tax codes, from HMRC.
Generally an update to a tax code will be made by HMRC at the start of the tax year. HMRC 
communicates that information to consumers through its notice of coding letters. But 
revisions are also sometimes made during a tax year when HMRC becomes aware of 
changes to a consumers circumstances. HMRC will provide firms such as Aviva with 
updates to tax codes, and Aviva is responsible for passing that information onto the 
consumer.
Before 2020 Mr B says that he didnt pay any tax on the annuity income that he received 
from Aviva. And that is supported by the P60 issued in April 2020 that shows he hadnt paid 
any tax in the previous year. But it seems that something changed in Mr Bs tax affairs 
around the start of the 2020-2021 tax year.
I dont have details of the tax code that Aviva was asked to use for payments from 
April 2020. But it seems, at that time Aviva deducted half of Mr Bs annuity payment as 
income tax. I can see that Aviva was provided with a further update to Mr Bs tax code in 
July 2020. Aviva wrote to Mr B at that time to say that it had been asked to use a tax code of 
K778 against his future annuity payments. And it noted that HMRC had asked that it didnt 
take any account of payments that had already been made that tax year.
A tax code beginning with a K means that a consumer has income that is not being taxed in 
another way, and is more than their tax-free allowance. So Aviva was asked to collect the 
tax due on that other income by making deductions from Mr Bs annuity payment. But in line 
with the relevant regulations it wasnt allowed to deduct more than half of Mr Bs annuity 
payment at any time. So I think it likely that a similar K tax code had been applicable to Mr B 
since April 2020.
In October 2020 Aviva received a further update from HMRC in relation to Mr Bs tax code. 
At that time it was asked to use a tax code of 47M. That would suggest that, as a result of 
the transfer of part of his spouses tax-free allowance, Mr B was now able to receive his 
annuity income from Aviva without the deduction of income tax. Aviva applied that change to 
the next payment it made to Mr B  in November 2020. But, importantly, HMRC again asked 
Aviva to not take any account of previous payments to Mr B when making the change. And 
that would naturally mean Aviva was unable to refund any tax it had previously deducted.
Aviva is entirely reliant on the information HMRC provides about a consumers income tax 
allowances. And using that information the regulations dictate the deductions that Aviva 
needs to take from any annuity payments it makes. Should the tax code information be 
incorrect, it is HMRCs responsibility to make the necessary corrections. And I can see that 
responsibility was relayed to Mr B in the letters that Aviva sent him.
I dont know the basis of the discussions that Mr B has had with HMRC. But it seems to me 
that Aviva has acted correctly in terms of making income tax deductions based on the 
information HMRC supplied on Mr Bs tax codes. That information required Aviva to deduct 
half of Mr Bs pension income between April and October 2020. And from November 2020 it 
required Aviva to pay Mr Bs annuity in full once again. I havent seen anything that 
persuades me that Aviva hasnt correctly followed the instructions it was given by HMRC.
For entirely proper reasons neither I, nor Aviva, are privy to the full details of Mr Bs tax 
affairs. It might be that the tax Aviva deducted was correct. But it is equally possible that, 
due to a miscalculation by HMRC, Avivas deductions mean Mr B has paid too much tax. But that is a matter between Mr B and HMRC. Should he have made any overpayment he would 
need to reclaim that from HMRC. If that were the case I can understand why Mr B would be 
disappointed. But Im persuaded that Aviva hasnt done anything wrong here, and fulfilled its 
legal responsibilities under the PAYE system, acting on the directions it received from 
HMRC.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman