DRN-3502311
The complaint
Mr J says Loans 2 Go Limited irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
Mr J took out a 24-month instalment loan for £1,500 from Loans 2 Go on 21 June 2021. The 
monthly repayments were £181 and the total repayable was £4,344.
Mr J says the loan was unaffordable and he took it out when his mental health was 
deteriorating. Our adjudicator said Mr Js complaint should be upheld. She said Loans 2 Go 
had not made a fair lending decision based on the results of the checks it completed. She 
said the lender must remove all interest and charges from the loan account and use the 
repayments Mr J made to reduce the capital It must agree an affordable repayment plan with 
Mr J for any outstanding capital balance and remove any negative information recorded on 
Mr Js credit file. 
Loans 2 Go accepted this assessment and agreed to put things right as the adjudicator had 
instructed.
Mr J asked for an ombudsmans review. He accepted the assessment of the lending 
decision, but wants the loan to be written off in full and the entry removed from his credit file. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
As both parties now accept that Loans 2 Go was wrong to lend to Mr J, I will focus here on 
the issue that remains in dispute: what Loans 2 Go must do to put things right. 
I think the steps the adjudicator set out and that the lender has agreed to are fair. I say this 
as Mr J has had the benefit of the money he borrowed. Hes told us he was struggling with 
his mental health when he applied, and has provided evidence of his situation in September 
2021. I am sorry hes had to deal with this. 
But I havent seen any evidence that Loans 2 Go would have been  or ought to have been 
 aware that Mr Js capacity to make financial decisions might be limited at the time he 
applied for the loan.  And once it became aware in September 2021, and Mr J went on to 
formally complain, I think it responded appropriately when it offered to write off all interest 
and charges and to agree an affordable repayment plan. It follows I am not instructing Loans 
2 Go to write off the debt. But I would urge it to ensure it fully considers Mr Js circumstances 
when agreeing a repayment plan.
I have also considered whether Loans 2 Go acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr J in 
some other way. Mr J was unhappy with the interest rate charged. I accept the APR was 
high, but Mr J had to actively engage in the application process, so I think its likely that he 
was aware of what he was agreeing to pay. I havent seen anything which makes me think 
that Loans 2 Go treated Mr J unfairly or breached industry practice regarding interest 
charges. But the interest and charges will be refunded anyway as it has been agreed the 
loan shouldnt have been given.
Putting things right  what Loans 2 Go needs to do
It should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan
Treat any payments made by Mr J as payments towards the capital amount of 
£1,500
Agree a reasonable repayment plan with Mr J for the outstanding balance
Remove any adverse information about the loan from Mr Js credit file
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Js complaint. Loans 2 Go Limited must put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman