DRN-1568539
 
The complaint
Mr H complains that having been advised to replace his Life and Critical Illness Cover (CIC), 
London and Country Mortgages Limited (the business) failed to make him aware that hed 
need to cancel his direct debit payments for the old policy. 
Mr H is unhappy that hes been paying for two policies since January 2016. 
 
What happened
 The business didnt uphold the complaint. In summary, it said:
In 2015, having rearranged Mr Hs mortgage, it recommended a new policy (with his 
existing policy provider) which commenced with his full agreement in January 2016.  
In February 2019 Mr H realised that hed been paying for two policies since January 
2016.  
The overall responsibility to cancel the old policy was with Mr H.
It was unable to cancel the policy on his behalf. It doesnt have access to his policies 
once theyre set up, or his bank accounts/direct debit instructions.  
Its specialist policy processing firm  which directly liaised with Mr H and the policy 
provider  advised him to cancel his direct debit payments. 
Furthermore, its recommendation letter of 13 October 2015 clearly stated that Mr H 
would need to cancel his direct debit payments. It said: 
oPlease note that you should not cancel existing policies until formal 
acceptance and confirmation of cover has been received from the new 
Insurer. It will also be your responsibility to make sure that the direct debits for 
any old policies are cancelled at the correct time, as your bankers will not 
accept instructions from us. 
 
Mr H disagreed with the business conclusion and referred his complaint to our service. One 
of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
The policy was a contract between Mr H and the policy provider, therefore only Mr H 
could change or amend the policy. Or if the premiums were stopped the policy 
provider could cancel the policy.  
Otherwise a third party would be unable to cancel or alter the policy without written 
authority from Mr H. 
Whilst Mr H thought the business would cancel the policy this isnt supported by the 
documentation it provided to him. 
Whilst no claim was made on either policy, they were both on risk and wouldve paid 
out in the event of a valid claim. Mr H disagreed with the investigators conclusion. He feels that the adviser was negligent 
because he didnt explain that the first policy would continue unless it was cancelled.   
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr H says, I dont think the 
business has behaved unreasonably. 
But before I explain further why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Mr Hs strength of feeling about this matter. 
He has provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully. However, I hope he wont take the fact my findings focus on what 
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised under a separate 
subject heading, its not what Im required to do in order to reach a decision in this case. My 
role is to consider the evidence presented by Mr H and the business, and reach what I think 
is an independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice, but perhaps unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for me to 
decide, based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have 
happened. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im satisfied that having recommended a new 
policy in respect of his new mortgage, the business provided Mr H with enough information 
that made clear his (rather than its) responsibility to cancel any existing cover when the new 
policy was confirmed. 
The recommendation letter dated October 2015 stated:
Please note that you should not cancel existing policies until formal acceptance and 
confirmation of cover has been received from the new Insurer. It will also be your 
responsibility to make sure that the direct debits for any old policies are cancelled at the 
correct time, as your bankers will not accept instructions from us. 
In the circumstances Im satisfied that the business therefore made clear that it was Mr Hs 
responsibility to cancel any direct debit payments even though the policy was designed to 
replace his old policy and sold in respect of his old mortgage.  
I think its also clear that it wasnt the business responsibility to cancel Mr Hs old policy, and 
it couldnt have even if it wanted to, as it has no contractual relationship with the policy 
provider or his bank with whom the direct debit was set up.       I understand that Mr H was under the impression that the first policy would convert into the 
new policy as it was an upgrade, but Ive seen nothing to suggest that the business gave 
him that impression.  
In the circumstances I also cant blame the business for not verbally reminding Mr H that he 
needed to cancel the existing policy. 
I appreciate Mr H will be thoroughly unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator, and I realise my decision isnt what he wants to hear. Whilst I appreciate his 
frustration, Im not going to ask the business to do anything.  
On the face of the available evidence, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give him what 
he wants.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 April 2020.
Dara Islam
Ombudsman