DRN-4356130
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Scottish Equitable plc delayed processing her request to withdraw the 
tax-free cash from her pension. Mrs B says her fund reduced in value because of those 
delays, so shed now like Scottish Equitable to recompense her. 
In addition, Mrs B explained that she had to pay tax on her withdrawal because Scottish 
Equitable failed to action her instruction correctly. 
What happened
In February 2022, Mrs B decided to contact Scottish Equitable to obtain a fund value on her 
personal pension plan. She was only three months away from her 65th birthday and at that 
point, she was considering taking her 25% tax-free cash. During the discussions, she also 
highlighted to Scottish Equitable that shed recently got married and wanted them to update 
their systems accordingly.
On 27 May 2022, Mrs B contacted Scottish Equitable again, this time to let them know that 
she wished to go ahead with taking the 25% tax-free cash from her pension. Scottish 
Equitable treated the withdrawal request as an uncrystallised funds pension lump sum 
(UFPLS) payment. That meant that rather than receiving the full payment tax-free, part of the 
monies were taxed. In addition, during the time it took Scottish Equitable to process the 
request, the value of Mrs Bs plan dropped in value. Because of the fund value drop and the 
way in which the withdrawal was treated, this meant that Mrs B received less tax-free cash 
than she initially thought she would do. Mrs B went on to receive a partial tax rebate of 
around £1,000 from HMRC in respect of the income tax that had been debited.
Shortly afterwards, Mrs B decided to formally complain to Scottish Equitable. In summary, 
she said that shed planned to use the tax-free cash withdrawal to fund the purchase of a car 
and because of Scottish Equitables delays, along with the tax that had been debited, Mrs B 
said that she then didnt have enough funds to purchase the car she wanted. She went on to 
say that she found herself having to borrow monies from her family. 
After reviewing Mrs Bs complaint, Scottish Equitable concluded that they were satisfied that 
theyd done nothing wrong. They also said, in summary, that they didnt believe the delays 
Mrs B had experienced were attributable to themselves. They also didnt think that the way 
the payment was structured - as an UFPLS  was their fault either. However, because theyd 
delayed responding to her complaint, Scottish Equitable decided to pay Mrs B £200 in 
vouchers.
Mrs B was unhappy with Scottish Equitables response, so she referred her complaint to this 
service. In summary, she repeated the same concerns; those were that she was unhappy 
that her fund had decreased in value because of their delays and that part of her monies had 
been taxed. She was also concerned that Scottish Equitable hadnt returned her marriage 
certificate which she now wanted back.
The complaint was then considered by one of our Investigators. He concluded that having 
looked at the timeline of events and various interactions between Mrs B and Scottish 
Equitable, shed not been treated fairly by them. Our Investigator explained that from what 
hed seen, the delays in sending Mrs B her tax-free cash was because of Scottish 
Equitables errors. He also said, in summary:
Had Scottish Equitable not lost Mrs Bs marriage certificate and provided her with 
accurate information, they wouldve had everything they needed by 10 June 2022. That 
meant her tax-free cash payment couldve been sent two working days later  so, on 14 
June 2022.
In respect of the UFPLS payment, our Investigator was satisfied that Mrs B had 
explained on several occasions how she wished to extract the monies from her pension 
and that shouldve led Scottish Equitable to understand that they needed to organise a 
flexi-access drawdown payment to her. That wouldve meant the full amount of monies 
would be paid tax free.
Our Investigator then set out how Scottish Equitable should put things right for Mrs B. He 
also said they should pay her £500 for the trouble and upset theyd caused, but they could 
take account of the vouchers that theyd already provided to Mrs B. 
After considering our Investigators initial view, Scottish Equitable agreed theyd not treated 
Mrs B fairly. However, they disagreed with how things should be put right for Mrs B and 
submitted a revised redress proposal. Scottish Equitable explained that they were able to 
re-wind the UFPLS transaction and instead undertake a flexi-access drawdown withdrawal 
instead. The draft resolution was put forward to Mrs B who broadly accepted the suggestion.
However, Scottish Equitable said that to complete the redress process, Mrs B would need to 
speak to their Aegon Assist Team and go through their business as usual process that she 
shouldve been directed to originally. That would then allow the correct wrapper to be set up 
and have her pension put right for her. In addition, by following that process, it would allow 
them to determine a notional date for how long the process shouldve taken them had things 
not gone wrong. Scottish Equitable said that they would then be able to apply the timings to 
when Mrs B wouldve taken her tax-free cash so the redress she received was accurate.
Mrs B felt shed been inconvenienced enough and explained that she was reluctant to go 
through another process just to have things put right for her. Scottish Equitable explained 
that had they correctly identified Mrs B needed to arrange a flexi-access payment originally, 
she wouldve needed to go through those steps anyway, so they were unwilling to cut short 
their process. In addition, Mrs B felt the manner within which Scottish Equitable had set out 
their approach to calculating the redress was too open ended.
As the finalised approach to how the redress should be undertaken couldnt be agree upon, 
Mrs B asked the Investigator to pass the case to an Ombudsman to review that outcome.
After carefully considering the complaint, I issued a provisional decision on the case as, 
whilst I agreed with the Investigators initial view, I felt clarification on how things should be 
put right was needed.
What I said in my provisional decision:
It seems to me that Scottish Equitable have now conceded they didnt get their service quite 
right when Mrs B originally approached them to take the tax-free cash from her pension. 
Importantly, theyve confirmed that there were delays that couldve been avoided, and Mrs B 
shouldve been directed to their Aegon Assist Team to facilitate the 25% tax-free cash withdrawal. Scottish Equitable have put forward a proposed solution that would put Mrs B 
back as close as is reasonably possible into the position that she wouldve been in had the 
mistakes not occurred and shes largely accepted their proposal with a few exceptions which 
neither side appear to agree on.
So, I think its important for me to explain that Im upholding Mrs Bs complaint and for largely 
the same reasons as our Investigator. My decision will therefore focus on the outstanding 
issues that neither Scottish Equitable or Mrs B can reach a consensus on.
In shaping my decision, Ive looked closely at the proposal that Scottish Equitable have put 
forward. Their approach at a high-level looks fair and reasonable. Whilst I can understand 
Mrs Bs reluctance to want to go through another process with Scottish Equitable, I dont 
think theyre being unreasonable. Thats because taking benefits from a pension isnt always 
straight forward. The Regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority, recognises this and 
requires product providers to satisfy themselves that consumers are provided with sufficient 
information ahead of crystalising their benefits to ensure that theyre placed in a fully 
informed position about all of the drawbacks. Mrs B has already found out to her detriment 
that things can go wrong. Scottish Equitable arent providing any advice to Mrs B but I think 
its reasonable for them to want to ensure that whilst in the process of putting her back in the 
position she shouldve been in, they confirm her understanding of whats happening and 
what that means for her pension. Also, I dont think Scottish Equitable are asking Mrs B to do 
anything that they dont already ask of other consumers nor what she would have already 
been expected to do had she been taken down the correct route in the first place. So, its for 
that reason that I think its more than reasonable to ask Mrs B to speak to the Aegon Assist 
Team and follow their non-advised process. This will protect both Mrs B and Scottish 
Equitable.
Our Investigator has already provided a detailed explanation of what happened and when 
within his initial view. As that doesnt appear to be contested by either side, I dont see the 
need to repeat that information again here. What does appear to be in doubt, however, is 
when Scottish Equitable wouldve been in a position to pay Mrs B her tax-free cash had 
things not gone wrong. 
Ive thought about when Scottish Equitable should run their loss calculation from. Mrs B has 
said that she first contacted Scottish Equitable in February 2022, so thats when any losses 
should be determined from. I dont agree as, whilst Mrs B did speak to Scottish Equitable in 
February 2022, it wasnt until May 2022 that she decided to start the actual process of taking 
her benefits. Ive looked closely at the timeline of events: on 27 May 2022, Mrs B contacted 
Scottish Equitable to let them know that she wished to go ahead with taking the 25% tax-free 
cash from her pension. Had Scottish Equitable not lost Mrs Bs marriage certificate and 
provided her with inaccurate information, our Investigator took the view that they wouldve 
had everything they needed by 10 June 2022. That meant her tax-free cash payment 
couldve been sent two working days later  so, on 14 June 2022. However, Scottish 
Equitable disagrees with this. Theyve said that because of the type of policy Mrs B has, to 
arrange the tax-free cash extraction, theyd also need to switch her pension to a new 
wrapper. That process, they say, could take anything from four to eight weeks depending 
upon the time of year it is and how busy their processing team is.
Scottish Equitable have said that once Mrs B has gone through the necessary Aegon Assist 
process, theyd be able to determine precisely how long it wouldve taken them. They went 
on to say that as such, they could then use that as an accurate point at which to base their 
loss calculations on. Whilst I think Scottish Equitables suggestion isnt unreasonable, that 
places Mrs B very much in the lap of the Aegon Assist teams current workload rather than 
what wouldve happened in May 2022. Whilst its not possible to say what the timeline would 
definitely have looked like had Mrs B been taken down the right route, I have to decide, based on the balance of probabilities, what was most likely to have happened given the facts 
that I have. 
From what Ive seen, Mrs B has acted very diligently in her dealings with Scottish Equitable. 
When she was sent paperwork, she returned it promptly, typically the same day. Ive also 
thought about the nature of Mrs Bs request  its a straightforward tax-free cash withdrawal 
and an internal transfer to an appropriate wrapper. I think the timescales that our Investigator 
set out are fair. However, taking account of what Scottish Equitable have said and 
acknowledging that this is a different customer journey, I think its reasonable to build an 
additional 5 working days on to that consideration. That additional time takes account of the 
time that Mrs B most likely wouldve had to wait for an appointment with the Aegon Assist 
team and for them to set up the new wrapper. To be clear, this isnt an exact science, but an 
approach which I believe matches as closely as is reasonably possible to what wouldve 
happened had the mistakes not occurred. So, whilst our Investigator initially believed that 
Scottish Equitable wouldve been able to complete the transaction within 10 working days, 
based on the information I have, Im satisfied it couldve been concluded by Friday 17 June 
2022 and Mrs Bs tax-free cash wouldve been sent to her two working days later.
Im of the view that by setting a firm date of when the transfer wouldve most likely happened 
rather than waiting and seeing is fairer for both sides. I think both parties would welcome 
the opportunity to draw a line in the sand on this issue and as such, I believe this approach 
will aide in the prompt and timely closure of the complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
After reviewing my provisional decision, both Mrs B and Scottish Equitable responded, 
explaining that they accepted the outcome. However, Scottish Equitable felt that two 
sections of the proposed redress section needed minor amendment to better reflect the 
mechanics of what would happen internally when they were putting things right for Mrs B. 
These were the order in which the activities should be undertaken. In addition, they also 
asked for a small window of time to undertake the necessary rewind work. They felt including 
a small window of five working days at the beginning of the process would allow them to 
rectify their systems which, in turn, would ensure that quotations issued to Mrs B were 
accurate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have accepted the provisional decision, it therefore follows that I have 
reached the same decision for the same reasons that Ive set out above. I have however 
made a small amendment to the order in which the activities within the redress are 
undertaken to take account of the feedback Scottish Equitable have provided. In addition, as 
the end result will be same, I have also accepted Scottish Equitables request to build in five 
working days at the beginning of the process to allow them the necessary time to rewind the 
existing plan and prepare their systems for the new wrapper.
I therefore require Scottish Equitable to take the following actions:Putting things right
Scottish Equitable have explained that their system is able to re-wind the UFPLS 
transaction. Therefore, to place Mrs B back in the position she wouldve been in had the 
delays and mistakes not occurred, the following actions should be taken:
1. Scottish Equitable to pre-fund Mrs Bs Retiready SIPP (the purpose of this step is to 
notionally allow for the return of the UFPLS monies as Mrs B is unable to pay back the 
tax-free cash shes already received as shes spent it on her car purchase).
a. The reversal work should be undertaken within five working days of Mrs B 
accepting the final decision.
2. Scottish Equitable to liaise in with HMRC and return the tax paid out from the UFPLS 
and place those monies into the Retiready SIPP.
3. Scottish Equitable to book an appointment for Mrs B with their Aegon Assist Team no 
later than 10 working days after the reversal work has been undertaken (in step 1 
above). Scottish Equitable should:
a. Explain Mrs Bs options to her
b. Set up the appropriate wrappers to facilitate the withdrawal.
4. Scottish Equitable to transfer the funds from the Retiready SIPP to the Aegon One 
Retirement proposition.
5. Scottish Equitable to pay Mrs B her 25% tax-free cash (less the amount Scottish 
Equitable have already pre-funded into her Retiready SIPP (in point 1) with the 
remaining balance transferred into a flexi-access drawdown (with an income level 
determined at whatever amount is agreed with Mrs B in 3a above).
6. Scottish Equitable to undertake a loss comparison. They should determine what tax-free 
cash Mrs B wouldve received and the number of units her new fund wouldve purchased 
had the transfer to the Retiready SIPP been undertaken by 17 June 2022. They should 
then compare that to Mrs Bs current Scottish Equitable pension. They should use the 
date of my final decision as the end point. 
a. If the Retiready SIPP value is greater than the actual value of the current Scottish 
Equitable plan, there is a loss and compensation is payable. If the actual value is 
greater than the new Retiready SIPP, no compensation is payable.
b. If there is a loss, Scottish Equitable should pay into Mrs B's pension plan to 
increase its value by the amount of the compensation. Scottish Equitables 
payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. 
Scottish Equitable shouldnt pay the compensation into the pension plan if it 
would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
c. If Scottish Equitable is unable to pay the compensation into Mrs B's new pension 
plan, they should pay that amount directly to Mrs B. But had it been possible to 
pay into the plan, it would have provided a taxable income. Therefore, the 
compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that 
would otherwise have been paid. This is an adjustment to ensure that the 
compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to HMRC, so Mrs B 
wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is paid.d. The notional allowance should be calculated using Mrs B's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at her selected retirement age.
e. Its reasonable to assume that Mrs B is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. 
7. Scottish Equitable should recompense Mrs B for depriving her of her funds:
a. They should pay her 8% simple interest p.a. on the unnecessary tax that she paid 
on the UFPLS withdrawal from the point it was paid until settlement. Scottish 
Equitable can take account of the rebate that Mrs B received from the point at 
which it was refunded back into her account.
b. If it subsequently transpires that Mrs B wouldve been entitled to a larger amount 
of tax-free cash when Scottish Equitable undertake their comparison, they must 
pay Mrs B 8% simple interest p.a. on the difference from 22 June 2022 until 
settlement.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Scottish Equitable considers theyre 
required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, they should 
tell Mrs B how much they have taken off. Scottish Equitable should also give Mrs B a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest (if Mrs B asks for one) so she can reclaim the 
tax on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
8. Pay Mrs B £500 for the trouble and upset caused. Mrs B should return all of the 
vouchers Scottish Equitable have already provided to her, that she says shes unable to 
spend.
9. If theyve not already done so, Scottish Equitable should return Mrs Bs marriage 
certificate. If theyre unable to locate the certificate they should pay Mrs B the current 
cost that the General Register Office charges for a replacement.
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Bs complaint and Scottish Equitable plc should put things right in the manner 
that Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Simon Fox
Ombudsman