DRN-4082475
The complaint
Mr J complains about the level of service provided by RAC Insurance Limited after he made 
a claim on his roadside assistance insurance policy.
 
What happened
Mr J and his family were travelling abroad when his car broke down. He called RAC for 
assistance and asked to be towed to a neighbouring country. But RAC refused as it said his 
policy covered him for a local tow only. Mr J arranged his own recovery and repairs. He 
wanted RAC to reimburse him for the cost of the tow and the repairs and compensate him 
for its delays and lack of updates. RAC paid him £200 compensation for his poor experience 
and a total of £301.29 towards the repairs and the tow. But Mr J remained unhappy.
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought RAC 
had reasonably attended Mr J at the roadside within two hours of his call out, but a roadside 
repair wasnt possible. RAC offered a tow to a local garage, but Mr J wanted a tow to a 
neighbouring country. She thought the policy didnt provide this. RAC tried to locate a hire 
car for Mr J, but this wasnt available, so she thought it reasonably offered him hotel 
accommodator instead. 
But Mr J arranged his own recovery and repairs instead. She thought RAC hadnt agreed 
this, and it was only liable for local tow costs, which it paid Mr J, and £175 for repairs, which 
was the policy limit. She thought RACs payment of £200 compensation for its service 
failings was fair and reasonable. 
Mr J replied that he thought the policy provided £500 towards repairs. He said he had a 
small child with him at the time and was left without food or facilities for a long time. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
RAC paid Mr J £126.29 towards his tow costs. I can see that this is the cost of a local tow, 
and this is all that the policy provides. I cant see that RAC agreed to pay for Mr J to be 
towed to another country. The policy highlights on page 37:
We will only provide cover if we arranged help, so please do not go directly to a garage or 
other recovery service, or otherwise approve action taken by you or on your behalf.
So I cant say that it needs to reimburse Mr J anything further for his tow costs. 
Mr J said the policy provides £500 towards repairs costs. But I dont agree. I can see that the 
policy provides on page 41 a maximum of £175 towards the costs of repairs. I can see that 
this is in keeping with the level of cover Mr J had. RAC paid this to Mr J in keeping with the 
policys terms and conditions, so I cant say it needs to pay him anything further for his 
repairs.
There was a two hour delay before RACs agent was able to attend Mr J at the roadside. I 
dont think that was an unreasonable length of time to wait for a response. The agent 
couldnt make a roadside repairs. The policy on page 43 then provides for the car to be 
towed to a local garage for repairs. 
If we are unable to repair the vehicle at the roadside, we will:
a) recover the vehicle and passengers to a local garage for fault diagnosis on the vehicle;
The garage was closed, and Mr J was kept waiting for a solution. Mr J then wanted a tow to 
the neighbouring country, but RAC declined this under the policy terms. It couldnt arrange it 
for Mr J outside the policy as it was a weekend. 
Mr J was then happy to have his car repaired locally and to be provided with a hire car. I can 
see that RAC tried to locate a hire car promptly for Mr J, but it was unsuccessful. It then 
offered Mr J hotel accommodation for two nights as it was a weekend and Mr J had a small 
child.  
I think the hire car provision was outside RACs control. So I cant reasonably hold it liable 
for this and I think it offered Mr J a reasonable alternative. 
But Mr J had already arranged for a tow truck to recover his car. There were later problems 
when RAC was unable to update Mr J due to a system outage. But he was already on his 
way to stay with family whilst RAC was still trying to arrange local services. 
So Mr J and his family werent left on the roadside overnight. RAC had offered hotel 
accommodation when a hire car couldnt be provided. However, RAC paid Mr J £200 
compensation for not responding to his later calls. I think thats fair and reasonable as its in 
keeping with our published guidance. So I dont require RAC to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman