DRN-1838353
The complaint
Mr P complains that American Express Service Europe Limited (American Express) failed to 
provide him with copy statements in a reasonable timescale despite making numerous 
requests.
What happened
Mr P held a British Airways branded credit card account which was administered by 
American Express up to February 2019 when the account was closed.
In May 2019 Mr P needed some copy statements relating to the account to assist him in a 
court case he was involved in. But Mr P was unable to request these        on-line. Mr P made 
numerous requests to American Expresss customer services team. But by September 2019 
he says he still hadnt received the statements. So, he complained to American Express as 
he said the delay had caused him stress and a financial loss. 
American Express responded to Mr Ps complaint on 16 October 2019. It acknowledged that 
Mr P had asked for copy statements on several occasions. But it said that its system showed 
that the statements were ordered when they were requested. 
However, it couldnt explain why Mr P hadnt received them. So, it enclosed the statements 
Mr P had asked for and upheld his complaint  offering him £150 compensation (sent by 
cheque) for the inconvenience caused. It also asked Mr P to supply any evidence of the 
financial loss he had incurred so it could consider this further. 
But Mr P didnt think American Express had done enough to put things right. He said that the 
continued delays in receiving the statements had impacted him financially as it weakened 
the court case he was involved in. And that hed suffered stress and sleepless nights. So, he 
brought the complaint to us.
Our investigator considered the case and agreed that American Express hadnt provided an 
acceptable service. But she thought that the £150 compensation paid via a cheque was fair 
and in line with what she wouldve recommended had an offer not been made. She also 
noted that American Express had agreed to consider                Mr Ps claim for financial loss 
if he was able to provide evidence of it. And she invited him to provide the evidence to her so 
she could forward this to American Express. 
Mr P didnt agree so the case has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
But having done so, Im broadly in agreement with the outcome our investigator reached. I 
know Mr P will be disappointed with this as I can see how strongly he feels about the matter. 
So, Ill explain why.  
I can see that Mr P originally had a British Airways branded credit card account which was 
administered by American Express. I understand that Mr P was initially unhappy as he was 
unable to request the account statements he needed on-line. But Mr P has acknowledged 
that the account was closed in February 2019  before he requested the statements. As the 
account was closed, I dont think it was unusual that statements couldnt be ordered on-line 
as Mr P would no longer have access to a closed account. 
I can see that Mr P had to contact American Express customer services team to request the 
statements he needed. And American Express has provided evidence to this service which 
indicates that the statements Mr P needed were ordered multiple times. 
its not clear why Mr P didnt get these statements. But American Express has told us that 
copy statements are printed centrally and are despatched from an off-shore office. So, I think 
its possible that there were problems with the post. But ultimately, I dont think I need to 
know exactly why the statements werent received as American Express has accepted that 
Mr P didnt receive the service he should have and that the delay in receiving the statements 
was unacceptable. 
So, my role here is to decide if the compensation offered is fair or if American Express needs 
to do more to put things right.
I acknowledge that Mr P says that the delay has impacted him financially because it 
weakened his financial claim in a court case. And he has since said his legal costs have 
gone up as a result and the court case collapsed. So, Ive thought carefully about this.
In order to uphold this part of Mr Ps complaint, I would need to be satisfied Mr P had made 
a loss and that the loss was caused solely as a result in him not receiving his copy 
statements sooner than he did. But I note that both American Express and our investigator 
invited Mr P to provide documentary evidence to support his claim, but Mr P says that hes 
already sent us everything he has. 
So, Ive reviewed all the information Mr P has provided. And I can see he has provided us 
with a copy of a letter from his solicitor. The letter - which is addressed to Mr Ps ex-partner, 
sets out Mr Ps financial claim against his ex-partner. But the letter makes no mention of an 
impending court case or a court case having collapsed. So, while I accept the letter shows 
Mr P was taking legal action against his ex-partner, I dont think the letter demonstrates Mr P 
suffered a financial loss due to a delay in receiving his statements.
 
I also note that the letter is dated November 2019, which is after Mr P received the 
statements he needed from American Express. So, I dont think  based on the evidence Ive 
seen, I can safely say the delay in receiving the statements prevented Mr P from taking the 
legal action he needed to. 
But I accept Mr P required the statements at what was clearly a very difficult time for      him. 
So, I agree that the delay in receiving the statements and the lengths he had to go to get 
them was unreasonable. But overall, I think the £150 compensation payment made by 
American Express fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience caused by the delay. 
Overall, I havent seen enough evidence to safely conclude that Mr P made a financial loss 
as a result of not receiving his credit card account statements. And I think the compensation 
payment made by American Express in recognition of the delay in providing the statements 
to Mr P is fair. So, I wont be telling American Express to take any further action in respect of 
this complaint.I note Mr P has mentioned that he continued to correspond with American Express after it 
issued its final response on his complaint, but he did not receive a reply. I think it would be 
helpful to explain that a final response is generally accepted as a business final word on a 
complaint. So, we dont generally expect a business to continue to correspond on the matter 
after a final response has been issued and referral rights to this service have been provided. 
Unless, in this case, that correspondence was to provide the evidence of Mr Ps financial 
loss that had been requested. But the copy correspondence Mr P has provided indicates that 
he was challenging the level of the compensation rather than providing further evidence. So, 
given American Express had provided referral rights to this service on this point, I dont think 
American Express did anything wrong if it didnt correspond further with Mr P. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint  in 
the sense that that compensation paid by American Express Services Europe Limited is fair 
in all the circumstances of the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2020.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman