DRN-3161830
The complaint
Mrs M has complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc unfairly turned down her business 
interruption insurance claim. 
What happened
Mrs M held a business protection insurance policy with AXA. She claimed on the business 
interruption insurance section of the policy after her business was impacted by Covid-19 and 
the Governments response to the pandemic. 
AXA turned down Mrs Ms claim. It said the core business interruption section of the policy 
and the extension for denial of access require damage to property and Covid-19 didnt cause 
damage. It said while the policy provides cover for business interruption due to a specified 
list of diseases, Covid-19 isnt one of the diseases covered.
 
Unhappy with AXAs response Mrs M brought her complaint to our service. She said Covid-
19 couldnt have been listed on the policy as it wasnt known about when the policy written. 
Our Investigator looked into Mrs Ms complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as she 
didnt think the policy provided cover for the circumstances of her claim.
 
Mrs M asked for an Ombudsmans decision. She said the policy can be interpreted in 
different ways and as plague is listed as one of the covered diseases, that should extend to 
Covid-19.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if AXA has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Mrs Ms claim.
Mrs M doesnt seem to dispute that the core business interruption section of the policy and 
the extension for denial of access dont provide cover so Im going to focus my decision on 
the extension for disease. However, for completeness I will add that I dont think the core 
business interruption section of the policy or the extension for denial of access cover         
Mrs Ms claim. Thats because they both require there to have been damage to property and 
I havent seen anything to indicate that Covid-19 damaged either Mrs Ms property or 
property within a one mile radius of it. 
The extension for disease says:
We will pay you for interruption of or interference with the business during the
indemnity period following
1 the occurrence of any of the following specified human infectious or human
contagious diseases suffered by any person at your premises or within a one mile 
radius of it
acute encephalitis, acute poliomyelitis, anthrax, chicken pox, cholera, diphtheria,
dysentery, legionellosis, legionnaires disease, leprosy, leptospirosis, malaria,
measles, meningococcal infection, mumps, opthalmia neonatorum, paratyphoid 
fever, plague, rabies, rubella, scarlet fever, smallpox, tetanus, tuberculosis, 
typhoid fever, viral hepatitis, whooping cough and yellow fever
Given Covid-19 wasnt in existence at the time the policy was entered into, I wouldnt expect
it to be included in the list of diseases. But there were similar policies on the market that 
provided cover in the circumstances of the pandemic, e.g. policies which covered all 
notifiable diseases as set out and updated on a Government-defined list. Mrs Ms policy is 
not like this  it sets out a defined list of the diseases which are covered. And there is 
nothing in the wording of the policy which implies it would provide cover for any new 
diseases which might emerge. So, I dont think the policy can fairly be read as covering all 
and any new diseases.
Ive thought about Mrs Ms point that plague should cover Covid-19 but I dont think it does. 
In the Governments updated list of notifiable diseases Covid-19 and Plague are listed 
separately, indicating that they are different diseases. The medical definition of Plague says 
that it is a specific disease caused by bacteria, whereas Covid-19 is a virus. Moreover, if the 
intention of the policy was for Plague to cover a pandemic then the policy wouldnt need to 
include many other diseases, meaning the list would be redundant. Therefore, I dont think 
this extension provides cover for Mrs Ms claim.
I recognise this isnt the answer Mrs M was hoping for but, having considered the matter 
very carefully, I dont think I can fairly require AXA to pay her claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman