DRN-3482464
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Lloyds Bank PLC wrongly advised them to invest into two 
Stocks and Shares Individual Savings Accounts (ISA) and a jointly held Open Ended 
Investment Contract (OEIC). They also complain about the performance of the 
recommended investments.
What happened
In summary, the background to this complaint is as follows:
In March 2018, recommendations were made to invest in various investments. Some 
amendments to these recommendations were made following input from Mr and Mrs 
W about desired changes. They invested:
- Mr W invested £20,000 in the Scottish Widows Dynamic Solution Fund via a 
stocks and shares ISA.
- Mrs W invested £20,000 in the Scottish Widows Strategic Solution Fund via a 
stocks and shares ISA.
- They both invested £20,000 in the Scottish Widows Strategic Solution Fund via a 
jointly held OEIC.
Mr & Mrs W were provided with fund fact sheets, dated 31 March 2018, for each fund 
invested in. Warnings were given saying the funds could both rise and fall in value 
and past performance may not necessarily be a guide to future performance. 
However, both funds did gain in value over the five-year period prior to Mr and Mrs W 
investing. 
Mr and Mrs W complained about the advice theyd been given in 2018 saying it 
wasnt suitable for them. They also complained about the performance of the 
recommended funds. But Lloyds rejected the complaint saying it had properly 
assessed both Mr and Mrs Ws wants and needs. And that they (Mr and Mrs W) had 
been provided with regular updates on the value - it had no contractual obligations to 
review the ISAs. 
Our investigator looked at the complaint. She didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said Lloyds had provided suitable advice and recommendations. Mr 
and Mrs W didnt agree. They said the Lloyds adviser should have disclosed the poor 
performance of the funds earlier. Another investigator considered Mr and Mrs Ws 
further comments. But he remained of the view the complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
Mr and Mrs W remained unhappy. So, the case has been passed to me to make a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully noted all the representations made by Mr and Mrs W, but I wont be addressing 
every single point theyve raised. Ive instead concentrated on the issues I think are central 
to the outcome of their complaint.
Having considered everything, I broadly agree with the conclusions reached by our 
investigators. Ill explain why. 
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy Lloyds recommended in-house investments and didnt make a 
wider comparison with other funds available at the time. They also say the adviser 
recommended them funds that had been failing to achieve their objectives and performance 
prior to them investing. 
Lloyds terms of business say its adviser is restricted in terms of recommending investments. 
The adviser can only select funds from a limited product range  this is explained by Lloyds 
in its terms as follows: 
We offer restricted financial advice on solutions for investment ...
The terms go on to say: 
We offer a range of products from our restricted range of Lloyds Banking Group 
products and certain additional products offered by a limited number of carefully 
selected third party product providers. 
Further, the financial report Mr and Mrs W were sent in March 2018 states: 
I informed you at our meeting that I am an adviser representing Lloyds Bank Plc 
offering restricted advice on investment, pension and protection solutions from a 
limited number of providers that Lloyds Bank Plc have selected.
So, given the above, Im satisfied Lloyds made it reasonably clear that its adviser would be 
offering restricted advice. And I havent seen anything to suggest its adviser had to carry out 
a market comparison or recommend products other than those listed by Lloyds in its wealth 
management literature.
That said, a firm is still obliged to give its customers suitable investment advice. But Im not 
persuaded that only having a certain selection of products to choose from would make the 
products recommended, unsuitable.
Both Mr W and Mrs W have explicitly said they dont dispute that Lloyds correctly assessed 
their respective attitude to risk. And/or that their circumstances werent correctly considered. 
They concede the overall recommendation met with their objectives. And as far as I can see, 
the investments recommended to them fell within their respective attitude to risk and met 
with their stated objectives and circumstances.
In terms of the performance of the investments, the fact other funds may have performed 
better, is not a reason to uphold the complaint. The performance of the recommended funds 
will depend on investment decisions which involve skill, expertise and the use of professional 
judgement and management discretion by the fund managers. These decisions will often involve subjective choices and its not the role of this service to interrogate the decisions that 
have been taken and use hindsight to assess whether they were good or bad.  
The important point is, that Mr and Mrs W were advised correctly in that they were 
recommended products that met with their attitude to risk and objectives.
Given the nature of investments, its not fair to say the adviser could have been expected to 
know how the fund would perform in the future. As I said above, many factors feed into a 
funds performance and clear risk warnings were given on the fund factsheets to say the 
investment returns could go up as well as down.    
Finally, I think the information Mr and Mrs W were given about the recommended funds was 
clear, fair and not misleading. As such, they would have been able to make an informed 
choice as to whether to accept the recommendations that had been made to them. 
Indeed, I can see they made some amendments to the initial advice they were given around 
these investments. And as Ive said, they dont dispute the recommendations made were in 
line with their attitude to risk and objectives. 
For all these reasons, I think Lloyds has acted fairly and reasonably in this case. So, I wont 
be upholding the complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 14 September 2022.
 
Rajvinder Pnaiser
Ombudsman