DRN-3989995
The complaint
Mr Y believes Blue Motor Finance Ltd (BMF) acted irresponsibly by agreeing a hire 
purchase agreement hed applied for.
What happened
On 20 February 2018, Mr Y was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase 
agreement with BMF. He paid a deposit of £350 and the agreement was for £5,790 over 61 
months, with 60 monthly repayments of £147.16 and a final payment of £297.16.
Mr Y has complained that BMF didnt act responsibly when approving the finance. Hes said 
that BMFs checks were inadequate as he was continually overdrawn, he had significant 
reliance upon short-term high-interest loans (also referred to as payday loans), and he had a 
gambling problem, at the time the finance was approved. So, he didnt think the payments 
were affordable. 
BMF considered this complaint, but they thought theyd done adequate checks, which 
showed that Mr Y could afford the payments. And they didnt uphold his complaint.
Mr Y wasnt happy with this, so he brought his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said that BMF hadnt been able to evidence the checks theyd done. So, he 
considered what the checks would likely have shown. He considered the information Mr Y 
had provided and thought these showed Mr Y had sufficient disposable income to 
sustainably support the payments to BMF.
The investigator said the evidence showed that, while Mr Y had been reliant upon payday 
loans in the past, this was no longer the case when he made his application to BMF. He also 
said that, while Mr Ys bank statements did show gambling transactions, BMF would only 
have been aware of this if they had seen evidence that wasnt reasonably required for them 
to make a fair lending decision. Given this, the investigator thought BMF hadnt done 
anything wrong when they approved the finance Mr Y applied for.
Mr Y didnt agree with the investigator. He said that his financial situation at the time, and 
shortly after, the finance was agreed should have shown that he was unable to control his 
debts. Hes also said that this wasnt helped by his serious gambling addiction and he was 
struggling to live day to day. So, hes asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When someone complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending, there are two 
overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in all 
of the circumstances of the complaint. These are:
1. Did BMF complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr Y 
would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
a. if so, did BMF make a fair lending decision?
b. if not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr Y 
could sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did BMF act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
And, if I determine that BMF didnt act fairly and reasonably when considering Mr Ys 
application, Ill also consider what I think is a fair way to put things right.
Did BMF complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr Y would be 
able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportionate checks are, but Id expect lenders 
to consider things such as the amount, duration, and payments of the finance being applied 
for; as well as the borrowers personal circumstances at the time of each application. 
BMF have explained that they checked Mr Ys credit file and applied a series of calculations 
that looked for signs of financial stress and affordability. Theyve said these included looking 
at the amount of active credit accounts Mr Y had, how he was using his credit facilities, and 
what his debt to income ratio was.
However, BMF havent provided anything to evidence the checks they actually carried out. 
As such, I cant be satisfied that these checks were reasonable and proportionate. 
Therefore, Ive gone on to consider what BMF would likely have found had reasonable and 
proportionate checks been carried out.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr Y would be able to repay 
the credit in a sustainable way?
Before I address the matter in hand, Ive seen that the Financial Ombudsman Service has 
also considered similar complaints from Mr Y about credit that had been afforded to him by 
other lenders between 2008 and 2017. 
The investigators looking at those transactions thought that other credit providers had been 
irresponsible to lend to Mr Y at this time because of his financial circumstances, his reliance 
upon payday loans, and payments to a debt management company.
However, these outcomes were based on Mr Ys circumstances at the time. And I need to 
consider if these circumstances were still relevant in February 2018. As such, I dont 
consider that the outcomes of these investigations automatically mean that BMF must have 
acted irresponsibly by approving the finance Mr Y applied for. And my decision will be based 
on what reasonable and proportionate checks wouldve shown in February 2018.
Mr Y has provided a copy of a multi-agency credit report. This shows historic data so Im 
satisfied this will give a good indication of what BMF wouldve seen on the credit file they 
obtained when they considered his finance application.This report shows that, in January 2018, Mr Y had three active mail order accounts, five 
active credit cards, and one active loan. All the payments had been made on all these 
accounts and there were no arrears. Additionally, there were no missed payments showing 
on any settled loans or credit cards, including payday loans. The report shows that Mr Ys 
current accounts were all conducted within any agreed overdraft limit, and he was 
maintaining payments to his mobile phone providers. 
However, the report does show some historic arrears  a payment arrangement from March 
to June 2015 on an active mail order account, a missed payment in June 2014 to a mobile 
phone provider that was repaid between July and November 2014, and a settled mail order 
account that was in debt management in March and April 2015.
In respect of payday loans, the report shows that Mr Y was using these regularly in 2015 and 
2016, with a few being utilised in 2017. The last payday loan showing on the report was 
repaid in October 2017.
Based on this report, while its clear that Mr Y had credit when he applied for finance with 
BMF, he was maintaining all payments and there were no indications of any financial 
difficulties. Mr Y was likely in some historic financial difficulties between 2014 and 2016, 
given the missed payments and reliance upon payday loans at this time. However, theres 
nothing on this report that shows me BMF shouldve declined his application, or that they 
shouldve been unduly concerned about his current financial position.
Mr Y has also provided copies of his bank statements for one account for the period June 
2007 to December 2018. While this gives a comprehensive insight into his financial position 
for more than a decade, I wouldnt have expected BMF to have asked Mr Y for copies of 
these. However, Im satisfied that the statements for November 2017 to January 2018 would 
give a good indication of what BMF would likely have taken into consideration had they 
asked Mr Y to prove his income and committed expenditure during that specific period.
The bank statements show that Mr Y received an income of £2,526 a month. While they also 
show that he overpaid his credit cards on a regular basis, his committed expenditure (i.e. the 
minimum payments) for the active credit showing on the credit report was £565.
Given this, had BMF verified Mr Ys income, for example by way of payslips, and taken into 
consideration the information showing on the credit report, then they wouldve calculated Mr 
Y to have £1,961 disposable income each month. And, while that would need to cover any 
housing costs, household bills, food etc. (none of which show on the statements Mr Y had 
provided), reasonable and proportionate checks would show that Mr Y was still able to 
sustainably repay a payment of £147.16 a month.
When looking at the bank statements in depth, I can see that Mr Y was transferring a lot of 
money into and out of the account monthly. This indicates additional bank accounts that, 
while they would likely show the missing household payments referred to above, may also 
have shown additional income and/or expenditure. So, the statements provided dont show a 
full picture of Mr Ys financial circumstances at the time.
The statements Ive reviewed also show that Mr Y had payday loans that werent showing on 
his credit file. While not all lenders will provide details to the credit reference agencies, I can 
only expect BMF to have taken into consideration credit commitments they were made 
aware of. And, as these payday loans werent showing on the credit file, and as Ive seen 
nothing to show me that Mr Y declared them to BMF, it wouldnt be fair to say BMF shouldve 
taken into consideration credit commitments they couldnt have been reasonably aware of.Finally, the bank statements show that Mr Y was gambling excessively  as hes now said 
was the case. However, as Ive said above, I consider that validating Mr Ys income, when 
taking into consideration the contents of the credit file, Mr Ys committed expenditure, and 
the payments to BMF, was a reasonable and proportionate check. As such, I wouldnt expect 
BMF to have obtained bank statements. So, they would only have been aware of Mr Ys 
gambling problem if he made them aware of this. And I havent seen that he did so as part of 
the application process.
As such, and while I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr Y, Im satisfied that, 
had BMF carried out reasonable and proportionate checks, then theres no valid reason why 
they wouldnt have found the finance to be sustainably affordable. And its for this reason 
why I wont be asking them to refund all or part of the payments Mr Y paid, or of any interest 
and fees he may have been charged.
Did BMF act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I havent seen anything to make me think BMF acted unfairly or unreasonably in some other 
way.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Ys complaint about Blue Motor Finance 
Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman