DRN-3967301
The complaint
Mr S complains about Barclays Bank UK PLCs decision to close his account and return the 
money held in it back to its original source.
What happened
Mr S held an account with Barclays. In July 2019, Barclays blocked Mr Ss account while 
they carried out a review. 
As part of the review, Barclays asked Mr S about a payment of £3,000 which was credited to 
his account. Mr S explained he sold car parts on behalf of his friend who had a car garage 
which was shutting down. Mr S said he sold the parts on a social media selling site and 
provided Barclays with evidence of the sales. Barclays reviewed things and didnt agree the 
evidence Mr S provided was sufficient. In August 2019, Barclays decided to end their 
relationship with Mr S and closed his accounts immediately. They returned the £3,000 left in 
Mr Ss account back to its original source and made the £14 left in his savings account 
available to withdraw in December 2019.
Mr S complained and Barclays responded to Mr Ss complaint and explained they were 
entitled to do what they did. They recognised they had caused delays and offered £300 
compensation.
Mr S remained unhappy and referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator looked at 
things and said Barclays were entitled to review the account and close it in the way they did. 
She said Barclays thought the evidence Mr S provided for the £3,000 was insufficient so 
they returned it to source; and she felt the £300 compensation offered was in line with what 
wed recommend. So, she didnt ask Barclays to do anything differently.
Mr S remained unhappy. In summary, he said, it wasnt clear that a full investigation had 
been done by looking at the evidence provided to Barclays or contacted the witness or 
receipt providers or checked the social media selling site. So, he doesnt think Barclays 
should have returned the money to source. Mr S also explained that he withdrew money 
from his account after July 2019, so he believes the block date is wrong. And he explained 
the £300 compensation was paid due to Barclays closing his childrens mothers account but 
feels he should receive compensation for the circumstances of his complaint.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted that Mr S has made a number of quite detailed submissions. Ive considered all of 
these, but I dont believe its necessary to address each and every point that Mr S has made 
in order to meet my statutory duty to determine his complaint. Im required to do that with 
minimum formality, and so Ill address the issues that I consider to be the most important. I 
do stress however that Ive considered everything that Mr S and Barclays have said before 
reaching my decision.
The review, block and closure
Barclays are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations. Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied Barclays were acting in line 
with these obligations when reviewing, blocking, and subsequently closing Mr Ss account. 
Barclays are required to regularly review the relationships they hold with their customers and 
its often appropriate for certain transactions to be reviewed. In Mr Ss case, money paid into 
his account was raised as suspicious, so Im pleased to see Barclays took the action to block 
any further activity on the account while they investigated things. Barclays received 
information from another bank which they have shared with our service in confidence. I 
appreciate Mr S doesnt think the block was in place in July 2019 because he withdrew 
money after this date. But based on what Ive seen, it appears Barclays allowed Mr S access 
to his benefits  which we would expect them to do. Therefore, I do conclude the block date 
is correct, but Mr S was entitled to withdraw money he was entitled to while the block was in 
place.
Im satisfied based on the evidence Ive seen that Barclays were entitled to close Mr Ss 
account and did so by complying with the terms and conditions of the account. Therefore, I 
cant reasonably say Barclays did anything wrong when deciding to close Mr Ss account. I 
can only uphold this part of the complaint if Barclays did something wrong  and I cant 
reasonably say they did.
Returning the money to source
The crux of Mr Ss complaint is that hes unhappy Barclays returned the £3,000 paid into his 
account to source  in other words they sent the money back to where it originally came 
from.
I appreciate Mr S says he provided evidence to Barclays at the time. I havent been able to 
review the evidence in full due to the time which has passed, however I dont think it makes 
an overall difference. I say that because, Barclays received the fraud report from another 
bank and carried out an investigation due to that. So, I think they have enough information to 
warrant returning the funds to source. I know this leaves Mr S at a loss  but I cant 
reasonably say the £3,000 which entered Mr Ss account belonged to him based on what 
Ive seen. Therefore, Im not satisfied that Mr S is the rightful owner of the money which was 
left in the account. And, in the full circumstances of this complaint, Im satisfied Barclays took 
the appropriate action when returning the money to source.
The customer service and compensation
I recognise Mr S believes he is entitled to compensation for what has happened  he thinks 
the £300 Barclays have paid is in relation to another account concerning the mother of his 
children. Ive asked Barclays about this and theyve explained they paid £150 due to the 
length of time the investigation took, and a further £150 for the poor service and visits made 
to the branch. Therefore, Im satisfied the £300 compensation was in relation to the 
circumstances of this complaint, and considering the full circumstances, I think its 
reasonable to reflect the distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 3 April 2023.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman