DRN-4027494
The complaint
Miss P is a sole trader. She complains that TSB Bank plc unfairly closed her business 
account and recalled her Bounce Back Loan.
What happened
Miss P opened a business account with TSB in October 2020 and applied to the bank for a 
Bounce Back Loan of £30,000. The loan was approved and drawn down in December.
In January 2021, TSB undertook a review of Miss Ps Bounce Back Loan application and 
asked her for some information about her business to confirm her eligibility for the loan shed 
received. With concerns as to Miss Ps eligibility, TSB restricted her access to her account 
and the funds held within it from 3 February 2021 while looking into things. 
Following its review, TSB concluded that Miss P hadnt met the eligibility criteria for the 
Bounce Back Loan  so it decided to close her business account and default the loan 
immediately. It used all of the funds held in Miss Ps account to reduce the amount 
outstanding on the loan and issued a formal demand for the repayment of the remainder, 
around £15,600, within 14 days.
TSB also closed Miss Ps personal accounts, which were the subject of a separate 
complaint.
Miss P says that the closure of her business account and loss of the funds therein, which 
were predominantly comprised of the loan, have devastated her business. She doesnt think 
there is any basis for the banks actions.
TSB says it had legitimate concerns as to Miss Ps eligibility for the loan and, based on 
these, closed her account and terminated the loan in accordance with the applicable terms 
and conditions.
One of our investigators reviewed Miss Ps complaint but didnt recommend that it be upheld. 
In summary, he thought that TSBs decision to close Miss Ps business account and default 
the Bounce Back Loan had been reasonable in light of the findings of its review. 
So with no resolution, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
My first provisional decision
My initial view of this complaint differed from that of our investigator. So I issued a 
provisional decision setting out my findings, and invited both parties to let me have any 
further information or evidence they wanted me to take into account before I made a final 
decision. I said:
Under the rules of the Bounce Back Loan Scheme, an applicant could borrow up to 
25% of their annual turnover (to a maximum amount of £50,000). 
When Miss P applied for the Bounce Back Loan, she declared an annual turnover of 
£180,000. TSB approved her request for a loan of £30,000 on the basis of this 
declaration, in keeping with the self-certified nature of the Bounce Back Loan 
application process. 
When TSB subsequently reviewed Miss Ps application, it didnt think the turnover 
figure she declared was accurate. This is based on a review of Miss Ps tax return, 
which shows that her business had no income during the tax year 2019/20 (although 
it does evidence that she was trading, but reported a loss). TSB says that as Miss P 
had no income during 2019, she was ineligible for a loan  because the rules of the 
Loan Scheme said that applicants could borrow up to 25% of their 2019 turnover.
TSBs explanation of the Loan Scheme rules isnt quite right  as different 
requirements applied to businesses established after 1 January 2019. While it is 
correct to say that businesses established before 1 January 2019 had to use their 
2019 turnover, businesses established after this date were asked to provide an 
estimated annual turnover figure upon which to base their request.
Miss Ps business was established after 1 January 2019. Although there is some 
dispute as to exactly when this was, I dont think it is in doubt that it was at some 
point during 2019. Miss Ps tax return shows a start date of 20 December 2019. 
Miss P was, therefore, entitled  in fact, required  to use an estimated annual 
turnover on which to base her request for a loan. And this was set out in TSBs own 
application form, which said:
What is your annual turnover, or if your business was established after 
1 January 2019, what is your estimated annual turnover?
There may be a legitimate question as to the accuracy of Miss Ps estimate. But she 
has provided the calculations on which this was based along with other information 
about her plans and trading activity since. And it is important to note that there was 
no guidance as to how to calculate the estimate  including on what might (or might 
not) constitute a reasonable forecast. So it was left to Miss P to provide an estimate 
of her annual turnover and, from what Ive seen, I dont think the figure she used was 
patently unreasonable. 
TSB has also said that it required applicants to evidence that they had been trading 
their business through a personal account with TSB if their business account was 
opened after 11 May 2020. This applied to Miss P, as she opened her business 
account in October 2020. It raised a further concern that it couldnt see that some of 
Miss Ps business transactions had been processed through her personal account. 
But, as the bank has acknowledged, there are valid reasons in that an alternative 
method of payment was used. Ultimately this requirement of the banks was to check 
the applicants trading status and therefore eligibility for the Bounce Back Loan, and 
Miss P provided it with a wealth of other information to satisfy this. 
Taking all of the above into account, I dont think TSB acted reasonably in 
terminating and recalling Miss Ps Bounce Back Loan. It had legitimate concerns in 
view of the apparent discrepancy between Miss Ps declared turnover figure and the 
actual amounts running through her account. But it wasnt reasonable to conclude 
that this was a fraudulent application. No consideration seems to have been given to 
the fact that Miss P had to use a projected figure, so there was never going to be 
much in the way of actual account activity to demonstrate the £180,000 figure shed 
declared. TSBs review of the Bounce Back Loan also led it to close Miss Ps bank account 
immediately. Given that I dont think it acted reasonably in respect of the loan, it 
follows that I think this was a further error on the banks part.
As I dont think TSB treated Miss P fairly, Ive gone on to consider how she was 
impacted by what the bank did wrong.
The immediate termination of the loan  and withdrawal of the remaining funds from 
Miss P  along with the immediate withdrawal of her banking facilities inevitably had 
a significant impact on Miss Ps business. The contract had been entered into and 
Miss P had understandably acted in reliance on it, utilising half of the funds over the 
months that theyd been available to her. Miss P has explained and evidenced that 
she had already committed to a business plan for an event in 2021 that couldnt be 
fulfilled without the remainder of the loan funds. This meant that she derived no 
benefit from many of the expenses shed already incurred, on which the loan funds 
had been spent. 
This also meant that all the work she had put into arranging the 2021 event that 
couldnt go ahead had been wasted. This event was the sole purpose of the 
business, with no other operations or income streams. Miss P had already generated 
some ticket sales, which had to be refunded.
Miss P subsequently resumed trading and, having borrowed funds from elsewhere 
including her family, was able to host an event in 2022. As she has been able to cope 
without the remainder of the loan funds, and with matters having moved on, Miss P 
isnt seeking the return of this portion of the loan to which I think she was entitled. But 
she is currently faced with having to repay around £15,000, being the amount that 
she utilised, from which she has derived little benefit. I dont think thats fair. 
So to put things right, Im intending to require TSB to write off the outstanding loan 
balance. While I think Miss P would likely have received some benefit from some of 
the purchases made with the funds  I note that some equipment, for example, was 
bought and this could be used or sold if unnecessary  the majority was spent on 
arranging and promoting the event that didnt go ahead. And I am mindful that Miss P 
lost the opportunity to proceed with the event, that wouldve generated some income 
that she lost out on. While imperfect, I think this puts Miss P in the fairest position 
practicable  particularly given the time that has passed and the change to her 
circumstances.
As is evident from the above, I also think TSBs actions caused Miss P some 
significant distress and inconvenience. The immediate removal of the loan and her 
account wouldve prompted a range of emotions, from the concern at feeling that she 
had done something wrong to the upset at having to cancel the event for which shed 
spent months working towards. She was then faced with having to repay the bank 
£15,000 immediately, which would doubtless have caused some significant anxiety. 
This all came off the back of what she wouldve hoped was a recovery to normal 
trading, having had to shelve plans in 2020 in light of the pandemic  further delaying 
the growth of her new business and severely impacting her income. 
Miss P had to spent time and trouble cancelling the arrangements for the 2021 event, 
refunding ticket sales and cancelling bookings for events and artists. While hard to 
calculate, this is also likely to have impacted the reputation of her business. And 
shes had to make alternative arrangements with other banking service providers, as 
well as borrow money from family, to restart her business.Taking all of this into account, Im also intending to require TSB to pay Miss P 
compensation of £2,000.
Miss P accepted my first provisional decision. But TSB didnt. It replied to say, in summary, 
that:
The bank had some concerns as to whether Miss P had actually been trading at all, 
given that the income received into her account consisted mainly of payments from 
an employer. It said that in response to queries about this, Miss P had provided some 
invoices but these hadnt been processed through the accounts she held with the 
bank.
There was still some ambiguity over when Miss P started her business, but it 
accepted that this wouldve been after 1 January 2019 and Miss P was therefore 
entitled to provide an estimated turnover figure when applying for the loan. 
It didnt agree that there hadnt been any guidance as to how calculate the estimate, 
and pointed to an explanatory note that told applicants to apply the 25% limit to their 
estimated turnover from the date the business started. With the business having 
been running for a minimum of 10 months by the time of Miss Ps application, it 
thought she shouldve been able to provide a fairly accurate annual turnover figure. 
It deemed the figure used to have been overinflated, given the lack of any business-
related credits running through Miss Ps TSB accounts and as Miss P had 
subsequently told the bank that the figure was based on events she planned to run in 
2021.
The bank hadnt been required to verify Miss Ps self-certified declaration  which 
included whether she had the requisite level of turnover to qualify for the loan  when 
deciding whether to approve her application.
Miss P had told TSB that money put into events scheduled for 2020 had been lost 
(due to cancellations imposed by coronavirus restrictions) and that she had used 
some of the loan funds to reimburse herself for the costs shed incurred. But she 
hadnt evidenced this, despite the banks request. And this contradicted Miss Ps 
subsequent claim that the loan funds had been used to fund expenses for the 2021 
event.
It wasnt reasonable to conclude that TSBs actions were the sole cause of the 2021 
event having to be cancelled, as it believed that coronavirus restrictions would 
always have had an impact.
Miss P had ultimately been unable to satisfy the banks concerns in failing to provide 
clear evidence when requested. So it still thought that it had been right to recall the 
loan and close Miss Ps account based on the information available to it at the time.
My second provisional decision
Following further review of the complaint in light of the responses to my first provisional 
decision, I took a different view as to how TSB should put things right. I said:
Ive noted TSBs points around Miss Ps trading activity  although it hasnt explicitly 
stated that it doesnt think Miss P wasnt trading at the requisite time such that she 
was ineligible for a loan of any amount. The bank has gone on to accept that Miss P 
was entitled to use a projected turnover figure so I take this to mean that it accepts Miss P was trading at the requisite time. I should add for completeness that the 
evidence Ive seen leads me to think that Miss P was engaged in trading activity prior 
to 1 March 2020 and at the time she applied for the loan. I should also confirm that I 
agree TSB was under no obligation to verify Miss Ps turnover figure when reviewing 
her application (and I didnt suggest otherwise in my previous provisional decision).
As it is accepted that Miss P was entitled to use a projected turnover figure when 
applying, the question remains whether she acted reasonably in using the figure that 
she did. I accept it was an overstatement to say that there was no guidance as to 
how this figure ought to have been calculated  although I dont think it was 
especially clear or exhaustive. It said only that applicants should apply the 25% limit 
to your estimated annual turnover from the date you started your business. 
I can see why TSB thinks it was inappropriate for Miss P to have used forecasted 
income in 2021 when entering a figure. But I dont think it was unreasonable. Miss P 
evidently based her assessment on the 12 months from the date of her application, 
rather than the date her business started. She hadnt been able to trade in 2020 and, 
given the nature of her business, her turnover was seasonal and dependent on 
particular events going ahead. So to provide an estimate of her annual turnover, she 
thought about what she expected to earn when running as normal. Even if I accept 
that wasnt what TSB expected of her, I think it was provided in good faith  and dont 
find it so unreasonable as to warrant the immediate termination of the facility some 
months later. 
The bank had a level of discretion over whether to terminate the loan, and given all 
Ive said above Im still not persuaded that it exercised that discretion fairly in all the 
circumstances  particularly in view of the foreseeable adverse impact it would have 
on Miss P and her business.
In my provisional decision, I said that I thought a fair way for TSB to compensate 
Miss P for the financial impact of its unreasonable decision to terminate the loan 
would be to write off the outstanding balance. Ive reflected on this in light of the 
banks further comments, in particular its suggestion that the banks actions werent 
the sole reason for the cancellation of the 2021 festival. Having done so, I no longer 
think that a write-off of the loan would be fair in the circumstances. Ill explain why.
As TSB has pointed out, there were still a number of coronavirus-related restrictions 
in place in June 2021  when Miss P was intending to host the event overseas. And 
Miss P acknowledges that she posted on her businesss social media page that the 
festival was cancelled as a result of coronavirus restrictions (with particular reference 
to the impact of the limits on international travel)  although she says this was 
something of a cover story, in order to limit the impact of damage to the business by 
disclosing that it didnt have the requisite funds to proceed.
Even accepting what Miss P says, I think the fact remains that international travel 
was still severely restricted, including from the UK and to the country in which her 
event was to take place. International travel from the UK had only been allowed to 
restart in May 2021, and that was subject to stringent measures under the traffic 
light system. The location of Miss Ps event was not added to the green list  to 
which international travel was permitted  prior to the intended event date. The 
destination country also had its own restrictions and entry requirements in place 
around this time  which, as I understand it, included particularly stringent rules on 
passengers arriving from the UK, which was listed within its own red category. It therefore seems most likely to me that Miss Ps event would, unfortunately, always 
have been unable to proceed  in much the same way as shed been unable to host 
the event shed had planned for 2020. That being the case, I cant say that the 2021 
festival had to be aborted simply because of TSBs actions, as I dont think it 
wouldve gone ahead anyway. It follows that I no longer think any losses Miss P 
incurred as a result of the cancellation of the 2021 festival were down to the actions 
of TSB.
Ive given some thought to whether Miss P suffered any other losses by being 
deprived of the remainder of the loan funds, taking into account what she has told us 
about the impact of this on her business. But Ive not seen that she did. I understand 
that she was able to go ahead with subsequent events, having received a loan from 
family and another lender and  based on what Ive seen so far  I cant say that 
these subsequent events generated any less profit for Miss P than they wouldve 
done had TSB not recalled the Bounce Back Loan.
As I still think that TSB acted unfairly in terminating the Bounce Back Loan (and 
closing her account without notice off the back of that decision), I still think it should 
compensate Miss P for the distress and inconvenience this caused her. Much of the 
impact I described in my provisional decision remains attributable to what the bank 
did wrong, in that the immediate removal of the facilities wouldve caused Miss P 
some significant upset as well as the inconvenience of having to make alternative 
arrangements for both an account and funding for her business. However, given I 
now think that the event would always have been cancelled, I recognise that Miss P 
would always have needed to carry out the work related to this (such as refunding 
tickets and cancelling bookings) irrespective of TSBs actions. As a result, I now think 
a fairer compensation amount would be £1,250.
Miss P didnt accept my second provisional decision. She replied to say, in summary, that:
TSB was unfairly portraying her business as fraudulent, despite her having 
evidenced that she was scheduling the 2021 event and was later able to put on an 
event in 2022. And it wasnt fair that the complaint was now focusing on whether the 
event wouldve gone ahead  instead of the unfairness of the banks actions in 
closing her account and terminating the Bounce Back Loan.
Coronavirus restrictions on travel had nothing to do with the cancellation of the event 
shed planned for summer 2021, which was only due to the banks withdrawal of her 
loan funds.
Such restrictions wouldnt have affected her ability to proceed with the event. The 
host country didnt prohibit such events  and in fact, had specifically encouraged 
them in order to stimulate the economy. Travel from the UK was permitted subject to 
testing at the time, and by July 2021 entry was free  so the event couldve been 
postponed by a few weeks if absolutely necessary  but the majority of those whod 
purchased tickets were already based in the host country anyway. 
It was unfair for her to repay over £13,000 that had been spent in good faith on the 
event and only cancelled as a result of TSBs actions.
The termination of the loan hadnt just caused the cancellation of the event, but had a 
ripple effect on her business as other events in the pipeline were affected. Shed 
attempted to salvage this by taking out another loan with a different provider, and 
borrowing from her family. In light of Miss Ps response, I asked her for some more information about the loan shed 
taken out with another provider. She explained and evidenced that shed taken out a loan of 
£25,001 under the government-backed Recovery Loan Scheme with another lender, which 
was at a higher interest rate than the Bounce Back Loan shed had with TSB. 
As I thought Miss P had ended up having to borrow more through the Recovery Loan as a 
result of TSB removing the remainder of the Bounce Back Loan (around £14,400) from her 
unfairly, I wrote to both parties to advise that I was also intending to require TSB to 
compensate her for this by paying her an amount equal to the additional interest shell incur 
on £14,400 of the Recovery Loan funds.
TSB responded to say that it still didnt agree with the basis of my provisional decisions, 
maintaining that Miss P had provided false information in order to obtain the Bounce Back 
Loan in the first place. Had she not done so, she would always have needed to seek lending 
elsewhere and this would inevitably have been at a higher rate. It also said that Miss P had 
made an informed decision to apply for the new lending without any guarantee of 
recompense from TSB, and so was responsible for assessing her ability to afford its 
repayment. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I set out in my first two provisional decisions why I thought it had been unfair for TSB to 
terminate and recall the Bounce Back Loan in the circumstances here, and Ive not been 
provided with any new information that would lead me to think any differently about that. I 
understand Miss Ps strength of feeling over what happened, but as Ive already found in her 
favour on the questions as to whether she was trading at the requisite time and the 
reasonableness of her turnover projection, I dont think there is any need for me to comment 
on these points any further. And while I note TSB doesnt agree with my position, it hasnt 
said or provided anything that Id not already considered in reaching this view.
That leaves the question of how TSB should compensate Miss P for the consequences of 
what I consider to have been its errors.
Our general approach to compensation is to put the complainant in the position they would 
be, had the financial business not made an error. And so to that end, the question of whether 
the 2021 event wouldve gone ahead is most pertinent. If it wouldve done, then TSBs 
actions caused its cancellation  meaning the money Miss P spent on preparing for the 
event was wasted, and depriving her of the opportunity to generate profit. But if the event 
wouldnt have gone ahead anyway, then TSBs actions wont have impacted Miss Ps 
position in this respect.
I set out in my second provisional decision why I thought it was most likely that the 2021 
event wouldnt have gone ahead. Its obviously difficult for me reach a conclusion either way 
with any certainty. Ive reflected on this point further in light of the further information that 
Miss P has provided, but Ive not reached a different view. I say this because:
There remains the fact that Miss P publicly stated that the event was cancelled due 
to coronavirus-related restrictions. While I can see why Miss P wouldnt have been 
keen to specify that this was due to the banks removal of funding  which would 
likely affect the businesss reputation  it is also hard to reconcile this with Miss Ps 
adamant assertions that the event would not have been affected by such restrictions. Not least as, if this was so obviously the case, then these statements wouldve been 
difficult for customers and/or business partners to accept.
Although Miss P has demonstrated that public events werent prohibited in the host 
country, the basis of my finding was that coronavirus-related travel restrictions 
wouldve affected the event. I think these wouldve led to guests and artists being 
unable to attend. Miss P hasnt provided anything that leads me to think any 
differently about that.
Miss P says that the UKs travel restrictions wouldnt have had a significant impact, 
as most of the ticketholders were based in the host country. Shes been unable to 
provide any evidence of that. While I can understand why that would be difficult, her 
public announcement on social media at the time of the cancellation contradictions 
this position  which said that half of our attendees wont even be able to get to our 
festival, as well as the artists that were scheduled to perform.
So based on the available evidence, it seems most likely to me that the event either was or 
wouldve been cancelled due to the impact of the coronavirus-related restrictions, 
independent of TSBs actions. Miss P would, therefore, always have been left needing to 
repay the loan funds that shed utilised but been unable to profit from. And so  while I 
sympathise with the position that Miss P found herself in  it follows that I dont think TSB 
needs to write off the outstanding loan balance.
I said in my second provisional decision that Id not seen Miss P had suffered any other 
financial losses as a result of TSB unfairly retracting the Bounce Back Loan. But she has 
evidenced that she subsequently took out a Recovery Loan with another provider. Its 
difficult to say with any certainty whether Miss P wouldve had a need for the Recovery Loan 
if TSB hadnt retracted her Bounce Back Loan. But I think it is fair to say that, in all likelihood, 
she wouldnt have needed to borrow as much as she did if the £14,400 Bounce Back Loan 
funds hadnt been taken from her. She has, in effect, replaced those funds with the Recovery 
Loan  which is charged at a higher interest rate (5.9%, compared to 2.5% under the 
Bounce Back Loan). So I think it would be fair for TSB to reimburse Miss P for this additional 
interest cost.
It should do this by calculating how much additional interest Miss P will pay on the amount it 
removed from her account (£14,338.60) under the terms of the Recovery Loan than she 
wouldve paid on this amount had the Bounce Back Loan remained in place, and on the 
assumption that each loan runs its full term. I recognise that is somewhat imperfect, as the 
interest rate on the Recovery Loan is variable  and as any number of things could arise 
over the loan term that would affect how much she has to pay. So the refund may end up 
benefitting Miss P slightly (should rates go down, for example)  or causing her to lose out a 
little, if rates go up. But I think it is the fairest and simplest way of resolving this aspect of the 
matter. 
Ive considered TSBs objections on this point. But I dont think the question of whether 
Miss P made an informed decision to take out this borrowing is relevant  it is more that she 
was left having to borrow more than she wouldve needed were it not for the banks unfair 
withdrawal of her Bounce Back Loan. And while the bank has queried whether the loan had 
actually been drawn down  as it had only seen a copy of the agreement  Miss P has 
evidenced receipt of the loan funds, by way of a bank statement. 
Lastly, neither party has said or provided me with anything that leads me to take a different 
view of the compensation award I proposed in respect of the distress and inconvenience that 
Miss P was caused by shortcomings on the banks part. And so, in addition to the 
reimbursement of interest, Im also requiring TSB to pay Miss P compensation of £1,250.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and require TSB Bank plc to:
Arrange for the removal of any adverse credit information recorded in Miss Ps name 
in respect of the default of the Bounce Back Loan;
Reimburse Miss P the additional amount of interest shell have to pay on the 
Recovery Loan in the manner Ive described above; and
Pay Miss P compensation of £1,250.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman