DRN-2146548
The complaint
Mr K complains that Santander UK Plc gave him incorrect information about whether he was 
protected in making a purchase by a transfer from his current account.  
What happened
In February 2020, Mr K took out a fixed sum loan agreement with Santander for £4,000. The 
money was paid into his current account. Mr K was looking to buy a used car and he 
contacted Santander to ask whether he would be protected if he transferred the money from 
his account to pay for the car, but then found there were any problems or faults with it. 
Santander told him that he would have 120 days in which he could dispute the payment. 
Mr K then went ahead and transferred £5,500 to the car dealerships bank account by faster 
payment.
After he collected the car, he found there were several problems and mechanical issues with 
it. He contacted Santander to ask about disputing the payment for it but was told this couldnt 
be done.
Mr K complained as hed specifically asked about what protection he would have in the 
event of this situation.
Santander apologised that Mr K had been given the wrong information about the protection 
he had. It attempted to recall the payment but, as it wasnt made in error, this recall was 
unsuccessful. Santander credited Mr Ks account with £250 by way of compensation.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and said that she thought Santander had 
acted fairly. She said that when Mr K had spoken to Santander about making the payment, 
hed said the car dealership didnt accept credit cards and didnt have a machine to process 
a card payment. So the investigator said that the other payment options available to Mr K 
didnt offer protection if there was a problem with the purchase, and there was no guarantee 
that a dispute raised when making a payment by debit or credit card would be successful. 
The investigator didnt think it would be reasonable to ask Santander to pay for the repairs 
the car needed, and she didnt think it could be held liable for the car being faulty because 
Mr K had been given the wrong information about being able to dispute the payment for it. 
The investigator thought the £250 Santander had paid Mr K for the wrong information it gave 
him was reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr K didnt accept the investigators findings and asked for the complaint to be reviewed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate that it will have been particularly upsetting and disappointing for Mr K to 
have looked to make sure what protection he had in the event there were problems with the 
car he was buying before he paid for it, only to find out that what hed been told wasnt right. 
Ive listened to the call recording where this was discussed, and he specifically clarified that 
he had some recourse for disputing the payment if it was made by direct transfer from his 
account. From this call, it seems that he was already in contact with the dealership about the 
car. Hed made arrangements to part-exchange his car and had discussed ways to make the 
payment to it for the remaining cost of the new car. 
There are times when a consumer could ask their card issuer to reverse payments made on 
their credit or debit card by making a chargeback request. Chargeback isnt a legal right, and 
there is no guarantee that the consumer will be able to get their money back.
And if the payment was made on a credit card, the cardholder may be entitled to claim under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 which says that, in certain circumstances, the 
credit provider can be held jointly responsible if there has been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier of goods or services. 
Unfortunately, Mr K seems to have limited ways of being able to pay this particular 
dealership for the new car. He told Santanders representative that the dealership didnt 
accept credit cards and didnt have a card payment machine. So the other payment methods 
available to him such as cash; cheque; faster payment or CHAPS transfer; would not have 
provided the same level of protection if there was a dispute about the purchase. 
Ive thought about what Mr K might have chosen to do if he had been given the right 
information about paying for the car by bank transfer. Mr K has told us that he would have 
explored other options and, if there had been no other suitable protection available then he 
wouldnt have bought the car. 
However, there isnt a method of paying for goods or services that provides a definite 
guarantee of a customer getting their money back through their financial services provider if 
attempts to resolve any problems with the supplier fail. Even if Mr K had been able to pay for 
the car using a debit or credit card, this doesnt mean that any attempt to dispute or reverse 
the payment would have been successful. 
Given these circumstances, I dont think I can say with any certainty that Mr K wouldnt have 
bought this particular car even if hed been given the right information about the protection 
for his payment method. I say this because Mr Ks discussion with Santander indicates that 
hed already made arrangements to collect this particular car and had discussed ways of 
making the payment with the dealership. Hed also arranged the financing for it through the 
fixed-sum loan. 
Its not clear what terms or agreements Mr K had with the car dealership in the event a fault 
was found with the car. And Im sorry to learn that he has since experienced problems with 
it. But I dont think that this could be said to be a result of the incorrect information Santander 
gave him. 
And its because of this that I dont think Santander should be required to pay for the costs of 
repairing or fixing the issues Mr K has had with his car since he bought it, as he wouldnt 
have had the protection of being able to dispute or recall the payment he made to the 
dealership through the methods available to him to pay it. 
Santander has acknowledged that its representative gave Mr K the wrong information that 
he would be protected when he made a bank transfer payment. It has apologised for this, and paid Mr K £250 to recognise this mistake, and I think thats a fair and reasonable 
resolution.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2020.
 
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman