DRN-4263915
The complaint
Mr L has complained that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited unreasonably 
delayed in repairing his car under his motor policy following an accident. 
What happened
Mr L was involved in an accident on 24 October 2022. He made a claim to LV who instructed 
its approved repairer to repair his car. 
Sadly, there delays getting parts and Mr L was without his car for four months. Throughout 
the four months Mr L had to constantly chased the approved repairers and LV and he said 
the service he received was exceptionally poor. He thought this was excessive and 
complained. When he eventually received his car back the headlight fixture was still 
unrepaired which cause yet further inconvenience eventually getting that sorted out too. 
LV didnt think much of this was its fault or that of its approved repairer, but it paid Mr L £100 
for his inconvenience. Mr L remained dissatisfied, so he brought his complaint to us. The 
investigator didnt think LV had to do anything more.
 
Mr L disagreed so his complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 21 August, and I said the following:  
 
Im intending to uphold this complaint for more compensation. Ill now explain why. 
I consider the delays in getting the relatively minor levels of repairs to be 
unreasonable. I can see in LVs file that there were some difficulties in getting parts. 
However, Mr L told us that he had spent his working life working with a main 
manufacturers franchise for his make of car. Throughout the lengthy details he was 
also in touch with the main manufacturers parts distributor and the parts for his car 
were indeed available and werent suffering the level of delays and shortages 
experienced by LVs approved repairers at all. He was given a case reference 
number with the distributors also which adds credence to his testimony. 
Further, quite early on in the delay process, Mr L clearly told LV he was suffering 
from ill health and required his car to attend medical appointments. This was 
singularly ignored sadly.
Mr L said his car was repaired but for the headlamp by December 2022 and the 
approved repairers refused to give him his car back at that point but yet did so in 
February 2023 with the headlamp still not replaced. I consider thats unreasonable. 
Furthermore, the problem with the headlight was merely a broken bracket, so the 
plastic/perplex covering the bulb wasnt broken. Therefore, Im inclined to agree with 
Mr L that some sort of temporary repair of a bracket could have been made.  
LV itself clearly admitted and acknowledged the service he received from both it and 
its approved repairers was poor given it decided to pay compensation of £100. But I 
dont consider it went far enough given the particular circumstances Mr L faced. 
I can see Mr L could have had the option to add into his policy a guaranteed hire car 
for this type of situation, and he didnt choose that. Nonetheless given the minor level 
of the repairs required and this excessive and unreasonable delay in getting parts I 
consider that LV should now compensate Mr L for the loss of the use of is car from 
21 days after the accident to the date of the eventual repair of his car including the 
delayed repair of the headlight at £10 per day. 
I also consider the compensation paid to Mr L of £100 is also inadequate given the 
excessive delays, the constant chasing Mr L had to do with both LV and its approved 
repairers only to get his car back in February 2023 still with the broken headlight 
which was the same situation his car was in back in December 2022. Furthermore, 
Mr L is retired and now suffering ill health, and this exacerbated the situation for him 
considerably which LV was aware but chose to ignore. Therefore, I consider LV 
should add a further £100 compensation in addition.
Mr L agreed with my provisional decision, but LV didnt respond. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so again and noting Mr Ls agreement along with no response from LV I see no 
reason to change the outcome detailed in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that I intend to uphold this complaint. 
I now require Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited to the following:
Pay Mr L the sum of £10 per day loss of use of his car by way of compensation for 
the excessive delay in getting his car repaired, from 21 days following the accident to 
the date of the eventual repair of his car including the headlight. 
Pay Mr L an additional £100 compensation for the constant chasing Mr L had to do 
with both LV and its approved repairer throughout the excessively long time it took to 
get his car repaired. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman