DRN-3458282
The complaint
Mr A complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE has turned down a cancellation claim he
made on a travel insurance policy.
What happened
In July 2019, Mr A took out an annual travel insurance policy through a broker, which was
underwritten by Great Lakes. He declared that he suffered from high blood pressure and
diabetes which Great Lakes agreed to cover. In January 2020, Mr A booked return flights to
a country Ill call T. He paid a deposit of £500, with the remaining balance due in late May
2020. He was due to travel between 9 September and 9 October 2020.
However, on 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 to be a
pandemic. And on 17 March 2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office
(FCDO) advised UK nationals against all but essential travel abroad. Restrictions remained
in place at the point Mr A was due to pay his flight balance and he was worried about the
potential impact on his health if he did travel. So he decided to cancel the trip on 21 May
2020 and made a claim on his travel insurance policy for his lost deposit costs.
Great Lakes turned down Mr As claim. It said that hed cancelled the trip too early. It said
that if hed waited until closer to his departure date, his travel agent or airline may have
cancelled the flights. If this had been the case, it concluded that Mr A may have been able to
recover his costs through the airline, travel agent or credit card provider. It considered that
Mr A had simply been disinclined to travel, which was specifically excluded by the policy
terms.
Mr A was unhappy with Great Lakes decision and he asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think that Mr As complaint should be upheld. While she
acknowledged that there had been FCDO restrictions against travel in place at the time Mr A
cancelled his trip, she didnt think he couldve known whether these restrictions would still
apply at the point he was due to travel. So she felt Mr A had cancelled his trip too soon and
that therefore, Great Lakes was entitled to turn down the claim.
I issued a provisional decision on 28 March 2022. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I thought it was fair for Great Lakes to turn down Mr As claim. I said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the
terms of Mr As policy and the circumstances of his claim, to decide whether Great Lakes
treated him fairly.
I understand that the situation in which Mr A found himself was completely unprecedented
and outside of his control. I also understand, that when the holiday was booked in January
2020, the circumstances which unfolded surrounding Covid-19 couldnt have been foreseen
by either policyholders or by insurers.
However, no insurance policy covers every eventuality and insurers are entitled to decide
what level of risk they wish to accept in return for the premium paid for a policy. Therefore,
Great Lakes obligations under its contract with Mr A are limited by the terms, conditions and
exclusions which are set out in the policy.
Mr As policy says that Great Lakes will provide the following cancellation cover:
We will pay you up to the amount shown in your policy Schedule for your share of any
irrecoverable unused travel and accommodation have paid or are contracted to pay. You are
also covered for additional travel expenses incurred if you are forced to cancel any part of
your trip prior to its commencement. This must be as a direct and necessary result of any
cause outside of your control, which was unforeseen at the start date of your policy or at the
time of booking your trip, whichever is the later.
Theres no dispute that at the time Mr A chose to cancel his flights, on 21 May 2020, the
FCDO had advised against all but essential travel abroad. However, neither Great Lakes nor
our investigator thought there was enough evidence to show there wouldve been advice
against travel on 9 September 2020 when Mr A was due to travel. I dont agree. On 4 July
2020, the FCDO exempted some countries from its advice against all but essential travel.
One of these countries was T. But on 23 July 2020, the FCDO advised against all but
essential travel to the state Mr A was due to fly into. This advice remained in place at the
point he was due to depart. And Ts government had closed its borders in March 2020.
These remained closed at the time Mr A was due to travel. So in my view then, I think its
unlikely Mr A couldve travelled as planned even if he had paid the flight balance and waited
until September 2020 to make a travel decision.
However, in these particular circumstances, I still dont think it was unfair for Great Lakes to
turn down this claim for reasons Ill go onto explore.
The policy also sets out a list of General Exclusions which apply to the whole policy. One of
these exclusions is costs recoverable from elsewhere. This in addition to the cancellation
terms Ive set out above which say that Great Lakes will only cover costs which cant be
recovered from elsewhere.
In my view, the policy terms (in common with the terms of most, if not all, travel insurance
policies on the market) make it clear that Great Lakes will only pay cancellation claims where
a policyholder cant recover their costs from another party.
In this case, Mr A had booked his return flights through an online travel agent. As Ive
explained, at the point Mr A due to travel, the FCDO advice against travel to the particular
state in T was still in place, as were restrictions in T itself. And I think this means that Mr As
flights would likely have had to have been cancelled by the either the airline or the travel
agent. Had the airline cancelled the trip, it wouldve most likely been liable under EU
regulations to offer Mr A a refund of his costs, or the opportunity to rebook his flight at a later
date. But because Mr A cancelled the flights over three months before he was due to travel,
he wasnt entitled to any potential refund from the airline or travel agent.
I can entirely understand why Mr A chose to cancel his trip when he did. And I sympathise
with his position. However, I think that by choosing to cancel the holiday on 21 May 2020
without paying the flight balance and waiting to see what the FCDO advice was at the time
he was due to travel, Mr A put Great Lakes in a worse position than it would otherwise have
been. Thats because I think hed most likely have been entitled to a refund from the airline
under EU regulations in the event the flight had had to be cancelled. And if the airline or Mr
As travel agent had refused to refund the flight costs, Mr A could have looked into raising a
dispute with the specific industry body or making a potential claim for his costs to his creditcard provider under the Consumer Credit Act.
Overall then, on the specific facts of this case, Im persuaded that Mr As early cancellation
of his trip did prejudice Great Lakes position. Its clear Mr A had concerns about whether his
health would mean travel was too risky for him. But I havent seen any medical evidence to
show me that Mr A had been specifically asked to shield or that such advice wouldve still
applied at the point of departure; that a doctor had told him not to travel or that he wouldve
been advised against travel in September 2020. And neither have I seen any evidence to
show me that Mr As flights did depart as planned and that therefore, he wouldnt have been
entitled to any refund from the airline or travel agent. Its open to Mr A to provide Great
Lakes with such evidence should he choose to do so for it to further consider.
But on the evidence before me, I currently find it was fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to
turn down Mr As claim.'
I asked both parties to provide me with any further evidence or information they wanted me 
to consider.
Neither Great Lakes nor Mr A responded by the deadline I gave.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any more information or evidence for me to consider, I see no 
reason to change my provisional findings.
So my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman