DRN-3841292
The complaint
Mr H complains the Revolut Ltd didnt do enough to protect him when he fell victim to an 
investment scam and lost money.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
Mr H came across an advert for a trading platform (Ill refer to as M) dealing in forex and 
crypto assets on a social media platform. The advert purported to be endorsed by a 
well-known individual within the crypto community, which Mr H found reassuring. Mr H 
entered his contact details on an enquiry form and was later put in contact with an account 
manager who persuaded him to invest.
Between May and July 2020, Mr H made a series of four payments totalling £24,984.97, to 
two crypto exchange providers (Ill refer to as A and B). Once converted, the crypto was 
moved onto what Mr H believed was his trading account with M.
Mr H realised he had been the victim of a sophisticated investment scam when he was 
unable to withdraw his available funds on his trading account.
In September 2020 Mr H received a cold call from a representative of another trading 
platform (Ill refer to as C) that again traded in forex and crypto. Mr H was persuaded to 
invest and made a series of payments to another crypto exchange provider (Ill refer to as 
D), totalling £33,250, which was then transferred to C.
Mr H again discovered 
hed been the victim of 
a scam when he was 
asked to deposit more 
money in his trading 
Date Amount Type of transaction
30/05/2020 -£249.79 Debit card transaction to A
13/06/2020 -£1,494.71 Debit card transaction to A
01/07/2020 -£3,240.47 Debit card transaction to A
07/07/2020 -£20,000.00 Transfer to B 
Total loss £24,984.97
Date Amount Type of transaction
03/09/2020 £2.00 Transfer to D
03/09/2020 £1,998.00 Transfer to D
11/09/2020 £3,000.00 Transfer to D
18/09/2020 £5,000.00 Transfer to D
30/09/2020 £5,000.00 Transfer to D
05/10/2020 £6,000.00 Transfer to D
05/10/2020 £6,000.00 Transfer to D
06/10/2020 £3,750.00 Transfer to D
06/10/2020 £2,500.00 Transfer to D
Total loss £33,250account before he could make a withdrawal. When he queried this, the account managers 
stopped responding to him.
In April 2021 Mr Hs solicitors (Ill refer to as S) complained to Revolut that it had failed to 
protect Mr H from the risk of financial harm due to fraud. S said Revolut should have 
identified that Mr Hs transactions were unusual and out character for his account. It said it 
also failed to provide him with effective warnings that could have prevented the scam from 
taking place.
Revolut considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. It said the transactions had been 
properly authorised by Mr H and it had processed them correctly, so it was not responsible 
for refunding any money Mr H had lost. It didnt agree that the transactions were unusual or 
out of character for his account usage, so it didnt agree it should have intervened before 
processing the payments. It also noted that the merchant category codes (MCC) in relation 
to the card payments did not raise any concern or reason for it to intervene.
S complained to the Financial Ombudsman on Mr Hs behalf. It said Revolut hadnt done 
enough to protect Mr H from the risk of financial harm from fraud. It said Revolut had multiple 
opportunities to stop the suspicious payments before processing them.
Our Investigator upheld the complaint. He thought Mr Hs transfer of £20,000 to a crypto 
exchange on 7 July 2020, was unusual and uncharacteristic for his usual account usage. He 
concluded this transaction should have triggered on Revoluts systems and prompted some 
intervention before the transaction was processed. He concluded that had Revolut taken the 
steps it ought to have, its likely Mr H would have become aware of the scam and wouldnt 
have gone ahead with this or future transactions. He recommended Revolut refund all the 
disputed transactions from 7 July 2020 onwards, plus 8% interest.
Revolut disagreed with our Investigators opinion. In summary it said:
The transactions did not appear unusual or suspicious as they were being made to 
an FCA authorised company and were in keeping with the general usage of a 
Revolut account. 
Intervention from Revolut wouldnt have made a difference or prevented the scam. It 
said Mr H appeared to have some knowledge and understanding of the crypto 
market, as he was aware of the individual that was purported to endorse M within the 
advertising.
Mr H contributed to his own loss as he failed to carry out appropriate due diligence 
before transferring large sums of money to a high-risk investment, which appeared to 
offer unrealistic returns.
Our Investigator didnt agree Mr H had contributed to his loss. He noted that Mr H was an 
inexperienced investor, and while he made an ill-advised decision to invest in the second 
scam, his actions didnt fall far below the standards expected of a reasonable person. Mr H 
agreed with our Investigators opinion on the case. But Revolut maintained that it was not 
responsible for Mr Hs losses and asked that the case be referred to an Ombudsman for a 
final decision.
Mr Hs complaint was passed to me to decide. On 9 November 2022 I issued a provisional 
decision where I said: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Im sorry to hear Mr H was the victim of a sophisticated and targeted scam and lost a 
considerable sum of money as a result. I understand this loss has had a significant impact 
on his life and finances. In the circumstances, I can appreciate why he wants to do all he can 
to recover the money he lost. But I can only direct Revolut to refund Mr Hs losses if it can 
fairly and reasonably be held responsible for them.
It is accepted that Mr H authorised the scam payments totalling £58,237.97 from his Revolut 
account. So, although he didnt intend the money to go to the scammers, under the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017 and the terms and conditions of his account, Mr H is presumed 
liable for his loss in the first instance. And under the terms and conditions of the account, 
where a valid payment instruction has been received Revoluts obligation is to follow the 
instructions that he provides.
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and good industry practice, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate 
for a bank or electronic money remitter (here Revolut) to take additional steps or make 
additional checks before processing a payment in order to help protect its customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
This service has referenced the relevant rules, codes of practice and good industry practice 
in many previous decisions published on our website.
While Revoluts first obligation is to follow Mr Hs payment instructions, if an instruction is 
sufficiently unusual or uncharacteristic for the account, Id reasonably expect Revolut to 
intervene and ask more about the payment instruction before processing it. Id also expect it 
to provide suitable warnings about common scams to help its customers make an informed 
decision whether to continue with the payment. There might also be cases where it would be 
appropriate for Revolut to refuse to follow a payment instruction if there were good grounds 
to believe it was being made because of a fraud or scam.
Did Revolut do enough to identify the risk of financial harm from fraud?
The starting point here is whether any of the payment instructions Mr H gave Revolut 
between 30 May to 6 October 2020 - taken singularly or collectively  were sufficiently 
unusual or uncharacteristic in relation to his typical account activity to say Revolut 
reasonably ought to have intervened, or have done more than it did, before processing the 
payment instruction.
While the initial scam transactions (those made between 30 May and 1 July 2020) were not 
completely in keeping with Mr Hs day to day account use, he had made a few transactions 
of a similar size in the preceding 12 months. So, I couldnt reasonably conclude that Revolut 
ought to have intervened in the first three transactions. But I agree with our Investigator that 
Mr Hs instruction to pay £20,000 to a crypto exchange on 7 July 2020 should reasonably 
have stood out to Revolut as out of character and unusual.
This transaction was significantly larger than any transaction Mr H had made in the last 
12 months, it was also to a new payee. Whereas the account was typically used for 
day-to-day spending, mostly card payments, and for transactions up to a few thousand 
pounds.
I think Revolut should also have been aware of the high prevalence of scams involving 
crypto since 2019. So, the fact the payment was being made to a crypto exchange, which in 
itself was unusual for Mr H, should have been a sign to Revolut that Mr H might be at risk of 
financial harm from fraud.Would appropriate intervention have affected Mr Hs loss?
If Mr Hs payment instruction on 7 July 2020 had flagged up as being unusual and 
uncharacteristic with Revolut  as I think it reasonably ought to have done  Id have 
expected Revolut to have contacted Mr H or required him to make contact before the 
payment instruction was processed. At that point, questions should have been asked about 
the nature and purpose of the payment Mr H was proposing to make.
Theres been no suggestion that Mr H was given a cover story, so I think its reasonable to 
assume that hed have answered honestly and explained he was seeking to make a transfer 
as part of an investment. And on further questioning I think he would likely have revealed he 
believed he was investing in forex.
Given the prevalence of investment scams, particularly those involving forex, I think it would 
have been prudent for Revolut to have asked Mr H meaningful, probing questions about the 
transaction and his intended investment. For example, I think it should reasonably have 
asked Mr H how he was introduced to the investment and what checks hed already carried 
out to confirm its authenticity. I think the fact that Mr H had been enticed by an advert on a 
social media platform and had been advised to transfer his funds into crypto before 
transferring them to the trading platform would have been indicators that he was likely falling 
victim to an investment scam. The fact that M was also not authorised to provide financial 
services in the UK should have been cause for concern.
At this stage if Revolut had offered Mr H clear scam warnings and encouraged him to carry 
out his own checks into the company he was seeking to invest in, I think its likely the scam 
would have been exposed at this stage. Even if the scam hadnt been fully exposed, I think 
Mr H would have thought the risk of continuing to invest with an unregulated firm was too 
high to accept  so he wouldnt have proceeded, and his future losses would have been 
prevented.
While I appreciate Mr H went on to invest in another company that turned out to be a scam, I 
dont think this demonstrates he would have ignored a clear and meaningful warning from 
Revolut had it intervened.
Could Mr Hs earlier losses reasonably have been recovered?
Ive considered whether there was any potential for Mr Hs earlier losses (those made 
between 30 May and 1 July 2020) to be recovered. As these were debit card transactions 
the only possible option for recovery would have been via a chargeback claim. But Mr H has 
said that these initial transactions were used to purchase crypto which were then transferred 
on to the scammers. As Mr Hs dispute is with the scammers, rather than the crypto 
exchange, I think it unlikely any chargeback claim would have been successful. As such, I 
dont think his earlier losses could reasonably have been recovered.
Should Mr H bear some responsibility for his loss?
I have thought carefully about whether Mr H should bear some responsibility for his loss by 
way of contributory negligence (which might justify a reduction in compensation). And I think 
he should. But only from 3 September 2020 when he fell victim to the second scam and 
started making payments to C.
Its clear the material cause of Mr Hs loss came from being tricked by sophisticated 
scammers. His loss could also have been minimised had Revolut taken appropriate steps to 
intervene when his transactions appeared unusual. But I dont think its unfair to say Mr H 
wasnt as careful as I reasonably think he ought to have been before choosing to invest with C, given that it had hallmarks that were very similar to the scam hed just fallen victim to with 
M.
While the method of contact was different between the two scams  with the first one Mr H 
responded to an advert, whereas with the second scam Mr H received a cold call  it seems 
the scams were otherwise operated in a very similar way. When asked about the two scams 
and how they were presented, Mr H said that Cs investment proposition was very similar, 
considering it was FX and cryptocurrency and that both scammers would be trading on his 
behalf which appealed to him. For both scams he was given access to an online portfolio 
which appeared to show his investments making good returns. When asked what had 
convinced Mr H to invest on each occasion, he explained that he thought the advert and 
emails received in relation to M, and the website in relation to C, were very professional.
When asked what checks he carried out before investing, Mr H said he researched both 
companies online and saw mixed reviews online of both companies, noting that hed have 
been suspicious had the reviews been completely positive as hed have thought that too 
good to be true.
While I appreciate that Mr H could reasonably have been convinced by the professional 
presentation of the initial scam with M, I would have expected him to be more cautious 
before attempting to invest with C given he now had knowledge and experience of how an 
investment scam could operate and had lost a considerable sum of money as a result. As 
such, I think a reasonable person in the same position as Mr H would have carried out more 
thorough research into C and wouldnt simply have relied on its professional presentation 
before attempting to enter into a new risky investment opportunity.
While I appreciate Mr H carried out some rudimentary checks online before investing in C, 
these appear to be the same as the ones he carried out before investing with M, which 
hadn't been sufficient to undercover the scam. Had he carried out further research or sought 
guidance before investing I think it would have come to light that C was not authorised with 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and that the investment opportunity once again bore 
the hallmarks of a scam.
Overall, while I appreciate Mr H carried out some checks before investing, I dont think he 
carried out sufficiently thorough checks to enable him to establish the legitimacy of the 
companies he was dealing with before investing very large sums in high risk trading. I think 
he ought reasonably to have done more. In the circumstances I think its fair that he bears 
50% of the responsibility of the losses he incurred as a result of the second scam.
So, to put things right, I am currently minded to tell Revolut to pay Mr H £36,625 (£20,000 
plus 50% of £33,250).
The funds used to finance the investments originated from a mixture of informal loans from 
Mr Hs company and withdrawals from his savings account (paid to the current account 
through internal transfers). In the circumstances, I consider Revolut should add interest to 
the settlement set out above (less any tax properly deductible). It should pay the savings 
account rate for the payments that originated from Mr Hs savings account and the current 
account interest rate for the remaining payments - from the respective dates of loss to the 
date of refund.
I invited Mr H and Revolut to give me any more evidence and information they wanted me to
consider before issuing my final decision. Mr H accepted my provisional decision. Revolut 
noted that it believed the contributory negligence should be calculated as 50% of the overall 
loss, but nevertheless accepted the provisional decision as it had no further points to make. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and as both parties accepted my provisional decision, I see no reason to
reach a different conclusion. 
While Ive considered Revoluts comment, Im satisfied that Mr H only became partly 
responsible for his loss when he decided to make payments to C. So, I remain of the view 
that it is fair and reasonable that he bears 50% of the responsibility of the losses he incurred 
as a result of the second scam.
So, this final decision confirms the findings set out in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
Revolut should now pay Mr H £36,625 (£20,000 plus 50% of £33,250) plus interest.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Revolut Ltd to:
Refund £36,625 (£20,000 plus 50% of £33,250), plus
Interest at the relevant account rate(s) from the respective dates of loss to the date of 
refund
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Lisa De Noronha
Ombudsman