DRN-3538889
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P have complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC unfairly changed its lending 
criteria without informing them. As a result, they werent able to borrow as much as they 
needed from Barclays when they wanted to port their mortgage to a new property. To settle 
the complaint Mr and Mrs P want Barclays to reimburse the early repayment charge (ERC) 
they paid on redeeming their mortgage with Barclays.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, 
and in the investigators letter dated 12 May 2022. All parties have a copy of that letter, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. Secondly, rather than repeating all the 
details here, I will instead concentrate on giving the reasons for my decision. Finally, our 
decisions are published, so its important I dont include any information that might lead to 
Mr and Mrs P being identified.
Briefly, Mr and Mrs P had a repayment mortgage with Barclays taken out in 2019. They 
borrowed just under £321,000 on a fixed rate product that came with an ERC of 3% of the 
amount repaid if the mortgage was redeemed before 31 July 2024. Barclays allowed a 90-
day window between repayment of the mortgage and taking out a new Barclays mortgage 
for refunding the ERC. The mortgage offer issued in 2019 says:
You have the possibility to transfer the outstanding balance of this loan (excluding 
any Mortgage Current Account Reserve balance) to another property, subject to the 
new property and your circumstances meeting our lending criteria at that 
time.(my emphasis)
In 2020 Mr and Mrs P decided to move house. They wanted to port their existing mortgage 
product (then around £312,500), but would also need to borrow more money to complete 
their new purchase. 
Barclays issued a mortgage offer on 10 August 2020 on Property A, for the ported product of 
£312,500 and an additional amount of £68,500 on a different fixed rate product that expired 
on 31 October 2022. This mortgage offer remained valid until 31 January 2021. However, 
due to issues with the survey, Mr and Mrs P decided not to proceed with their purchase of 
Property A. In October 2020 they sold their existing property and decided to rent while they 
found another property. They paid the full ERC of about £9,400. 
Mr and Mrs P found a new property and contacted the broker to arrange a mortgage for 
them. The broker noted, however, that in September 2020 Barclays had changed its lending 
criteria in relation to loan-to-income ratios. This meant that Barclays wouldnt be able to offer 
Mr and Mrs P the full amount they needed. The broker said there were other lenders that 
could offer the full amount, but this would mean the ERC wouldnt be refunded.
Mr and Mrs P complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service about this. They said that 
they had a mortgage offer that was valid to 31 January 2021, and their broker had confirmed 
they had 90 days from the date of the sale of their previous property to complete their new 
mortgage. Mr and Mrs P said Barclays should have made them aware of the change to its 
lending criteria, as this impacted on their ability to purchase their new property.
An investigator looked at what had happened but didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. He was satisfied that Barclays was entitled to change its lending criteria, and that it 
didnt have to tell customers about this in advance. He also explained that a separate 
application was needed for the new property, and so the previous mortgage offer was only 
valid on Property A, not Property B.
Mr and Mrs P didnt accept the investigators findings. Theyve reiterated all their previous 
arguments (so I wont repeat those) and made some further points, the most relevant of 
which I summarise below:
For other products, e.g. credit cards or insurance, banks tell customers in advance of 
any changes. Because of this, they wouldnt have known anything had changed with 
the mortgage offer theyd already had. Its not fair that Barclays doesnt have to tell 
them when its lending criteria change.
The mortgage offer doesnt say anywhere that it is specific to one property. Changing 
the property is not material to the mortgage offer and so Barclays shouldnt have 
been able to change its position on the amount it would lend.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am not upholding the complaint. These are my reasons.
First of all, I note Mr and Mrs P were using the services of their own independent mortgage 
broker. It was the brokers role to explain how the process worked  and that this would 
mean a separate application for a new property. This is something the broker would, or 
should, have known. The mortgage offer from 2019 is clear that the mortgage can be ported 
to another property subject to meeting lending criteria in place at the time of the application  
both in relation to the property and Mr and Mrs Ps circumstances.
The mortgage offer issued in August 2020 shows that the mortgaged property was 
Property A. So the offer is, in my opinion, clear that the mortgage offer applies to that 
property and no other. Any further request to port the mortgage would be subject to a fresh 
application. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs Ps points about being informed in advance of changes to other 
types of financial products, such as insurance or credit cards. Different regulations apply to 
those products. Im satisfied Barclays is allowed to change its mortgage lending criteria from 
time to time, and it is allowed to do this without informing customers (or potential customers) 
in advance. 
But in this case, I see that Barclays did announce this change in its income multipliers and it 
was published in both the financial and mainstream press during the first week of September 
2020. If theyd seen it, Mr and Mrs P might not have realised this applied to them, but if 
theyd asked their broker, I think theyd have been told that it did.
The reference in the mortgage offer from 2019 of Mr and Mrs P needing to meet lending 
criteria in place at the time of the application ensures that borrowers dont make decisions 
relying on old, outdated criteria. I think its likely that, if Mr and Mrs P had mentioned to their 
broker, after Property A fell through, that they didnt think theyd need a new mortgage offer, theyd have been told that a fresh application would be necessary when they found their new 
property, and that this would be subject to lending criteria in place at the time.
Its unfortunate that Mr and Mrs P misunderstood the situation and thought that they could 
rely on the August 2020 mortgage offer for Property A when they wanted to buy Property B. 
However, Im not persuaded that this misunderstanding is as a result of anything Barclays 
did, or didnt do, or that Barclays misled Mr and Mrs P. Therefore I dont think Barclays has 
done anything wrong.
Mr and Mrs P sold their previous property (redeeming the mortgage to Barclays and paying 
the ERC) on 23 October 2020, by which time Barclays had already changed its lending 
criteria. It was always open to Mr and Mrs P to mitigate their position by looking for a new 
property in a price range that would have allowed them to meet Barclays lending criteria, 
and thus obtain a refund of the ERC. It was their choice not to do so, and so there is no 
basis on which I could reasonably find that Barclays should reimburse the ERC.
Barclays offered Mr and Mrs P £200 compensation for delay in responding to the complaint. 
Complaint-handling isnt a regulated activity, and so I cant comment on this as its not 
covered by our rules. Its up to Mr and Mrs P to decide if they want to accept it to settle their 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 August 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman