DRN-3016833
The complaint
Ms C is unhappy that Ageas Insurance Limited declined a claim for damage by her tenants 
on her landlords insurance policy.
What happened
Ms C submitted a claim to Ageas for malicious damage under her landlords insurance 
policy. When the tenants left her property, the inventory showed damage to a number of 
items. Ms C also reported to the police that some items appeared to have been stolen.
Ms C was notified that two of the beds had been spotted away from the house. Theyd been 
removed without her permission and the bedding and fabric were wet and mouldy. Ms C said 
it would cost her nearly £3000 to replace the beds. And shes lost rental income as she 
couldnt find a new tenant when the property had no beds. So Ms C wants Ageas to cover 
the cost of replacing the beds and offer compensation for the loss of rental income.
Ageas said itd looked at the information from Ms C. It showed multiple areas of damage 
throughout the property, although Ageas felt some areas such as the shower and bath seals 
were maintenance-related. Ageas instructed a loss adjuster who confirmed there was no 
evidence of damage being caused by a one-off insured peril. They felt the damage was 
caused by poor maintenance and a lack of care and attention by the tenant. Ageas said the 
landlords insurance policy doesnt pay for redecoration or loss, destruction or damage 
caused by wear and tear. And the decision to decline Ms Cs claim had been correct. 
Ms C wasnt satisfied with Ageas response. So she contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. She understood Ms Cs frustration that the property was 
in good condition before the tenants moved in. But after reviewing the loss adjusters report 
and photos she didnt think the damage was covered by the landlords insurance policy.
Our investigator said there wasnt any evidence the tenants had intended to cause harm. 
She felt leaving the beds outside showed a lack of care for the items  it didnt show the 
tenants intended to cause harm. The damage appeared to be due to a lack of care and 
general neglect. And the policy didnt provide cover for that. 
Because our investigator didnt feel Ageas acted unfairly in declining the claim for damage to 
the beds, she couldnt ask it to consider Ms Cs request for compensation. The policy didnt 
provide cover for loss of rent when the loss or damage wasnt the result of a peril covered by 
the landlords policy. So she wouldnt be asking Ageas to do anything more.
Ms C didnt agree. So felt any reasonable person would realise putting furnishings outside in 
the cold, damp and rainy weather would make them unusable. So the damage to the beds 
should be considered malicious. Ms C said the tenants had asked to vacate the property a 
couple of months early. And she felt theyd maliciously caused the damage when shed 
declined. So shes asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of the difficulties Ms C has experienced. It mustve been very upsetting to 
discover her property wasnt in the same state as it was when she first let it to the tenants. 
Ms C feels the tenants maliciously caused damage after she refused to let them leave before 
the end of the tenancy agreement. So Ive looked carefully at everything Ms C and Ageas 
have said to see if Ageas has done anything wrong. And if so what it needs to do to put 
things right.
When deciding if I think Ageas has acted fairly in declining Ms Cs claim I have to start by 
deciding if an insured event has taken place. An insured event would be the cause of the 
damage. And it would have to be listed as an insured peril in the landlords insurance policy 
document. 
Ms Cs landlords insurance provides buildings and contents cover including accidental 
damage and malicious damage by the tenant. But Ageas declined the claim as it said the 
damage had been caused by general wear and lack of care by the tenant. It said there was 
no evidence the tenant had caused malicious damage.
Ms C disagrees. In particular she feels the marks on the wooden table were caused by 
deliberate scoring. And she feels leaving the beds outside in winter was a deliberate act. No 
reasonable person wouldve done that unless they wanted to cause damage. 
Ive looked at the report from the lettings and management company. It highlights a number 
of marks and scratches to various parts of the property. And the report and photos from the 
loss adjuster identified numerous areas of damage they considered had been caused by 
carelessness on the part of the tenant. 
But the adjuster didnt see any evidence the damage had been caused by an insured peril. 
They felt the damage had been caused by poor maintenance and lack of care. The report 
said damage had been caused by the tenants repainting the walls badly, general wear and 
tear and scratches and damage caused by carelessness. But theres nothing in the report to 
suggest any damage was caused by one of the perils listed in the landlords policy.
I know Ms C feels strongly that the tenants intentionally scratched the table and left the beds 
outside so theyd suffer damage from the weather. And she feels they may have done so on 
purpose after she refused to end the tenancy agreement at an early date.
Ive thought carefully about this. But Im afraid I havent seen sufficient evidence to suggest 
thats the case. And if Ms C cant show her tenants caused malicious damage through an 
intentional act then I think Ageas is entitled to rely on the expert opinion of its loss adjuster. I 
dont think Ms C has been able to show the damage is the result of a peril covered by the 
landlords insurance policy rather than lack of care or maintenance.
It follows that if the damage wasnt caused by an insured peril, I cant ask Ageas to consider 
compensating Ms C for any loss of rent. The insurance policy only provides cover for loss of 
rent as a result of part of the property being made uninhabitable following loss or damage by 
a defined peril. And as Ive explained above, I dont think Ms C has shown the damage was 
caused by an insured peril.
I realise Ms C will be disappointed by this outcome. But based on what Ive seen I cant say 
Ageas has acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining Ms Cs claim. And I wont be asking it 
to do anything more.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman