DRN-3566224
The complaint
Mr P is the executor of his sisters estate. He says that Barclays Bank UK PLC did not carry 
out proper affordability checks before issuing his sister with two Barclaycards. He says that 
Barclaycard also increased his sisters credit limits without making proper checks.  
What happened
Ms P had two Barclaycard accounts. The first was opened in 1999, the second in 2012. 
The first account was opened with a credit limit of £8,000. That limit was increased to £9,500 
in 2011, to £10,500 in 2014 and to £12,500 later the same year.
The second account had a credit limit of £5,900. That limit was increased to £8,400 in April 
2014, to £9,900 in November 2014 and to £11,500 in 2015. 
Ms P used the cards for several years without incurring any default or late payment charges 
and without exceeding the credit limits. More recently, however, she did begin to have 
difficulty maintaining the necessary repayments. 
Ms P died in January 2021 and her brother, Mr P, was appointed as executor of her estate. 
Having reviewed his late sisters finances, he complained to Barclaycard about its decisions 
to open the two accounts and then to increase the credit limits. He said those decisions had 
not properly taken account of Ms Ps ability to meet the payments needed. 
Barclaycard said that it had little information about the circumstances in which those 
decisions had been made, given the passage of time. It said too that it thought this service 
should not consider the complaint for the same reason. 
An investigator and an ombudsman considered whether this service had power to consider 
the complaint, since we cannot usually look at complaints about events more than six years 
before the complaint was made. They concluded however that Ms P would not have known 
she had cause for complaint until some time later and so we could look at the complaint. 
The investigator then took the view that there was little evidence to suggest that Ms P was 
having financial problems when her accounts were opened and her credit limits increased. 
Accordingly, Barclaycard had not treated her unfairly. Mr P asked that an ombudsman 
review the case.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lenders such as Barclaycard have for many years been required to ensure that lending is 
affordable before agreeing to it. In the case of a credit card, checks should be made when 
the account is opened and when the credit limit is changed. 
There is no evidence in this case that Ms P sought help from Barclaycard with managing 
repayments. So, the events complained of here are the lending decisions made several 
years ago. 
As the investigator noted, there is little evidence available about the checks that were carried 
out at the time. However, it appears that Ms P used the cards to make balance transfers 
from other accounts. It is likely therefore that she benefitted from those transfers, in the 
sense that it was more affordable to transfer balances than to continue with any previous 
arrangements. 
I note as well that it was some time later that Ms P began to have difficulty making 
payments. It would appear therefore that, at the time the lending decisions were made, Ms P 
was able to afford the repayments. The current position, according to the grant of probate, is 
that the estate is solvent and able to repay the debt owed to Barclaycard.  
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Barclays Bank UK PLC to take 
any further steps to resolve the estates complaint.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Ms P 
to accept or reject my decision before 20 September 2022.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman