DRN-4036550
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Nationwide Building Society restricted her account and denied her
access to her funds.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
Mrs L was a longstanding customer of Nationwide. In late 2021 Nationwide restricted Mrs Ls
access to her account. Mrs L had previously alleged shed been the victim of an investment
scam. And Nationwide was concerned that she was in the process of being a victim of a
romance scam. Some of Nationwides records from the time say that Mrs L told them she
was engaged to a man that shed met through social media but she hadnt met him in
person. And that she was trying to send him around $6,000 for an emergency operation after
hed been shot in a place of conflict whilst protecting another person who was wounded.
Nationwide blocked Mrs Ls account and asked for further evidence. They ultimately said
that they would only allow Mrs L to operate her account in branch. Mrs L was unhappy with
this. She lives outside the UK and says it was totally impracticable for her to visit a branch.
She says Nationwide caused her all kinds of problems as she couldnt access her pension
(which at the time was being paid into her Nationwide account). The account also contained
money she owed to her son, and she was unable to return this to him as shed promised.
She also says Nationwide have refused to send the money to another account in her name
and their actions have left her in financial hardship.
Mrs L complained as she says she was told by a Nationwide agent that they would arrange a
transfer, but this didnt happen. Nationwide upheld the complaint in part. They said the agent
had incorrectly raised Mrs Ls expectations and as a result of this they credited her account
with £75 compensation. But they still didnt allow Mrs L to fully access her account and so
she brought her complaint to our service.
One of our Investigators recommended the complaint should be upheld. Whilst she
acknowledged that Nationwide were trying to protect Mrs L, she didnt think theyd treated
her fairly. She recommended that they pay £400 compensation. Nationwide accepted this
outcome, but Mrs L didnt. She asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint. Around
this time Nationwide also provided Mrs L with notice that they planned to close her account.
In March 2023 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im intending to reach the same outcome as our Investigator and for largely
the same reasons. But as Im going into a greater level of detail, I wanted to give both sides
a further opportunity to comment before finalising my decision. I know Mrs L feels strongly
about her complaint and that this will likely be disappointing for her, so Ill explain why.
The crux of Mrs Ls complaint is that Nationwide unfairly restricted her access to her
account. As Ive mentioned above, Nationwide have more recently decided to end their
relationship with Mrs L. This isnt something I can comment on in this decision. If Mrs L is
unhappy with Nationwide providing her notice to close her account, this is something she
should raise with them in the first instance. And subject to our jurisdiction rules, it may be
something our service can later look into. This isnt intended to be obstructive, but our
service can only get involved once a business has had an opportunity to investigate a
complaint themselves.
Likewise, Mrs L says she wants our service to make a finding as to whether Nationwide have
broken the law by denying her access to her pension. Our service is an informal alternative
to the courts. And I cant make a finding as to whether the law has been broken, and I dont
need to to decide this complaint. So whilst the law is a relevant consideration, we dont look
at complaints in the same way a court might. Were able to reach an outcome based on what
we believe to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
Generally speaking, Nationwide should process the payments Mrs L instructs them to make
without delay. However, banks and building societies also have longstanding obligations to
be alert to instances of fraud and scams and to act in their customers best interests. And, if
they have good grounds to suspect that their customer is in the process of being scammed,
they can refuse to process a payment to try to protect them.
I can understand why Nationwide had concerns based on the information Mrs L had
provided. And I dont think their decision to refuse her payment instruction was unreasonable
in these circumstances. I believe the initial decisions Nationwide took, were made in good
faith and in an effort to protect Mrs L against losing her money to a potential scam.
However, Nationwide cant indefinitely withhold Mrs Ls money from her. And once an
impasse was reached, Id have expected Nationwide to have been more pragmatic and to
have allowed certain payments (such as some of the funds from her regular pension
payments) to be paid to assist Mrs L to support herself. I also dont think it was reasonable to
expect Mrs L to travel internationally to service her account in branch.
Ultimately, if Nationwide couldnt satisfy themselves that the payments Mrs L wanted to
instruct werent as a result of a scam, they had the option, under the account terms, to give
notice to close the account (as they have now done)  at which time the funds would have
been transferred to another account in Mrs Ls name.
As Im satisfied that, in the circumstances of this complaint, Nationwide didnt treat Mrs L
fairly, all that remains to be decided is whether the £400 compensation our Investigator
recommended is sufficient? I think it is, and Ill explain why.
Mrs L has said that part of the money that was in her account had been borrowed from her
son, and she was unable to repay him. Shes described the impact this had on him (including
the interest hes lost). I can only consider the impact directly on Mrs L (as the eligible
complainant here). I cant make an award for how things have impacted her son. I do
however accept that being unable to repay a debt would have caused Mrs L herself some
upset, and Ive taken that into consideration. Similarly, Mrs L has described how she had to
borrow money to be able to get by and fortunately she had people who were able to support
her. The loss of interest from those funds wasnt suffered by Mrs L, and so isnt something I
can compensate her for. But again, Ive considered the impact of having to ask to borrow
money on Mrs L herself.Further to this, but for Nationwide not allowing access to the funds they would have been
spent  this is supported by Mrs Ls testimony that she borrowed money from friends. So, Im
not persuaded she would have otherwise invested the funds, had she had access to them.
Mrs L made alternative arrangements to receive her pension without needing to use her
Nationwide account. So, this isnt a case where she couldnt access her pension for the
entire time. But obviously, there is the initial period where that was the case, along with the
inconvenience of making alternative arrangements which needs to be considered.
Nationwide themselves accept that misleading information was provided by one of their
agents during a call. And theyve already credited Mrs Ls account with £75 in respect of this.
Overall, and taking all the evidence and arguments into consideration, Im satisfied that the
further payment of £400 is fair compensation for the trouble and upset caused by
Nationwides actions. For the avoidance of doubt, this payment is in addition to the £75
compensation already paid. And if the payment of £400 hasnt already been made,
Nationwide should pay this into an account in Mrs Ls name of her choosing, and not
necessarily into her Nationwide account (if it is still open).
Neither Nationwide nor Mrs L responded to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party had any further comments or evidence for my consideration, I see no 
reason to deviate from the outcome explained in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part.
Unless they have already done so, Nationwide Building Society must pay Mrs L £400.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2023.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman