DRN-4311660
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy with the settlement hes been offered by Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance
Limited (RSA) after he made a claim under his car insurance policy.
What happened
In January 2023 Mr Ws car was stolen, so he made a claim to RSA, his car insurance
provider.
RSA accepted the claim and ultimately made an offer of settlement totalling £48,000. Mr W
thinks the settlement should be £56,750, based on a valuation he obtained. As Mr W
remained unhappy with RSAs position, he approached this service.
One of our investigators looked into things and upheld the complaint. He said that RSAs
offer was too low and should be increased to Mr Ws valuation. He also said 8% interest
should be added to the additional settlement, and RSA should also pay £100 compensation.
RSA didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
I reached a different outcome to our investigator, so I issued a provisional decision to give 
both parties an opportunity to comment on my initial findings before I reached my final 
decision.
What I provisionally decided  and why
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive reached a different outcome to our investigator, Im issuing a provisional 
decision, to give both parties an opportunity to comment on my initial findings before I 
reach my final decision.
Mr Ws policy terms outline that in the event of a claim, RSA will pay up to the market 
value of the vehicle. This is defined in the policy as:
Market value
The cost of asset value between replacing your car with a car of the same 
make, model, specification, mileage and age, in the same condition as your 
car was immediately before the loss or damage you are claiming for.
RSA determined the market value of Mr Ws car using valuations obtained through 
industry trade guides. These resulted in valuations of:
Glasss £47,710
CAP £47,000
Parkers £47,982
As Mr W said that the vehicle had a number of optional extras, and not all the guides 
take these into account, they also obtained a bespoke valuation from CAP, which 
resulted in a valuation of £48,000. Its this amount that RSA ultimately offered.
Mr W doesnt think this valuation is sufficient. He has provided adverts for similar age
vehicles, two of which were for £57,975 and £59,875. He also obtained his own 
valuation, and this was for £56,750. Its this amount that Mr W says he should 
receive in settlement of the claim.
When investigating Mr Ws complaint, our investigator also obtained valuations from 
other valuation guides we use in cases such as this, these were:
Autotrader £50,598
Percayso (formerly Cazoo) £51,875
Our investigator said that these were higher than the valuations obtained by RSA, 
and RSA should pay Mr Ws valuation of £56,750 as he found that more persuasive 
than any of the trade guides.
More generally, this services typical approach when considering complaints about 
the fair market value of a vehicle is to take into account what the market leading 
motor trade guides say the market value is. The guides are independent of the 
insurance industry, and from one another. As a service, generally, we find these 
guides to be particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on 
nationwide research and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account 
regional variations.
I note that Mr W has provided some adverts of cars he says are similar. But the 
mileage on these vehicles is lower than Mr Ws, so this is likely to have some bearing 
on the value. In any event, Ive also looked online at well-known used car sales 
websites, and there does appear to be a wide range of vehicles available, from lower 
values than the adverts Mr W provided, to higher than he provided, based on the 
correct mileage and appearing to have similar options too.
I also note that one of the adverts Mr W has provided is for £52,990. And this also 
has a lower mileage. So, taking into account that the lower mileage would have made 
some difference, I think this advert is likely to be in the range of the other valuations 
obtained by both RSA and our investigator.However, I should add that this service generally finds the motor trade guides to be 
more persuasive than sales adverts. This is because advertised prices are often the 
starting point of a negotiation and what the seller would like to achieve, rather than 
the final price it sells for after negotiation.
Mr Ws own valuation notes that retail price currently is £47,420 but theyve said the 
market value for Mr Ws vehicle is £56,750  which is significantly higher. Theyve 
said this is due to the extras on the vehicle, but not demonstrated why the amount is 
such a vastly significant difference to all the other guides obtained. And I dont find 
this valuation persuasive enough to completely discount all the others which have 
been obtained.
Whilst Mr W has argued that the vehicle had a number of additional options, we dont
generally find these always add value. They may make a vehicle more desirable to a 
buyer over the same vehicle without the options, but they dont always make a 
difference to the price. And nothing has been provided which demonstrates or 
persuades me the options make the value a significantly higher amount.
Having said that though, I do think it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances for the settlement amount to be increased. Ill explain why.
All of RSA valuations were in the region of £47,000. And they obtained a bespoke 
valuation which totalled £48,000, which is still some significant difference away from 
Mr Ws valuation. Our investigator obtained valuations from Autotrader and 
Percayso, and these were higher than RSAs and in the region of £51,000.
However, our investigator also obtained a valuation from CAP, and this took into 
account additional extras which did add some value (rear entertainment pack and the 
exterior pack), and this resulted in a valuation of £50,650. So, in the region of the 
other valuations they obtained from Autotrader and Percayso.
Placing a valuation on a vehicle isnt an exact science, and as can be seen in this 
case, there are a wide range of values. Here though, I do think RSAs offer is low, 
based on all the other valuations obtained. But I also think Mr Ws is high in 
comparison to all the others too.
However, the additional valuations obtained by our investigator, from CAP which 
included some optional extras, and Autotrader and Percayso, falls somewhere in-
between the values suggested by the two parties. And in the absence of anything 
persuading me that RSAs low offer, or Mr Ws much higher value, is more accurate 
than all the other valuations, Im minded to conclude it would be fair and reasonable 
to increase the settlement in line with the valuations our investigator obtained to 
£51,000  which is in the range of somewhere between the two parties. In the 
absence of any other persuasive information or evidence, I think this would produce 
a fair and reasonable outcome in the circumstances of this complaint.
To the additional settlement amount, 8% simple interest should also be added from 
the date the original settlement was paid to the date of payment of the additional 
amount.
Our investigator recommended £100 compensation be paid for the distress caused. 
But I also need to take into account that whilst on the low side, RSAs settlement 
offer wasnt hugely different to what I think a fair settlement is here on a fair and 
reasonable basis. And there were a wide range of valuations at hand which needed 
to be taken into account.Ultimately, I dont think RSA should have paid Mr Ws significantly higher valuation, 
so I dont intend on awarding compensation. Instead, I intend on awarding 8% simple 
interest to take into account the time Mr W was without the additional funds Ive 
provisionally decided RSA should pay on a fair and reasonable basis.
So, I was minded to uphold the complaint in part, and to direct RSA to increase the 
settlement to £51,000 with 8% simple interest added to the difference from the date the 
original payment was made to the date the additional payment is made.
The responses to my provisional decision
Mr W responded to say he didnt agree, but he didnt provide any other comments or 
response before the deadline to do so expired.
RSA responded and said they accepted the provisional decision. They later responded and 
questioned the valuations, including why the lower value guides they relied on were 
excluded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive thought carefully about the provisional decision I reached and the responses to it. 
Having done so, my final decision remains the same as my provisional decision, and for the 
same reasons.
In my provisional decision I explained that Mr W had provided a valuation, but there was no 
explanation why this was significantly more than any of the others  beyond saying the car 
had optional extras. And RSAs valuations were significantly lower than that.
But I also said that the three additional valuations obtained by our investigator were 
somewhere between the two. And having looked online on well known used car sales 
websites, there does appear to be a wide range of vehicles available, from lower to higher 
values.
So, this highlighted that there were a broad range of valuations across all of the available 
guides, and adverts of similar vehicles for sale. 
RSA has valuations in the £47,000 range, Mr W has a valuation of £56,750, and the 
valuations obtained by our investigator were in the range of £51,000. This included a 
bespoke valuation from CAP which provided an increased valuation including some of the 
extras, which was also in this same valuation region. 
RSA said CAP may take into account the cost of the extras new, rather than at todays rate 
when providing a valuation. However, if RSA wants to know specifically how CAP rates or 
assesses vehicle values, then it would need to approach CAP directly to obtain details of 
how their algorithms operate, as this isnt something I have details of or access to. But this is 
the bespoke valuation CAP provided to this service. Having said that, this valuation is slightly 
lower than Pecayso anyway, and only £52 more than Autotrader. So, its within the range of 
those too.However, whether this CAP valuation with extras is included or not, there is still a wide range 
of valuations across the guides, and this is broadened further by the vast number of vehicles 
for sale online, and across a wide reaching range of prices. And as I explained, placing a 
valuation on a vehicle isnt an exact science, and all the available information needs to be 
taken into account. 
Ultimately, RSA hasnt persuaded me their lower offer is a more accurate value than any of 
the others, and neither has Mr W. But the Autotrader and Percayso (whether CAP is 
included or not), is somewhere between the two. In the absence of anything else to 
persuade me it should be lower or higher, I think this amount partway between both 
produces a fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of the case.
Ill also still be directing RSA to add 8% simple interest to the additional amount, from date 
the original payment was made to the date the remainder is paid. But I wont be directing 
RSA to pay compensation for the reasons outlined in my provisional decision.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint in part and direct Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Limited to:
Increase the settlement amount to £51,000
Add 8% simple interest* to the settlement difference from the date the original 
payment was made to the date the additional payment is made
* If Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited considers that its required by 
HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr W how 
much its taken off. It should also give Mr W a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so 
he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman