DRN-2521958
The complaint
  Mr S complains Secure Trust Bank Plc trading as Moneyway (STBP) supplied him with an 
unsatisfactory car that has repeatedly failed. He asks for satisfactory repairs to be carried 
out or that he be allowed to reject the vehicle.
What happened
I set out the background to this complaint in an earlier provisional decision. For clarity, I 
repeat it here.
 On 23 January 2019, Mr S entered a hire purchase agreement with STBP. Within a week 
Mr S says he began having problems with the car and reported them to the finance 
company. He says he was very concerned and discussed rejecting the car at this time. He 
says STBP asked him to allow the dealership to rectify any problems, to which Mr S agreed.
On 9 Feb 2019, the car was taken for repair at a main dealership. The mileage was recorded 
as 49,831. The job card shows repairs were undertaken to the all-wheel drive (AWD) under 
warranty.
On 11 June 2019, Mr S says he contacted STBP as he was still having problems with the 
car. He says he was informed it would raise a complaint, but it suggested Mr S contacted the 
dealership to discuss the matter.
On 19 June 2019 the car was inspected by another garage. It produced an estimated invoice 
for the repairs needed. It identified several fault codes and repairs were needed to supply 
and fit a new oil pressure pump, new DPF filter, new DPF pressure sensor, new air filter, 
new interior heater unit and new heated mirror. The estimated costs for parts and labour 
amounted to £3,603.86. 
On 11 July 2019, Mr S contacted STBP again as he says the issues were ongoing and the 
dealership had refused to undertake any further repairs. He says the dashboard showed a 
warning light reporting a failure of the all-wheel drive (AWD) system which
was previously repaired by the dealership. He also says he was encountering issues
with the vehicles diesel particular filter (DPF), electrical issues and the automatic headlights
would illuminate unexpectedly.
On 1 August 2019, an independent report which was carried out by Automotive Consulting
Engineers Limited (ACE). The mileage was recorded as 57,135. It said:
there was an engine management lamp immediately illuminated on the dashboard and 
remained statically illuminated with engine malfunction highlighted on the information 
display.
The report identified a number of issues with the DPF and the reverse camera failing 
intermittently to transmit an image to the display board.
It went on to say:
- further investigation of the DPF system would now be recommended
- in relation to the oil pump, there was no evidence of any engine running defects or other
concerns often associated with this.
- a diagnostic interrogation carried out at the time of our inspection did reveal two fault codes
within the vehicle ECU memory. However, in our opinion the vehicle would like benefit from 
a full ford diagnostic interrogation with dealer level equipment. This would also access the
DPFS own data such as regeneration attempts, the overall soot content and life span
remaining, if any, of the DPF system.
At this stage there is however no sufficient evidence to confirm that the conditions would
have been present at the point of policy inception in light of the time elapsed since that point.
It is unlikely the vehicle would remain in service use in this condition for the period.
On 13 August 2019, STBP issued its final response. It didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. It said, 
based on the ACE report, the first fault had been successfully repaired and the subsequent 
faults were not linked to the first repair. It said there was no evidence the faults were present 
at the point of supply and as such it didnt agree to carry out any further repairs or allow Mr S 
to reject the car.
Dissatisfied Mr S brought his complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into things for Mr S. She concluded that although Mr S contacted 
STBP almost straight away to return the vehicle in January 2019, a repair was carried and 
accepted in February 2019. Whilst she was able to evidence issues with the car connected 
to the DPF and reverse camera, she was unable to evidence the previous repair with the 
AWD failed. She sympathised with the monies Mr S says he has paid out to repair the car 
but noted she had no evidence to support any additional repairs and as such she was 
unable to uphold his complaint.
Mr S disagreed. He says the faults kept arising even after they have been cleared. He says 
he cant evidence the repairs to the car as he has carried them out himself. He says the car 
will run but has intermittent fault codes coming up now. He says this matter has caused him 
a great deal of trouble and upset. He hasnt been able to properly use the car as it wouldnt 
go above 30 miles per hour. The nature of his occupation means he needs a reliable car and 
his wife has had to take out finance they can ill-afford for a reliable vehicle. He asked for an 
ombudsman review.
I explained, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the 
parties and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point 
made by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed 
on what I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I said I need to have regard to the relevant law 
and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider having been good industry practice at the relevant time.The agreement in this case is a regulated consumer credit agreement  so we can consider 
a complaint relating to it. STBP is also the supplier of the goods under this type of 
agreement, and responsible for a complaint about their quality. 
The Consumer Credit Act 1974 and also the Consumer Rights Act 2015 are relevant to this 
complaint. The CRA says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory. To be considered satisfactory, the goods would 
need to meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into 
account any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. So, 
it seems likely that in a case involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would 
take into account might include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the 
vehicles history. The quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of goods. 
STBP supplied Mr S with a car that was nearly 7 years old and had travelled around 49,000 
miles. And the price of the car was lower than it would have been if it had been supplied 
new.
So, I said I thought it fair to say that a reasonable person would expect that parts of the car 
might have already suffered some wear and tear. And theres a greater risk this car might 
need repair and/or maintenance 
The relevant law still says a used car shouldve been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If 
it wasnt then STBP is responsible. I take account of relevant law when deciding what is fair 
and reasonable. On this basis if I thought the car was faulty, and so not of satisfactory 
quality when supplied, Id think it fair and reasonable to ask STBP to put this right. The 
question is though was the car faulty when supplied?
I considered the timeline of events. Mr S acquired a car that had travelled around 49,000 
miles on 23 January 2019. He reported problems with the car on 28 January 2019 and 
asked if he could return it. The finance company asked him to allow the dealership an 
opportunity to put things right. 
On 9 February 2019, repairs were carried out on the car. The mileage at this point was 
49,831. The invoice for that repair reads:
All wheel drive fault message changed oil & filter on aldex on diff  co ids checked for AWD 
fault, confirm DTC B2477 module configuration failure  tried to re-install module (data error) 
suspect possible pump failure.
Notes:
Stage 1 repair, new AWD module required and test for further issues with haldex (must 
stress stage 1 of repair)
DIAG TRANS FAULT  Control Unit
Notes 
Replaced Haldex module and attempted to install module insufficient data fault, cleared 
DTCS and attempted second module re-install  same fault dtcs for programme failure 
and canbus error  carried our blank module install  road tested all ok.
I said the invoice itself gives cause for concern. It indicates firstly that a partial repair may 
have been undertaken and secondly the fault lights kept occurring, even after the repair. The 
dealership said this fault was fully repaired without issue. But on 11 June 2019, Mr S 
contacted STBP to say he is still experiencing issues with the car. This is within a few 
months of the repair being carried out.On 19 June 2019, Mr S had the car inspected by a third-party garage. It found several fault 
codes present and provided an invoice for required repairs. This included parts and labour 
for supplying and fitting a new oil pump, a new DPF filter, a DPF pressure sensor, an air 
filter, an interior heat unit and a heated mirror. The cost of the repairs was £3,603.86. I said I 
was persuaded Mr Ss testimony that there were repeated problems with the car were found 
to be supported by the inspection by this independent garage.
On 11 July 2019, Mr S contacted STBP again as the dealership refused to carry out the 
repairs. He again reported issues with AWD fault light and various other fault codes.
All the issues Mr S raised were within 6 months of ownership. The first within 5 days and 
then within 5 months.  I understand the dealership says the fault codes following the first 
repair were due to them not being cleared. But in that case why did Mr S continue to report 
problems with the car. If it was indeed just uncleared fault codes, why would he still be 
experiencing issues?
So, I went on to consider the ACE report carried out on 1 August 2019. The first thing of note 
was that the engineer was asked to consider the DPF/heater unit and oil pump. It was not 
asked to consider the AWD unit. 
The report says:
we proceeded with a physical examination of the car, starting the vehicle from a cold start. 
We can confirm the engine management illuminated on the dashboard and remained 
statically illuminated with engine malfunction highlighted on the information display.
It goes on to say:
A diagnostic interrogation revealed fault codes B1242 recirculation circuit failure and U1900 
communication canbus fault.
The canbus fault is the same as that described in the first invoice dated 19 February 2019.
The engineer reported the road test found the vehicle power delivery and response to be 
abnormal. It did not appear to be in limp mode. The report suggested it could be due to a 
blockage in the DPF but there was not abnormal or excessive smoke emissions consistent 
with a DPF blockage.
The report indicated further investigation of both the DPF and a full analysis of the fault 
codes by a manufacture dealership was required to identify the issues. It went on to say at 
this stage, there isnt sufficient evidence to suggest the faults were inherent at the point of 
sale.
I listened to the telephone calls between Mr S and our investigator. Mr S describes the car 
as being in limp mode, failing to drive properly and in his opinion safely. He described the 
AWD light coming on intermittently. He said even when he had use of the car it wasnt 
running right.
This seems to be supported by the ACE report. It clearly identified both fault codes and 
engine management issues. The engineer reported a similar issue to that which Mr S 
described, reduced power and an abnormal response when driving. The further investigation 
it suggested was not, to my knowledge, carried out and so I said I dont agree the ACE 
report can be seen as conclusive evidence that the faults described were not present or 
developing at the point of sale. STBP says that theres no evidence of the fault Mr S 
complains about. It says there isnt anything wrong with the car. But because Mr S says the 
problem happens now and again, I said it stands to reason that it might be difficult to 
replicate.Based on the evidence I have from both parties, I said it seems likely there is a fault with the 
car, although occurring intermittently. I said this because the first problems were identified 
within one week of acquiring the car and it was in the garage for a repair within a month. The 
problems continued and Mr S has been complaining of issues ever since.
Mr S has given this service details of his occupation and the fact that he relies on his car for 
work. He wasnt in a position to pay for the repairs and so he told us he replaced the air filter 
and the airflow sensor to see if that would help. He said although he had some use of the car 
it still wasnt running correctly and had intermittent fault lights coming up. He felt it to be 
unsafe to drive and so it has been on his driveway since. His wife took out further finance for 
a second car to allow him to carry on working. 
Having spoken to STBP, it confirmed Mr S VTd his agreement on 11 March 2020, and it 
recovered the car on 26 March 2020. It sold the car at auction on 30 May 2020 for £7906.50.
It did this in the full knowledge there was an ongoing complaint and investigation by this 
service. The difficulty here is there is no longer a car available for a further inspection or to 
carry out the recommendations in the ACE report to determine the root cause of the 
problem.
Im not in agreement that the AWD unit, the first repair, was completed successfully. Mr Ss 
testimony has been consistent, and he reports the warning light presenting intermittently 
after the repair. The presentation of the car at the ACE inspection also confirms engine 
malfunction issues, but the engineer wasnt asked to consider the AWD unit. This could have 
been rectified if Mr S had paid £85 for a diagnostic test at the time. But he was reluctant to 
do so and could ill afford further costs associated with the car. It could also have been 
resolved if STBP had undertaken the further recommendations for diagnostics, but that 
wasnt carried out either.
STBP says it accepts a fault was identified within a week, but it was repaired and Mr S 
accepted that repair. It says the subsequent faults that arose were not connected to the first 
fault and as such it doesnt agree they were present at the point of supply. 
I said I wasnt persuaded the first repair was successful. Im satisfied all the issues Mr S 
experienced with the car were in the first six months and having taken account of the 
relevant law, I said Im persuaded it would have permitted Mr S to reject the car in these 
circumstances. That legislation does allow for rejection of faulty goods. Further, even if I am 
mistaken in law, I said I thought it fair and reasonable that Mr S can reject the car in the 
circumstances. I said this because, the car had travelled less than 50,000 miles when Mr S 
acquired it and even given it is a used car and one would expect a reasonable degree of 
wear and tear. I dont find it reasonable that the number of repairs and the nature of those 
repairs, would have presented within six months unless they were present or developing at 
the point of sale. I appreciate Mr S has had use of the car and has travelled around 6,500 
miles in the 8 months between the ACE report and the return of the car in March 2020. But 
an intermittent fault that allows some use doesnt mean the car was fit for purpose or that 
faults werent present at the point of sale, indeed the evidence suggest otherwise so I said 
Im going to ask STBP to put things right.
I said my starting point is to put Mr S back in the position as though he hadnt taken out the 
agreement. Mr S traded in his old car as the deposit which should be refunded. 
Mr S does however confirm that although he stopped using the car and acquired another on 
finance, he also stopped making his finance payments which means Im not able to ask 
STBP to refund any payments to him. Up to the point he stopped making the payment he did 
have some us of the car and so I wont be asking STBP to refund any of the payments he 
made either. I can see that this matter has caused Mr S a great deal of trouble and upset 
and so I intend to ask STBP to pay Mr S £200 in recognition of this. For the reasons I said I intended to direct Secure Trust Bank Plc trading as Moneyway to:
refund the deposit of £800 plus 8% statutory interest
write off the outstanding finance balance of £5171.05
remove any adverse information from Mr Ss credit file
pay £200 for the trouble and upset this matter has caused
STBP must pay the total compensation within 28 days of the date on which Mr S accepts my 
final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the £200 from the date of 
the final decision until the date of payment at the rate of 8% simple per year.
If it considers it is legally required to deduct income tax from that interest, it must send a tax 
deduction certificate with the payment so that Mr S can reclaim the tax if she is able to. Mr S 
should refer back to STBP if he is unsure of the approach it has taken and both parties 
should contact HM Revenue & Customs if they want to know more about the tax treatment of 
this portion of the compensation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Mr S for confirming he received my provisional decision.
Ive re-considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive reviewed the complete file again and 
revisited my provisional decision. Mr S has accepted the findings of my provisional decision. 
STBP hasnt taken the opportunity to comment on my provisional decision or to supply any 
new information. I think it has had a fair chance to do this, if it had wanted to do so. It 
follows, given that there is no further evidence that I need to consider, that I have reached 
the same conclusions as I did in my provisional decision and for the same reasons.  
My final decision
 For the reasons I have given I direct Secure Trust Bank Plc trading as Moneyway to:
refund the deposit of £800 plus 8% statutory interest
write off the outstanding finance balance of £5171.05
remove any adverse information from Mr Ss credit file
pay £200 for the trouble and upset this matter has caused
STBP must pay the total compensation within 28 days of the date on which Mr S accepts my 
final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the £200 from the date of 
the final decision until the date of payment at the rate of 8% simple per year.
If it considers it is legally required to deduct income tax from that interest, it must send a tax 
deduction certificate with the payment so that Mr S can reclaim the tax if she is able to. Mr S 
should refer to STBP if he is unsure of the approach it has taken and both parties should 
contact HM Revenue & Customs if they want to know more about the tax treatment of this 
portion of the compensation. 
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2021.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman