DRN-3120778
The complaint
Mr S complains that Santander UK Plc updated merchants with his new debit card details 
without his consent. 
What happened
Mr S had a Visa debit card associated with his Santander current account that was due to 
expire in April 2021. Santander has explained that at this time, it began switching customers 
to Mastercard debit cards. A short time before Mr S Visa debit card expired it sent him a 
new Mastercard debit card. 
Santander says it gave the replacement debit card details to Mastercard. As a result, 
Mastercards Automatic Billing Updater (ABU) service provided the replacement debit card 
details to merchants and businesses when a payment authorised under a Continuous 
Payment Authority (CPA) arrangement was claimed. 
The payment details were updated via Mastercards ABU facility before Mr S received his 
new debit card. As a result, Mr S found new payment information recorded with his 
merchants and contacted Santander. Santander cancelled the replacement card and sent Mr 
S another. 
Mr S complained that Santander had shared information without his consent. But Santander 
said its terms allow it to supply information with Mastercard. Santander incorrectly said Mr S 
original card had been cancelled in error. Santander paid Mr S £50 to apologise that his new 
debit card details had been updated with Mastercard and given to merchants before he 
received the replacement. 
Mr S referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They thought 
Santander had dealt with the complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. The 
investigator said that if Mr S wanted to stop future payments being claimed under a CPA 
arrangement he would need to either contact the merchant directly or provide details of the 
future payment in question to Santander. And Santander would then stop future payments 
being claimed under that CPA. Santander confirmed there is no option to opt out of the ABU 
process and that it doesnt have a record of the individual CPAs Mr S may have in place. 
Mr S asked to appeal and said Santanders staff seemed unaware of the ABU process which 
meant he had to hunt for information to find out what happened. Mr S also said he was 
concerned Santander was updating merchants and businesses with new debit card details 
despite not using services for several years. As Ms S has asked to appeal, his complaint has 
been passed to me to make a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive set out the background to this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive 
done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by all the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think 
are the key issues in this case. 
Our rules allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service 
as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because 
Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument 
to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
I understand Mr S is concerned that Santander has released private information about him 
without his consent. But I dont agree thats the case. As our investigator has quoted in their 
findings, Santanders terms do allow it to share information with Mastercard. So Im satisfied 
there is provision in the terms for information to be shared with Mastercard. 
Mastercards ABU process works to ensure card payments authorised under a CPA continue 
after a debit card is replaced. Santander has explained the new card details are held by 
Mastercard. If a merchant tries to process a CPA payment using out of date debit card 
information, Mastercard provides up to date details which can then be used. 
A CPA payment can only be taken if the customer gives permission to the merchant. I can 
see Mr S has provided some chargeback codes where CPA payments may be incorrectly 
claimed. But thats applicable when a CPA payment is claimed in error. Mr S hasnt told us 
the payments claimed under the CPAs he has in place should be refunded or were 
unauthorised. As Mr S hasnt raised any chargebacks, the information hes given doesnt 
apply. 
Santander has confirmed it doesnt have a list of all the CPAs Mr S has in place. If future 
payments are taken by a merchant without Mr S permission he has the option of asking 
Santander to raise a dispute. But as Santander doesnt have a list of all CPAs Mr S has 
agreed, it cant provide that information to him. Santander has also confirmed there is no 
option for customers with debit cards to opt out of the ABU process. 
Mr S has told us that he had to find information about the ABU process and that Santanders 
staff seemed unaware of it. I can also see that Santander gave some incorrect information 
about why Mr S was sent a new card. Santander also says it shouldnt have updated Mr S 
debit card details before he received the replacement. Santander has paid Mr S £50 and 
apologised for the service provided. I agree Santander couldve handled Mr S queries better 
but Im satisfied £50 fairly reflects the impact of the issues raised in this case. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr S but as Im satisfied Santander has dealt with his complaint fairly 
Im not telling it to take any further action.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr S complaint because Santander UK Plc has already 
paid a settlement that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2021.
 
Marco ManenteOmbudsman