DRN-2544319
The complaint
Mr P and Mrs S complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC failed to give them relevant 
information when they took out a new fixed rate product on their mortgage. They were 
subsequently not able to extend the mortgage as they had wished and say they are now tied 
into the mortgage due to the early redemption charge (ERC). 
What happened
Mr P and Mrs S had an interest only mortgage with Barclays. They contacted Barclays in 
early 2018 to discuss switching from a variable interest rate to a fixed rate. And when 
speaking to Barclays adviser Mr P also mentioned that he would like in the future to release 
equity from the property.
Mr P and Mrs S took out a new five year fixed rate on the mortgage. And in 2019 they 
subsequently contacted Barclays again to discuss their options for further borrowing of 
around £200,000 to £250,000. But they were advised that they did not meet the affordability 
criteria and could only borrow around £110,000. In particular, they were told that they 
couldnt extend the term of the mortgage to make the loan affordable as Barclays internal 
policy imposed a maximum term on interest only mortgages.
Mr P and Mrs S complained to Barclays. Mr P said that hed discussed the equity release on 
the phone with Barclays adviser prior to taking out the fixed rate. And he said that if hed 
been told about the policy regarding the maximum term he would have acted differently and 
wouldnt have taken out the fixed rate. But Barclays didnt uphold their complaint and so they 
brought it to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr P and Mrs Ss complaint should be upheld. She 
said that Mr P had taken out the new fixed rate online without any advice from Barclays, and 
she couldnt see that hed had any contact with Barclays prior to that. She didnt think it fair 
to require Barclays to allow Mr P and Mrs S to borrow more than it had offered to loan, or to 
require it to waive the ERC.
Mr P subsequently provided call recordings of two calls he had had with representatives of 
Barclays prior to taking out the fixed rate, in which hed mentioned that he would like to 
release equity from the property in the future. But our investigator has not been persuaded to 
change her view, and so the complaint has been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P has explained that the crux of his complaint is that Barclays should have advised him 
that its internal policy puts a limit on the maximum term for an interest only mortgage. He 
says that, if hed been told this, he wouldnt have taken out the five year fixed rate with 
Barclays.
Ive carefully considered what Mr P has to say but, having done so, I dont agree that 
Barclays has made an error. Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
Ive listened to the call recordings that Mr P has supplied to this service. And I agree that he 
did mention to both advisers he spoke to that he was considering taking out further 
borrowing and potentially extending the term of his mortgage. But the second adviser 
explained that Mr P would need to book an appointment so that Barclays could assess 
whether the further borrowing would be affordable. And she also made it clear that if Mr P 
proceeded with the rate change and made a future application for further borrowing that was 
declined for any reason he would still be bound by the ERC. Mr P decided not to make an 
application for future borrowing at that time, but only to action the rate switch, which he did 
online following his conversation with the adviser.
I appreciate that Mr P feels he would have acted differently if the adviser had told him about 
the internal policy regarding the maximum term of an interest only mortgage. But Mr P only 
mentioned the possibility of extending the mortgage when he spoke to the adviser and did 
not make an application at that time. A business internal policy will change from time to 
time. And I dont think it would be fair of me to find that the adviser should have explained 
everything that might potentially affect a future application during the course of that 
conversation. The adviser did make it clear that a future application for further borrowing was 
not guaranteed, and she explained that if Mr P locked into a fixed rate the ERC would apply 
even if a future application for future borrowing was declined. And I think it was reasonable 
of her to do so.
As I dont find that Barclays has made an error I dont require it to do anything further.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 April 2021.
 
Alison Cribbs
Ombudsman