DRN-3598340
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that BMO Asset Management Limited trading as BMO Global Asset 
Management (BMO) mismanaged funds in savings plans they have invested in the BMO 
UK High Income Trust PLC.
Mr and Mrs B originally invested with a different financial business which became part of 
BMO in 2014, but this made no difference to the way their savings plans operated or the 
funds were managed. So, to keep things simpler, I will just refer in my decision to BMO as 
the financial business throughout. 
What happened
In 2009 and 2010, Mr and Mrs B invested in savings plans with a view to achieving long term 
capital growth to provide lump sums for grandchildren in years to come. 
The BMO UK High Income Trust PLC they invested in has two classes of shares  ordinary 
shares (which pay cash distributions as dividends) and B shares, which pay capital 
distributions (and so provide tax benefits to some investors). Mr and Mrs B held B shares. 
Each of the B shares could be traded as a unit. 
Mr and Mrs B contacted BMO in November 2021 asking it to explain why unit prices of their 
B shares in the BMO UK High Income Trust had dropped by almost 10% over the previous 
two months or so despite markets having risen during the same period.
Mr and Mrs B were frustrated that BMO didnt respond as quickly as they expected and after 
speaking on the phone, their concerns were logged as a complaint. BMO provided 
Mr and Mrs B with copies of the most recent fund factsheets it had published on its website 
which discussed overall portfolio performance over the previous couple of months. It said 
there had been periods where their investment had slightly underperformed and other times 
it had outperformed its benchmark. BMO didnt agree that it had mismanaged their 
investment and didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr and Mrs B didn't feel this went far enough to explain things and said there were factual 
errors in BMOs response. 
Further correspondence between BMO and Mr and Mrs B failed to resolve things and 
Mr and Mrs B brought their complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into what 
happened.   
Our investigator didnt feel she had seen enough to be able to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs 
complaint. She appreciated they were unhappy that the fund hadnt been performing as well 
as they would have liked, or in line with the benchmark, but she didnt feel this was enough 
to show BMO had mismanaged the fund. She said BMO had provided Mr and Mrs B with 
warnings about the investment performance and it had addressed particular concerns raised 
about the impact on the unit price of an investment recommendation in the financial press 
and the way stock selection impacted on unit value. Our investigators overall view was that 
BMO hadnt acted unfairly or made any error, so she told Mr and Mrs B she wouldnt be 
asking BMO to take any further action.  
Mr and Mrs B disagreed with our investigator. In brief summary, they remain frustrated and 
feel concerned that they have been given no real answers to explain why the funds have 
declined so rapidly over the past 9 months.
As the complaint hasn't been resolved, it comes to me for a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B put things this way: The unit price in this fund is dreadful and as of yet I have had no 
proper explanation which seems to me to summarise the crux of this complaint. So this is 
what I've concentrated on in my decision. 
I sympathise with Mr and Mrs B  I can completely understand why its been frustrating for 
them that their BMO investments have been slipping in value at a time when they were 
seeing share price gains in the financial markets  including on some of their other 
investments held elsewhere. 
But having thought about everything I've seen and been told, Ive independently reached the 
same overall conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain why I say this. 
I've looked carefully at what I know about the BMO UK High Income Trust PLC 
Mr and Mrs B are invested in to help me understand what Mr and Mrs B could reasonably 
expect.
The fund aims are: To provide an attractive return to shareholders each year in the form of 
dividends and/or capital returns, together with prospects for capital growth It does this by 
investing predominantly in UK equities and equity-related securities of companies across 
the market capitalisation spectrum. The benchmark is the FTSE All-Share Index. This 
doesnt mean that unit values are pegged to rise and fall in line with the FTSE All-Share 
Index  it simply provides a basis for comparison against which fund performance can be 
benchmarked. 
Mr and Mrs B had started off their savings plans with lump sum investments and contributed 
regular payments in. They said they were happy not to take income and instead reinvest this 
to maximise the potential for capital growth. Theyd had their savings plans set up for more 
than ten years and seem to have been happy with the way the fund worked for them, at least 
until the unit price falls that triggered this complaint. 
Its not part of the remit of this service to investigate fund performance, but Ive thought 
carefully about whether BMO has treated Mr and Mrs B fairly and reasonably.  
Looking at the fund fact sheet BMO issued in October 2021, this refers to a near perfect 
storm of events and  a tough month in performance terms. It said that in the UK, it was 
reported that whilst the surge in both oil and gas prices saw the sector gain 15% over the 
month there was otherwise significant volatility in the markets.
The following month, BMOs fund fact sheet reported that Septembers weak equity market 
performance had continued through October. It said fund performance had been hindered by a combination of the sectors we dont have positions in, which have performed well, and 
certain stocks.
In December 2021, BMO was reporting that After two tough months of performance, we 
delivered a small outperformance in November. The net asset value declined in absolute 
terms, but less than the market
All the fund fact sheets included a reminder that: Stock market movements may cause the 
value of investments and the income from them to fall as well as rise and investors may not 
get back the amount originally invested.
I think the information BMO provided helped to explain the apparent mismatch in 
performance and drop in unit price that Mr and Mrs B have complained about. Mr and Mrs B 
havent provided me with any specific information to show that BMO is directly responsible 
for the unit price falls. So although the savings plans didnt deliver the returns Mr and Mrs B 
hoped for, this isnt enough of a reason for me to uphold their complaint that BMO has 
mismanaged their investments. 
I can see that BMO also addressed specific concerns Mr B mentioned relating to an 
investment recommendation in a financial publication and the fact that one of the 
investments within the fund was a retail company that had been struggling  both of which 
BMO said impacted on the unit price. 
I've taken into account that Mr and Mrs B dont feel BMO responded to their concerns as 
promptly as it should have done. BMO said it was sorry when it didnt reply to Mr and Mrs B 
within its normal 10 days turnaround time for answering correspondence and it explained 
that some complaints took longer to look into. Previously, it had spoken to Mr B on the 
phone and BMO sent its formal response to his complaint within the required time frame set 
by the regulator. So, whilst I appreciate that BMO didnt necessarily reply to Mr B before the 
deadline for responses Mr B specified, I dont find that BMO has been responsible for any 
unreasonable delay in communication that would warrant me awarding redress. 
In coming to my decision, Ive noted that Mr and Mrs B told us they have a separate fund 
with another company which is doing much better. But this doesnt affect the outcome of this 
complaint. In order to be able to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint I have to be able to fairly 
say that BMO has done something wrong or acted unfairly or unreasonably  and I havent 
seen enough here to do so. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs B. But as Im satisfied BMO dealt with the complaint fairly 
Im not telling it to take any further action. If I have not referred to each and every point 
mentioned during the course of the correspondence about this complaint, thats because Ive 
concentrated on what seems to me to be the core issue I need to address when deciding the 
complaint. This reflects the fact that we provide an informal complaints handling service as a 
free alternative to the courts. I hope that setting things out as I've done is helpful and even 
though this isnt the outcome Mr and Mrs B hoped for, they will at least feel that their 
complaint has been fully considered by the Financial Ombudsman Service.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 February 2023.
 Susan Webb
Ombudsman