DRN-1317703
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P have a buy-to-let mortgage with Leeds Building Society and they asked if they 
could rent it out through the council. Leeds turned down the request and Mr and Mrs P think 
thats unfair.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P took out this mortgage with Leeds in 2017. They opted to take an interest rate 
that was fixed until 31 October 2019, and it was subject to an early repayment charge 
(ERC) if it was repaid before that date.
In July 2019 Mr and Mrs P asked Leeds if they could change from renting to private tenants 
on an AST basis through an estate agent, to renting it to the local council to be used by 
council tenants.
Leeds said that wasnt possible as it didnt allow properties to be rented to (or through) 
councils or housing associations. Unhappy with that Mr and Mrs P complained.
Our investigator said Leeds hadnt done anything wrong as that was its lending policy. He 
said this was set out in Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage offer. Mr and Mrs P didnt agree, saying 
adjustments and flexibility should be allowed and Leeds shouldnt stick by its policy so 
rigidly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr and Mrs P feel that Leeds hasnt treated them fairly. But in my view the 
decision not to allow them to let out their property to (or through) the local council was one it 
was entitled to make. Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage offer set out the contract they were entering 
into and this said:
The mortgaged property must be let on an Assured Shorthold Tenancy
We do not accept applications where the proposed mortgaged property  is let to or is 
to be let to, limited companies, partnerships, trusts, housing associations or local 
authorities.
Mr and Mrs P have said they offered to pay three months mortgage payments in advance, 
but that wouldnt help. The rule on not allowing the property to be rented to a council would 
stand for the whole time Mr and Mrs P held the mortgage with Leeds, and if they repaid their 
mortgage in full before 31 October 2019, theyd incur an ERC.
Im assuming the point Mr and Mrs P are making is that if they paid three months off in one 
go, that would be the equivalent of taking them to the end of the ERC period (as there were 
only three months left to run). But it wasnt an ERC until a set number of payments were 
made; it was an ERC until 31 October 2019. Even if Mr and Mrs P had paid an amount 
equivalent to all the payments due in the fixed rate period within the first year then theyd still 
have needed to pay a contractual payment each and every month after that, and would have 
incurred the ERC if they repaid the mortgage before 31 October 2019.
Were not the regulator, and Ive no power under our terms of reference to comment on, or 
otherwise determine, how financial businesses operate in general terms. Im satisfied the 
terms of the ERC were set out in the mortgage offer in a way that should have been readily 
understandable to Mr and Mrs P; certainly, the information about the ERC was set out in a 
manner that met the regulators requirements. So, Im persuaded Mr and Mrs P knew  or at 
least should have known  how much theyd have to pay if they repaid the mortgage before 
31 October 2019. Im also satisfied the mortgage offer explained the property couldnt be 
rented to (or through) the council.
Whilst Im sympathetic to the situation Mr and Mrs P found themselves in, Leeds simply 
didnt have to grant the permission they wanted and didnt treat them unfairly when it refused 
to do so.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of the 
complaint, which means well not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of 
the merits of it. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Mr and Mrs P to accept or reject my decision before 29 June 2020. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman