DRN-3984167
The complaint
Miss S complains that Amtrust Europe Limited unfairly refused to indemnify her on a group 
protection policy.
Reference to Amtrust Includes its agents.
What happened
Miss S was involved in an accident with another vehicle. She had a comprehensive motor 
insurance policy with another underwriter (U). She reported the claim to U, but because the 
circumstances of the accident looked like Miss S wasnt at fault, she was referred to an 
accident management company (A) to deal with the claim.
A arranged for Miss Ss car to be assessed and provided a replacement vehicle for the 
duration. The replacement car was provided on a credit hire basis, with the intention of 
claiming the cost from the other drivers insurer (the TPI). But the agreement said if A 
couldnt recover the costs from the TPI, then Miss S would be liable for them. 
To protect against these potential costs A took out a group protection policy with Amtrust 
which Miss S benefitted from. The policy provided cover for the credit hire costs in the event 
they were unable to be recovered from the TPI. But, like all insurance policies, not 
everything was covered, and conditions and exclusions applied to the policy.
In this case, Miss Ss car was deemed a total loss, so U made her a settlement for its value. 
A stopped pursuing the TPI for the hire car costs. This was done because the TPI said 
Miss Ss car wasnt taxed at the time of the incident. The TPI said it therefore shouldnt have 
been on the road, so doesnt think it needs to pay the hire costs Miss S incurred while her 
car was being assessed.
A went on to say that because Miss Ss car wasnt taxed, shed breached the terms of the 
hire agreement. And Amtrust, for the same reason said it was refusing to indemnify her  
meaning she wasnt able to make a claim from it. All this meant that A then took the decision 
to pursue the hire costs - £2,371.30  from Miss S directly.
Miss S doesnt think thats fair, so she brought her complaint to us.
One of our investigators recommended it be upheld. She thought it was a clear condition of 
the group protection policy that Miss Ss car needed to have valid tax. But she didnt think 
Amtrust had done enough to show it was prejudiced by it not having it.
Amtrust didnt respond to our investigators assessment, so, the case has come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
From what weve been provided, its clear that the policy says it wont provide cover where 
Miss Ss car was being operated withoutpayment of all taxes required by law. So, 
Im satisfied thats a term in the policy. But I also need to be satisfied its fair that Amtrust rely 
on it to refuse to indemnify Miss S for the costs shes being perused for.
Miss Ss car was being operated without her taxing it. This point isnt disputed. So, on the 
face of it, it would seem reasonable to rely on the term. Amtrust dont provide cover where 
theres no tax in place, and there was no tax in place.
But importantly, I need to consider prejudice and whether Amtrust are applying the term in a 
fair and reasonable way. Its only fair for Amtrust, or any insurer, to rely on a term to decline 
a claim or refuse indemnity if that term is material to the loss. And because its Amtrust 
relying on the term, it is for Amtrust to evidence its been prejudiced.
At first glance, this would seem a simple task. Amtrust are only involved because A say they 
cant get the costs back from the TPI. And A say they cant get the costs back because 
Miss Ss car didnt have valid tax. That, on the surface looks like clear prejudice.
But, while this decision concerns Amtrusts actions, not As, I need to also consider deeper 
why A stopped pursuing the hire costs from the TPI. A is entitled to make a commercial 
decision not to take the matter to court, but that decision has considerable impact on Miss S.
In essence, I need to be satisfied that on balance, A wouldnt have been unable to recover 
its costs from the TPI. In other words, Amtrust needs to show on balance that if this case 
were taken to court, that A would lose. And that it would lose on the basis that Miss Ss car 
had no valid tax.
If Amtrust were able to show that if A decided to carry on pursuing the TPI for costs it would 
likely lose, then I think Amtrust would have reasonably shown it was prejudiced. But if it cant 
do this, then Im not persuaded it would be the lack of MOT, as opposed to As decision not 
to pursue the TPI that prejudiced Amtrusts position.
Amtrust hasnt provided any case law to support its position, so, Im not persuaded it has 
done enough to show its been prejudiced by Miss Ss car not having up to date tax on it.
So, Im more minded to say that it was As decision not to pursue the TPI which led to 
Amtrust becoming involved. Im not here to say whether that decision was one that A should 
have made or not, but I dont think its then fair or reasonable to say that it was the lack of 
tax that prejudiced Amtrusts position. Because it hasnt shown that if A continued to pursue 
the TPI, it wouldnt have been successful in recovering the hire costs. 
Putting things right
Amtrust should therefore provide indemnity to Miss S. And if A continues with its decision 
that it doesnt want to pursue the TPI for the hire costs, then Amtrust should step in and offer 
cover in line with the remaining terms of the policy  without relying on the exclusion 
surrounding the tax.
Miss S should assist both A and Amtrust in any action to try and recover the costs from the 
TPI, and should a claim need to be made on the policy with Amtrust, she should cooperate 
with Amtrust to help it assess it quickly and promptly.Being asked to pay over £2,000 in costs and being worried where youll find that money 
from, is, I imagine, distressing. So Amtrust should pay Miss S £150 for the distress caused 
by refusing to indemnify her for those costs.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Amtrust Europe Limited to:
If A is unable to recover the hire car charges from the third party, Amtrust should 
reinstate indemnity for Miss S under the group protection policy and settle the hire 
car costs directly with A.
Pay Miss S £150 compensation for the distress of having indemnity removed and 
being faced with a large bill
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman