DRN-3454876
The complaint
Mr S complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited unfairly declined his claim for a 
stolen watch. 
What happened
Mr S holds a home insurance policy with Admiral. The policy insures the contents of Mr Ss 
home, and covers a number of high-value items, which are listed separately. In 
September 2021, one of those items  a Rolex watch  went missing from Mr Ss gym 
locker, so he reported what he believed to be a theft to the police, and subsequently raised a 
claim under his policy.
Admiral declined Mr Ss claim. They said Mr S was unable to provide proof of ownership of 
the item, or any evidence to validate its authenticity or value; and they said their jewellery 
expert was unable confirm the authenticity or the value of the watch from the photos Mr S 
provided alone. They said they were unable to see the specific model and serial number of 
the watch from the photos provided, and therefore wouldnt be able to note the theft on the 
Art Loss Register (a global database of stolen art, antiques and collectables), which is part of 
their claims process.. 
Mr S says he was unable to provide proof of purchase as he inherited the item from a family 
member. So he said it was unfair of Admiral to say that a valuation wasnt required when the 
policy was set up, to only then decline the claim when he couldnt now obtain evidence of the 
watchs value, as it was no longer in his possession. Especially as Admiral had sought 
evidence relating to other watches that were listed under his policy at policy inception, and 
he said if asked, he couldve obtained a valuation for the Rolex at this point too. 
Admiral argued that a valuation wouldnt be needed for every item at the point a policy was 
taken out, as this was dependant on the individual item value. But they said it was common 
practice to look to verify proof of ownership in the event a claim was raised at a later date, 
and they highlighted the section of the policy that set this out. They said that as Mr S was 
unable to provide the required evidence, they maintained that theyd declined his claim fairly. 
So, unhappy with this, Mr S brought his complaint to our service.
An investigator considered Mr Ss complaint. He said that while he recognised that Admiral 
had requested documentation to show proof of purchase at the point of a claim, he thought 
the explanation Mr S had given for not being able to provide this was reasonable. He asked 
Mr S instead to provide an independent valuation of the watch, which he did, from an 
established jeweller within a well-known jewellery quarter. So, based on this, and the other 
evidence presented, the investigator thought Mr S had done enough to prove his claim, and 
he recommended Admiral pay Mr S £6,000 (the specified item limit) plus interest.
Admiral rejected the investigators findings. They said their requests for proof of ownership, 
authenticity, and value were reasonable. Furthermore, they said theyd not received the 
valuation provided by Mr S, so they maintained that the claim should be declined.  
The investigator sent Admiral a copy of the valuation. Admiral responded and said that as 
the valuation was carried out after the date of loss, the actual watch hadnt been seen by the 
jeweller, and that from the photograph used, they wouldnt have been able to confirm the 
serial number which would authenticate the watch and enable it to be listed on the Art Loss 
Register. They said that as a result, the valuation could not be used to validate the claim, 
and their position remained the same. So, the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Looking at Mr Ss policy, it seems clear at the outset, that Mr Ss Rolex is listed as an 
insured item. And that the cover for that item includes cover in the event of a theft, both 
within, and away from the home. It also seems clear that Admiral havent called into question 
the circumstances of the theft, for which a crime reference number was provided. So, for the 
avoidance of doubt, Im satisfied that an insured event took place for which Mr S has cover 
in place. So, my decision will focus on whether Mr S did enough (which Admiral argue he 
hasnt) to prove ownership of, and the value of, the item claimed for. 
Mr Ss policy states that in the event of a loss,  Admiral may ask for more information to 
support a claim, such as: original receipts, invoices or valuations, dated before the item was 
insured; and, instruction booklets, photographs or details of where and when an item was 
purchased.
This request doesnt seem unreasonable, and is quite typical of policies of this nature, with 
similar questions usually being asked by insurers in such events.  But in this case, Mr S has 
explained that this item was passed down from a relative, so he did not have any original 
receipts or instruction booklets with the item. Hes also said that he didnt choose to get the 
item valued at the outset, as next to the item listing on the policy schedule, it clearly states  
valuation required  no. 
I appreciate that Admirals policy at the time of claim, requires a valuation of the item from 
before the loss, to be provided in the event of a claim. But for the reasons given above, I can 
understand why Mr S would not have obtained this, given it didnt seem to be required when 
the policy was taken out. So, I can understand why this wasnt available at the time. 
Admiral also state that in the event of a loss, they may choose to look at photographs or 
valuations, to help validate both the proof of ownership and the value of the item. From 
reviewing the file, it seems that Admiral were provided with photographs, but said that their 
jewellery specialist was unable to confirm the authenticity and value of the items from these 
alone, as they were unable to see the model or serial number. 
Now I understand why Admiral would want to see this information in order to value the 
watch. But equally, I understand why Mr S may not have that type of information available 
following the theft of the item, given he hadnt had it valued previously. 
I can also see that Mr S has provided a copy of a valuation report from a jeweller, that values 
the watch at £6,500 since the theft. And as the investigator has set out, this was from a well-
established jeweller with an extensive career, and senior roles within a well-known auction 
house, and who held a deputy director role having previously worked on the global strategy 
for all jewellery and watch auctions.So, in this case, it seems that there has been evidence provided by two experts in the field 
that unfortunately contradict each other. So, I need to base my decision on what Im most 
persuaded by. 
I can fully appreciate Admirals expert feels they are unable to value the watch from the 
information provided, and Mr Ss feels they can. And I have no reason to doubt or question 
the findings of either party. 
But Ive considered Mr Ss testimony, which Im satisfied is persuasive, around both the 
reasons for not being able to provide further evidence of the value of the watch, and why he 
may not have more detailed photographs. Equally Ive considered the fact that Mr S was 
able to provide a valuation for one of the other watches on his policy at the policy inception 
when asked. He has also asked what additional information might be required in order to 
validate both proof of purchase and the value of the other watches on his policy, should 
anything happen to these moving forward. 
I can also see that Mr S has a number of other high-value items listed on his policy.
While I accept that the information Mr S has provided Admiral in respect of both proof of 
ownership and value is limited, I think Mr S has provided a persuasive argument for why he 
is unable to obtain these. 
Mr S has provided what appears to be a genuine crime reference number that Admiral have 
not contested. He has provided what seem to be legitimate reasons for being unable to 
provide invoices or receipts, given that the watch was inherited. He has a number of high-
value jewellery items listed on his policy that Admiral is happy to insure, and for which he 
has been able to provide valuations for when asked by Admiral. And he has been keen to 
co-operate with Admiral to provide any further evidence they may require in respect of the 
other high-value items on the policy. 
This case is finely balanced, and I can fully appreciate why Admiral may have some initial 
concerns with the claim.  But on balance, I think Mr S has done enough to prove his claim in 
the circumstances. So, for this reason, I instruct Admiral to pay the claim subject to relevant 
policy limits. 
Admiral have also argued that Mr S has been unable to provide any proof of having insured 
the item previously, despite owning it for a number of years. But while I appreciate this 
evidence may be helpful, I dont think the fact he hasnt insured the item previously is 
enough to persuade me that his current claim shouldnt be paid. 
So, for the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Ss complaint. I would however, strongly 
encourage Mr S to look into what documentary evidence he may have to prove ownership of 
his other insured items, and potentially seek valuations and liaise with Admiral to ensure the 
information he holds is sufficient should he need to claim at a later date. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint, and require Admiral Insurance Company 
Limited to settle Mr Ss claim in line with the remaining policy terms, based on the valuation 
provided. It should also add 8% simple interest per year* on this settlement, from the date of 
claim until the date of payment. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2022.
*If Admiral Insurance Company Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It should also give Mr S a tax deduction 
certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
 
Brad McIlquham
Ombudsman