DRN-4177101
The complaint
Miss F complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) delayed the payment of her 
pension benefits during which time the value of her fund fell. She would like compensation 
for the losses suffered.
What happened
Miss F lives outside the UK. She wrote to Aviva on 7 April 2022 requesting to take the 
benefits from her personal pension plan as a one-off lump sum. Aviva sent an illustration for 
this option dated 9 April 2022 and a retirement options pack (ROP) dated 22 April 2022. The 
illustration said the value of the plan, which wasnt guaranteed, was £14,794.69. The 
valuation on the ROP was slightly lower at £14,744.93.
Miss F completed the application form sent with the illustration dated 9 April 2022 and 
posted it to Aviva on 19 May 2022. She used recorded delivery due to problems sending and 
receiving normal post in her country of residence. Miss F says she didnt hear from Aviva, so 
she emailed it on 26 June 2022 for an update. Without response she sent a copy of the 
completed application form by recorded delivery on 28 June 2022. Miss F says she then 
received a letter from Aviva on 5 July 2022 which was dated 2 June 2022. The letter 
confirmed her instructions about her benefits but said it required a bank statement in order to 
verify her bank details before payment could be made. It said her benefits would be paid 
within ten working days of receiving all necessary details. Miss F sent this information the 
same day and she raised a complaint about the delay with Aviva. 
Miss Fs benefits were paid on 25 July 2022. She says the value had fallen to £14,119.82. 
Aviva sent her a final response letter saying her complaint about delays had been resolved 
to her satisfaction. But it had opened another complaint about investment performance. It 
issued a further final response which didnt uphold the complaint about investment 
performance either. 
Miss F referred her complaint to our service and our investigator looked into it, but he didnt 
uphold it.
Initially our investigator thought that Aviva had caused a delay in not telling Miss F it needed 
to verify her bank account details when it sent her the ROP dated 22 April 2022. He said it 
was fair that Aviva pay Miss F £150 compensation for this. But he said Aviva had paid her 
benefits in line with its 10-day working timeframe once she had sent confirmation of her bank 
account to it. So, he couldnt hold it responsible for delays in its letter of 2 June 2022 being 
received. He said Aviva wasnt responsible for the fall in the value of the investment between 
22 April and 25 July 2022 as Miss F had invested in funds that were stock market related. 
Miss F accepted our investigators view but Aviva disagreed. It said the ROP dated 22 April 
2022 did advise Miss F her bank account details would need to be confirmed as she wasnt 
UK resident. It also said it had tried to call Miss F on 30 May 2022 and again after she 
emailed it on 26 June 2022, but her number just rang out with no option to leave a voicemail. 
Our investigator said in the light of this information he thought Aviva had been proactive as 
Miss F might have been mindful that it might contact her about her application. So, it hadnt 
treated Miss F unfairly, and he couldnt uphold the complaint.
Miss F didnt agree. She said having checked her call records. there were missed calls but 
there was no number to return the call. And as it had asked for her email address, why 
hadnt it emailed her when it didnt hear back from her, because it had emailed her once she 
complained?
As Miss F doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
My provisional decision 
I issued my provision decision on 17 May 2023, I explained the reasons why I was planning 
to uphold the complaint. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide (provisionally) whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im planning to 
uphold the complaint. 
I think Aviva was responsible for a delay in paying Miss Fs benefits. I think it made an error 
by initially incorrectly telling her it had already verified her bank details, and nothing further 
was required from her. Once she returned documents to draw her benefits it presumably 
noticed its error and wrote to her. But, when Miss F didnt promptly respond, I think it should 
have done more than it did to resolve the issue.
When Miss F contacted Aviva on 7 April 2022, she specifically requested her benefits be 
paid in a certain way. It prepared an illustration and application form reflecting that request 
dated 9 April 2022. For reasons which arent clear it appears it subsequently sent her the 
ROP dated 22 April 2022. Pension providers normally issue ROPs in advance of benefits 
being taken. These summarise the different options available and warn of possible scams 
and so on. Avivas ROP then asked Miss F to indicate how she wanted the benefits to be 
paid to enable a specific illustration to be prepared. So, the normal process would be that the 
ROP would precede the illustration. It seems that didnt happen in this case.
I asked Aviva how and when these documents were sent, but it hasnt responded. 
On the evidence available Avivas arguments have focused on the ROP document rather 
than the earlier illustration, which I think is wrong. Even if the two documents were sent at 
the same time, they contained conflicting information about what was needed to verify Miss 
Fs bank details. Aviva has argued the ROP states that additional procedures will be 
required to verify the bank details of non-UK residents. And as a non-UK resident Miss F 
should have been alert to this. On page 13 of 18 it says:
Get your money with less effort
If you are a UK-based customer, please provide your bank details below.
This allows us to complete an electronic bank account verification check. If 
successful, you will not need to send us any further evidence of your bank account.
What is an electronic identity check?
Electronic identity checks can only be carried out on UK customers, and are done by 
a third party.What happens if the electronic identity check isnt successful?
If the electronic check isnt successful, we will need further evidence of your bank 
account and this will be confirmed in your personalised quote. If we dont ask for 
bank identification in your quote, this means the electronic check has been 
successful.
 
So, the ROP doesnt say what information a non-UK based customer would need to 
provide and says that the illustration will confirm whether any further verification information 
is required.
But the illustration provided to Miss F dated 9 April 2022 says the following:
What we need to pay you your money
UK Money Laundering rules require us to perform checks on your identity before we 
can carry out your request. This is to help prevent money laundering and protect you 
from fraud.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) requires all regulated firms to follow the same 
guidelines. If youre unable to provide the documents we need then please call us.
You dont need to send us any identification
We have used an electronic identity check to verify the bank account you provided in 
the forms you sent us previously.
Miss F did have a UK bank account and wanted her benefits paying into that and perhaps 
this caused some confusion. If she subsequently received the ROP before she returned the 
application to Aviva, I dont think she would have given it much consideration as she already 
had the illustration for what she specifically wanted. And that had confirmed there were no 
additional requirements and I think its fair to say that the illustration was the more important 
document here. 
From Avivas own timeline of events once it received Miss Fs application form on 25 May 
2022 it tried calling her once on 30 May 2022 before writing on 2 June 2022. When it didnt 
hear from her it appears it took no further action until she wrote on 26 June which it received 
on 28 June 2022 when it made a further call attempt on 30 June 2022. In the circumstances 
of Avivas error, I dont think this was proactive enough. And theres no evidence that Aviva 
would have taken any further action after 2 June 2022 if Miss F hadnt contacted it herself. 
Aviva isnt responsible for postal delays, but it knew Miss F resided overseas and that postal 
delivery times might be unpredictable. Yet it only attempted a call on 30 May 2022. It didnt 
email despite specifically requesting both her telephone number and email address on the 
application form shed returned, because If we have any questions, we may need to contact 
you. So, I think it could have done more than it did. Had it, Miss Fs benefits would have 
been paid sooner than they were.
Once Miss F received Avivas letter requesting a bank statement, she immediately contacted 
it and promptly provided what it required. Had it made further call attempts or emailed her 
before then, I think this would have been resolved sooner. But had Aviva not made the error 
in the first place, I think Miss F would have enclosed the necessary bank details evidence 
with her application.The illustration says that Aviva will work out the final value when we have received 
everything we need.  Aviva says it used a valuation date of 11 July 2022 in calculating Miss 
Fs benefits as this is when it received the bank account information from her. But for Avivas 
error I think it would have had all its requirements by 25 May 2022. And it may be that Miss F 
has suffered a loss due to the value of the investment falling between then and 11 July 2022. 
If so, she should be put back in the position she should have been in.
Putting things right 
Aviva should establish the value of Miss Fs plan on 25 May 2022. If this is higher than the 
value used on 11 July 2022, she has suffered a loss and Aviva should compensate her for it.
As Miss F has taken her benefits it wont be possible for Aviva to pay any compensation that 
may be due into the plan. So, it should be paid directly to her as a lump sum after making a 
notional reduction to allow for future income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is 
an adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Miss F wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is paid.
As Miss F would have taken tax-free cash, 25% of the loss would be tax-free and 75% would 
have been taxed according to her likely income tax rate in retirement. I think its reasonable 
to assume this to be 20%. So, making a notional reduction of 15% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects this.
If either Aviva or Miss F dispute that this is a reasonable assumption, they must let us know 
as soon as possible so that the assumption can be clarified, and Miss F receives appropriate 
compensation. It wont be possible for us to amend this assumption once any final decision 
has been issued on the complaint.
If there is a loss Aviva should add interest at 8% per year simple after the notional tax 
reduction has been applied from 25 May 2022 to the date of settlement, and pay this to Miss 
F.
If Aviva deducts income tax from the interest, it should tell Miss F how much has been taken 
off. It should give Miss F a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if Miss F asks for 
one, so she can reclaim the tax on interest from HMRC if appropriate.
I think Miss F has been inconvenienced by what has happened and its fair that Aviva pay 
her £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience suffered.
I asked both parties to send me any further information or comments they would like me to 
consider.
Response to provisional decision
Miss F said she accepted my decision.
Aviva said it accepted my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint.As set out in my provisional decision I think Aviva made an error in the documentation it 
issued around the necessary bank account verification. And having done so I dont think it 
adequately followed up on the outstanding information it needed, and this delayed Miss F 
from receiving her pension benefits.
So, if this has caused her a loss, I think it is fair that she is compensated for it and the 
distress and inconvenience she has been caused.
Putting things right
Aviva should establish the value of Miss Fs plan on 25 May 2022. If this is higher than the 
value used on 11 July 2022, she has suffered a loss and Aviva should compensate her for it.
As Miss F has taken her benefits it wont be possible for Aviva to pay any compensation that 
may be due into the plan. So, it should be paid directly to her as a lump sum after making a 
notional reduction to allow for future income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is 
an adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Miss F wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is paid.
As Miss F would have taken tax-free cash, 25% of the loss would be tax-free and 75% would 
have been taxed according to her likely income tax rate in retirement. Its reasonable to 
assume this to be 20%. So, making a notional reduction of 15% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects this.
If there is a loss Aviva should add interest at 8% per year simple after the notional tax 
reduction has been applied from 25 May 2022 to the date of settlement, and pay this to Miss 
F.
If Aviva deducts income tax from the interest, it should tell Miss F how much has been taken 
off. It should give Miss F a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if Miss F asks for 
one, so she can reclaim the tax on interest from HMRC if appropriate.
Miss F has been inconvenienced by what has happened and its fair that Aviva pay her £150 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience suffered.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint against Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited.
I direct Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited to undertake the loss calculation as set out above 
and pay any compensation due to Miss F adding interest at 8% per year simple from 25 May 
2022 to the date of settlement.
I further direct Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited to pay Miss F £150 in compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience she had been caused. 
If Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss F how much its taken off. It should 
also give a certificate showing this if Miss F asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or reject my decision before 5 July 2023.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman