DRN-3678191
The complaint
Mr S complains he was the victim of an investment scam and that Tesco Personal Finance 
PLC trading as Tesco Bank didnt do enough to recover his money.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
Mr S came into contact with an online investment broker who advised him to invest in 
cryptocurrency.  Between December 2020 and January 2021, he used his Tesco Bank credit 
card to make three payments of £252.96, £699.89 and £2,700.00 to two cryptocurrency 
exchange companies. Following the brokers advice, the money was transferred to the 
exchange companies before being loaded onto an online wallet.
Mr S believed the exchange companies were genuine because they accepted credit card 
payments. But he realised hed been the victim of a scam in February 2021 when he was 
unable to log into his account or make a withdrawal, and the brokers website ceased to 
operate.
 
Mr S asked Tesco Bank to help him to get his money back, alleging it had been complicit in 
the fraud. Tesco Bank rejected the suggestion it had been involved in money laundering, 
explaining it had security systems in place monitor to patterns of fraud and to help protect its 
consumers from fraudulent activity. 
Tesco Bank refunded the money while it investigated the circumstances of the loss and 
whether Mr S had a valid claim under MasterCard's chargeback scheme or Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act (1974). It eventually told Mr S it was rejecting the claim but it 
subsequently accepted thered been a delay in its investigation of the s75 claim. It 
apologised for this and offered Mr S compensation, but it said it would need more 
information to consider the s75 claim further.
When Mr S complained to this service, he argued that, as the credit card provider, Tesco 
Bank was liable for his losses. He said that as Tesco Bank was the payment services 
provider, it had a responsibility to monitor payments and to take appropriate action to protect 
its customers from fraudulent activities. He said he wanted Tesco Bank to refund the money 
hed lost on the basis it failed to protect him from fraud or financial harm, or to conduct a 
proper investigation once the fraud had taken place.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld, concluding that Tesco Bank 
hadnt missed an opportunity to stop Mr Ss loss and it had done all it could to retrieve the 
money. He stated that in line with the Payment Services Regulations, the starting point was 
that Mr S is liable for payments he'd authorised and, as chargeback is a voluntary scheme, 
Tesco Bank wasnt required to raise a claim. He accepted it was good practice to do so if the 
claim was likely to succeed, but Mastercard had made it clear there was no prospect of 
success with payments to cryptocurrency exchange companies where the service is 
provided, and he was satisfied that was the case here.
Our investigator said that at the time of the transactions there was no adverse information 
recorded with the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) or The International Organization of 
Securities Commissions (IOSCO) about either exchange company. And he explained s75 
didnt apply because the payments had gone via cryptocurrency exchange companies rather 
than directly to the investment merchant. 
He said the value of the payments Mr S made wouldnt have triggered Tesco Banks anti-
fraud systems as they werent unusual or out character. And he commented Mr S had 
previously made larger payments from the account (for example hed previously made a 
payment of £4,000 on 27 January 2020), so he wouldnt have expected Tesco Bank to have 
intervened.
Mr S has suggested our investigators view was biased in favour of Tesco Bank and has 
asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. He doesnt accept he authorised 
the payments, arguing he wouldnt have authorised them if hed known it was a scam. He 
feels Tesco Banks transaction monitoring systems were ineffective and that the payments 
were unusual when compared with the usual activity on his account. He believes Tescos 
fraud department should have contacted him because the payments went to overseas 
accounts, which was unusual for his spending habits.
Hes commented that Tesco Bank now automatically blocks payments to cryptocurrency 
exchange companies which he believes is unfair as cryptocurrency has been around since 
2009. And he feels that, in referring to the £4,000 payment, our investigator didnt consider 
this was to a UK retailer and cannot therefore be compared to the disputed transactions. He 
believes its reasonable to expect financial institutions to look for out of character or unusual 
transactions that indicate its customers are at risk of fraud and that weaknesses in Tesco 
Banks fraud monitoring systems failed to detect the payments was out of character
.
He doesnt accept chargeback wasnt an option because his other credit card provider has 
recovered money he lost in the same investment scam under the chargeback scheme.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that although Mr S didnt intend his money to go to scammers, he did authorise 
the disputed payments. I understand he wouldnt have authorised the payments if hed 
known the investment was a scam, but the fact is that Tesco Bank is expected to process 
payments that a customer authorises or instructs it to make, and that is what it did. The 
Payment Services Regulations (PSRs), state that payments are authorised if the payer 
consented to them and, in this case, Im satisfied Mr S consented to the payments as at the 
time he believed he was making payments to a legitimate company.
However, where the customer has been the victim of a scam, it may sometimes be fair and 
reasonable for the bank to reimburse them even though they authorised the payment. Mr S 
has lost the payments he made to accounts that he held at two cryptocurrency exchange 
companies. From the evidence Ive seen, these companies were genuine and there were no 
existing warnings from the FCA or from other regulatory bodies on IOSCO in respect of 
either of them. 
Buying cryptocurrency is a legitimate activity and therefore the extent of what we would 
expect Tesco Bank to have done to protect Mr S is restricted to triggers, meaning I need to consider whether the transactions were so unusual that Tesco Bank ought to have 
intervened to warn Mr S when he tried to make the payments.
Tesco Bank, along with other payment services providers, should be monitoring accounts 
and be on the lookout for unusual transactions or other signs of fraud. Ive considered the 
transfers in the context of whether they were unusual or uncharacteristic of how Mr S 
normally ran his account and I dont think they were. None of the transfers were for 
particularly large amounts and while I note Mr Ss comment that the £4,000 payment was to 
a UK account, it was still higher than any of the individual payments giving rise to this 
complaint. And I dont think the individual factor that the payments were made overseas 
should reasonably have caused Tesco Bank concern that Mr S could be falling victim to a 
scam.  Ive considered Mr S previous spending and I dont think the amounts he paid, or the 
frequency of the payments, were all that unusual or uncharacteristic for Tesco Bank to have 
paused them first, to check everything was well, before allowing them through..
Ultimately, Im not persuaded the disputed transactions were unusual when taking into 
consideration his typical account usage and while I understand he was a victim of a scam, 
the evidence doesn't suggest that Tesco should've been able to detect it. 
Ive seen that Tesco Bank made the decision to block payments to crypto asset providers 
from July 2021. This was after Mr S made all of his payments and was a commercial 
decision. We cant reasonably say that it should retrospectively refund Mr S when it wasnt 
its policy to block payments to crypto asset providers at the time Mr S made his payments.  
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
Tesco Bank rejected Mr S s75 claim, stating he hadnt provided any supporting documents. 
S75 applies when there is a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement meaning the payments must 
go directly to the final supplier for it to apply. In this case, as the payment went via legitimate 
cryptocurrency exchange companies, the required debtor-creditor-supplier chain is broken 
because the supplier that Mr S says misrepresented themselves was not a party to the 
payments. There appears to be no dispute that the cryptocurrency exchange companies 
provided the service of converting Mr Ss payments into crypto and sending them onto the 
wallet of his choice, so I dont consider a s75 claim had a reasonable prospect of success.
Chargeback
Mr S has argued that another credit card provider has successfully retrieved money under 
the chargeback scheme and I appreciate this is frustrating for him. But the chargeback 
scheme is a voluntary one, some banks may choose to process chargeback claims on 
behalf of their customers when no rights exist and if the claim isnt defended, the customer 
will get to keep the money. I can only consider whether Tesco Bank acted fairly when it 
chose not to process chargeback claims on behalf of Mr S.  
There is no right to a chargeback, but I generally think its good practice to raise one where 
there is a reasonable prospect of success. Our service has clarified the position with 
Mastercard themselves and theyve confirmed there are very limited options for payments 
that have gone to any type of investment. The only possible avenue for success is if funds 
arent credited from the card to the investment account. That isnt the argument here, and 
there was no suggestion the cryptocurrency exchange companies didnt do what was asked, 
I agree there was no prospect of successful chargeback claims.
Being the victim of an alleged scam isnt something the Mastercard chargeback scheme 
provides dispute resolution options for. So, taking all of this into consideration I think Tesco Bank declining to raise chargeback claims on Mr Ss behalf was a reasonable exercise of its 
discretion. 
Overall, Im sorry to hear Mr S lost such a significant amount of money. But for the reasons 
Ive explained I dont think Tesco Bank is to blame for this and so I cant fairly tell it to do 
anything further to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman