DRN-3177297
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as B, complains that National Westminster Bank Plc has failed 
to compensate it for consequential losses caused by the unfair actions of the banks Global 
Restructuring Group (GRG) in relation to a property participation fee agreement (PPFA).
What happened
B is a property development company. In 2008, B borrowed around £1.6m over three loans 
from NatWest to redevelop a property. The expiry dates of all three loans were in January 
2009. 
In 2009, the bank decided to transfer the relationship to the control of GRG. It says this was 
because it was concerned about debt servicing and didnt consider its lending to be fully 
secured.
Bs GRG relationship manager informed B that the bank wanted a PPFA to reflect the risk it 
was taking. The agreement ultimately included a 12.5% fee on exit or at the end of five 
years. A minimum fee of £225.000 was also specified. 
In 2014, B says that it turned down two offers to buy the property for £2m.
In late 2015, B reached a settlement with NatWest, under which the bank released B from 
the PPFA in exchange for an agreement to pay a fee of 30% of the profits on disposal of the 
property. The property was sold in 2016, but there was no profit, just a residual debt of 
around £52,000. 
In December 2016, NatWest wrote to B to inform the directors of its new voluntary GRG 
complaints process. It also said that it would be refunding all complex fees paid by GRG 
customers automatically and that this included PPFA fees. 
In 2017, B complained to the GRG review scheme about a number of the banks actions. 
The bank upheld only one part of the complaint. It found that the minimum fee clause in the 
PPFA had been unreasonable and the PPFA was therefore not appropriate.  However, the 
bank concluded that B hadnt suffered any direct loss as a result. It did, however, offer a 
payment of £10,000 in recognition of communication failings. 
B accepted the banks outcome in settlement of the direct loss complaint and submitted a 
consequential loss claim, claiming for lost profit on the development, the loss of opportunity 
to undertake further developments, valuation and legal fees and borrowing costs for the 
directors. 
In 2020, the bank upheld a small part of the claim relating to legal fees, but rejected the 
remainder. B appealed to the independent review stage of the banks process, but the 
outcome remained unchanged. B asked our service to look into what had happened. 
One of our investigators looked into things and didnt recommend awarding any further 
compensation. He thought that B hadnt shown a link between the losses claimed and the 
upheld direct loss complaint about the inclusion of the minimum fee clause.
B asked for an ombudsmans decision and made the following points:
How could a £225,000 fee be unreasonable and yet a £250,000 (12.5%) fee be 
reasonable? 
The Independent Third Party (ITP) only justification for the £250,000 fee was that 
non-NatWest bankers considered it reasonable. 
Why were all PPFA fees refunded under the automated fee refund scheme if they 
were reasonable? 
The minimum fee had effectively prevented B from accepting the offers for £2m in 
2014, because they would have wiped out all Bs profits, leaving it with no working 
capital to pursue other developments. 
The bank had ignored various factors, including the unrealistic valuation, when 
insisting on the PPFA. 
The 12.5% was excessive compared with specialist lenders 1.5%-3%. The bank 
never explained how it arrived at 12.5%. 
The findings of the Promontory Report dated September 2016 should be taken into 
account when assessing Bs claim. 
As a direct result of the fee, instead of selling in 2014, B was stuck with the 
unpredictable housing market that followed, with factors including a potential 
mansion tax and Brexit. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im sorry to disappoint Bs directors, but Ive reached the same conclusion 
as our investigator, for essentially the same reasons. Ill explain why. 
Because the direct loss complaint has already been resolved between the parties, the 
starting point of my decision is the upheld part of the settled complaint - that is, that the bank 
should not have included a minimum fee clause in the PPFA signed in 2009. Bs complaint is 
now about consequential losses. 
In order to decide whether the bank has acted fairly, I need to look at whether the banks 
inclusion of the minimum fee clause caused the consequential losses claimed. I also need to 
compare what actually happened with whats likely to have happened if the bank hadnt 
included that clause. I accept that there is no certainty about this and I cant know for sure 
what would have happened over a decade ago. But that is not unusual in our services work. 
I need to decide, based on all available evidence, whats more likely than not to have 
happened.First, I must point out that several of the points made by Bs representative relate to matters 
outside of the scope of this decision. I wont be addressing the points regarding the 12.5% 
fee, because that matter has already been resolved between the parties. I know B has asked 
several questions about this, including how a £225,000 fee can be unreasonable and yet a 
£250,000 (12.5%) fee reasonable. All I can say is that the bank considered that it was 
acceptable to charge a fee tied to the sale value of the property, in the context of providing 
what it regarded as high risk, unsecured funding. It was only the setting of a minimum level 
for that fee that it found to be unfair. B has accepted these conclusions. So I wont be 
reopening the question. 
Neither do I intend to comment on the reasoning of the ITP. The ITP is the final stage of a 
voluntary scheme set up by the bank after discussion with the Financial Conduct Authority. I 
have no powers to consider how the ITPs decisions were made and what factors were taken 
into account. I can, however, decide whether I consider a consequential loss has occurred. 
My role is to look at the evidence relating to the individual circumstances of Bs case and 
reach a conclusion on a fair outcome of its consequential loss claim. In doing this, I am 
aware of the findings of the Independent Report by Promontory Financial and the FCAs final 
report into GRG. However, these reports made a series of general findings about the actions 
of GRG, based on a sample of cases. They did not review all cases and they did not 
conclude that wrongdoings had occurred in all cases. So my findings on the specific facts of 
this case may differ from their general conclusions. 
The central thrust of Bs claim as I understand it is that the existence of the PPFA stopped B 
from selling its property in 2014, when it had two offers for £2 million. This then had various 
knock-on effects. Bs directors point out that the level of the banks fee meant that unless a 
selling price of over £2 million was achieved, there would be no surplus profit generated. I 
understand this point, but the problem with this argument is that this situation wasnt created 
by the minimum fee clause, which the bank found to be unfair. I say this because a sale at 
£2 million would have resulted in B paying a fee of £250,000 (12.5%)  that is, a fee greater 
than the minimum set by the agreement. 
Ive considered what would have happened if the unfair minimum fee clause hadnt been 
included. I think its more likely than not that a similar agreement would have been put in 
place, still including a 12.5% fee, but without any minimum. In this counterfactual scenario, B 
would therefore still have faced the same problem with the offers in 2014. It follows that I 
dont think the loss on the eventual sale of the property stems from the minimum fee clause. 
I also note that, as far as I am aware, the existence of the PPFA didnt actually prevent a 
sale of the property in 2014. It just made it unattractive to B.
I can appreciate Bs directors frustration that by the time the PPFA was renegotiated, the 
market had moved against B. I understand the property ultimately only sold for £1.75 million, 
leaving B in a worse position than it would have been if it had accepted the £2 million, since 
its debt would have risen in the meantime. But I dont think any of this was a result of the 
minimum fee clause. 
B has also claimed for the cost of a valuation in May 2015 and for the loss of opportunity to 
reinvest the profits to undertake two further developments between 2010 and 2014. I think 
that if the bank hadnt included a minimum fee clause, there would still have been a 12.5% 
fee, so the property sale wouldnt have gone ahead in 2014. It follows that there still wouldnt 
have been any profits to reinvest. There would also still have been substantial outstanding 
debt to the bank, meaning that a new valuation would still have been a reasonable 
requirement. I also note that there was disagreement about the value of the property, making 
a professional valuation still more likely. Finally, B claimed for legal expenses of up to £13,440. This is in part an estimated figure and 
includes legal costs incurred in bringing its original GRG complaint and then its 
consequential loss claim. I note that the bank, in line with its published approach, has 
already paid £2,400 in relation to the initial meeting with the solicitor regarding the 
consequential loss claim. The bank has also offered a further £1,000 (plus interest at 8%) 
towards legal fees. 
Ive thought about these costs carefully and on balance, I think the banks offer is enough 
here. I say this because I dont think legal representation was necessary in order to make 
Bs complaint. The specific PPFA agreement that stands at the heart of the complaint is not 
a particularly complex document, in my view, and is clearly well understood by Bs directors. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2022.
 
Louise Bardell
Ombudsman