DRN-3300011
The complaint
Mrs N is unhappy that Capital One (Europe) plc, trading as Capital One, didnt reinstate a
payment plan on her account following the end of a payment holiday, or that they
subsequently defaulted her account for non-payment.
What happened
Mrs N was having difficulties meeting the monthly repayments that were becoming due on
her Capital One credit account and had fallen into arrears. Mrs N contacted Capital One
about this and agreed a six-month repayment plan which would run from February 2020 to
July 2020.
A few months later, in April 2020, Mrs N contacted Capital One and said that she was having
difficulty meeting the payment plan repayments because of a change of circumstances
brought about by the Covid-19 pandemic. As a result, Capital One agreed to a three-month
payment holiday on Mrs Ns account, which would begin in April 2020 and end in July 2020.
In June 2020, Mrs N received an email from Capital One reminding her that her payment
holiday would end in a few weeks and explaining that at that time the previously agreed
payment plan would be reinstated. However, when the payment holiday did end, the
payment plan wasnt reinstated, and instead Capital One sent Mrs N a letter advising that
her account had been permanently restricted and that unless Mrs N took action to clear the
balance of the account, her account would be defaulted and reported as such to the credit
reference agencies.
Mrs N wasnt happy about this, or that Capital One did then proceed to default her account
as theyd said that they would, and so she raised a complaint.
Capital One looked at Mrs Ns complaint. They apologised for not reinstating the payment
plan as theyd promised to, but they noted that Mrs N hadnt made any payments towards
the account since the payment holiday had finished, and so they felt that the default that had
been reported against the account was fair and correct. Because of this, Capital One didnt
uphold that aspect of Mrs Ns complaint.
Mrs N wasnt satisfied with Capital Ones response, so she referred her complaint to this
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt that the response to
Mrs Ns complaint that had already issued by Capital One, including the apology for
providing Mrs N with the incorrect information about the resetting of her payment plan and
the explanation of why it was felt that the defaulting of the account was appropriate, already
represented a fair and reasonable resolution to what had happened, and so they also didnt
uphold this complaint.
Mrs N remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 6 January 2021 as follows:
On 9 April 2020, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) published temporary 
guidance in response to the developing Covid-19 pandemic and the changes in 
social and working life that had occurred as a result.
The guidance detailed that credit providers, such as Capital One, should provide 
three month payment holidays to eligible applicant customers who had been 
financially impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic, and it described the purpose of the 
guidance, the terms of eligibility, and how the three-month payment holidays should 
be structured.
The stated purpose of the guidance was to protect consumers who had previously 
been able to make the contractual repayments required by their credit account, but 
whom found themselves in difficulty solely because of Covid-19 related matters  for 
instance, if the social and working restrictions that had been put in place at that time 
meant that they were receiving a lower income than usual which in turn meant that 
the consumer was struggling to meet the repayments due on their credit account.
The guidance also explained that the three-month payment holidays werent 
designed to be offered to consumers who were already experiencing financial 
difficulty before the guidance came into force  such as Mrs N was  and that credit 
providers who were approached by customers in such a position should offer 
different forms of financial assistance to those customers dependent on the specific 
circumstances of the individual customer in question.
This means that, given that Mrs N was already in arrears on her account and was in 
an agreed payment plan at that time that she approached Capital one in April 2020 
and requested a three-month payment holiday, she didnt meet the eligibility criteria 
to be necessarily granted such a payment holiday, and that, as per the FCA 
guidance, alternative forms of financial assistance may have been more appropriate 
at that time.
I draw attention to this point not because I feel that Capital One acted unfairly 
towards Mrs N by granting her the three-month payment holiday on her account, 
which Im satisfied was of benefit to her, but because its clear that a great deal of 
avoidable confusion arose as a result of the three-month payment holiday being 
granted to Mrs N at that time.
For instance, Capital One maintain that the six-month payment plan that Mrs N had 
agreed to previously had been broken by Mrs N before she applied for the three-
month payment holiday on the basis that Mrs N hadnt made the necessary 
payments to maintain that plan, and that therefore this meant that the six-month 
payment plan was invalidated before the three-month payment holiday went into 
force.
Mrs N contends that she didnt miss any payments that were due on the six-month 
payment plan before the three-month payment holiday was granted. However, having reviewed the statements of Mrs Ns credit account, Im satisfied that Mrs N didnt 
make all the payments required by the six-month payment plan, and I say this 
because payments were due on that plan on 22 February and 22 March, and 
because the account statements confirm that only one payment, on 1 March, was 
made towards the payment plan by Mrs N. As such, Im satisfied that the six-month 
payment plan was one month in arrears when the three-month payment holiday 
commenced in April 2020.
Matters are confused further by a letter sent by Capital One to Mrs N in mid-April 
2020, dated several days after the three-month payment holiday had been granted to 
Mrs N, which explained that Capital One hadnt received the payment that had been 
due on 22 March required by the six-month payment plan and advising that the 
missed payment must be made within the next 7 days if Mrs N wished to continue 
with the six-month payment plan.
But Mrs N had already been granted the three-month payment holiday at that time, 
and had been told that she would continue to receive letters about her account but 
that she didnt need to make any payments, and so Im satisfied that it wasnt 
incumbent on Mrs N to have made that payment at that time.
Additionally, Im also satisfied that Capital Ones letter demonstrates that the status 
of the six-month payment plan was that it was in arrears, but was still active, at the 
time that the three-month payment holiday began in April 2020. And my position here 
is furthered by the message that Mrs N received from Capital One shorty before her 
three-month payment plan came to an end and which explained to Mrs N that her 
previously agreed six-month payment plan would be reinstated.
Mrs N is unhappy that, when the three-month payment holiday ended, Capital One 
didnt reinstate the six-month payment plan as they had agreed to. However, given 
that the six month payment plan was in arrears before the three-month payment 
holiday began, if the six-month payment plan were reinstated, it would be reinstated 
in a position of arrears and Mrs N would have needed to make the overdue missed 
payment to bring the six-month payment plan back into line.
Returning to the letter that was sent to Mrs N in mid-April 2020, and which explained 
to Mrs N that one of the payments due on the six-month payment plan had been 
missed, this letter also explained that unless Mrs N made the missed payment within 
7 days then the payment plan would end and a default notice may be issued to her. 
As such, following the end of the three-month payment holiday, it would be expected 
by this service that Capital One would have given Mrs N at least 7 days to clear the 
arrears on the six-month payment plan before taking any further action against her.
Capital One appear to have done that here, and I say this because its evident that 
Capital One sent Mrs N the default notice after a period of 7 days following the end of 
the three month payment holiday. Furthermore, its also evident that Capital One 
made several attempts to contact Mrs N during this 7-day period, and that Mrs N 
corresponded with Capital One towards the end of this period at which time it was 
explained to her that the previously agreed six-month payment plan was in arrears.
As such, while there was undoubtedly some confusion as to the status of the six-
month payment plan  which Capital One have acknowledged and for which theyve 
offered to pay Mrs N £50 by way of compensation  Im satisfied that Capital One 
didnt act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs N by considering the payment plan as 
being in arrears or by issuing the default notice after Mrs N hadnt made a payment 
to them within 7 days of the three-month payment holiday coming to an end.Mrs N also contends that, by not reinstating the previously agreed six-month 
payment plan, Capital One have caused her account to be defaulted. I find it difficult 
to reach the same conclusion as Mrs N here, and I say this because the default 
notice that Mrs N received from Capital One dated 15 July 2020 explained that 
account may be defaulted if Mrs N didnt make necessary payments towards the 
account by 12 August 2020.
But Mrs N didnt make any such payments before 12 August 2020, despite repeated 
contact with Capital One before that date, meaning that when the given deadline of 
12 August was reached, no payment had been against the account since 1 March 
2020, at which time the account was already in arrears.
Even taking the three-month payment holiday into account, I dont feel that it was
unreasonable for Capital One to have initiated default proceedings in such 
circumstances, and I feel that the reason that Mrs Ns account reached this position 
was, ultimately, not because of any failure or error on Capital Ones part, but 
because Mrs N wasnt able to make the necessary payments required to avoid such 
action.
All of which means that Im satisfied that Capital One havent acted unfairly or 
unreasonably here, and that the £50 offer of compensation that Capital One have 
made to Mrs N for the confusing nature of their correspondence with her, does 
represent a fair and reasonable resolution to what has taken place.
However, because Capital One made this offer of compensation to this service, 
following the referral of this complaint to us by Mrs N, this means that a change in 
outcome  the offer of compensation  has occurred. This in turn means that Im 
obliged to formally uphold this complaint and have issued a provisional decision, 
accordingly, allowing both Mrs N and Capital One a final opportunity to respond 
before I move to a final decision.
In my provisional decision letter, I gave both Mrs N and Capital One the opportunity to 
provide any comments or further information they might wish me to consider before I moved 
to a final decision. Capital One confirmed that they were happy to accept my provisional 
decision, whereas Mrs N did not provide any further comments. As such, I see no reason not 
to uphold this complaint on the basis outlined in my provisional decision letter, and I can 
confirm that my final decision is that I do uphold this complaint on that limited basis.
Putting things right
Capital One must make a payment of £50 to Mrs N to compensate her for any upset and 
inconvenience that the confusing nature of their correspondence may have caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Capital One (Europe) plc, trading as 
Capital One, on the basis explained above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman