DRN-3636218
The complaint
Mr C complains that Klarna Bank AB (publ) recorded a late payment marker on his credit file. 
Hes also unhappy because he thinks Klarna has calculated his outstanding balance 
incorrectly.
What happened
In June 2021 Mr C purchased a bike and entered into a credit agreement with Klarna. 
Mr Cs payment for January 2022 was due on 31 January 2022. However, the direct debit 
payment failed. Mr C contacted Klarna on 4 February 2022 to make a manual payment. Mr 
C says he made the manual payment using the reference details provided by Klarna and 
believed that the payment had been made that day. However, he subsequently received a 
notification from Klarna that his payment was outstanding.
Mr C contacted Klarna via online chat and told them hed made the payment on 4 February 
2022. Klarna advised Mr C that it couldnt see the payment. After some discussion, it 
became clear that the payment had been received but hadnt been allocated to Mr Cs 
account.
Mr C complained to Klarna. He said hed been given the payment reference by Klarna and 
that hed made his payment on 4 February 2022. Mr C asked to speak to a manager but 
never received a call back. He raised a further complaint about the outstanding balance on 
his account.
In its final response, Klarna said it had provided bank details and the payment reference to 
Mr C. It acknowledged that the payment made on 4 February hadnt been added to the 
account until March, but said that this made no difference to the fact that the payment due 
on 31 January 2022 had already been classed as a late payment and that the outstanding 
balance was correct.
Mr C wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said that because the payment due on 31 January 
2022 failed, Klarna hadnt made an error in recording the payment as late. The investigator 
said that the manual payment made on 4 February 2022 made no difference to this. In 
relation to how Klarna handled Mr Cs complaint, the investigator said he couldnt see that 
Klarna had done anything wrong because it had issued its response in a timely manner. The 
investigator said that Klarna couldve provided better customer service and found that a call 
back from a manager never took place. In relation to Mr Cs account balance, the 
investigator reviewed the account and said the calculation of the outstanding balance was 
correct. The investigator concluded that because of the delay in allocating Mr Cs manual 
payment and the failings in customer service, a compensation payment of £100 should be 
paid to Mr C.
Mr C didnt agree. He said that even though the direct debit payment due on 31 January 
2022 had failed, the manual payment had been made on the day the direct debit payment 
was due to come out of his account. He didnt think it was fair that a missed payment had 
been reported.
Klarna didnt agree either. It said the payment was due on the last day of the month and that 
in this case, the payment had been requested on 31 January 2022 and debited on 4 
February 2022. It said that even though Mr C had made a manual payment on 4 February 
2022, the payment due to be taken on 31 January 2022 had already been classified as 
missed. In relation to the delay in allocating the manual payment to the account, Klarna said 
that if Mr C had used the correct reference, the payment would have been allocated in 3-5 
business days and wouldnt have remained unallocated for so long.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at Mr Cs account statements. The relevant statement (5 December 2021  4 
January 2022) states that the next payment was due on 31 January 2022.
Klarna has provided information to show that it tried to take the direct debit payment on 31 
January 2022. The payment failed. It hasnt been possible to establish why the payment 
failed. Mr C has mentioned that another payment from his account has caused the account 
to become overdrawn, so this might be the reason. In any event, it seems that Mr C was 
aware that the direct debit payment had failed because he contacted Klarna on 4 February 
2022 to make a manual payment.
There was a delay in the manual payment being allocated to Mr Cs account. Mr C says this 
was because hed been provided with an incorrect reference number. He believes that the 
payment would have been credited to the account on 4 February if hed been given the 
correct refence number. And he says that in these circumstances there would have bene no 
late payment because the direct debit wouldnt have left his account until 4 February in any 
event.
Ive taken all of the available information into account. And Ive carefully considered what Mr 
C has said. I understand that he feels very strongly about this. However, based on what Ive 
seen, the direct debit payment which was due on 31 January 2022 failed, and I dont think 
Klarna has made an error by reporting a missed payment.
In relation to Mr Cs manual payment, theres a disagreement between Klarna and Mr C as 
to who is responsible for the delay in allocating it to the account. Mr C says that Klarna 
provided him with an incorrect payment reference.  Klarna says it provided the correct 
payment reference, but that Mr C quoted his order number rather than his account number 
when he made the manual payment.
There isnt enough information for me to determine exactly what was said to Mr C when he 
called to make the manual payment. Based on what Ive seen, it seems likely that Klarnas 
representative couldve explained the process for making a manual payment more clearly. 
Notwithstanding the incorrect payment reference, I think there was unreasonable delay on 
Klarnas part in allocating the payment to the account. The delay doesnt change my view 
that the payment due on 31 January 2022 was missed. But the delay is a customer service 
issue for which I think Klarna should accept responsibility.
Im not persuaded that the manual payment made on 4 February would have been allocated 
to the account straightaway even if it had carried the correct payment reference number. 
Klarna has said that it would have been received after 3-5 business days. So, I dont think the manual payment wouldve reached the account at the same time the direct debit 
payment (if successful) would have done.
In relation to the other aspects of Mr Cs complaint regarding his balance, Ive reviewed the 
account statements and I havent found any errors.
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive given, Im unable to say that the missed payment marker has been 
reported in error. However, Im of the view that there was unreasonable delay in allocating 
the manual payment to the account, which caused unnecessary distress and inconvenience 
to Mr C. Im also persuaded that Klarna could have provided better customer service by 
explaining the manual payment process more clearly and calling Mr C back when it said it 
would. I think its fair to ask Klarna to pay compensation to reflect this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.
Klarna Bank AB (publ) must pay compensation of £100 to Mr C for distress and 
inconvenience.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman