DRN-4275695
The complaint
Mr C complains about the service he received from American Express Payment Services 
Limited (AEPSL) when he called to request that a credit on his credit card account was 
transferred to his current account.
What happened
Mr C called AEPSL on 13 July 2022 and asked for £100 to be transferred from his credit 
card account to his current account. Mr C is unhappy because there was a long wait before 
he could speak to an agent, and when the call was answered, the agent put him on hold and 
said she needed to speak to the complaints department. Mr C says he was placed on hold 
for 6-7 minutes and when the agent came back to the call, she advised him that the 
complaints department was closed. Mr C is unhappy because he doesnt think the agent 
needed to speak to the complaints department and he thinks the agent should have known 
the opening hours for the complaints department.
Mr C complained to AEPSL but it didnt uphold his complaint. It said it had reviewed the call 
and had found it to have been handled appropriately.
Mr C remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said hed reviewed the call and didnt think 
the business had treated Mr C unfairly or unreasonably.
Mr C wasnt happy with the outcome, so Ive been asked to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the call dated 13 July 2022. Im only able to listen to the call recording from 
the point where Mr C is put through to the agent so Im unable to comment on how long Mr C 
was waiting to be connected. Ive no reason to doubt Mr C when he says he waited for 7 
minutes, and I appreciate that it can be frustrating when it takes a long time for a call to be 
connected.
As Ive said above, Ive listened to the call.  Mr C was placed on hold for around 5 minutes 
whilst the agent tried to contact the complaints department. The agent then advised Mr C 
that the complaints department hadnt opened for the day yet. I appreciate that Mr C feels 
that the agent should have known the opening times for the complaints department, and I 
agree that this level of customer service fell below the standard that Mr C reasonably 
expected. However, taking everything into consideration, and given that the entire call lasted 
for around 8 minutes, I dont think that this was an unreasonable amount of time on the call.
Ive also thought about whether the agent handled Mr Cs enquiry appropriately. Having 
listened to the call, Im satisfied that the agent wasnt rude or unhelpful. On balance, Im 
satisfied that the call was handled fairly and reasonably.
Ive listened to some other calls between Mr C and AEPSL which are relevant to this 
complaint. Having done so, Im satisfied that these calls were handled fairly and reasonably.
Taking everything into account and whilst I acknowledge that Mr C was frustrated by his 
experience, Im satisfied that AEPSL treated Mr C fairly and reasonably. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman