DRN-3794582
The complaint
Mr J complains about how AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) settled a claim he made on his 
motor trade policy.
Reference to AXA includes its agents.
What happened
Mr J holds a motor trade policy with AXA. After Mr Js car was hit while parked, he made a 
claim to AXA for the damage. AXA accepted the claim and declared Mr Js car beyond repair 
and wrote it off. To settle Mr Js claim it offered him £1,515 minus the policy excess. It said if 
Mr J wanted to keep the car it would deduct a further 24% off the value to account for the 
salvage.
Mr J wasnt happy with this and complained. He thought the value was too low. He said it 
didnt take into account the model of his car, the optional extras or the new parts and labour 
hed put into the car during his ownership. He also wasnt happy AXA didnt follow his 
communication preferences which put undue stress on his family  of which he said AXA 
knew was vulnerable. Mr J said he needed to release some capital too to allow him to 
purchase another vehicle which he wants reimbursing for.
AXA thought its offer was fair. It paid Mr J £125 compensation for the service hed received 
throughout it, including not following his contact preferences.
Mr J didnt agree and brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators thought that 
AXAs offer was fair so didnt recommend it be increased. But she thought AXA should 
increase the compensation it offered by a further £100.
AXA agreed. But Mr J didnt, so, the case has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree AXAs offer to settle Mr Js claim is fair and agree with the increased 
level of compensation recommended by our investigator and accepted by AXA. I understand 
this wont be the answer Mr J is hoping for. Ill explain my reasoning.
Mr J has made a number of points, all of which Ive considered. But while Ive considered 
them all, Ill only be addressing the key ones within this decision. Ultimately our role is to 
informally settle disputes between consumers like Mr J and businesses like AXA. And Ive 
set out below what I consider the key points to this complaint are.
Mr Js policy is a motor trade policy. In the event of a claim AXA say the most theyll 
pay is the trade value of the vehicle. The trade value is different and nearly always 
less than the market value of a vehicle.
Ive considered the available evidence and Im more persuaded by the trade guides. 
Those guides gave a figure of £760 and £865  both considerably less than the 
£1,515 AXA offered. The trade guides take into account the age, make, model and 
condition of the vehicle (including its mileage) and Im satisfied theyve valued the 
same model as Mr Js vehicle. Im more persuaded by the guides than I am the 
adverts Mr J has presented. The adverts look to be the market value, and in general 
adverts are often less persuasive than the trade guides.
I understand why Mr J would want some return on the time he spent working on this 
car. But he isnt insured for the labour spent on this car. Hes insured for the trade 
value of the car. Any parts hes purchased are considered within the overall value of 
the vehicle too  hes not insured for the value of the vehicle plus the value of any 
parts he purchased unless those purchased parts add value. Ive considered whether 
these purchased parts add any value to the vehicle and Im not persuaded they do. 
Its more probable the car would be worth less, had these parts not been added 
because theyd affect the condition of it.
Im satisfied the amount AXA wants to deduct for the salvage of Mr Js car is fair. 
AXA has shown that it would expect to receive the same amount from its salvage 
agent. Giving the salvage to Mr J would mean it suffers a loss, so its fair it passes 
this loss on to Mr J.
Much of the distress comes from offering what Mr J perceives as a low offer, but Im 
satisfied the offer is fair. So, the compensation reflects only what AXA got wrong. 
AXA didnt provide good customer service throughout this claim. Mr J had to chase 
more than could reasonably be expected. And his communication preferences 
werent always adhered to which caused unnecessary stress on Mr J and his wife. 
This stress could have been avoided because Mr J told AXA about the impact of not 
following his communication preferences. That said, I agree a total of £225 is 
adequate compensation for the distress and inconvenience AXA caused Mr J. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I partially uphold this complaint. To put things right I require 
AXA Insurance UK Plc to:
Pay Mr J £100 compensation (taking the total to £225) for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by its handling of his claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2022.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman