DRN-3181404
The complaint
Miss H complains that she was mis-sold a Tech Pack (TP) in August 2018 by Barclays Bank 
UK PLC (Barclays).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss H says Barclays pressurised her into taking out a TP, telling her it was the best way to 
get an overdraft. But she says the TP was unsuitable for her.
Barclays says that Miss H chose to buy the TP based on the information about the costs and 
benefits it gave to her.
I cant know what was said during the sale as I wasnt there. I can only look at the evidence 
which is available today.
Both parties agree that Miss H had a fee free account before taking out the TP, and that 
Miss H was interested in an overdraft which shed previously not been able to get.
In my view, it was more likely than not that Miss H was aware that she didnt have to take out 
a TP to get an overdraft. I say this because fee free accounts with overdrafts were widely 
available and advertised by Barclays and other banks and financial institutions.
I also think its more likely than not that Miss H didnt take out the TP just to get an overdraft. 
I say this because once she had applied for an overdraft with the TP and not got one, she 
couldve closed the TP at any time but didnt and kept it for several years.
So, while I can understand that Miss H experienced what in her view was a pushy salesman, 
I think its more likely than not that Miss H knew she had a choice whether take out the TP 
and she chose to take it out based on the information Barclays gave her.
Barclays has provided signed documentation form the sale which in my view shows its more 
likely than not this was a non-advised sale. I say this because the form which Miss H signed 
explained this. And this service is aware that Barclays TP sales at the time were generally 
non-advised.
This means the only requirement on Barclays was to provide Miss H with enough information 
to make an informed decision.
And I think it did. The documentary evidence shows that Miss H signed to say shed received 
the booklet of information about the TP. And she went on to use some of the benefits, 
registering a phone and making a claim on the insurance.
So, although I know that Miss H will be disappointed, I think its more likely than not that 
Barclays didnt do anything wrong in this sale.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Miss Hs claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 March 2022.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman