DRN-4236325
The complaint
Mr G complains about Hastings Insurance Services Limited (HISL) and their failure to 
record his No Claims Discount (NCD) when he initially incepted his policy. Mr G also 
complains about delays in HISL providing him with the correct proof of NCD following a 
renewal.
What happened
In July 2021, Mr G purchased a motor insurance policy which was arranged, and 
administered, by HISL. Before agreeing to the policy, Mr G spoke to HISL about his NCD, as 
he was unsure what his NCD was due to a claim made on his previous policy by a named 
driver. It was agreed on this call that Mr G would purchase the policy based on the 
information he provided to the comparison website he used and that he would alter his NCD 
once hed spoken to his previous insurer.
HISL received no further contact from Mr G until they issued his renewal invite in June 2022, 
which listed his NCD as 1 year. Mr G contacted HISL, making them aware he had 3 years 
NCD from his previous policy and so, he wanted his policy to be updated to reflect this. HISL 
actioned Mr Gs request, and a new renewal invite was sent. But Mr G contacted HISL again 
soon after, explaining he actually had 5 years NCD from his previous policy, not 3 as he 
originally thought.
On 28 July 22, Mr Gs policy renewed with 5 years NCD showing on the policy. And in early 
August, Mr G called HISL to pay the associated premium. But Mr G was unhappy with the 
service hed received and so, he raised a complaint.
Mr G was unhappy the policy had been incepted with 0 years NCD, when he thought he 
made it clear on the call he should have 3. So, Mr G wanted to be refunded the discount this 
NCD wouldve had on his policy premium. And Mr G was unhappy with the overall service 
HISL had provided when dealing with his concerns, including a delay in them providing him 
with a correct NCD letter confirming he had 6 years NCD, including the year hed accrued 
with them. Mr G was unhappy it took from August, until November 2022, for this proof to be 
provided. And he felt this prevented him from purchasing another, cheaper policy with 
another insurer.
HISL responded to Mr Gs complaints and upheld them in part. While they thought they had 
made it clear to Mr G his initial policy was calculated on 0 years NCD, they accepted Mr G 
actually had 5 during that policy period. So, they refunded Mr G a total of £773.70 for the 
additional premiums hed paid, compared to what he wouldve paid had the 5 years NCD 
been in force.
And they accepted there had been some failures in the service they provided, which 
included failures to call Mr G back as requested. Over the course of responding to Mr Gs 
complaints, they paid him a total of £250 between 17 September 2022, and 17 May 2023. Mr 
G remained unhappy with this response and so, he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought HISL had made 
it reasonably clear to Mr G that the policy would originally be incepted with 0 years NCD, and 
that Mr G could alter this once hed received NCD confirmation from his previous insurer. So, 
they didnt think HISL had done anything wrong. But even so, they thought HISLs premium 
refunds were fair, to ensure Mr G hadnt paid additional premiums he wouldnt have, had his 
NCD information been given accurately to begin with. And because of this, they didnt think 
HISL needed to do anything more.
Mr G didnt agree, stating he thought he made it clear he had 3 years NCD on the call, which 
is why he didnt return to HISL when this is the NCD information his previous insurer 
provided him. And he reemphasised his complaint about HISL not providing him with proof of 
NCD in the summer of 2022, which prevented him from seeking cheaper insurance from 
another provider.
Our investigator explained their stance on the initial NCD information remained the same. 
And they issued a second view commenting on Mr Gs concerns about the delay in HISL 
providing him proof of his NCD. They explained they had seen evidence that showed HISL 
had provided Mr G with proof of his NCD in August 2022. And, while this showed 5 years 
rather than 6 as it shouldve done, they thought this information would still have allowed Mr 
G to seek alternative insurance if hed wished to do so, and that he couldve altered the NCD 
at a later date, when HISL confirmed 6 years NCD in November 2022. So, they didnt think 
HISL needed to do anything more.
Mr G didnt agree. And he provided copies of conversations hed held with other insurers 
which he felt showed he wouldnt have been able to update his NCD, had he sought new 
insurance in the summer of 2022. So, Mr G maintained his belief HISL should pay him 
compensation to acknowledge the cheaper premium he couldve obtained, alongside a 
promotional offer Mr G stated was available to him by a comparison website. As Mr G 
remained unhappy, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr G. I think its clear there 
has been some confusion surround his NCD entitlement, and I recognise the inconvenience 
and frustration this wouldve caused Mr G. So, I can understand why he feels hes been 
treated unfairly and want to be compensated accordingly.
But for me to say HISL should offer more than they have already, which is a premium refund 
of £773.70 and total compensation of £250, Id need to be satisfied theyve done something 
wrong that hasnt already been adequately compensated for, in line with our services 
approaches to similar circumstances. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Ive first considered Mr Gs concerns about the way his initial NCD entitlement was recorded 
when he initially took the policy in July 2021. Ive listened to the full inception call, to gain a 
full understanding of what was discussed. And within this call, I did hear Mr G state he may 
have between 3  5 years NCD. But crucially, he explained at the time that he wasnt sure. 
And so, he confirmed to HISL that they should continue with the quote hed obtained on the 
comparison website. And this quote was generated with Mr G inputting 0 years NCD.Within the call, HISL explicitly asked Mr G whether the information included within the quote 
was correct. And Mr G stated yes, other than the NCD information. But immediately following 
this, Mr G stated he would confirm his NCD with his insurer and update his policy with HISL 
at a later date. So, this is what I wouldve expected Mr G to do, and I dont think HISL were 
unfair to follow his instruction. But Mr G didnt do this and so, no changes were made until 
HISLs renewal invite.
I appreciate Mr G recollection of the call disputes what Ive stated above. And Mr G thinks he 
made it clear he had 3 years and so, when his previous insurer confirmed that to be the 
case, he didnt think he needed to change anything on his policy as he assumed this what 
his policy with HISL reflected. But I can see on 28 July 2021, HISL sent Mr G his policy 
documents. And within the welcome letter, HISL state Please read these details carefully 
and if they arent right tell us right away. I can see within the same policy documents, HISL 
included Mr Gs cover summary which listed his NCD as 0 years. So, I think Mr G 
shouldve been reasonably aware of the NCD that was included on his policy, as he had an 
obligation to read the documentation HISL provided. So, I dont think I can say HISL have 
done anything wrong when calculating, and arranging, the initial policy Mr G took out.
But even so, its pleasing to see that, following communication with Mr G regarding his NCD 
entitlement at renewal, HISL agreed to refund Mr G the additional premiums he paid that he 
wouldnt have, had he correctly recorded his NCD entitlement as 5 years in July 2021. This 
has ensured that Mr G hasnt incurred a financial loss, and I think this shows HISL acting 
both proactively and fairly. So, I dont think they need to do anything more for this aspect of 
the complaint.
Ive then turned to the other main aspect of Mr Gs complaint, which centres around the time 
it took for HISL to provide him with a correct proof of NCD in the summer of 2022. Ive seen 
that Mr G initially disputed the NCD listed on his renewal at the end of June 2022. And I can 
see Mr G sent HISL more than one proof of NCD for them to consider, with Mr G initially 
stated he had 3 years NCD, before altering this to 5.
From what Ive seen, I think HISL processed this information fairly, and within a reasonably 
amount of time. And this ensured Mr G received a policy premium quote that reflected 5 
years NCD. And I can see two days after the policy renewed, he called HISL to pay the 
premium attached. On the same day, I can see HISL provided Mr G with a proof of NCD, 
stating he had 5 years.
But I do accept this was factually incorrect, as HISL hadnt added the additional year Mr G 
had earned in the previous policy year with them. Ive seen HISL did update this to 6 years in 
November, and th refund to reflect the premium change was issued in May 2023, which 
includes the total refund Ive discussed earlier within the decision. So, I dont think Mr G paid 
any more than he shouldve for his HISL policy.
However, I note Mr G states that, had HISL provided him with the correct proof of NCD, he 
wouldve sought a cheaper premium with another insurer. And that he couldve made use of 
an offer in place with a comparison website at the time. While I recognise Mr Gs comments 
around this, I havent seen any evidence to show the quotes Mr H couldve obtained with six 
years NCD, or any proof of the comparison website offer. And as our service is evidence 
based, Im unable to consider the costs Mr G has hypothesised regarding this.
Nor do I think Mr G was prevented from purchasing insurance elsewhere. While I accept Mr 
G would only have been able to prove 5 years NCD initially, I do think Mr G couldve sought 
alternative insurance and then updated the NCD to the correct 6 years. While Mr G has 
supplied evidence that disputes insurers offer this ability, I note this is exactly what HISL 
have done here. So, while I appreciate Mr Gs point of view, I dont think I can reasonably say this wasnt an option.
And even more crucially than this, I dont think I can be satisfied that this is what Mr G 
wouldve done. As Ive explained, Ive seen no evidence to show Mr G sought alternative 
insurance, and no quotes have been supplied. But I do hold evidence that shows Mr G 
called HISL to pay the premium attached to the policy renewal. Had Mr G not wanted to 
continue with his policy, I think its reasonable for me to assume Mr G wouldve raised his 
intention to cancel the policy, and his query about being provided with a new NCD 
document, at this time. And I cant see Mr G did. 
So, I dont think Im able to consider any prospective losses Mr G feels he may have incurred 
aa crucially, he didnt take out a new policy and so, our service is unable to calculate what 
this financial loss may have been. And this falls in line with our services standard approach.
But I do accept ideally, HISL wouldve included the years NCD Mr G incurred with them, 
alongside the 5 he amassed with his previous insurer. And had they done so, I think Mr G 
wouldve had a correct NCD document sooner than he did. As Ive already explained, I dont 
think I have evidence to show Mr G would definitively have sought new insurance at this 
point. But I do think that, because of this failure by HISL, Mr G had to wait an additional 3 
months for the correct document. And I recognise this wouldve been somewhat 
inconvenient.
But over the course of Mr Gs complaints, HISL have paid Mr G a total of £250. And, while 
some of this has been attributed to other service failures, I think this payment overall fairly 
addresses any inconvenience Mr G felt having to wait for the correct NCD document. And 
because of this and all the above, I wont be direct HISL to do anything more on this 
occasion.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint about Hastings Insurance 
Services Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman