DRN-3896742
The complaint
Mr S complains that ReAssure Limited hasnt allowed him to increase his monthly pension 
contribution on his existing personal pension plan.  
What happened
Mr S took out a personal pension plan (PPP) with a provider that Ill refer to as Company B 
in December 2009. He was told at that point that he could increase his contributions at any 
time. Mr S contributed £100 per month to the plan. 
In 2015 Company B transferred all of its pension business, including Mr Ss plan, to 
ReAssure.  
Mr S telephoned ReAssure in March 2022 and told it he wanted to increase his contributions 
to £300 per month. When he didnt hear from ReAssure, Mr S again telephoned it in May 
2022 with the same request. 
ReAssure sent a letter to Mr S to say he couldnt increase contributions to the current plan. 
When he again telephoned ReAssure, he was told that he could, in fact, increase his 
contributions. Mr S raised a complaint with ReAssure when it became apparent this was not 
the case. 
ReAssure agreed to pay Mr S compensation of £250 in recognition of the poor service it 
provided. Mr Ss complaint about not being able to increase the PPP contributions was 
unresolved at that stage. ReAssure also told Mr S it would pass on his complaint about a 
possible mis-sale of his PPP to Company B. The complaint about Company B is being dealt 
with separately by this Service. 
ReAssure responded in July 2022 to Mr Ss complaint about not being able to increase his 
contributions. It said rule changes made by the government meant some pension products 
became ineligible to receive additional funds. ReAssure said it decided to treat all policy 
holders fairly and provide the same functionality within plans, so all policy holders needed to 
set up a top up policy if contributions were increased or transfers were made. 
Mr S remained unhappy and so brought his complaint about not being able to increase his 
contributions to this Service. He said that when he originally took out the pension with 
Company B, the terms of the pension clearly allowed him to increase his contributions and 
this was the main reason he took out the plan. Mr S said ReAssure had altered the policy 
terms and conditions without any agreement from him. 
Our Investigator partially upheld Mr Ss complaint. He said there was evidence that Mr Ss 
policy was transferred to ReAssure with the same conditions as when he set it up in 2009. 
So, at that point, he would have been able to make additional contributions without having to 
take out a top up plan. ReAssure later made changes to its policies, and were allowed to do 
this. So while Mr S can make additional contributions towards his retirement, he cant add to 
his existing plan. However, our Investigator thought ReAssure didnt let Mr S know there had 
been a change to the policy terms and conditions and asked ReAssure to pay compensation 
of £200 to Mr S.  
ReAssure agreed to pay the £200 compensation suggested by our investigator.  
Mr S didnt agree with what our Investigator said. He thought ReAssure should be instructed 
to honour the original terms and conditions of the plan. Mr S said £200 does not come close 
to reflecting the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused him. Mr S also said the 
compensation didnt take account of the loss of pension growth hed experienced since his 
initial request to increase his contributions.
As Mr S didnt agree with what our Investigator said, this came to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to reassure Mr S that I have looked at and considered all of the evidence provided by 
both parties, even if I have not referred to each and every point made, or piece of evidence 
provided. This reflects the informal nature of this Service. 
Mr S has also made a complaint about Company B, and that complaint is being dealt with 
separately by this Service. So, I am just dealing with the complaint against ReAssure here. 
ReAssure has already offered £250 compensation to Mr S because of the service errors 
made between March and May 2022, when it gave Mr S conflicting information about 
whether he could increase his contributions. Mr S has agreed to accept the resolution 
offered by ReAssure, and so I am not dealing with those particular service related issues in 
this decision. 
The issue here is that when Mr S first took out his PPP, he had the option of increasing his 
monthly contribution. But when he contacted ReAssure in 2022 he was told he could no 
longer do this. Any increase in contributions, or indeed transfers in, would need to be paid 
into a top up plan. Mr S is unhappy as hes keen to have just a single PPP to manage. 
So Ive first of all looked at whether ReAssure acted fairly when it told Mr S his only option, if 
he wants to increase his monthly pension contribution, is to set up a top up plan. 
ReAssure told Mr S that changes were made to the terms because of changes in 
government legislation. I dont know if Mr Ss PPP was affected by the change in legislation 
but ReAssure has decided to implement the changes for all of its pension customers. 
ReAssure hasnt provided this Service with very much information about the legislation that 
prompted it to make the changes or when they occurred. But both parties agree that they 
happened after the transfer of Mr Ss pension from Company B. 
But even without specific information about why the changes happened, ReAssures 
decision to change the plan terms is a commercial decision and so its not something this 
Service will comment on. Pension plans and their terms can evolve over time and its not 
uncommon for terms to be amended when theres a change in, for instance, the specific 
product being offered or to relevant legislation. So Im not asking ReAssure to take any 
further action in relation to Mr Ss request to increase his monthly contribution on his existing 
PPP. When our Investigator looked at Mr Ss complaint he suggested ReAssure pay £200 
compensation to Mr S, as he said it caused understandable upset and frustration by not 
contacting him when it first made the changes to his PPP. ReAssure has agreed to pay this 
amount. No evidence has been provided by ReAssure to show whether it did inform Mr S 
about the changes to the terms, so Im relying on what Mr S said about not being notified. I 
think its clear that not being notified has caused Mr S some distress and inconvenience, and 
Im satisfied the amount of £200 suggested is fair to compensate him for this. 
I know that Mr S has said he should be compensated for any financial loss he might have 
made by not being able to increase his monthly contributions to his current PPP. While I can 
understand his concerns, its the case that the option to take out a top up plan was always 
available to Mr S. So hes had the opportunity to invest the additional £200 per month, albeit 
in a top up plan, which I appreciate is not his preferred option. 
I think its also important to note that Ive not seen any evidence that would suggest Mr S has 
been placed at a financial disadvantage by having to take out a top up plan, rather than 
being able to add to his current PPP. 
I know my decision will disappoint Mr S, but I am not asking ReAssure to take any further 
action in relation to the contributions he can make to his current PPP. 
Putting things right
ReAssure should pay Mr S £200 compensation.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I require ReAssure Limited to pay £200 compensation to Mr S as 
outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2023.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman