DRN-3194137
The complaint
Mr O complains about the poor service provided by British Gas Insurance Limited when he 
made a claim under his home emergency insurance policy.
What happened
Mr O had a Home Care policy with British Gas that covered him for repairs to his 
kitchen appliances in the event of a breakdown.
In May 2021 Mr O contacted British Gas as his double oven wasnt working. It 
arranged an appointment in mid-June, about four weeks later. 
Mr O took a days leave on the day of the appointment but nobody arrived. He called 
British Gas twice and he said it took him a long time to speak to the right department. 
He asked for his appointment to be rescheduled and he complained about the 
service hed received. 
He contacted British Gas again five days later as he hadnt heard anything further. It 
said it could arrange another appointment but it would take a further four weeks.  
As Mr O was still without any suitable cooking facility, he decided to buy a new 
double oven.
British Gas apologised for the delay in sending someone to him, for the broken 
appointment, and for the poor communication. It also paid him £60 as a gesture of 
goodwill. 
Mr O didnt think this was enough and brought his complaint to this service. He said 
British Gas had made no effort to re-arrange the appointment and it hadnt shown 
any compassion for the impact it had caused. Hed wasted a days leave and had 
been left without a means of cooking. He wanted British Gas to pay him for the days 
wasted leave and to refund the cost of his new oven. 
After investigating, our investigator thought British Gas had done enough to put 
matters right. He didnt think it was fair to ask British Gas to pay for a replacement 
oven as it hadnt had the opportunity to repair it. He didnt think British Gas had 
attended within a reasonable time and it hadnt kept Mr O fully informed. But he 
thought the apology and £60 was a reasonable way of putting things right. 
Mr O doesnt agree.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I came to a different conclusion from that reached by the investigator and 
so sent a provisional decision to Mr O and British Gas to give them an opportunity to 
comment. Both parties accepted my decision, so my findings and decision below are 
substantially the same as set out in my provisional decision. The reasons for my decision are 
as follows:
The terms and conditions of Mr Os policy says that itll carry out any repairs or visits 
within a reasonable time, unless something beyond its control makes that impossible 
 in which case well let you know as soon as possible and give you another time 
when we can visit.
British Gas has said the delay in booking an initial appointment with Mr O was due to 
a shortage of engineers in the area he lives, and because some of the engineers 
were off work due to Covid at the time. 
But Mr Os main grievance is the non-attendance on the day of the appointment and 
the lack of communication about that. And the fact he was then told hed have to wait 
a further four weeks for his appointment to be re-scheduled. 
While I recognise British Gas had a shortage of engineers, I think it should have done 
more to prioritise Mr Os re-arranged appointment in light of the non-attendance and 
the issues he raised when he called and complained about the service hed received.
Mr O was always likely to suffer a degree of stress and inconvenience with a claim of 
this nature. He would always had to have taken time off work to wait for an engineer 
to attend. But I can understand the frustration and upset he must have felt when the 
engineer didnt attend. And that would have been compounded by the difficulty he 
had contacting British Gas to find out what was happening and trying to re-schedule 
the appointment, only to be told that it would take another four weeks. 
Mr O was also upset with the lack of compassion shown in the calls he had with 
British Gas, which he believes showed no empathy for the situation it had left him in. 
Hed wasted a days leave from work and he was left without any suitable cooking 
facility.
I think it was right that British Gas apologised for the service it provided and paid an 
amount to recognise that. But taking everything into account, and particularly the 
impact on Mr O, I think it needs to do more to put things right. On balance, I dont 
think British Gas attempted to repair Mr Os oven within a reasonable time period. 
The initial appointment was delayed and I think it should have prioritised a second 
appointment when the first engineer failed to attend. And the poor communication 
made the situation worse than it needed to be. 
British Gas accepted Mr O had a justified complaint. It apologised and paid him £60 
as a gesture of goodwill. But, in light of the impact on Mr O and the particular 
circumstances of this complaint, I think a payment of £200 would be a fairer way of 
putting things right. As British Gas has already paid Mr O £60, it should pay him a 
further £140. 
Mr O has said he wants British Gas to refund him for the cost of his new double 
oven. But I dont think that would be appropriate. The terms and conditions of his 
policy says British Gas will pay a contribution towards a replacement kitchen 
appliance if it cant repair it, or it decides itll cost less to replace than repair.
Mr O accepts his oven could have been repaired. He thought it might have needed a 
new heating element that would have cost about £25. I can understand his frustration with British Gas for not turning up on the day and not re-arranging the appointment in 
a reasonable period. But I agree with our investigator that it wouldnt be fair to ask 
British Gas to pay for a new oven, or make a contribution towards it, when it seems 
likely it could have repaired it. 
My final decision
My decision is that British Gas Insurance Limited should pay Mr O a total of £200 for the 
distress and inconvenience its poor service caused. It has already paid £60 so it should pay 
him a further £140. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2021.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman