DRN-3355984
The complaint
Mrs M is a sole trader. She complains about the way HSBC UK Bank Plc handled her 
application for a new account, which she needed in order to apply for a Bounce Back Loan.
What happened
Mrs M held a personal account with HSBC. She wanted to apply to the bank for a Bounce 
Back Loan, and to do so needed to open a business account. She submitted an application 
for one on 12 May 2020.
Mrs M contacted HSBC on 3 March 2021 to follow up on her application, but was told that it 
had been cancelled. So she raised a complaint.
In its response, HSBC said it had attempted to contact Mrs M on 28 May 2020 but was 
unsuccessful. It had needed to make amendments to the application but then hadnt heard 
from her. It said it was no longer able to process the application, but Mrs M could submit a 
new one online.
Mrs M remained unhappy and referred the matter to us. She said shed not heard from the 
bank and when calling, an automated message had reassured her that the application was 
in progress. She said the delay in obtaining the loan had caused her financial difficulty.
When responding to our request for information, HSBC said it now recognised that it 
couldve followed its call up through a different communication method  and offered to pay 
her £50 compensation to recognise the impact of not doing so. But the bank also said that 
Mrs M couldve returned its call, or chased things up sooner.
Our investigator thought HSBCs offer was a fair way to put things right. She could see that 
the bank had needed to clarify information with Mrs M, as shed incorrectly said her business 
was a start-up within the application. So she didnt think the bank had done anything wrong 
in declining to progress the application until it had done so. She thought £50 compensation 
was fair for the banks failure to follow up its call and didnt recommend anything more, as 
she also thought it was fair to say Mrs M couldve chased things up sooner.
Mrs M didnt accept our investigators view. She said that she had no record of any missed 
calls from the bank and thought it was unusual that a voicemail wasnt left. She also said she 
called HSBC on a number of occasions to follow up on the application, but its automated 
message had instructed applicants not to contact the bank  as it was overwhelmed by the 
number of applications and would be in touch in due course. She thought shed been left in 
an unfair position, having relied on information shed been given by the bank and trusted it to 
process her application. So she asked that an ombudsman review the matter and it was 
passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision
As my initial conclusions differed slightly from those of our investigator, I issued a provisional 
decision last month and invited both parties to respond with any further information or 
evidence they wanted me to take into account before making a final decision. 
I said:
Having reviewed the records of Mrs Ms application, I can see that it did contain 
some incorrect information  in that it described her business as a start-up, while also 
saying that it had started in 2015. So HSBC needed to confirm the position before it 
could continue with the application.
Unfortunately, there was then a breakdown in communication. HSBCs records show 
that it attempted to call Mrs M on 28 May 2020. So while I appreciate that Mrs M says 
she didnt miss any calls that day, I think its most likely that the bank did attempt to 
call her. However, it doesnt seem that HSBC left Mrs M a message. And it didnt 
follow up in any other way either. It left a note as to what it needed to ask Mrs M if 
she called. But I cant see it took any other steps to follow up on the matter with Mrs 
M, or to notify her when it subsequently cancelled the application.
I think this was an error on HSBCs part. I think it wouldve been reasonable to expect 
the bank to have done more to make Mrs M aware as to what it needed from her to 
process the application  and to let her know it had cancelled the application. Had it 
done so, Mrs M couldve taken the necessary steps to move things forward a lot 
sooner. 
That said, I dont think it is fair to hold HSBC solely responsible for the delay. As 
things turned out, Mrs M only found out that her application had been cancelled when 
calling on 3 March 2021. She says she didnt chase things up any sooner, as the 
automated messages she heard when calling had asked her not to. I can see why 
these messages may have reassured for a while. But I also think Mrs M ought 
reasonably to have had cause to question this much sooner than she did  
particularly if she had an urgent needs for the loan funds  and to take the steps that 
she eventually took in March to find out what was going on.
In any event, when Mrs M did get in touch in March 2021, she still had time to make 
a new application and obtain a Bounce Back Loan. HSBC explained in its response 
on 3 March that she could submit a new application online. The Bounce Back Loan 
Scheme was open for applications until 31 March 2021. So I dont think the delays 
with the initial account application prevented Mrs M from accessing the Loan Scheme 
altogether.
I do, however, agree that the errors on HSBCs part wouldve caused Mrs M some 
upset and inconvenience. Had the bank made better attempts to reach her in May 
2020, it seems likely the application couldve resumed without significant interruption. 
As it didnt, I think Mrs M made a number of calls to the bank to chase things up in 
the months that followed. And it wouldve been frustrating to only find out in March 
2021 that the application had been cancelled some time earlier  meaning that a new 
application was now required. I dont think £50 fully reflects this, so Im currently 
intending to require HSBC to pay a higher amount of £150 to compensate Mrs M for 
the impact of its errors.HSBC accepted my provisional decision, but Mrs M didnt. She said, in summary, that the 
compensation Id proposed was insufficient because:
The online application process for opening a new account had been misleading, as it 
had only given her the option to apply either as a start-up or as a switcher (switching 
an account from elsewhere). As she definitely wasnt doing the latter, shed selected 
the start-up option and assumed that HSBC would notice that she wasnt actually a 
new business from the start date she provided. So she thought it was an error in the 
banks process that was the root cause of the problems shed experienced, rather 
than a mistake on her own part.
The recorded messages shed heard when calling HSBC to chase things up had 
reassured her that the application was in progress, in what was an unprecedented 
situation.
Although Id said that she could still have applied for the loan on or after 3 March 
2021, when shed spoken to HSBC that day it had told her that it was no longer 
accepting Bounce Back Loan applications. Shed accepted that information at the 
time, but wouldve applied if given the opportunity to do so.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive not reached a different conclusion to that set out in my provisional 
decision. So Ill explain why Mrs Ms further comments havent changed my view of the 
complaint.
Firstly, I still dont think it down to HSBC that Mrs Ms application contained an error (in 
describing her business as a start-up, when it was not). Ive noted what Mrs M says about 
the process, but I dont think it was misleading or unclear. If anything was unclear to Mrs M, 
she had the option of contacting the bank before submitting it. It also seems that Mrs M was 
applying for a business current account as a standalone product, rather than following the 
dedicated Bounce Back Loan application process  through which she wouldve been able to 
apply for the requisite business account more easily.
I still think HSBC is at fault for not doing more to follow up with Mrs M in an effort to obtain 
the information it needed to process her application. But I still dont think it is solely down to 
the banks errors in this regard that Mrs M was left without the loan. While I dont doubt that 
Mrs M relied in good faith on automated messages from the bank in believing that her 
application was still underway, I still think that Mrs M couldve done more to escalate matters 
at an earlier stage for the reasons given in my provisional decision. 
Mrs M was also free to apply  whether to HSBC or an alternative lender  for a Bounce 
Back Loan once she found out from the bank on 3 March 2021 that her account application 
had been cancelled. On this point, Ive noted that Mrs M says she was told by HSBC on a 
phone call that the bank was no longer accepting loan applications. Ive asked HSBC for 
records of that call, but there is nothing contained within any notes and no recording is 
available. The bank has confirmed that Mrs M could still have applied for a loan, subject to 
obtaining the requisite account. Its website confirmed the same at the time. So while I cant 
say with any certainty what Mrs M was told on the call in question, I think its most likely that 
she wouldve been advised in line with the process that was in place at the time. And 
ultimately, even if she wasnt, a quick check online wouldve confirmed the correct position.It is also worth adding that there is no guarantee that, even if Mrs Ms application had gone 
on to be properly processed, that it wouldve been approved  either for the business 
account or the loan itself. 
So taking everything into account, I still think that £150 compensation for the upset and 
inconvenience caused by HSBCs failure to follow up with Mrs M on the account application 
represents a fair way to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and require HSBC UK Bank Plc to 
pay Mrs M £150 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman