DRN-3199293
The complaint
R, a limited company, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc has unfairly increased the 
repayments to its secured loans.
What happened
R has two secured loans with HSBC, taken out in 2005 and 2008.
In February 2020, HSBC contacted R to say that the loans had been underpaid. It said that 
the payments R was making towards the loans shouldve increased in 2010 and 2011 when 
the terms of the loans were varied. But this change hadnt been made. So, R had been 
paying less than it needed to since that time, meaning the loans had been underpaid. So, 
HSBC said it would be increasing Rs repayments, to ensure that this shortfall was repaid by 
the end of the loan term.
The directors of R complained to HSBC about this. HSBC initially said it would adjust the 
balance of the loan by writing off the extra interest that had been charged since the error  
which wouldnt otherwise have been charged if the repayments had correctly been changed 
in 2010 and 2011. And I understand adjustments were made to the loans in March and April 
2020 to reflect this.
R continued to dispute the matter with HSBC, in particular it increasing the repayments 
towards the loan to cover the capital shortfall. 
HSBC then said it would write off the amount of capital that had been underpaid as well, as 
this stemmed from its error. And it also offered to pay R £500 for the inconvenience caused. 
I understand this has not yet been done.
Rs directors did not accept this offer and asked our service to consider the complaint. They 
said they were still unhappy with HSBCs actions. They were unhappy HSBC had unilaterally 
increased the monthly repayments being taken after the error was found. They said the offer 
didnt reflect the extra amount that R had paid since HSBC changed the monthly repayment 
 which, if the proposed refund was applied, wouldnt have all been necessary. They didnt 
think the £500 fairly reflected the distress and anxiety caused to Rs directors by HSBCs 
actions. And they werent convinced HSBC had calculated the outstanding balances of the 
loans correctly.
One of our Investigators looked into the complaint. They felt the offer made by HSBC was a 
fair way to resolve matters.
Rs directors did not agree. They remained unhappy with the offer as they feel it does not 
fully address what has gone on, including the offer of compensation in respect of 
inconvenience.
I issued a provisional decision in December 2021 explaining that, while I felt HSBCs offer 
was largely fair, I thought it didnt go far enough to address one issue. Below are extracts 
from those provisional findings, explaining why.
Rs directors have said part of their complaint is that the interest rates on the loans have not 
reduced in line with changes to the Bank of England base rate, particularly from 2016 
onwards. And they feel this should form part of my findings.
Part of the rules, set by the regulator, that govern our service explain that in order for us to 
consider a complaint, the business complained about must first be given the opportunity to 
respond to that complaint. Essentially this is so the parameters of what we are considering 
are known to both parties and clear. We cant continue to add issues to a complaint, as it is 
ongoing.
The argument Rs directors are making about how the loans have been operated  that the 
interest rate charged has not moved in line with changes in the Bank of England base rate - 
dont appear to have strictly been part of the original complaint to HSBC or what we were 
asked to consider. But there was a dispute over whether HSBC has calculated the 
outstanding balance correctly, which this point is arguably linked to. So, I have briefly 
thought about this point.
Ive looked at the credit agreements from when the changes to loan term were agreed in 
2010 and 2011. These set out the basis on which interest will be charged  that it will be an 
aggregate of a margin rate and base rate. But they go on to explain that the base rate is 
HSBCs base rate, not the Bank of Englands. So, the agreements were not linked to, or 
contractually required to track, the Bank of England base rate.
Now if R is arguing that HSBCs underlying base rate, which was applicable to these loans, 
should have been required to follow the Bank of England base rate, then Im satisfied that is 
not an argument that formed part of the complaint weve been asked to consider. So, I wont 
be commenting on that and R would have to raise a separate complaint with HSBC about 
that.
But in terms of the operation of Rs account, I dont think the interest rate applied not 
following the Bank of England base rate means that HSBC has made errors in calculating 
the outstanding balance, as it doesnt seem to have been required to follow this rate.
Rs directors have provided their own calculations of how they think the loan shouldve 
operated and future projections of what they think should happen. They say that these differ 
to the information HSBC has provided. So, they believe HSBCs calculations must be 
incorrect.
Our service are not auditors. And it is not part of our role to forensically review accounts. 
Where there has been an obvious error, we would look into that. But the calculation of the 
outstanding loan balances is complex, based on daily information. I appreciate that Rs 
directors appear to have lost faith in HSBC. But, based on the information Ive been 
provided, beyond the issue of the loans having been underfunded, I dont think HSBC has 
made any other errors with how it has calculated the outstanding balances of the loans.
Turning to the main crux of the complaint  the loans being underfunded since 2010 and 
2011  there is no dispute that HSBC made an error. It failed to update Rs contractual 
repayments. HSBC has said that it shouldve increased the repayments to £6,182.82 and 
£1,113.93 respectively. But the repayments claimed each month were £6,042.41 and 
£1,090.10. So, R has ended up paying less than it would have, for a number of years, if no 
error had been made. And the loan balances did not reduce by as much as they should 
have.
So as HSBC has made an error, Ive thought about what it should do to put things right, and 
whether the offer it has made is fair.HSBC initially agreed to write off the additional interest that has been charged on the loans 
as a result of the error and made corresponding amendments to the loan. It has since said 
that it will also write off, and reduce the loan balances by, an amount equivalent to the 
capital that was underpaid from 2010 and 2011 to the point the error was discovered.
Provided that adjustment is backdated to the point that the error was discovered, I think that 
offer is largely fair. It would return Rs loans to the position they shouldve been in had the 
error not occurred.
Rs directors are unhappy that HSBC increased its monthly repayments after discovering this 
error. But I dont think HSBC was entirely wrong to do this. When it was discovered that R 
had been paying less than it should have been, and this was explained to R, I think it is right 
that R would then be required to pay the amount it always should have been, moving 
forward.
Rs directors are unhappy as they say the payments were increased without their 
permission. But I dont think HSBC acted unfairly. As Ive said, R should always have been 
paying more than it was. So, I dont think it was unreasonable of HSBC to make the relevant 
adjustments, even if Rs directors were unhappy with this.
I do though think HSBC has done something wrong. From the information Ive been provided 
it appears that HSBC increased Rs monthly repayments more than it should have in 2020. It 
seems that not only did it increase the payments to the level they should have been, it set 
them higher than this, to £6,528.35 and £1,133.29 respectively. HSBC has said this 
difference - approximately £346 on one loan and £20 on the second above what shouldve 
been charged all along had there been no error in 2010 and 2011 - was intended to pay off 
the capital that the loans had been underfunded by, over the remaining term of the loans. 
But I dont think that was fair. As Ive said, the loans were underfunded due to HSBCs error. 
If they hadnt been underfunded, the payments would never have been at this higher level.
HSBCs offer to write off the underfunded amount, in my opinion, goes a long way to 
addressing the errors made, as it would put the accounts back in the position they wouldve 
been in, had it not been for the initial error in 2010 and 2011. But this doesnt address the 
higher amounts R has paid for some time, since early 2020 compared to what it shouldve 
paid all along. This is what Rs directors have been arguing.
If the account correction HSBC has now proposed had been carried out in 2020, these 
additional amounts would not have been paid. So, I think R is entitled to these, what are 
effectively overpayments, back.
To put things right I think HSBC should offer to return the additional amounts it has charged 
R since 2020 (the difference between what the loan repayments should always have been 
had there been no error and what HSBC charged in order to cover the underfunded amount) 
and pay 8% interest on these amounts, from the point they were charged. If these amounts 
are refunded though, R needs to be aware that the loan balances will increase by an 
equivalent sum. So alternatively, if R chooses, I think it should be allowed to leave these 
amounts as overpayments against the loans.
HSBC offered R £500 for the inconvenience caused by its error. Rs directors have said that 
this does not cover the distress and anxiety caused to them. But in respect of this complaint 
R, a separate legal entity to the directors, is the customer of HSBC and the party that is 
eligible to complain. Rs directors represent it, but in their professional capacity as directors. 
And I wouldnt be asking HSBC to make a payment for the distress caused to the directors in 
their personal capacity.I dont doubt being made aware of these problems was disruptive to Rs business. But based 
on what Ive seen so far, I think the £500 offered to cover this is fair and reasonable.
Responses to my provisional decision
I gave both parties an opportunity to make further comments or send further information 
before I reached a final decision.
HSBC said it had nothing further to add.
R asked me to reconsider certain points. It said it was unaware that reference to the base 
rate meant HSBCs base rate and not that of the Bank of England. It said HSBC had not 
made this clear so had acted unfairly. And R said it felt this was a poor excuse by HSBC for 
not providing a refund  as it felt the difference between the HSBC base rate and that of the 
Bank of England base rate was unreasonable.
R also didnt think it was fair that I was not looking at the distress and inconvenience caused 
to its directors. It said it didnt think these semantics presented by HSBC were reasonable 
and still felt I should make an increased award.
On the point of whether it would prefer the overpayments made to be refunded or remain on 
the loan accounts, it said in order to make this decision it felt HSBC should provide detailed 
calculations of the impact on the loan of each option.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having thought about the matter again and considered everything both parties have said, Im 
not inclined to depart substantially from the overall conclusions in my provisional decision.
To be clear, my provisional findings and my decision here are based on the information Ive 
reviewed from both parties. R has said that HSBC has given an excuse that the base rate 
is its and not that of the Bank of England to avoid having to refund interest. But this isnt 
correct. Ive reviewed the loan agreements R made with HSBC. And both reference the base 
rate being the lenders base rate  in this case HSBC. So, I made that finding, it isnt 
something HSBC has used as an excuse as R put it. 
Neither loan agreement make reference to the Bank of England base rate. And I would 
argue the information contained in the loan agreement was clear about the base rate being 
that of the lender. And again, as I explained in my provisional findings the interest rate on 
Rs loans is in any event an aggregate of more than one component.
So, for the same reasons I explained in my provisional findings, I dont think the interest 
rates on Rs loans failing to follow the Bank of England base rate mean HSBC has made an 
error. As it was not part of the loan agreements that they ever would follow this rate.
R has argued that the HSBC base rate is too high when compared to the Bank of England 
base rate. but as I explained in my provisional findings, this isnt a complaint that has been 
made to HSBC. And it didnt form part of the complaint we were asked to consider when the 
matter was referred to us. So, I wont be commenting on that issue here and R will have to 
raise this with HSBC as a separate complaint if it remains dissatisfied.R has also said it feels the semantics presented by HSBC that R is the customer are not 
reasonable and the impact to the directors is what I should consider when thinking about 
compensation. 
HSBC did not make this argument. This is my view, based on the information that has been 
presented to me. Im satisfied, in respect of the loan agreements that form the basis of this 
complaint, R is the customer, not its directors. So, R is the only eligible complainant. And 
therefore, I can only reasonably consider the impact to it. 
Rs directors have argued that this has gone on for a significant amount of time  and that 
they have suffered further distress and inconvenience since HSBC originally offered to pay 
£500. But again, Im only looking at the impact to R. And while I appreciate that the matter 
has, obviously, been ongoing since that offer was made, that was largely because R wanted 
an independent review of their complaint, not due to the actions of HSBC.
So, taking everything into account, I remain of the opinion that the offer HSBC has made to 
address the inconvenience caused is reasonable.
R has said that before it decides whether to request the overpayments it has made back or 
leave them on the loan accounts, it requires a detailed explanation of the impact of both 
options on the residual loan.
I dont think it is unreasonable that R would want to understand the two options available. 
And I think it would be reasonable for HSBC to provide some calculations to assist it in 
making its decision. I should be clear though that I think it is reasonable that these 
calculations would be limited in scope. 
I dont think it is reasonable to expect HSBC to provide projections until the end of the loan 
term. This is not least because the interest rate can change, so isnt known until the end of 
the term.
But I do think HSBC should provide confirmation of the total amount overpaid in respect of 
each loan, as well as confirming how much interest would be refunded (using the rate of 
8%). I also think it should confirm what the outstanding loan balances would be if the refund 
was made or if the overpaid amounts were left in place. And it should confirm what impact 
this would have on the monthly payments moving forward.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I uphold Rs complaint in part.
To put things right I require HSBC UK Bank Plc to;
Write off an amount equivalent to the underfunding that was caused by HSBCs error 
 as it has already offered to. It should adjust Rs loans to reflect this, with the 
adjustments being put in place as if they had happened in early 2020 when the errors 
were discovered.
Give R the option of either;
oReceiving a refund of the overpayments it has effectively made since early 
2020 (the difference between what the loan repayments should always have 
been had there been no error and what HSBC charged in order to cover the 
underfunded amount) plus 8% interest from the point those overpayments 
were made This will result in the loan balance increasing by an amount equivalent to the overpayments. 
or
oKeeping these overpayments on the loan account.
To assist R in choosing between these options HSBC should provide 
calculations of the amount R has overpaid and the 8% interest that would be 
due and the impact of the two options on the outstanding loan balances and 
ongoing monthly repayments.
Pay R £500 for the inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2022.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman