DRN-3415995
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S held an account with HSBC UK Bank Plc.  They complained that HSBC have 
refused to refund them a payment that they made to a contractor for work that wasnt 
completed.   
 
What happened
Mr and Mrs S employed a building contractor to undertake building and fitting kitchen and 
bedroom furniture at their home. The labour cost was £2500 and in November 2020 they 
paid a £500 deposit to the contractor from an account with another bank.  
In June 2021 they transferred the balance of £2000 from their HSBC account via the mobile 
app to pay the contractor for his labour.  Work was due to commence in September 2021. 
Mr and Mrs S also paid suppliers direct for the materials required by the contractor. They 
made payments of £1544.95 and £888.42 to suppliers using their HSBC credit card. The 
materials were delivered to the contractor, and so Mr and Mrs S never received them, or an 
invoice. 
Around August 2021, Mr and Mrs S got into a dispute with the contractor about the 
continuing delays in starting the work, and the contractor advised them that he was no 
longer willing to complete the work. He also advised that they needed to collect the materials 
from his workshop by September or they would be disposed of. 
The contractor didnt refund Mr and Mrs S and he stopped taking their calls. 
Mr and Mrs S then contacted HSBC and tried to recover the payments they had made. 
They completed three dispute forms for HSBC and received refunds of the two payments 
made to suppliers on their credit card. 
However, HSBC refused to refund the £2000 paid by bank transfer. Mr and Mrs S said that 
they didnt think this was any different as they felt scammed by the contractor. 
HSBC issued a final response in September 2021 in which they said that as the funds had 
been transferred from the account as a bill payment, this type of payment didnt offer any 
kind of protection for customers. They viewed the matter as a civil dispute and it would need 
to be addressed through the courts.  
Mr and Mrs S were unhappy with this response and brought their complaint to us. 
One of our investigators looked into it and he didnt think HSBC had done anything wrong.  
    
Mr and Mrs S disagreed with our investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision, so it has come to me to review.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have not upheld the complaint and I will explain my reasons below. 
I have reviewed all information provided by both Mr and Mrs S and the business. 
Mr and Mrs S consider that this is a scam situation because the contractor has asked for 
payment in advance, and then following a dispute has told them he will not be starting or 
completing the job. 
They dont think this is any different to asking for the refund in respect of the materials, which 
they paid for on a HSBC credit card. 
However, having listened to the calls that Mr and Mrs Ss daughter made to HSBC regarding 
this, and read the information provided on the dispute forms, I dont agree. It is clear that the 
contractor was employed to do a job but that the relationship broke down between the 
parties. The contractor had delayed in starting the work, which upset Mr and Mrs S, and in 
turn the contractor withdrew his labour. The contractor advised Mr and Mrs S that he was no 
longer willing to complete the work, and he believes he is entitled to keep at least a portion 
of the payment made for time he has spent on the project so far and has refused to return 
the money. 
Whist this will have been extremely upsetting for Mr and Mrs S, this isnt a scam, but a civil 
dispute between the parties about whether work was completed and is a matter for the 
courts to resolve. I appreciate that Mr and Mrs S may be reluctant to go down this route 
because of the expense involved, but unfortunately that is their only recourse. We arent able 
to direct that a payment is refunded as in order to do so a decision would need to be made 
about whether a contract was or wasnt fulfilled by a contractor, and that is outside or 
jurisdiction. 
Mrs and Mrs S have raised the issue that they cannot understand why the payments to the 
suppliers have been refunded when they are part of the same contract. 
However, the payments made by credit card are different, as there is additional protection 
afforded to the customer under the Consumer Credit Act when goods are not supplied, as in 
this situation. And so, HSBC were able to refund Mr and Mrs Ss credit card payments.    
 
In view of the above, I agree with the investigator that HSBC havent done anything wrong 
and I wont be asking them to refund Mr and Mrs S.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint 
about HSBC Bank Plc.   
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 June 2022.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman