DRN-4331435
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Hubener Versicherungs AG declined her claim on her property owners 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs H owned a property that she rents out to tenants. She bought property owners 
insurance for it that was underwritten by Hubener. 
In April 2022 the tenant reported a problem with the bathroom floor. They said it was uneven 
and springy to walk on. Mrs H tried to instruct a contractor but had issues securing someone 
to come out and look at the damage. In August 2022 she found a contractor who took up the 
floor to inspect the issue. They found that there was a leak from a pipe under the floor that 
had caused the timbers below to become sodden.
Mrs H made a claim on her insurance but Hubener declined it. It said the problem had been 
caused by wet rot and had happened gradually overtime. And both of these causes were 
excluded in the policy. It also said the policy says Mrs H must contact it within 14 days of 
damage that may lead to a claim. And she hadnt done that so she was in breach of this 
condition. 
Mrs H didnt think this was fair as she said shed been unable to get a contractor to attend 
until August 2022 but that the damage hadnt got worse in this time. She made a complaint 
but Hubener didnt uphold it, so she brought it to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld as he said Hubener had done 
enough to prove a policy exclusion would apply. Unhappy with this, Mrs H asked for the 
complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When an insurance claim is made, its first for the insured to show that theres been a peril 
that is covered under the policy. Its then for the insurer to either accept the claim or prove a 
policy exclusion or condition would apply.
Here Mrs Hs policy lists the insured perils as follows:
Fire; lightning; explosion; aircraft or other aerial devices or articles dropped from them; riot; 
civil commotion; strikers; locked-out workers; persons taking part in labour disturbances; 
malicious persons (other than thieves); earthquake; storm; flood; escape of water or oil from 
any tank apparatus or pipe; impact by any road vehicle or animal; theft or attempted theft; 
subsidence, landslip or heave.
Here, there was an escape of water from a pipe, so there has been an insured peril as listed 
in the policy. 
It is therefore for Hubener to show an exclusion would apply. The exclusion its relied on is 
as follows:
wear and tear; frost; wet or dry rot; dampness or dryness; or any other gradually operating 
cause;
Its said it considers the cause to have been wet rot and that its happened over time. Both of 
which are listed in the extract above as excluded from cover.
Hubuner has provided the report and a video from its loss adjuster who attended the 
property to inspect the damage. The report stated as follows:
a large portion of the floor where all the floorboards and joists are rotten and have had to 
be removed and replaced.
The video reflects this position, as it shows the timbers beneath the floor are sodden with 
water and have gone rotten. 
From this, I think Hubener has done enough to show that the cause was gradually operating. 
The level of damage shown in the video wouldnt happen straight away and the rot that had 
developed would have occurred over a long period of time. 
Further, Mrs H has said that the problem with the bathroom flooring was reported to her in 
April 2022. But a contractor didnt come out until four months later in August. There is a 
condition in the policy that states as follows:
It is a condition precedent to Our liability under this policy that You shall:
(i) advise Us within fourteen days of any Damage, accident or injury which may give rise to a 
claim
While I appreciate what Mrs H has said about the difficulties she experienced when finding a 
contractor, she still had the obligation under the policy to inform Hubener of the problem with 
the floor. As I think it would have been clear this may have given rise to a claim, even before 
the exact problem was known. Further due to the nature of the issue  an ongoing leak  its 
likely that throughout this time the issue was getting worse under the floorboards. And had 
Mrs H contacted Hubener about the issue, it could have assisted in appointing a contractor. I 
therefore think Hubener has also acted fairly by relying on this condition in the policy.
For these reasons, Im persuaded that Hubuner has acted fairly and reasonably by declining 
Mrs Hs claim. I therefore wont ask it to do anything differently. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mrs Hs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman