DRN-3235766
The complaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him a packaged bank account (PBA). 
What happened
Mr B says he remembers going into a branch and a member of staff telling him that taking 
out a packaged bank account would give him a better credit rating or credit card. He says he 
never agreed to this and was unaware of the account fee. 
Mr B had had a bank account with Barclays since 2006. This was fee-free until it was 
changed, in 2011, to a Current Account Plus. This was a packed bank account which, in 
return for a monthly fee, came with benefits such as mobile phone insurance, extended 
warranty cover and an interest free overdraft up to £300 (if approved). A few years later 
Barclays decided to discontinue Current Account Plus accounts. So it told Mr B it would 
migrate his account to the nearest equivalent, which was a Barclays Bank Account with a 
Tech Pack. Barclays wrote in advance to tell Mr B about this, and the changeover 
happened in May 2016. 
Our adjudicator said we couldnt look at the main part of the complaint, which was about the 
sale of the PBA. She said this was because there are rules about time limits, which stop us 
from looking at some complaints. The adjudicator explained that, because of the time limits, 
we couldnt look at the actual sale of the PBA in 2011, and that the migration in 2016 wasnt 
a sale. 
Mr B asked the adjudicator to look at what happened in 2016. The adjudicator did that, but 
said she thought the information Barclays sent Mr B in 2016 had explained what was 
happening, including telling Mr B he could change or close the account. 
Mr B said he would like us to investigate further, and so the matter has been passed to me 
to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On our website, weve set out our approach to packaged bank accounts. Ive kept that 
approach in mind when considering this case.
I should emphasise that Im only looking at what happened during the migration of 
accounts in 2016. That wasnt when the PBA was actually sold, which was 2011. For the 
reasons explained above, Im not looking at what happened in 2011. 
I think that Barclays gave Mr B reasonable information about the migration in 2016, 
including information about alternative accounts, which included a free option. 
So Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2022.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman