DRN-3779959
The complaint
Mr H complains Revolut Ltd (Revolut) blocked access to his account without a reason, 
causing him inconvenience. 
What happened
In April 2022, Revolut restricted Mr Hs account. He says by doing so he couldnt access 
funds he had earmarked to use over that period for an important religious festival. 
Through its online chat facility, Mr H was told that as part of its standard security verification, 
Revolut needed to ask him some questions to fulfil its Know Your Customer (KYC) 
obligations. Mr H was then asked if he had lived, worked, or was in any way associated to a 
town in the United Kingdom. Mr H replied he wasnt. 
Two days after the block, Mr H was given access to his account and any funds held in it. 
Unhappy with Revoluts actions, Mr H complained. Revolut did not uphold Mr Hs complaint, 
but as a gesture of goodwill it refunded the account subscription which he had paid that 
month.
Amongst other things, Revolut said, as a regulated institution, it can place limitations on an 
account due to security processes it has in place. It also explained this was done in line with 
the terms of the account and in line with its obligations to its regulators. 
Mr H referred his complaint to this service. One of our Investigators looked into his 
complaint, and in summary they found that Revolut isnt always able to provide a definitive 
explanation for blocking an account. They added that Revolut acted in line with the terms 
and conditions of the account, and that it acted in a timely manner. 
Mr H did not agree with what our Investigator said. In summary, he made the following 
points: 
- Revolut didnt have a reasonable concern in line with what its terms say. And if it did, 
a more in-depth investigation should have taken place - and not just answering yes 
or no to a question 
- He was told the checks were in line with KYC obligations but also that it was carrying 
them out to meet legal obligations 
- Revolut could have carried out the checks without inconveniencing him 
- Taking two days to carry out its checks, whilst not giving him any opportunity to do 
anything to unblock it, was unfair. Mr H should have been given an opportunity to 
resolve the issue immediately
As Mr H didnt agree with what our Investigator said, the complaint has now been passed to 
me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint. I know this will disappoint him, 
so Ill explain why. 
Regulated business in the UK, like Revolut, are strictly regulated and must take certain 
actions in order to meet their legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry 
out ongoing monitoring of an existing business relationship. That sometimes means they 
need to restrict, or in some cases go as far as closing, customers accounts.
Revolut has provided me with information which shows why it took the actions it did. Our 
rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat evidence from regulated 
businesses as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if it contains security 
information, or commercially sensitive information. Some of the information Revolut has 
provided is information that we consider should be kept confidential.
Having looked at the information Ive been sent, Im satisfied Revolut has done nothing 
wrong by restricting Mr Hs account and asking him a question as part of its due diligence. 
Im also satisfied Revolut has acted in line with the terms of the account, and wider legal and 
regulatory obligations it must adhere to. It follows that Im persuaded Revolut had 
reasonable concerns. 
I know Mr H would like an explanation. But neither Revolut, nor I, are under any obligation, 
that Im aware of, to do so. I understand the distinction Mr H is drawing between being told 
the review was because of KYC checks  and that Revolut is required in law to do so. But 
the KYC obligations, a regulated firm must observe form part of its wider regulatory and legal 
obligations. So, even though its arguable theyre not intrinsically the same, they do form part 
of its legal obligations. 
Mr H says Revolut couldve resolved this issue much sooner. But having looked at the time 
frame in which it implemented the restriction, carried out its investigation and then unblocked 
the account, Im satisfied Revolut caused no undue delay.  
It's of course unfortunate Revoluts actions inconvenienced, and undoubtedly wouldve 
caused Mr H some distress at an important time for him. But as its done nothing wrong, I 
dont think it needs to compensate Mr H for any trouble and upset caused.  
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman