DRN-3432678
The complaint
This is a complaint that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold payment protection 
insurance (PPI) to Mrs J. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 2002. RBS sold Mrs J the policy 
when she filled out a leaflet to apply for the credit card. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mrs J disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Mrs J has said she would have ticked the box to apply for the PPI because she thought she 
had to have it, or because she thought taking PPI would give her a better chance of getting 
the credit card. I cant know now, so many years later, whether RBS staff said something to 
Mrs J that made her think that at the time. But I have seen a copy of the credit card 
application that Mrs J filled in, and the form does set out the PPI as a choice; and theres 
nothing, at least on the form, that suggests it improves your chance of getting the credit card. 
So I dont have enough evidence to uphold Mrs Js complaint on this point. 
Mrs J has said she didnt need the PPI. So Ive looked at the information RBS gave Mrs J at 
the time. 
I dont think RBS formally recommended the PPI to Mrs J, in the sense of making her believe 
it had done an assessment of her needs and that PPI fitted those needs. Instead I think it 
just told her about the PPI and suggested it was a useful product  it would then have been 
for Mrs J to make up her own mind over whether it was worth the cost. 
So that she could make that decision, RBS needed to give her enough information. But, 
given that this happened about 20 years ago, I cant know exactly what it told her. The credit 
card application itself didnt give enough information. 
So Ive thought about how likely it is that better information, about costs and benefits, would 
have made her decide against taking  the PPI. And I cant say that it would have. 
I say this because, in her circumstances, its unlikely this would have made the PPI seem 
less useful. The PPI would have paid out on top of any work sick or redundancy pay she 
received, and could have made Mrs J more financially secure if she lost earnings due to 
long-term sickness or redundancy. It would have put off the time when shed need to fall 
back on savings or other help. And it doesnt look like shed have been affected by any of the 
significant exclusions in the policy. 
My conclusions mean that RBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs J. 
But RBS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs J because: 
RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs J about that. Because RBS didnt tell Mrs J, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, RBS has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs J.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does have to pay back to Mrs J any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already 
done this, and so Im not awarding any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman