DRN-3588486
The complaint
Mrs S complains that a car that was supplied to her under a conditional sale agreement with 
Moneybarn No. 1 Limited, trading as Moneybarn, wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in June 2022 in which I described what had 
happened as follows:
A used car was supplied to Mrs S under a conditional sale agreement with 
Moneybarn that she electronically signed in October 2020. She had some issues with 
the car within a week of it being supplied to her which were dealt with by the dealer. 
She had some other issues with the car in February 2021 so she complained to 
Moneybarn and she took the car to a garage which repaired the car at the cost of the 
dealer. She complained to Moneybarn that an engine management warning light had 
returned in May 2021.
Moneybarn arranged for the car to be inspected by an independent expert in June 
2021 and a defect with the diesel particulate filter was identified. Moneybarn upheld 
her complaint as the dealer had accepted responsibility for the initial problem but said 
that the diesel articulate filter was a wear and tear issue.
Mrs S had a further issue with an engine management warning light in July 2021 so 
she complained to Moneybarn again and she also complained to this service. 
Moneybarn arranged another independent inspection of the car which confirmed that 
there was a fault code which pertained to the diesel particulate filter operation.
Our investigator recommended that Mrs Ss complaint should be upheld. He said that 
it seemed likely that there was a fault with the car as the inspection report had 
confirmed an issue with the diesel particulate filter and Mrs S had advised of ongoing 
engine management warning light issues. He thought that the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mrs S and that it was now fair for her to 
be able to reject the car.
He recommended that Moneybarn should: end the agreement and collect the car; 
refund Mrs Ss deposit of £3,000 with interest; pay her £150 for any distress or 
inconvenience thats been caused; and remove any adverse information from Mrs Ss 
credit file in relation to the agreement. He also said that if Mrs S wanted to remain in 
the car Moneybarn should pay for a replacement diesel particulate filter.
Moneybarn has accepted those recommendations but Mrs S says that the cars been 
repaired, for which she paid £576 and shed prefer to keep it due to issues with her 
credit score.
I set out my provisional findings in that provisional decision which were that this complaint 
should be upheld for these reasons:
Moneybarn, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it was of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mrs S - whether or not it was of 
satisfactory quality at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the age 
and mileage of the car and the price that was paid for it;
the car that was supplied to Mrs S was more than six years old, had been driven for 
91,950 miles and had a price of £8,000;
satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within 
the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long 
that time is will also depend on a number of factors;
its clear that there were some issues with the car soon after it was supplied to Mrs S 
and again in February 2021  and the car needed a new fuel vaporiser and a diesel 
particulate filter regeneration;
those issues were repaired but, after the repair in May 2021, there was another 
engine management warning light  the car was then inspected by an independent 
expert in June 2021 and a defect with the diesel particulate filter was identified  the 
cars mileage was recorded as 94,709 miles in the inspection report;
Moneybarn upheld Mrs Ss complaint because of the initial issues with the car which 
had been repaired but said that the diesel particulate filter was a wear and tear issue;
Mrs S complained to it about another engine management light issue in July 2021 
and Moneybarn arranged another independent inspection of the car;
the inspection report confirmed that there was a fault code pertaining to the diesel 
particulate filter operation and recorded the cars mileage as 95,199 miles;
the diesel particulate filter was regenerated in May 2021 but the independent expert 
identified a defect with it in June 2021 and the inspection in July 2021 confirmed that 
there was a fault code pertaining to the diesel particulate filter operation;
although the car was more than six years old and had a mileage of 91,950 miles 
when it was supplied to Mrs S, I dont consider that its reasonable to expect a car 
that was supplied under a conditional sale agreement to have ongoing issues with its 
diesel particulate filter and engine management warning light that started about three 
months after the car was supplied;
I consider it to be more likely than not that those issues were present or developing 
when the car was supplied to Mrs S and I consider that the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality at that time;
the diesel particulate filter has been regenerated and other repairs have been made 
to the car  and I dont consider that the fault with the diesel particulate filter is a wear 
and tear issue;
Mrs S paid £576 in May 2022 for repairs to the car which included removing and 
cleaning all sensors, sending the car for a nitrogen deep clean and regenerating the 
diesel particulate filter  the cars mileage was recorded at that time as 98,398 miles;
Moneybarn accepted our investigators recommendation that Mrs S should be able to 
reject the car but she says that shed prefer to keep it and to be reimbursed for the 
repair costs;
I consider that its fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Mrs S to keep the 
car and for Moneybarn to pay her £576 to reimburse her those repair costs; and
these events have clearly caused distress and inconvenience for Mrs S and I find 
that it would also be fair and reasonable for Moneybarn to pay her £150 to 
compensate her for that distress and inconvenience.Both Mrs S and Moneybarn have said that they have nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both Mrs S and Moneybarn have said that they have nothing further to add, I see no 
reason to change the findings that I set out in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Moneybarn to take the actions described in my 
provisional decision and as set out below.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mrs Ss complaint and I order Moneybarn No. 1 Limited, trading 
as Moneybarn, to:
1. Pay £576 to Mrs S to reimburse her for the repair costs that she incurred in May 
2022.
2. Pay £150 to Mrs S to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience that shes 
been caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2022.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman