DRN-3793407
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with the increased cost of his income protection plan from Scottish Widows 
Limited.
What happened
In 1993, Mr M took out income protection with Scottish Widows. His plan had an investment 
element to it whereby Scottish Widows would invest part of his premium into a managed 
fund, which could provide a lump sum upon either completion of the plan, or its surrender. 
Mr Ms complaint is about the value of his plan, which he thought should be greater than it is 
currently. Mr M said when he first took the plan, a greater amount of his monthly premium 
was invested into the fund, compared with the amount invested now. He said Scottish 
Widows has unfairly increased the cost of his protection plan so that less money is invested 
into the fund. 
Scottish Widows said the plan is primarily to cover him in case illness or disability prevents 
him from working. It said this isnt a savings plan and therefore any lump sum available at 
the end of the plan is unlikely to be a high figure. Scottish Widows also said it hadnt 
increased its administration costs throughout the lifetime of the plan and that increases were 
based on the amount indemnified, which is the benefit payable upon receipt of a valid claim. 
Our investigator said policy pricing isnt an area this service can comment on. She said that 
remained part of Scottish Widows commercial discretion. However, she also didnt consider 
there to be any evidence of Scottish Widows increasing the price of Mr Ms policy unfairly. 
Mr M disagreed. He explained the policy had been mis-sold and that hes out of pocket 
because Scottish Widows invested a lesser amount of his premium into the fund, meaning 
the cash value of the plan was unlikely to increase as much as it did in the beginning 
because less money was being invested. And so, its now for me to make a final decision on 
whether Scottish Widows has treated Mr M unfairly by doing this.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. My reasons for doing so are similar to those 
already explained by our investigator in that Im satisfied Scottish Widows hasnt made 
unjustifiable, or unfair increases to the cost of Mr Ms cover. Ill explain why. 
Mr Ms policy was initially on an increasing benefit basis until 2016, when he asked it to cap 
the monthly cost of his policy, to help him manage his costs. Scottish Widows agreed to this 
and so Mr Ms monthly premium wouldnt increase. From the premium it received, Scottish 
Widows would deduct the cost of Mr Ms income protection policy, its management fees and 
the remainder would then be invested into the fund. 
And so, although Mr M asked Scottish Widows to effectively cap the monthly premium so it 
wouldnt increase, that doesnt mean the cost of insuring Mr M stood static. As the cost of his 
income protection increased, and the premium remained the same, it meant there was less 
money left to invest into the fund. 
Like with all income protection plans, the cost to protect consumers usually increases each 
year as the risk associated with this also increases. Thats to say the older we get, the more 
susceptible we are to illnesses and diseases. Insurers, like Scottish Widows, to cover for this 
eventuality, increase costs associated with protecting consumers, like Mr M, as a claim is 
more likely. 
There are other factors that affect the cost of the policy including the sum at risk. When Mr M 
first took the policy, the amount protected was much smaller because he was paid less. And 
so, like I said earlier, there was more money left from his premium to invest into the fund. 
The amount protected is far greater now than it was back then, which is another reason the 
cost of his income protection is greater. 
As our investigator explained, the ombudsman is unable to tell Scottish Widows what it 
should charge its customers. But I can consider whether its increased the cost of its policies 
unfairly and from the evidence Ive seen, Im not persuaded thats the case here. In addition, 
I thought it also worth noting that the investment value of Mr Ms plan is not guaranteed. 
Investments can go up or down and this is stated within the policy terms. 
Mr M subsequently made other arguments about the policy being mis-sold. To be clear, Ive 
not considered that element of his complaint as Im satisfied thats not the complaint he 
made to Scottish Widows at the time. Should Mr M want the ombudsman to consider that, he 
should first raise it separately outside of this complaint.   
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons Ive explained.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2023.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman