DRN-3722772
The complaint
Mr B complains that Ikano Bank AB (publ), has not upheld the claim he made under section 
75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar panel system he says 
was misrepresented to him by the supplier (which Ill call S).
Mr B is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In August 2018, Mr B purchased a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his 
home. Mr B financed the purchase through a fixed sum loan agreement with Ikano that was 
repayable over ten years.
In April 2016, the CMC made a claim on Mr Bs behalf under section 75 of the Act to Ikano. 
The CMC said that the supplier had made a number of representations about the system 
that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had induced Mr 
B to enter into the contract.
The CMC said the following misrepresentations had been made:
The system was self-funding and would pay for itself.
The feed-in tariff (FIT) income and electricity savings would cover the monthly loan 
repayments.
Ikano acknowledged the complaint but did not issue a final response letter that dealt with the 
issues raised. The CMC then referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our adjudicator initially upheld the complaint, but Ikano disagreed. So, the complaint was 
passed to me.
I issued a provisional decision explaining that I was not planning to uphold this complaint. 
And giving Mr B and Ikano the opportunity to provide any further comments, information, or 
evidence they wanted me to consider. 
The CMC responded to say it disagreed. Among other things, it said:
It does not think the estimates would enable Mr B to make a comparison of the costs 
and the benefits of the system. 
It says that Mr B relied on what he was told, which he was entitled to do. It isnt Mr 
Bs responsibility to verify this information by looking at the sales documents. 
From the information in the quotation/order form it is clear that the solar panel system 
will never be self-funding, therefore even if you are satisfied that Mr B was told his 
system would be self-funding at some point in the future, it is clear that this is not true 
either.
The quotation/order form post-dates our client entering into the loan agreement, 
which was signed on 15 April 2016. So, hed already agreed to purchase the system 
before the quotation/order form was prepared/signed.
Ikano did not provide anything further for me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mr B paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Ikano agrees that section 75 
applies to this transaction. This means that Mr B could claim against Ikano, the creditor, for 
any misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier in the same way he could have 
claimed against S. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is fair in the 
circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr B and 
the supplier are deemed to have been conducted by S as an agent of Ikano.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or their agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both The CMC and Ikano. These 
include the credit agreement and quotation/order form.
The quotation/order form is a two-page document which sets out key information about the 
system, the expected annual generation, first-year benefits, and technical information. Im 
satisfied that it formed a central part of the sales process (as it appears to have been 
completed and signed by hand during the sales meeting) and is therefore relevant, alongside 
Mr Bs recollection of the sale, when considering if there have been any untrue statements of 
fact.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, the 
total amount payable, the term of the loan and the monthly loan repayments. 
Quotation/order form
The quotation/order form set out the cost of the system and its expected first-year benefits. 
I think the quotation/order form is clear that the system would cost £8,500.00, which would 
be funded in full by a loan. It refers to this as finance: £8,500.00. I think Mr B wouldve 
understood this given he agreed at the same meeting to fund the purchase using the loan 
from Ikano.I think it is also clear that the first-year benefit of the system was expected to total £459.31. 
This figure includes FIT payments and the value of electricity savings. I think it is clear from 
this that the system would not be self-funding. For a ten-year loan of £8,500.00, the 
repayments would be at least £850.00 per year. 
Even without loan interest, this is significantly more than the total first year benefit quoted of 
£459.31. I think this two-page document was an integral part of the sale and these figures 
would most likely have been discussed with Mr B as they were being written on the form.
So, I think it is unlikely that the salesperson wouldve misrepresented the solar panel system 
in the way Mr B has alleged.
The CMC has implied that Mr B wouldnt have agreed to buy the system if he was told it was 
not immediately self-funding. But, it appears he agreed to pay £1,325.04 per year in loan 
repayments when he was told the financial benefit of the system in the first year would be 
just £459.31. In doing so, he wouldve been expecting to make a net contribution in the first 
year of at least £865.73. So, I think Mr B ought to have been aware that the system would 
not be immediately self-funding.
The CMCs additional comments
The CMC appears to make contradictory arguments  on the one hand, that the 
quotation/order form would not enable Mr B to make a comparison of the costs and the 
benefits of the system. And on the other, that the information in that document is clear that 
the system will never be self-funding. 
I have taken into account what Mr B says he was told  that the system would be 
immediately self-funding, in that the benefits would cover the monthly loan repayments. But, 
given the available evidence, I have concluded that it is unlikely that Mr B was told this when 
being talked through a document which clearly showed that wasnt true. So, my findings are 
not that Mr B was told the system would be self-funding from the start, but rather that he was 
talked through the quotation/order form including the costs and benefits, from which it 
wouldve been clear the system was not immediately self-funding because the benefits 
would not cover the loan repayments in the first year. 
With regards the quotation/order form being signed after the loan agreement was signed, Im 
not persuaded by the CMCs argument. I accept that Mr B may not have seen the 
quotation/order form before he signed for the loan. But I dont think you can reasonably say 
the sale was agreed (other than in principle) until the point Mr B signed the quotation/order 
form  since that formed the contract between Mr B and the supplier. Up until that point, Mr 
B could easily have changed his mind, and without his signature on that form the supplier 
would not have been obliged to install the system. 
Although the loan agreement was signed earlier, the loan would not be executed (that is the 
supplier paid the money and Mr B having to repay Ikano) until Mr B signed a form confirming 
satisfactory installation of the system. So, Mr B couldve declined to purchase the system 
after discussing the quotation/order form with the salesperson. He then couldve cancelled 
the loan agreement. 
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im 
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by the supplier that induced Mr B 
to enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this 
complaint.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman