DRN-4403040
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that National Savings and Investments (NS&I) sent a letter meant for him 
to an incorrect address.
What happened
Mr H was in dispute with NS&I and sent them a letter advising that he planned to commence 
legal proceedings against them. NS&I responded and sent a letter of acknowledgement to 
Mr H. However, they used an incorrect house number on the letter, meaning that it was 
received by another household on the street on which Mr H lives. Mr H wasnt happy about 
this, so he raised a complaint.
NS&I responded to Mr H and apologised for incorrectly addressing the letter theyd sent to 
him. NS&I also referred Mr H to the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) if he believed 
his data rights had been infringed because of what had happened. Mr H wasnt satisfied with 
NS&Is response and felt that they should pay him £100 compensation because of their 
mistake. So, he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt the response that NS&I had 
issued to Mr H already represented a fair resolution to what had happened. Mr H remained 
dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. Instead, this service is an informal, impartial 
dispute resolution service. And while we do take relevant law and regulation into account 
when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed on determining whether we feel a fair or 
unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial perspective, after taking all the factors and 
circumstances of a complaint into consideration.
NS&I dont dispute that they sent the letter in question to an incorrect address. And NS&I 
have apologised to Mr H for this and referred him to the ICO  the relevant regulatory body 
in this instance  if he feels that his data rights have been breached. This seems reasonable 
to me, and I dont feel NS&I should fairly be instructed to pay £100 compensation to Mr H as 
he would like.
One reason I say this is because, while the letter was sent to the incorrect address, the 
content of the letter was such that it appears to have had very little potential impact on Mr H. 
Indeed, the body of the letter was only two sentences long, as follows:
I write with reference to your letter dated 30 January 2023, addressed to [specific 
person]. 
On the basis that you are no longer an NS&I customer, having recently cashed in 
your Premium Bonds, NS&I staff and the staff of our agents will no longer enter into 
any correspondence with you directly.
Given the content of the letter, as quoted above, I dont feel that it included any information 
about Mr H that could have been potentially impactful. And because of this I feel that the 
apology that NS&I have already issued to Mr H does represent a fair outcome to this 
complaint.
Finally, as alluded to earlier, it isnt within my remit to issue a decision about whether a 
potential breach of personal data has or hasnt taken place. That would be a matter for the 
ICO to consider  to whom Mr H has already been referred.
All of which means that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing NS&I to take any 
further action. I trust that Mr H will understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the 
final decision here that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman