DRN-3118643
The complaint
Mrs M complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as First Direct has made several errors
with her regular savings account and provided her with poor customer service.
What happened
Mrs M opened a regular saver with First Direct. In January 2020, £300 was transferred into
the account with the expectation that there would be a standing order for £300 crediting the
regular saver account around the sixth of the month. This would continue until the final
payment would be made in December 2020.
Mrs M noticed that there were two standing orders which credited the regular savings
account on 6 February 2020 and two on 6 March 2020, so she contacted First Direct to
rectify this. £600 was debited from the regular saver, so she would remain eligible for the
interest payable in January 2021.
Mrs M realised that her last payment, her December 2020 payment, had not credited her
account, so she says she contacted First Direct through their messenger service. As she
had not heard back from them, she made a complaint to First Direct the following day on the
phone.
The call handler said that the last payment was due to go out on 15 December 2020, but he
couldnt explain why it was not around the sixth of the month like the previous payments. He
said it was a bank error so offered Mrs M £25 compensation for this. Mrs M said it didnt
reflect the multiple errors or her time shes spent bringing this to their attention so she felt
she would want at least double this. After checking with a colleague, the call handler
returned with a final offer of £40 and told Mrs M that the complaint would be closed. Mrs M
asked for contact details for First Directs executive team as she was not happy with the
resolution of her complaint.
Mrs M sent First Direct an email on 12 December and marked it for the attention to the Chief
Executive Officer (CEO). She had no response to the email so sent another email on 18
December 2020 to express how disappointed she was that her previous email wasnt even
acknowledged.
First Direct said that Mrs M had sent the initial email to an incorrect email address, so they
hadnt received it. But the email she sent on 18 December was correctly sent to the CEO.
Mrs M received a reply on 11 January 2021 where First Direct stated they replied within their
timescales for responding to complaints. They also said that they werent convinced First
Direct had set up both of the standing orders. First Direct apologised for the inconvenience
that Mrs M had in contacting them regarding the December payment and credited £50
compensation to her account for the error.
Mrs M brought her complaint to our service. She said that First Direct had made multiple
errors and she had received poor customer service when raising her complaint and after she
had raised her complaint. Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. She said that for the
duplicate standing order, on the balance of probabilities, this wasnt a bank error as it
contained a different reference to the standing order First Direct say they set up.
Our investigator said that the complaint call handler acknowledged that the December
payment not being paid when it shouldve been paid was a bank error and the £50 First
Direct credited to her account was fair for their error based on the interest being calculated
correctly, there was no financial impact on Mrs M. Our investigator also felt that First Direct
were polite, responded within their timescales regarding the complaint raised with the CEO
and credited her with the compensation she indicated she was looking for on the initial
phone call with the complaint handler. Mrs M asked for an Ombudsman to review her
complaint.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs M has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything
shes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be
focusing on the crux of her complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
Both parties dont agree on several points. So Ive looked at all of the information available to
me in order to decide what is more likely to have happened and when, on balance of all the
evidence here.
On the balance of probabilities, its likely that First Direct originally set up only one standing
order and not two standing orders. I say this because First Direct have confirmed that part of
the reference on one of the standing orders was not something which they would include on
their standing order references.
Ive looked at First Directs website for the regular savings account and in the frequently
asked questions section it states that First Direct would set up the standing order. Mrs M
was also told this on the phone. So what I would expect First Direct to do if they had
duplicated the standing order they set up is for the details to be exactly the same. But as
previously mentioned, the references were different and therefore, on the balance of
probabilities Im persuaded that First Direct only set up one standing order.
I listened to the call which Mrs M had with First Direct in March regarding the duplicate
standing order. The call handler speaks to another colleague and explains there are a
couple of options of how they could help Mrs M and it was agreed that one of the standing
orders would be cancelled and the overpayments would be transferred to her current
account. Ive heard no evidence of any poor customer service on the call. Although the call
handler didnt know why there was two standing orders, an amicable solution was found and
the call time (excluding any time on hold) was slightly over six minutes.
Next Ive considered why the standing order wasnt paid in December. This is where Im
persuaded that First Direct have made an error. On the balance of probabilities, one (or
both) of the standing orders were set up incorrectly for the last payment to be taken in
November. And thats why it didnt credit the regular saver account around the sixth of the
month as it normally would do. So on 11 December, Mrs M used the messenger service to
query this with First Direct. And although they didnt respond to her that day, Im persuaded
that they amended the standing order to 15 December as that was the earliest the standing
order could be reinstated, for the final payment (two working days time).
But when Mrs M rang up the following day to complain about what had happened, Im
persuaded that the call handler will have seen on the system by that time that the standingorder was scheduled for 15 December, so it didnt look like the standing order finished in
November from the information Im persuaded he saw.
I asked First Direct to send me any messages that they had from or to Mrs M from 11
December. But they said that there had been no previous messages. Im satisfied that there
were messages as Mrs M has provided me the message which says Good afternoon Mrs
M. I'm very sorry this final payment hasn't been made. It looks like the Standing Order was
set to finish in November instead of December. This is our mistake. I have set up a payment
of £300 to debit your 1st account in 2 working days time (Tuesday 15th) to rectify this. Your
Regular Saver will then have the maximum £3600 balance, and will mature on 6th of
January. I have made sure that the interest will be calculated as if the December payment
had gone through on the 6th too. So you won't miss out on interest because of this later
payment.
First Direct told me that a representative had went into Mrs Ms accounts on 11 December,
so I think its likely the member of staff had amended the standing order prior to Mrs Ms
phone call as the standing order record I was provided with shows the standing order was
last amended on 11 December. So I do think on the balance of probabilities, the staff
member who picked up Mrs Ms chat message actioned this for her on 11 December but
didnt leave adequate notes on Mrs Ms account for other departments to realise what
happened.
I say this as the following day, when Mrs M contacts First Direct as she hadnt received a
response at that time (even though the standing order appeared to have been amended the
previous day), the call handler cant explain why the last standing order is due to go into the
account on 15 December as opposed to in or around the sixth of the month.
Ive listened to the calls Mrs M had on 12 December to see if she received poor customer
service. But Im not persuaded that she has. I say this as although there is a
misunderstanding about what Mrs M is saying to the call handlers about the interest she
would receive if the payment would have credited the account on 6 December as opposed to
15 December, the call handler reassures Mrs M that hes put a note on the system to ensure
that she receives the full interest as if the payment had been made around 6 December.
Although Mrs M was concerned that the call handler asked her to ring back if the interest
wasnt correct, he had mentioned on several occasions that it would be correct. As he left
the note on the system, Im persuaded that the call handler told Mrs M this to let her know in
the unlikely event the interest wouldnt be correct, then they would rectify this.
But in reality, from the message Mrs M received later from the messaging service, it appears
that the messenger member of staff had went into the system to ensure the interest would 
be correct. And she had written confirmation confirming this. So Im not persuaded that the
call handler saying she could ring back if the interest was incorrect had an impact on the
events here as First Direct confirmed that the interest would calculated accurately. The call
handler was polite and apart from the call handler misunderstanding regarding how the
interest would be calculated if a payment was made at a later time of the month, Im not
persuaded that he gave poor customer service when raising her complaint, even when they
couldnt agree on the compensation amount, the call handler was respectful and explained
that was the most he could offer.
On the call where Mrs M raised the complaint, she was initially offered £25 compensation.
Mrs M indicated that she would want at least double that to resolve the complaint and the
call handler checked with a colleague and offered £40 which Mrs M didnt accept.
Ive also considered what Mrs M has said about the customer service when sending followup emails to First Direct about her complaint. Ive seen that First Direct had responded to
say that they had responded within their timescales and a holding letter was sent to her on
21 December. Although Mrs M had not had immediate replies from First Direct they had
responded to her within reasonable timescales. So Im not persuaded that theyve made an
error here or provided poor customer service.
As First Direct have admitted that there was an error on their part with Decembers standing
order, then what I would expect First Direct to do here is to recognise the impact that this
error would have on Mrs M, apologise and pay her compensation. Mrs M asked for at least
£50 when she raised the complaint. First Direct originally offered £25, then £40 and then £50
for the error. Im persuaded that this amount is fair.
I say this because if First Direct had not upheld Mrs Ms complaint then this is broadly what I
would have awarded her for the inconvenience of having to contact First Direct to let them
know the December payment hadnt been taken. But Im not persuaded that its reasonable
to award any further compensation as First Direct responded within their timescales to Mrs
M, rectified her issue by 12 December (and possibly on 11 December from when the
standing order appears to have been amended) and Im not persuaded they gave poor
customer service on the three calls Ive listened to, although I do agree that there were minor
misunderstandings.
Ive noted the strength of feeling that Mrs M has regarding that First Direct have tried to
cover things up or that they hadnt bothered to look into her query while she was on the
phone to them. But Ive seen no evidence of First Direct trying to cover anything up. I say
this as they have apologised to her and admitted in both the chat message and the letter
dated 12 December that they have made an error. And the call handler confirms while she is
on the phone that its been a bank error, he just isnt able to explain why at the time.
Im persuaded for the reasons Ive already given that the compensation First Direct have
paid Mrs M is fair. So it follows I dont intend to ask First Direct to do anything further.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final
Decision. HSBC said they had nothing to add. Mrs M did not accept the provisional decision 
and referred me to her earlier email regarding First Direct and a cover up when information 
was available to them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Mrs M has said about First Direct covering up information. As I said in 
my provisional decision Ive seen no evidence of First Direct trying to cover anything up. I 
say this as they have apologised to her and admitted in both the chat message and the letter
dated 12 December that they have made an error. And the call handler confirms while she is
on the phone that its been a bank error, he just isnt able to explain why at the time. 
So while I am persuaded that the staff member who picked up Mrs Ms chat message 
actioned this for her on 11 December but didnt leave adequate notes on Mrs Ms account for 
other departments to realise what happened, I cant say that First Direct have tried to cover 
up their error as they have already admitted they were at fault and paid her £50 to recognise 
the impact that this error would have on Mrs M, in line with what she told a call handler she 
would want as compensation as a result of the complaint.
In summary, Mrs Ms response hasnt changed my view and my final decision and reasoningremains the same as in my provisional decision. I know Mrs M will be disappointed with the
decision, but I hope she understands my reasons.
My final decision
I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman