DRN-1727105
The complaint
Miss P complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi Financial 
Services (VWFS) has unfairly charged her for parking fines which it didnt tell her about at 
the time.
What happened
Miss P leased an Audi under an agreement with Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) 
Limited trading as Audi Financial Services. As Miss P was leasing the car, she was not the 
registered owner. In December 2018 Miss P parked incorrectly in a space that she was not 
aware was restricted. Miss P parked in this place on 6 separate occasions in the space of 
around a month. VWFS received 7 separate parking fines, each within a few days of the 
incorrect parking. No penalty notice was placed on Miss Ps car and VWFS didnt tell Miss P 
about these fines at the time. VWFS paid the fines and tried to collect them from Miss P via 
direct debit in May 2019.
Miss P complained and VWFS agreed that there had been a delay in notifying her about the 
fines. It agreed to remove all administration charges and reduced the fines to £60 which was 
the amount they would have been if they had been paid within 14 days. Miss P wasnt happy 
with that because she said she was prevented from challenging the fines and so she brought 
her complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and thought that VWFS hadnt acted fairly. They 
thought that VWFS should have either told Miss P about the fines sooner or told the parking 
company that Miss P was responsible for the fines. They considered that if this had been 
done Miss P would have been able to challenge some of the fines, particularly where two 
were issued on the same day. They also thought that Miss P would have been aware sooner 
that the car was being parked incorrectly and avoided further fines. The investigator thought 
that in addition to the reduction of the fines and the removal of the charges, VWFS should 
also remove the last two fines from Miss Ps account and remove any adverse information 
recorded on Miss Ps credit file relating to the fines in dispute.
Miss P accepted the investigators recommendation. VWFS didnt agree and said that 
because there was clear signage where Miss P parked it shouldnt have to do anything 
further. It asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.       
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
VWFS has accepted that there was a delay in notifying Miss P about the fines. It says that 
as the signs were clear in the car park Miss P is responsible for the fines.
I think it is common sense that if Miss P was aware that she was parking incorrectly and was 
being fined £60 each time she would not have continued to park there. As Miss P points out, 
it was only because the car park was fenced off that she didnt continue to park there. So, I 
dont think the fact that the signs were there is enough to say that the error by VWFS didnt 
make any difference. I think that the failure by VWFS to notify Miss P about the fine on the 
28 November within a reasonable timeframe led to her incurring the further fines on the 14 
and 19 December 2018. So, I agree with the investigator that these fines should be removed 
from Miss Ps account.
The other consequence of the delay is that Miss P wasnt able to challenge the fines either. 
Two fines were received on the same day and Miss P says she would have challenged this 
as the car was stationary for the whole day. I cant say that she would have been successful, 
but it is possible that she may have been able to negotiate a reduced settlement with the 
parking company given the circumstances and the issues she said there was with the 
signage.
So, I think it is fair and reasonable for the fines issued on the 14 and 19 December to 
removed from Miss Ps account in addition to the reductions of the fines and the removal of 
the administrative charges previously agreed.
I agree with the investigator that this was a genuine dispute and it is not fair for Miss Ps 
credit file to be negatively impacted as it is not a true reflection of her conduct of the finance 
agreement. Provided Miss P pays what is still outstanding, all negative information relating to 
these fines should be removed from her credit file.
Putting things right
VWFS should remove the fines incurred on the 14 and 19 December 2018 from Miss Ps 
account. It should reduce the remaining fines to £60 and refund all administrative charges. If 
there is a balance outstanding it should work with Miss P to agree an affordable repayment 
plan to repay this within a reasonable timeframe. Providing Miss P repays the amount within 
the terms agreed all negative information should be removed from her credit file.    
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) 
Limited trading as Audi Financial Services should put things right by doing what I have set 
out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 January 2021.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman