DRN-3954157
The complaint
Mr L complains that his pension plan provided by Scottish Widows Limited (Scottish 
Widows) has reduced substantially in value since 2021 causing him to suffer a financial loss 
of about £28,000 and considerable distress.
What happened
The events leading up to this complaint were set out in detail by our investigator in her 
assessment which she provided to both Mr L and Scottish Widows. I dont intend to repeat 
here what our investigator stated but will instead provide a summary.
In 2012, Mr L started a Scottish Widows pension plan. The plan was set up to invest in a 
Scottish Widows lifestyle strategy called Balanced Targeting Annuity  this meant that 
while Mr L was younger, Scottish Widows would manage the underlying investments to a 
higher level of risk to provide the potential for higher returns but, as he approached the 
selected retirement age under the plan, would gradually switch the investment into typically 
lower risk assets such as corporate bonds, gilts and cash.
The fund switching process was automatic and designed to consolidate investment gains 
achieved in previous years and to minimise risk and volatility as he approached and took 
benefits at the selected retirement age. The aim was that by the selected retirement age the 
underlying value of Mr Ls plan would be invested 75% in Scottish Widows Pension 
Protector fund and 25% in cash  this was based on the expectation he would take 25% tax-
free cash and secure an annuity with the residual fund at that point. The stated aim of the 
Pension Protector fund is To provide a return consistent with the variations in market 
annuity rates with the aim of reducing annuity conversion risk. This fund was invested 
mainly in corporate bonds and gilts which have historically been seen as low risk with low 
volatility.
In 2019, Mr L changed the selected retirement age on the plan to his 66th birthday in                      
March 2023. When Scottish Widows wrote to Mr L to confirm the change, it also confirmed 
and explained to him the lifestyle investment concept and recommended that he review the 
strategy of his plan to ensure it remained aligned to his retirement goals. Scottish Widows 
didnt receive an alternative investment instruction from Mr L.
The annual rate of inflation in the UK increased significantly from late 2021 onwards and 
continued throughout 2022. The high rate of inflation negatively impacted the value of 
corporate bonds and gilts during this period because investment markets expected higher 
interest rates in the future to combat the effects of higher inflation  increasing interest rates 
erode the purchasing power of bonds and gilts that pay a fixed payment, reducing their 
capital value. Since a large proportion of Mr Ls plan was by that point invested in corporate 
bonds through the Pension Protector fund, its value fell significantly from late 2021 onwards 
as investment markets continued to believe that there would be higher interest rates in the 
future.
This complaint
Mr L was unhappy about the significant fall in the value of his plan particularly since he 
believed he had been invested on a low-risk basis. He estimated that the value of his plan 
had fallen by about 32% which equated to a financial loss of about £28,000. He thought that 
this meant Scottish Widows had mismanaged the investment of his plan. So he complained.
Scottish Widows didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint. It stated that it had invested his plan in line 
with the agreed lifestyle investment approach. It said that its cash fund and Pension 
Protector fund are low-risk funds, comprised mainly of bonds. It explained that bonds are 
generally regarded as lower risk than equities, and so form a larger part of lower risk 
portfolios. Typically it expects a low or negative correlation between higher risk assets such 
as equities and lower risk assets such as bonds. However, from 2021 onwards, those asset 
classes correlated quite closely, which was an indication of how extreme market conditions 
had become. As a result, bonds had fallen in value more than equities, meaning lower risk 
portfolios had fallen in value more than higher risk portfolios. It concluded that it hadnt 
mismanaged Mr Ls plan and the investment performance he had complained about was due 
to economic factors outside its control.
Mr L didnt accept Scottish Widows response to his complaint and so referred the matter to 
this service. Our investigator didnt think that Scottish Widows needed to take any further 
action. This was because she was satisfied it had invested Mr Ls plan in line with the agreed 
lifestyle investment mandate and that there wasnt any evidence of mismanagement. She 
concluded that the reduction in the value of Mr Ls plan was due to economic and market 
factors outside of Scottish Widows control.
 
Mr L didnt accept our investigators assessment. He continued to believe that Scottish 
Widows was responsible for the mismanagement of his plan which had caused him to suffer 
a significant financial loss. Our investigator considered Mr Ls additional comments but 
wasnt persuaded to change her view. Since agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint 
has been referred to me, an ombudsman, to review and decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to clarify that the purpose of this final decision isnt to repeat or address every single
point raised by Mr L and Scottish Widows. So if I havent commented on any specific point, 
its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome. Ive considered all 
the evidence afresh. Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator 
for these reasons:
Scottish Widows role, as the plan administrator, was to manage Mr Ls plan in line 
with the agreed investment mandate, provide accurate and timely information, and to 
act on the instructions it received from him in a timely manner. It wasnt responsible 
for providing advice, assessing the suitability of the underlying investment fund(s) in 
his plan, suggesting alternative funds or checking whether he wanted to change his 
plans.
Mr Ls plan was set up and invested on the basis and expectation that he would take 
25% tax-free cash and secure an annuity with the residual fund at age 66 in                          
March 2023. It was unfortunate timing for Mr L. As explained above, the annual rate 
of inflation in the UK increased significantly from late 2021 onwards which negatively 
impacted the value of corporate bonds and gilts during this period. Historically, these 
asset classes have been considered low risk with low volatility  they rarely experience the kind of volatility and sharp reduction in value over a short period of 
time as was experienced from late 2021 onwards and which continued throughout 
2022. This had a negative impact on the unit price of the Pension Protector fund 
and, therefore, the value of Mr Ls plan. In my view, the reasons that led to the 
significant increase in inflation and the impact this had on the value of Mr Ls plan 
was outside of Scottish Widows control.
Mr L was invested in a lifestyle strategy called Balanced Targeting Annuity. Annual 
benefit statements and other documents issued to him in the preceding years leading 
up to 2022 explained the basis upon which his plan was invested, and that Scottish 
Widows would continue to automatically switch funds as he approached age 66. Im 
satisfied that Mr L was placed in an informed position about how his plan was 
invested and managed. 
Despite the information received, Mr L didnt switch the underlying investment of his 
plan before he complained. So I think its reasonable for me to conclude that it was 
his aim to secure an annuity. Where the rate of inflation increases it usually leads to 
higher interest rates. Annuity rates are closely linked to interest rates. As interest 
rates have risen since late 2021, annuity rates have increased too  this is a key 
point. So while the value of Mr Ls plan reduced in value, the annuity rates available 
on the open market used to convert that fund into income have increased 
significantly during the same period  this means that less capital is currently 
required to secure the same level of annuity income than was the case before Mr Ls 
plan reduced in value. While I understand why Mr L is upset about the value of his 
plan reducing, its a fact that he now has access to higher annuity rates on the open 
market as a direct result of the reasons that led to the reduced fund value in the first 
place, effectively producing a broadly neutral outcome. So, in terms of the level of 
lifetime annuity income that can be secured by the value of his plan compared to that 
which could be secured before the reduction in fund value, he likely hasnt suffered 
the level of financial loss he believes to be the case.
Our aim in resolving a complaint is to place the consumer, as close as possible, into 
the correct financial position had the error or unfair treatment not happened. In this 
case, while I understand why Mr L was frustrated and upset by the sudden and 
significant reduction in the value of his plan, I dont think that Scottish Widows made 
an error or treated him unfairly for the reasons explained. Therefore, I dont consider 
it would be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to direct Scottish 
Widows to pay compensation to Mr L  or to take any further action in response to 
this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint or make any award against 
Scottish Widows Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2023.
 
Clint Penfold
Ombudsman