DRN-3187272
The complaint
Mr B complains about British Gas Services Limiteds handling of two claims he made under 
his HomeCare Two policy.
What happened
Mr B has a HomeCare Two policy with British Gas that covers his boiler, controls and central 
heating including an annual service. About two years ago he replaced his thermostat with a 
Nest thermostat.
In January 2020 Mr B contacted British Gas to report a lack of hot water. An engineer 
attended and said the only way to fix it was to flush the system for £1,200 (which would take 
1.5 days) which Mr B decided to proceed with despite telling the engineer that he didnt think 
this would fix the problem. Mr B had asked the engineer to replace some pipework to the hot 
water cylinder which he thought would resolve the issue. Despite chasing British Gas on a 
number of occasions it was unable to schedule an engineer to flush the system as it was 
busy with winter call outs. It said it would call Mr B at a later date to schedule an 
appointment and suggested he contact a local engineer instead. Mr B contacted a local 
company in February 2020 which came out and replaced a section of piping to fix the issue 
for which Mr B paid £150. The local engineer told Mr B that the section of pipe itd replaced 
had been totally blocked and that flushing the entire system wouldnt have resolved the 
problem.
Mr B contacted British Gas again in September 2020 because he was experiencing a 
problem with his Nest thermostat as it was only working on override. British Gas sent out an 
engineer who told him that the problem was with the Nest control which was an upgrade so 
wasnt something that was included or covered by his contract. British Gas told Mr B to 
contact Nest directly and that the issue would cost in the region of £150-£200 for Nest to 
resolve. 
Mr B then spent some time investigating the issue himself and then contacted British Gas 
again to schedule an engineer visit. Mr B was of the view that the fault wasnt with the Nest 
control box but rather the 2 Port Motorised Valve. The engineer attended and told Mr B that 
he didnt think it would resolve the issue but he replaced the valve anyway and, in so doing, 
resolved the problem. 
Mr B then reviewed his HomeCare Two terms and conditions. He noted that they stated that 
controls were covered by his contract and that there was no exclusion for a Nest smart 
device. Mr B called British Gas at the start of October 2020 and queried whether his Nest 
thermostat was covered by his contract. Mr B told British Gas that he thought it was covered 
so it should pay him £150 for the time he took investigating the issue. 
British Gas called Mr B back to discuss his concerns. He complained to British Gas that he 
felt let down and that he thought itd breached its contract with him. Mr B said that nowhere 
did it say in the terms and conditions that upgraded heating controls werent covered. Mr B 
also complained about British Gass failure to call him back about the hot water issue he was 
having in January 2020. British Gas apologised to him and said it didnt have an available 
engineer in January because this was its busy period so it couldnt attend for upgrade 
chargeable work. Mr B said that whilst he initially wanted compensation of £150 he now 
wanted a full refund of his annual policy premium. British Gas said it couldnt agree to that 
but did say itd look into matters further. 
British Gas thought the Nest wasnt covered and that as it was making the motorised zone 
valve work when it was manually overridden that indicated there was an issue with the Nest 
and not the valve because if the valve was broken it wouldnt have worked at all. But, it 
noted, the zone valve was changed under the HomeCare contract at the end of September. 
British Gas called Mr B again to tell him what itd found out but Mr B disagreed. He said that 
if hed not taken the time to investigate the issue hed have been £150-£200 out of pocket. 
So, he said, he wanted £150 as a gesture of goodwill for the time hed had to spend on 
diagnosing the issue. British Gas said that it couldnt authorise £150 because he wasnt out 
of pocket for such an amount. It said, as a good will gesture, it could offer him £80. 
British Gas issued its final response to Mr Bs complaint at the start of January 2021. It said 
it didnt think the engineer had been wrong not to replace the valve on the first visit because 
he was able to confirm the Nest was working it when manually operated. It also said that the 
Nest was an upgrade so wasnt covered by his policy and the valve had been replaced as a 
gesture of goodwill because it wasnt faulty. British Gas said it couldnt pay him £200 for the 
cost of a Nest call out but the offer of £80 remained in recognition of the impact on his time 
and the distress caused.
Unhappy with the outcome of his complaint to British Gas, Mr B complained to this service. 
Our investigator looked into his complaint but didnt recommend that it was upheld. He said 
that any chargeable remedial work  such as the system flush  didnt form part of the 
insurance contract section of his HomeCare policy and, as such, fell outside the jurisdiction 
of this service. He thought the offer of £80 compensation and the replacement of the valve 
as a goodwill gesture was a fair and reasonable response by British Gas so he didnt think 
itd done anything wrong. 
Mr B disagreed with our investigators findings. He said:
The Nest wasnt an upgrade, it was a direct replacement for the original thermostat
That hed had to manually override the Nest but it wasnt faulty as it was calling for heat 
on the heating circuit correctly  it was the 2 Port Motorised Valve that wasnt working
The replacement of the 2 Port Motorised Valve wasnt a goodwill gesture because it was 
covered under his contract
That the Nest thermostat is just an electronic programmer and thermostat which wasnt 
excluded under any terms and conditions in the policy that he could see. 
The complaint was passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has a HomeCare Two policy. Thats an insurance product. I can see from the policy 
terms and conditions that all insurance products include parts and labour and an unlimited 
number of repairs. HomeCare Two provides cover for boilers, controls and central heating 
on a service and repair basis. Certain terms are defined in the policy. It says, central heating is the heat and hot water 
system on your property including expansion tank, radiators, bypass and radiator valve, 
system filters, warm air vents, cylinders, any immersion heater and its wired in timer switch 
and the pipes that serve them.
Mr B has provided us and British Gas with photographs of the repaired section of piping (that 
was blocked) which fed into his hot water cylinder. He had this repair undertaken in February 
2020. His policy provides him for parts, labour and repairs to his central heating system of 
which the repaired pipe is part. Unfortunately for Mr B though there is a specific policy 
exclusion for this section of cover. That says: whats not covereddamage caused by 
limescale, sludge, or other debris  if weve told you before that you need to carry out a 
British Gas Powerflush, or a similar process, but you havent done so. Sludge is defined in 
the policy as the natural build-up of deposits in your boiler or central heating system as it 
corrodes over time. 
British Gas told Mr B that he needed to carry out a power flush before he undertook the 
repair himself. I appreciate that he was unable to avail himself of that service due to a lack of 
engineers but the policy terms state that damage caused by limescale or sludge, which it is 
reasonable to assume was what this blockage was, isnt covered if the policyholder has 
been told by British Gas that a power flush is needed. So I dont think that British Gas 
unreasonably declined to cover the cost Mr B incurred in engaging his own plumber to 
replace a section of his pipework. 
And I cant look at his complaint about British Gass failure to call him back and arrange the 
power flush because any chargeable work completed or considered doesnt form part of the 
insurance contract between Mr B and British Gas. Not all complaints that are brought to this 
service are ones we are able to look at and, unfortunately, as the provision of chargeable 
work isnt a regulated activity it isnt something that falls within the jurisdiction of this 
service. 
Turning now to Mr Bs second complaint that British Gas has told him that as his Nest is an 
upgrade, it isnt covered by his HomeCare Two policy and that it should pay him £150 for the 
time he invested in resolving the override issue. 
The HomeCare Two policy defines boiler and controls as a single natural gas or Liquid 
Petroleum Gas boileron your propertyas well as the flue and controls that make it work 
including the programmer, any thermostats, motorised zone valves and central heating 
pump. And the policy covers: All repairs to:the controls that make the boiler work 
including the programmer, any thermostats, motorised zone valves and central heating 
pump.  So, it appears, on first glance, that the thermostat is covered. 
However, the policy contains a general exclusion which states: Communication connections: 
Were not responsible for your internet connection nor the data transmission to, or from any 
boiler, appliance, device or control system and were not responsible for repairing or 
replacing any network hub, smart speaker or voice controlled equipment or any smart 
functionality, for example, connectivity to or from your thermostat.
A quick internet search reveals that a Nest is an electronic, programmable, self-learning 
thermostat that optimises heating and cooling of homes; a smart device. The Nest has smart 
functionality and I think that its clear from the exclusion Ive set out in the above paragraph 
that British Gas is excluding any smart device, such as a Nest, from cover under the policy 
for service or repair. So, whilst I appreciate it will come as a disappointment to Mr B, I dont 
think his policy covers his Nest because it includes the exclusion above. Im unable to agree with British Gas though that the Nest isnt covered because its an 
upgrade. The Nest isnt covered because of the exclusion I mentioned above. 
The policy doesnt exclude cover for upgraded elements of a boiler, its controls or the central 
heating system. That would mean that if a policyholder replaced any part, and that part was 
an upgraded version of the part being replaced, it wouldnt be covered. But the upgrade 
exclusion doesnt state that. It says any repair doesnt include providing upgraded parts as 
part of a repair. Thats not the same as not covering some part of the system a policyholder 
has themselves elected to upgrade (unless, like a smart thermostat that upgrade is excluded 
from cover elsewhere in the policy).
Mr Bs policy provides cover for repairs to the boiler and its controls, of which motorised 
zone valves are part. But British Gas has said it replaced the motorised zone valve as a 
gesture of goodwill because, in its engineers opinion, it didnt need repairing because there 
was nothing wrong with it. So, whilst I agree with Mr B that his policy does cover him for the 
repair or replacement of his motorised zone valve, under the policy terms, it must first be 
faulty or have broken down. Its for this reason that British Gas has said its replaced it as a 
gesture of goodwill and I dont think that was an unreasonable position for it to take.
Just because Mr B might have incurred £150-£200 call out charge if hed contacted Nest 
about the heating override issue doesnt meant British Gas is liable for that amount. 
Fortunately Mr B didnt incur that fee and has suffered no such loss. I cant fairly make 
British Gas pay for something that Mr B wasnt actually charged for. That would be 
unreasonable. 
Similarly, we dont make awards for time invested in resolving a claim. All insurance claims 
attract a certain amount of inconvenience, thats to be expected. But where an insurer, 
through its words or deeds makes an already stressful situation avoidably worse, we can 
award compensation for the additional distress and inconvenience caused. Here I can see 
that Mr B was caused some inconvenience by working out himself where the fault lay and 
getting the engineer to return. But I think that the compensation of £80 that hes already 
received from British Gas fairly compensates him for the additional inconvenience he was 
put. Im satisfied that the amount of £80 is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint and is in line with awards this service has made in similar complaints. I dont 
propose to make British Gas pay any more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2021.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman