DRN-2930481
The complaint
Mr D complained that Standard Chartered Bank (SCB) was unable to locate items he 
deposited with it for safekeeping some years ago. 
What happened
Mr D had a savings account with SCB several decades ago. He bought a total of nine coins 
(krugerrands) in October and December 1981 from his local SCB branch. Mr D didnt take 
possession of the coins after purchasing them. He said he was advised to leave them with 
SCB for safe keeping, and this is what he did. 
SCB wrote to Mr D in 1991 to let him know that his local branch was closing and that all safe 
custody items would be transferred to the London branch. SCB told Mr D to inform it in 
writing if he did not want this to happen and would prefer alternative arrangements were 
made. 
Mr D wrote to SCB in January 1993 and asked it to arrange the sale of the coins on his 
behalf. SCB responded and said it couldnt help with the sale as it no longer had cashiering 
facilities. It provided the contact details of a business that might have been able to help 
Mr D. SCB also told Mr D that as he no longer had an account with them, he needed to 
arrange to collect the coins. 
Mr D contacted SCB in 2021 and asked it to value the coins it was holding for him, with a 
view to selling them later in the year. Mr D also let SCB know that he had moved address in 
excess of 25 years ago. 
SCB responded and said it completed a search of historic safe custody items in its 
possession, but couldnt find any trace of the coins or mention of them in its records. It said 
Mr Ds account was closed around 28 years ago and records relating to an account that old 
would have been destroyed. It said it had taken all reasonable steps to locate the coins, and 
wasnt able to take any further action in the circumstances.  
Mr D responded and said he still had the original purchase receipts, and the two original 
deposit receipts for the coins. He said its likely SCB would have looked for proof of ID and 
ownership before selling or returning the coins to him. And he believes SCB would have 
taken and kept the various receipts if he had collected them.  
Mr D was unhappy with the response from SCB and so brought his complaint to this service. 
He said the coins cost him just over £2,000 when he bought them back in 1981 and he 
estimated they were worth in the region of £12,000 now. He asked that SCB find the coins or 
come to a fair settlement. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. Mr D disagreed with the outcome and so 
this has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I first of all want to emphasise that this services remit is limited to looking at the information 
provided by both parties and deciding whether SCB has acted fairly and reasonably. Where 
tangible items have been lost, we arent able to carry out our own physical checks to try and 
determine their location. So, in this case, Ive taken all of the information provided by both 
sides into consideration. And I have decided not to uphold Mr Ds complaint. Ill explain why. 
Theres really very little in the way of information and evidence relating to this complaint. The 
most recent, relevant document that tells us anything about the location of the coins dates 
from 1993, so some considerable time ago. But, although I dont know the exact date, I can 
see that Mr Ds account was closed prior to 1993, and so given the amount of time thats 
passed since the account closure, I wouldnt expect SCB to still have paperwork relating to 
the account or the coins. So while its unfortunate and unhelpful that we dont have more 
information, theres a reason why this is the case. This means the limited evidence I have 
doesnt contain any information to help me understand what happened to the coins after 
1993. 
When Mr D contacted this service, he said he still had both the purchase and deposit 
receipts that were given to him by SCB back in 1981. And he thought that if he had in fact 
collected the coins, then SCB would likely have insisted on keeping these receipts. However, 
SCB told this service Mr D wouldnt have needed to present any of the receipts in order to 
collect the coins. It would have been enough for him to provide it with an appropriate form of 
identification. And it said it would then have issued paperwork to Mr D, confirming the 
withdrawal of the coins. So Im satisfied that Mr D being in possession of the purchase and 
deposit receipts is not evidence that the coins are still in SCBs possession.  
When items in safe custody go missing, I would expect a business to do all it can to try and 
locate the items. SCB has said it carried out a search of all of its records and historic safe 
custody items. It pinpointed the branch where the coins would most likely be if it still had 
them, and has searched its vaults. It also raised queries with other branches but hasnt been 
able to find them. Its emphasised there are items in its possession that date from the 1960s, 
and so is saying that the amount of time thats passed has no bearing on whether the items 
might still be in its possession. At this stage, I cant see what else SCB can reasonably do to 
try and locate the coins. 
I spoke to Mr D and so Im aware that he doesnt recall making a trip to London to collect the 
coins. But it is now around 28 years since SCB asked him to do just that, and I have to take 
into consideration that memories can fade over time. 
Its unfortunate that this service isnt going to be able to provide Mr D with a definitive answer 
regarding what happened to the coins  I would certainly have preferred to be able to do 
that. All I can do is to say what I think is most likely to have happened. And I think what most 
likely happened is that Mr D collected the coins back in 1993, when SCB told him it was no 
longer prepared to store them once his account with it closed. I think most consumers, when 
faced with this situation, would have collected the items they were asked to collect, and I 
think its unlikely Mr D chose to overlook SCBs request to collect the coins. 
I know my decision will disappoint Mr D and I want to reassure him that I dont doubt the 
genuineness of his belief that he didnt collect the coins. But I could only ask SCB to take 
further action if I thought it hadnt done enough to try to locate the coins, but Im satisfied it 
has. 
My final decisionIts my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2021.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman