DRN-3947123
The complaint
Mr H complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money incorrectly refused his 
mortgage application following a valuation and took too long to respond to his enquiries.
What happened
Mr H applied through a broker for a buy to let mortgage product with Virgin Money in May 
2022. Mr H passed the credit score and the application passed to the valuation stage. Mr H 
says that the valuation was done in about two weeks on about 8 June but then it took Virgin 
Money another five weeks to confirm it had received the valuation report and was unable to 
issue a mortgage as the property was built as a single construction. Mr H says this was 
incorrect and during this time, he couldnt get a proper update. Mr H says he hasnt got a 
proper response to his enquiries and in the meantime interest rates have gone up.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld as it was reasonable 
for Virgin Money to rely on the advice of a suitable qualified surveyor and that the delays 
caused after the valuation report werent delays that the bank could avoid due to follow-up 
checks. Mr H disagreed saying in summary that it took five months to respond to his 
complaint and by this time rates had jumped, and this impacted him financially and caused 
him distress and that the Virgin service was poor with no-one to direct him. Mr H asked us to 
consider the case handlers complaint file.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H applied for a buy to let mortgage which was refused by Virgin. Mr H has several 
complaints. There is the time taken to make the decision, the fairness of the decision and the 
failure to update him during the course of the application.
Mr H was acting through a broker who applied to Virgin Money for the loan The application 
appears to have been received by Virgin Money on 17 June. A valuer was instructed on 22 
June, and it was carried out on 29 June. I see in his complaint form that Mr H refers to the 
valuation being carried out on 8 June but that is incorrect. When the valuation was reviewed 
in early July, it seems that the valuer had concerns about whether the proposed rental was 
realistic. But also told Virgin Money that area of single skin walling should be upgraded to 
cavity construction in accordance with regulatory requirements. The valuer records the 
valuation as £0. This issue was communicated to the broker and the application declined on 
22 July 2022. There then appears to have been a period when Mr H asked Virgin Money to 
review the decision. Mr H submitted a report from another valuer, but Virgin Moneys valuer 
did not amend the report in the light of hat submission.
A mortgage lender isnt a valuer and in making a lending decision we would expect it to rely 
on the decision of a valuer as to whether the property is sufficient security for the money 
being advanced. In this case the valuer didnt consider that the property was suitable 
security and gave reasons. Mr H was unhappy with that and appealed submitting another 
valuation by a different lender for the valuers consideration and the original valuer 
confirmed, with reasons, his view that the property wasnt suitable security for any loan. I 
know that Mr H disagrees with that, but I consider that its entirely reasonable that Virgin 
Money would follow the advice of its valuer. I consider that in doing so, the bank acted fairly, 
appointing a suitable qualified valuer to advise it, considered the appeal but acted on the 
advice of the valuer. There is nothing unfair or unreasonable about that. I appreciate it 
wasnt the outcome that Mr H wanted but the process was carried out fairly and I dont 
uphold that part of the complaint.
The other issue is one of time and Mr H feels he was disadvantaged by the time taken to 
come to a decision. It seems that a valuation was instructed within a reasonable period, but 
Mr H says that it took five weeks to tell him and in the meantime he had no contact from the 
bank. The bank says that when the valuation report was received that it questioned certain 
information in the report, but it did provide updates to Mr Hs broker. The case file notes 
record that following on a review on 9 July that questions were sent to the valuers for clarity 
regarding the single skin walling mentioned in the retention section on the valuation. On 12 
July a response came from the valuer to those questions and on 22 July the case was 
declined and cancelled on 29 July. It seems thereafter that Mr H submitted an appeal, this 
was sent to the valuer for consideration, on 17 August the bank was told that the valuer 
hadnt changed his view, and this was communicated to the broker on 19 August 2022.It 
doesnt seem to me that looking at this timeline that there was unreasonable delay by Virgin 
Money in coming to a decision. 
Mr H complains about lack of communication with the lender at this time, but I note that this 
was a broker introduced mortgage application and until the application was approved we 
would expect Virgin Money to communicate with the broker rather than Mr H directly as the 
broker is Mr Hs representative. In my view the lender has provided the relevant information 
when required and I cannot see any evidence that Mr Hs broker was dissatisfied about any 
failures by the lender in that respect. So, I cant fairly uphold that part of the complaint.
The other issue is that Mr H complains about is the delay by Virgin Money in responding to 
his complaint and his loss of opportunity he feels he suffered as interest rates have moved 
on while he was awaiting Virgin Moneys response. I should say that under the rules that 
apply to us whilst we can investigate Virgin Moneys failure to provide him with a financial 
service, namely the mortgage, its not our role to investigate Virgin Moneys complaints 
handling procedures which isnt a financial service and so, I wont be doing that. In as much 
as Mr H feels he lost opportunities by waiting for the result of his complaint and suffered a 
financial loss, I cant say that it would have been reasonable for Mr H to assume that his 
complaint would be successful and to delay any action he felt necessary to protect his 
financial position on that assumption. So, for the above reasons I cant fairly uphold this 
complaint.  
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2023.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman