DRN-3036531
The complaint
Mr N complains about the increase in the premium he was quoted by Bank of Scotland plc to 
renew his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr N took out a motor insurance policy through Bank of Scotland (trading as Halifax Car 
Insurance) in January 2020. It came up for renewal in January 2021. Bank of Scotland sent 
Mr N a renewal invitation around four weeks before the renewal date. The overall cost of the 
cover had increased by around 70 per cent. 
Mr N chose not to take up the renewal offer, and he complained to Bank of Scotland about 
the increase.
Mr N says he applied for a quote from Bank of Scotland online and it came out cheaper than 
the renewal quote. Hes also told us he was given conflicting information about the available 
quotes by Bank of Scotland. He says he was told on the phone that it could only find one 
company to quote. But on another occasion Bank of Scotland told him there were numerous 
reasons for the increase in the quote, but it didnt have to share them with him.
Bank of Scotland said it followed its renewals process. It said it had given Mr N clear 
information about the renewal, and had given him the opportunity to get alternative quotes. It 
said a number of factors are taken into account when calculating the premium. Its pointed 
out that the insurance market is highly competitive, and that it recognises that it wont always 
be in a position to get a more competitive price than other providers. So it sends renewal 
invitations at least 20 days before the policy expires to give policyholders a chance to shop 
around.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he was satisfied that Bank of Scotland had followed its renewal process and had 
given Mr N clear and fair information about the renewal.
Mr N didnt agree with the investigators view, so the complaints been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done to, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
The renewal notice which Bank of Scotland sent Mr N said:
We hope youre happy with our renewal price and stay with Halifax Car Insurance for 
another year. However, its important that you review all of the details and ensure that the 
policy still meets your needs. You may be able to get the insurance cover you want at a 
better price if you shop around.
Bank of Scotland has explained that it uses the most competitive rate from the insurers on its 
panel. And it says that when the premium is calculated, algorithms are used which take into 
account a variety of risk factors.
Mr N believes Bank of Scotland either chose the most expensive quote from its panel or the 
only available quote, allowing it to take more commission.
Bank of Scotland has explained that it doesnt keep a record of all the premiums offered by 
its panel of insurers when a renewal quote is issued. It says it only selects the most 
competitive quote, and it sends that to the policyholder for consideration. Once the renewal 
offer is issued, the information about alternative quotes isnt kept. I dont think thats 
unreasonable. It says theres no record of any issues or errors with its electronic renewal 
system which might have resulted in the most competitive premium not being selected. 
I can understand Mr Ns disappointment and frustration that the renewal quote was so much 
higher than the cost of the insurance in the first year of the policy. But insurance policies 
often come with a significant initial discount, which insurance businesses aim to recoup over 
subsequent years. So the premium in the first year is often lower in later years. 
Its not our role to tell insurers or insurance intermediaries how to price their policies, or what 
factors they should consider when calculating a risk. What cover they are prepared to offer, 
and at what price are commercial decisions. All we can do is consider whether the business 
dealt with the customer fairly and reasonably. 
Ive seen nothing to make me think that Bank of Scotland treated Mr N unfairly or any 
differently from how it would have treated other customers in the same position. And based 
on the available evidence Im not satisfied, on balance, that Bank of Scotland failed to base 
the renewal price on the most competitive quote from its panel. 
Mr N was given enough time to look for alternative insurance. Ultimately, he had a choice 
about whether to accept the renewal quote, and he chose not to do so. I can understand 
why. But that doesnt mean that Bank of Scotland did anything wrong.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2021. 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman