DRN-2671650
The complaint
Mr T complains that Swinton Group Ltd made an error when selling him a car insurance 
policy. 
 
What happened
Mr T bought car insurance through an online comparison site. After comparing quotes he 
decided to buy a policy through Swinton  an insurance broker. Shortly after, he received his 
insurance documents through the post. He noticed that there was an error on the 
documents. They said that he was the registered owner and keeper of the vehicle. But the 
vehicle was leased, so this wasnt correct. He called Swinton to make the amendment.
Swinton had to contact the insurer to let it know the information was incorrect and to have it 
changed. The insurer informed Swinton that the policy premium would be higher due to the 
change. And an extra £188 was due. 
Swinton informed Mr T but he didnt think this was fair. He said he had filled in the 
information online correctly, so he shouldnt have to pay any more. He made a complaint. 
Initially Swinton asked him to make payment straight away. However after he raised a 
complaint, its staff member said she would put the payment on hold until the complaint was 
resolved. 
Swinton didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint. It said it was satisfied that the information he entered 
on the online comparison site wasnt correct and when the information was changed, the 
premiums were higher. It said it isnt responsible for setting the premiums  thats the 
insurers decision. But it was satisfied it had made no error. 
Mr T didnt agree this was fair. He said he had entered the correct information at the time 
and it was Swinton that had made a mistake. He also said he had received poor service as 
the staff member dealing with his complaint had said to him that he now needs to pay the 
£188 to stay on cover. He brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He said he was satisfied from 
the evidence hed seen that Swinton hadnt made an error. So he didnt think it was fair to 
ask it to do anything further.
Mr T didnt agree so the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is important to note in this case that Swinton is an insurance broker and not the insurer of 
the policy. Therefore it doesnt decide the price of policies or the risk the insurer takes on. It 
just arranges the administration of insurance policies based on the information provided by 
its customers.
Mr T used an online comparison site to buy an insurance policy. When doing this, he was 
asked a number of questions about his circumstances, vehicle and the type of policy he 
required.   
Mr T says that when he was completing the information to get quotes, he wasnt asked who 
the registered owner or keeper of the car was. So he didnt have the opportunity to provide 
the correct information when completing the quote. But when the paperwork arrived, this had 
been recorded as him on the policy which wasnt correct. 
Swinton has provided a screenshot of the questions asked by the comparison site that Mr T 
used. I can see from this, and from completing my own search, that one of the first questions 
asked when completing a search is as follows: Are you or will you be the registered keeper 
and legal owner?. And where No is selected a number of further questions are asked about 
the owner and keeper. So from the evidence Ive seen, I think its most likely that this 
question was asked. 
Further, from my experience of dealing with lots of different car insurance policies, this is a 
standard question asked by all car insurance providers. As this information impacts the cost 
and type of policy the insurer provides. So it would be unusual for the question not to have 
been asked. 
So on the balance of probabilities I think its most likely that this question was asked and 
Mr T provided the wrong information when he originally searched for insurance. Therefore I 
dont think Swinton has done anything wrong.
I appreciate Mr T is disappointed that he has been asked to pay an additional £188 since 
correcting the information. Swinton has explained that this is the increased cost of the policy 
that the insurer has charged based on the correct information. And that it hasnt charged an 
admin fee for the change. As it is the insurer that decides the price of its policies, I cant hold 
Swinton responsible for this price increase. If Mr T thinks the price is unreasonable he will 
need to contact the insurer directly to complain.
Alternatively Mr T may prefer to cancel his policy with Swinton and take out insurance 
through a different insurer or broker, rather than pay the additional amount. If he would then 
this is something he will need to discuss with Swinton.  
Mr T is also unhappy that Swinton has repeatedly asked him to pay the additional premium. 
He said he has felt threatened as he has been told that his insurance policy wont be valid if 
he doesnt. Ive listened to the calls and I dont agree Swinton has acted unreasonably. It has 
explained that the price of the policy, based on the correct information, is £188 more. So this 
additional amount will need to be paid if Mr T wants to continue his insurance cover. Swinton 
agreed to put the amount due on hold until his complaint was investigated. However as this 
investigation has now been completed I think its reasonable that the money is now due. So I 
dont agree Swinton has acted unfairly or unreasonably by requesting the additional 
premium.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman