DRN-3484780
The complaint
Mr M and Miss A complain that The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society 
Limited (NFU) avoided their home insurance policy and refused to pay the claim they made 
for accidental damage at their property.
What happened
Mr M and Miss A raised a claim with NFU  their home insurance provider  for accidental 
damage to their range cooker and an expensive vase.
NFU carried out checks when validating Mr M and Miss As claim. This included checking 
The Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE) database. CUE showed that Mr M and 
Miss A had had multiple claims within the last five years. But when they took out their cover 
with NFU, they only declared one claim.
NFU explained to Mr M and Miss A that had it known about all previous claims, it would not 
have been able to offer them cover. Because of this, NFU took the decision to refuse the 
claim and to avoid the policy from the point of inception. NFU was of the view that 
Mr M and Miss A deliberately withheld the information about their other claims, so it also 
chose to retain the premiums they had paid, from inception to the point of the avoidance.
Mr M and Miss A say the information Mr M gave at the point of inception was true  to the 
best of his knowledge. They say Mr M thought some of the undeclared claims were treated 
as one claim by the previous insurer. They also say that Mr M gave indications during the 
sales call which suggested other claims, so they feel NFU ought to have conducted its own 
checks if this information was so important to it. Mr M and Miss A have also advised that 
Mr M had recently undergone significant medical treatment at the point of sale, which they 
say affected his memory.
One of our investigators considered Mr M and Miss As complaint, but she didnt think it 
should be upheld. She thought Mr M had been asked clear questions and that he had failed 
to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. She also felt the misrepresentation 
was deliberate or reckless. She said NFU had shown that it wouldnt have offered the policy 
at all had Mr M disclosed his full claims history. So, she said NFU had acted fairly, and in 
line with the relevant legislation, in avoiding the policy from inception and retaining the 
premiums. 
Mr M and Miss A didnt accept our investigators opinion. They said the sales call was 
recorded without their permission which they feel is illegal. So, they say our service shouldnt 
rely on the call to find against them. They also said our investigator hadnt commented on 
the fact that NFU suspended two commercial insurance policies they held, whilst 
investigating the potential misrepresentation, putting their business and tenants at risk.
Our investigator considered these points, but they didnt change her conclusions. So, 
because no agreement has been reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is  what CIDRA describes as  a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to 
be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms, or not at all, if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless. 
NFU thinks Mr M (on behalf of himself and Miss A) failed to take reasonable care not to 
make a misrepresentation when he took out the policy. It says Mr M was asked whether hed 
made any claims on either buildings or contents insurance in the last five years, and that he 
only disclosed one claim. But NFU has provided evidence from CUE, and Mr M and Miss As 
previous insurer, to show that there were numerous claims within the past five years which 
Mr M didnt disclose on this call. 
Ive looked at the questions asked at the point of sale and at the answers Mr M (on behalf of 
himself and Miss A) gave. Having done so, I think Mr M was asked clear questions. Mr M 
told NFU the only claim he had was an escape of water claim in January or February of the 
previous year. When asked if he had any other claims for buildings or contents, he answered 
no. 
Mr M and Miss A have argued that Mr M mentioned high winds, which indicated a second 
claim. They say NFU ought to have realised there might be more claims, and to conduct 
further checks. Ive thought about their points here, but I dont agree. NFUs duty to Mr M 
and Miss A at this stage was to ask clear questions  and I think it did that. It was Mr Ms 
duty to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. So, while he may have 
mentioned high winds, I dont think this was sufficient to demonstrate that he took 
reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. Particularly as he was then asked about 
any other claims, in addition to the escape of water claim he declared, and answered no.
Ive also thought about Mr Ms health at the time of the sale, and how he says this affected 
him. While I dont doubt what Mr M and Miss A have told us, and while I fully appreciate the 
severity of Mr Ms condition, I dont think it changes the fact that Mr M didnt take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation. 
I say this because Mr M would likely have known how his health was affecting him at the 
time. So, he could have asked Miss A for help in answering the questions or explained the 
situation to the call handler and gone away to check the accuracy of the information. Failing 
either of those, Mr M and Miss A were provided with after sales paperwork which reflected 
the answers Mr M gave, which also prominently stressed the importance of checking the 
accuracy of the information and notifying NFU promptly if anything was incorrect. But they 
didnt do this either.Mr M and Miss A have also suggested that the sales call was recorded illegally, and so our 
service shouldnt rely on it. I should explain here that its not our services role to determine 
the legality of call recordings. Thats potentially a matter for the courts or the UKs 
supervisory body for data protection legislation, the Information Commissioners Office. Our 
role is to determine what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, taking into account 
relevant laws, rules and regulations.
Taking everything into account, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to discount 
the call recording now that Ive heard it. But even if I did completely discount the call 
recording, my conclusion that Mr M made a misrepresentation would remain the same  
based on the paperwork. As stated above, this prominently stressed the importance of 
checking the accuracy of the information provided and notifying NFU promptly if anything 
was incorrect  which Mr M and Miss A didnt do.
Based on the above, Im satisfied that Mr M and Miss A failed to take reasonable care not to 
make a misrepresentation when they took out the policy. So, Ill now consider whether the 
misrepresentation they made is a qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA. To answer this 
question, I need to establish what NFU would have done if Mr M and Miss A hadnt made the 
misrepresentation.
NFU has provided our service with its underwriting guidance. This information is 
commercially sensitive, so Im unable to share or quote directly from it. But having reviewed 
it, Im satisfied that NFU would not have offered Mr M and Miss A a policy, on any terms, had 
Mr M accurately disclosed the number of claims theyd had in the last five years. So, based 
on this, Mr M and Miss A made a qualifying misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out the different remedies available to insurers when a policyholder makes a 
qualifying misrepresentation. These remedies are different depending on whether the insurer 
deems the misrepresentation was careless or if it was deliberate or reckless.
NFU believes Mr Ms misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless. It says this because he 
had a high number of claims, several of which had been settled at significant amounts and 
were clearly dealt with as separate claims as they incurred separate excess fees. It also 
says that while the causes of some of the claims were similar, others were clearly distinct. 
Where a misrepresentation is deliberate or reckless, CIDRA allows the insurer avoid the 
policy from the point of the misrepresentation and to keep any premiums it has received. If 
theres been a claim the insurer doesnt have to pay this, as effectively the policy never 
existed. And the insurer may look to recover any costs its paid on any claim after the 
misrepresentation.
A qualifying misrepresentation will be deliberate or reckless if the insurer can show that the 
consumer knew, or didnt care, that the information they provided was untrue or misleading 
and knew, or didnt care, that the matter to which the misrepresentation related was relevant 
to the insurer.
Having considered Mr Ms undeclared claims history, Im satisfied, on the balance of 
probabilities, that he knew or didnt care that the answers he gave to the questions about his 
claims history were untrue or misleading. Im also satisfied that Mr M would have known that 
information about his claims history was relevant to NFU. This means I think it was fair and 
reasonable for NFU to treat Mr Ms misrepresentation as deliberate or reckless.Therefore, Im satisfied NFU was entitled to avoid Mr M and Miss As policy, and retain their 
premiums, in accordance with CIDRA. And, as this means that  in effect  his policy never 
existed, NFU doesnt have to deal with their claim either. As CIDRA reflects our services 
long-established approach to misrepresentation cases, I think allowing NFU to rely on it to 
avoid Mr M and Miss As policy produces the fair and reasonable outcome in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M and Miss A have also raised concerns about NFU suspending their commercial 
insurance policies whilst it investigated the misrepresentation, and the risk they say this put 
on their business and tenants.
This point wasnt covered by NFU in its final response to Mr M and Miss As complaint. But, 
for completeness, I asked NFU whether its normal practice to suspend linked policies whilst 
investigating concerns about misrepresentation. NFU explained that when it places a 
suspension on a policy during an investigation, it means putting a hard stop on any changes 
being made to policies without its Policy Validation Teams consent first. NFU said 
suspension does not mean it suspends cover. It says cover under the commercial policies 
continued to run whilst its investigations were ongoing.
As I say, I havent considered this point in detail as it wasnt addressed as a complaint point 
by NFU in its final response. But I hope the above provides Mr M and Miss A with some 
clarity. That said, should Mr M and Miss A have further concerns about the policy 
suspensions, they should approach NFU directly in the first instance. And if they remain 
unhappy with its response, they may be able to refer their concerns to our service as a new 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr M and Miss As complaint 
against The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Miss A 
to accept or reject my decision before 12 September 2022.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman