DRN-3989269
The complaint
Miss B and Mr S are unhappy that Inter Partner Assistance SA (Inter Partner) has caused 
delays in assessing their travel insurance claim. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Miss B and Mr S had to cancel their trip due to contracting Covid-19. So, they 
submitted their claim to Inter Partner on 28 March 2022. Even though various 
requested information had been sent to Inter Partner, it kept re-requesting these. No 
further communication was received from Inter Partner until the final response was 
issued in October 2022. 
The final response stated Inter Partner would assess the claim as a priority and 
offered Miss B and Mr S £100 compensation for the delays caused. Miss B and Mr S 
brought their complaint to this service. Our investigator recommended Inter Partner 
award a further £100 for the further delays caused in assessing the claim. 
Inter Partner hasnt responded. 
Ive considered whats happened. I agree with the investigators recommendation that 
Inter Partner pay £200 in total for the delays it has caused in assessing 
Miss B and Mr Ss complaint. The delays caused since March 2022 arent in 
accordance with whats expected because the claim hasnt been assessed promptly 
and isnt in line with ICOBS 8.1.1. The delays have clearly caused trouble and upset 
to Miss B and Mr S and I dont think are unavoidable.
Additionally, the claim has yet to be assessed despite Inter Partner stating in its final 
response it would arrange to look at this as a priority. Inter Partner should now 
assess the claim as a matter of priority in line with Miss B and Mr Ss policy terms 
and conditions and should include 8% simple interest.
For these reasons given above, I uphold this complaint.  
Putting things right
To resolve Miss B and Mr Ss complaint, Inter Partner should:
Pay £200 compensation in total for the delays caused in assessing the claim.
Assess the claim as a priority in line with the terms and conditions of 
Miss B and Mr Ss travel policy. It should also include 8% simple interest from the 
date the claim was made to the date of settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss B and Mr Ss complaint about Inter Partner Assistance 
SA.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 March 2023.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman