DRN-2566284
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy Barclays Bank UK PLC advertise voice activated banking, but he hasnt 
been able to use this. He doesnt think the £100 compensation he was offered reflects the 
inconvenience he was caused. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
It isnt in dispute that Barclays has advertised a voice activated banking service. 
However, it has explained it is reliant on continued support from each upgrade to 
mobile phone operating systems.
Barclays has worked with Mr M to try and get the feature to work on his phone but 
has ultimately concluded the reason it will not work, is due to an issue its trying to 
resolve with the phone manufacturer. 
Barclays has recognised it hasnt provided the level of service it would have liked to 
Mr M and offered him £100 compensation. It recognised it didnt initially deal well with 
his enquiry, its administration of his account could have been better, and Mr M has 
spent a lot of time trying to resolve the issue.
Barclays has tried to help Mr M but ultimately the reason the feature will not work is 
outside of its control. It has said it will continue to work with the manufacturer to 
enable the feature in the future, but I think its understandable why it cant put a 
timeframe on this. Mr M has mentioned he thinks a five-figure sum would more 
accurately represent his inconvenience, however I dont think this is reasonable.    
Having reviewed everything, I think the £100 compensation offered by Barclays is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 March 2021.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman