DRN-3940043
The complaint
Ms H, through her representative, complains that Madison CF UK Limited, trading as 118 
118 Money (Madison) lent to her irresponsibly twice in 2017 and 2018. 
What happened
Ms H took two loans   - the first was approved on 16 October 2017 and was for £1,000 
repayable over 24 months at £77.05 each month. Almost a year later and a year into that 
loan, Ms H took a second loan. That paid £703.46 to cover off the loan 1 debt and Ms H 
received £600 as cash. The repayments were scheduled to be 24 of £101.58 each month 
and the loan was paid off in November 2020. 
Ms H complained and received Madisons final response letter (FRL) in August 2022. It did 
not uphold her complaint and so Ms H referred it to the Financial Ombudsman Service. One 
of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and did not think that Madison had done wrong.
Ms H did not accept this and so it was passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, what I need to 
consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint are 
whether Madison completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Ms H  
would be able to repay in a sustainable way? 
And, if not, would those checks have shown that Ms H  wouldve been able to do so?
If I determine that Madison did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Ms H and 
that he has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
The rules and regulations in place required Madison to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Ms Hs ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Madison had to think about whether repaying 
the loan would be sustainable and/or cause significant adverse consequences for Ms H. 
In practice this meant that Madison had to ensure that making the payments to the loans 
wouldnt cause Ms H undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Madison to simply think about the likelihood of it getting 
its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Ms H. Checks also 
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the circumstances of the consumer (e.g. 
their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or 
financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the same 
customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Ms Hs complaint.
Ms H informed Madison that she earned around £2,360 a month and her outgoings were 
around £750 including her credit commitments. Madison did a credit search before 
approving each loan and I have been sent copies and reviewed the details. 
Although they reveal, at both dates, that Ms H may have been over her limit on a credit card 
once or twice, and not by much, I cant see anything further of an adverse nature such that 
Madison would have been, or ought to have been, prompted to carry out further checks.
Loan 1 was for a relatively modest sum and the checks it carried out were proportionate and 
I do not consider that Madison needed to do more.
Loan 2 followed on from a good repayment record on loan 1. Apart from one late repayment 
in July 2018 for loan 1, there was anything more than that to concern Madison. Its credit 
search revealed much the same as it had seen at loan 1. 
I consider the checks to have been proportionate for loan 2 and I do not think that Madison 
needed to do more.
I do not uphold Ms Hs complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman