DRN-1325315
 
The complaint
Mr L complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC liquidated his shares without his consent or 
knowledge and that this caused him financial loss. 
What happened
In June 2018, Mr L was advised by a building society to invest in a Stocks and Shares ISA 
with a new provider. The funds were to come from the following accounts:
£2,346 held in an investment account with Barclays Stockbrokers. 
£50,000 held in a cash account with another bank.
£20,000 held in a cash ISA with a building society. 
The new provider sent instructions to Barclays to make the transfer. But Barclays liquidated 
all the shares in Mr Ls trading account on 30 August 2018. 
Mr L says he only found out in September 2018 when he noticed the cash in his trading 
account, and duly complained to Barclays. 
Barclays didnt uphold the complaint. It said it acted in accordance with Mr Ls signed 
instructions. However, it agreed to reinstate his shares without any cost to him. 
Mr L says he incurred a cost of £1,411 in the process of buying back the shares. He says as 
well as stamp duty the price of some of the shares had changed costing him money. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
She doesnt agree that Barclays simply followed the request to transfer funds.  
Shes seen no evidence that would suggest that Mr L wanted to liquidate any 
particular fund. 
Under section 3 of the transfer form, the word Cash was inserted. In addition the 
form specifically asked for all funds held in cash only to be transferred.
Had Mr L intended to liquidate his shares he wouldve recorded the specific fund 
details or at least written All funds in the section where the word Cash was inserted.
To settle the complaint Barclays should do the following: 
oMake good the losses suffered by Mr L  by ensuring the shares are bought 
back at the same price as they were sold. 
oPay Mr L £150 for the trouble and upset caused. 
Barclays disagreed with the investigators view. In summary, it said:
The request showed that Mr L had requested the investment under the policy to be 
transferred in cash to the new Stocks and Shares ISA. 
The request doesnt specify only a partial transfer of cash. 
Neither Mr L nor the business completed the part of the form which asks the 
customer to outline any funds he wishes to retain when he transfers his assets. By not making clear the assets he wanted to keep Mr L effectively asked the 
business not to retain any funds with it.
Whilst Cash was written under section 3, no reference was made to which cash he 
was referring to. And section 4 indicated all his cash ISA rather than a specified 
amount of cash. 
Because Mr L indicated his full account to be transferred it didnt need to contact him 
to clarify the issue. 
There was no clear indication that Mr L only wanted to invest un-invested cash from 
the account or that it was a partial transfer.  
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change her 
mind. In summary, she said:
Under Section 3 of the form  entitled Funds that you wish to sell  there was no 
indication either by Mr L or the business making the request, which specific fund(s) 
were to be transferred. 
The word Cash was inserted in the section suggesting Mr L wanted only the cash 
portion in his account to be transferred. 
Theres no doubt the transfer instructions couldve been made clearer by Mr L and 
the business making the request. But this doesnt exonerate Barclays of its duty of 
care because the instructions were unclear. 
In the circumstances Barclays shouldve sought clarification on the matter before 
liquidating Mr Ls shares. 
Barclays is unsure about the proposed redress. In short, it said:
Mr L hasnt mitigated his losses to reflect the sales it made on 30 August. 
He hasnt mitigated his losses by buying back  like for like  on 24 September and 1 
October 2018.
Instead, he bought more shares in three companies, and left several thousand 
pounds in his cash balance. So its not possible to put him back in the position he 
wouldve been in but for the error, as hes taken advantage of the market and acted 
differently. 
Our investigator having considered the additional points said:
She reiterated that she upheld the complaint on the basis that Barclays was wrong to 
action the request without seeking further clarification, even if it wouldve delayed the 
transfer process. 
Therefore Barclays should still  despite Mr L not buying back three of the assets 
sold  do what shed asked it to do. 
Despite Mr L appearing to benefit, he cant be blamed for not doing something that 
wouldve disadvantaged him. As he found himself in the position he was in through 
no fault of his own. 
It should also pay £150 for trouble and upset caused. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
going to uphold the complaint.  I agree with the investigator that the transfer request couldve been clearer, but this doesnt 
excuse Barclays for processing instructions that were evidently unclear and possibly 
incomplete, even by its own analysis of the facts. 
I appreciate Barclays made a judgement call in this instance, but I dont think it made the 
correct judgement call and ought reasonably to have either sought clarification or not taken 
any action at all and waited for Mr L, or the business making the request, to clarify the 
position. If the transfer request was made on the wrong application form thats what Barclays 
is likely to have done. 
In other words, it was given equivocal instructions that on balance I dont think shouldve 
been acted upon. In acting upon the instructions I think Barclays made a number of 
assumptions that it ought not to have made. 
In terms of redress I think Barclays should calculate the redress based upon the position Mr 
L wouldve been in but for the error. In other words, I agree that if there is a difference 
between the sell price and what he paid to repurchase the shares, Barclays should pay the 
difference, including any other reasonable costs hes incurred.  
I appreciate Mr L hasnt bought back all the shares, therefore the redress should only apply 
to the shares that he has bought back and been left out-of-pocket in respect of. Our service 
doesnt award redress for hypothetical loss and therefore I cant award redress based on 
losses he might have incurred had he bought all the shares back.   
In any case, I think it should still pay Mr L £150 for trouble and upset caused by the whole 
incident.  
Putting things right
I think Barclays Bank UK PLC should:
Calculate the losses incurred by Mr L in buying back his shares and placing him back 
in the position he wouldve been in but for its error. 
Pay Mr L £150 compensation for trouble and upset caused. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint. 
I think Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay redress as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2020.
Dara Islam
Ombudsman