DRN-3996553
Complaint
Mrs S is unhappy that Revolut Ltd didnt reimburse her after she fell victim to a scam.
Background
In May 2022, Mrs S fell victim to a scam. She received a phone call from someone who 
claimed to work for HM Courts & Tribunals Service. Unfortunately, that individual was a 
fraudster. 
He told Mrs S that there were several criminal charges against her regarding her tax affairs. 
She was told that she could be arrested if she didnt pay what she owed. If arrested, she 
could lose her British citizenship. She was sceptical about the call and so terminated it. 
However, this individual called her persistently and stressed that the consequences of not 
paying could be severe.
He persuaded Mrs S that he was a legitimate employee of the court by asking her to search 
online for the number he was calling from. This showed that the number was for the Crown 
Court in Birmingham. Unfortunately, Mrs S wasnt aware that it was possible for phone 
numbers to be spoofed in this way. The scammer sent her scans of seemingly official 
looking documents to back up what hed said. 
She was asked to download the Revolut app and open a new account. She was then told to 
make a payment of £1,299 to a specific payee. She was told this person was her court 
appointed solicitor. She was then asked to make a second payment to another payee of 
£2,499. Once again, she was told that this person was connected to her legal case. She 
attempted to make the transfer. I understand that she notified Revolut that the purpose of the 
payment was to move her money to a safe account.
This attempted payment was stopped. Mrs S was contacted via the Revolut app and told by 
an agent:
 I can see that our security system has held your transaction of 2,499.00 GBP to 
[the recipient] in pending because we think it may be part of a scam or fraud. Were 
trying to keep your money protected, please bear with us while we check some 
details to make sure you really want to make this payment.
She was asked if shed installed any remote access software to her device and responded 
that she hadnt. She was finally asked whether she wanted to go ahead with the payment or 
not. She chose to cancel it. Shortly afterwards, she authorised a transfer of £2,500 to the 
same payee and for the same reason. This payment was processed without further 
questioning.
She was then asked to make a final payment which wasnt successful. At the scammers 
request, she authorised a payment of £1,000 to a cryptocurrency wallet with a third-party 
business in her own name. These funds were then converted into Bitcoin and transferred on 
to the fraudster.
To make these payments, Mrs S borrowed money from her son. Once she realised that 
shed fallen victim to a scam, she notified Revolut. It investigated her complaint but didnt 
agree to reimburse her. It said that it had provided her with clear warnings during the 
payment process. It also blocked the second payment of £2,499 because it thought that 
there were clear indications of a fraud risk. It didnt think it was required to do anything 
further when Mrs S reattempted the payment. She had already received the information 
about the fraud risk and proceeded on her own.
Mrs S was unhappy with that response and so she referred her complaint to this service. It 
was looked at by an Investigator who upheld it. The Investigator said that Revolut ought to 
have been on the lookout for payments that were out of character and might have been 
indicative of an increased fraud risk.
The Investigator concluded that it ought to have intervened when Mrs S made the second 
payment in connection with the scam. It had intervened and prompted her to cancel an 
almost identical payment. But she didnt think it was adequate for Revolut to then have 
allowed a separate payment to the same payee to be processed without further questioning.
Since Revolut disagreed with the Investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to 
me to consider and come to a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is common ground that Mrs S authorised the payment. Under the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017, she is presumed liable for the loss at first instance. However, this is not 
the end of the story. Revolut is an electronic money issuer. The regulator, the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA), has confirmed that all e-money issuers must comply with legal 
requirements to deter and detect financial crime, which includes money laundering and 
terrorist financing.  
Broadly summarised, the obligations on Revolut at the material time were to:
monitor accounts and any payments made or received to counter various risks, 
including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, and 
preventing fraud and scams. 
have systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might 
indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
with which banks are generally more familiar than the average customer. 
in some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, take additional 
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases 
decline to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility 
of financial harm from fraud.
I agree with the Investigators conclusion that Revolut ought to have been concerned at the 
point Mrs S made the payment of £2,500. Shed told Revolut that the purpose of the 
payment was to move her funds to a safe account and this payment left a balance in her 
account of only £1. These were clear indicators of a potential scam risk and so Revolut 
shouldnt have processed this payment until it contacted Mrs S to satisfy itself that she 
wasnt at risk of financial harm due to fraud. Revolut has argued that, by warning her about the potential scam risk when she attempted 
to make the payment of £2,499, it had discharged its obligations to her and so it didnt do 
anything wrong in allowing the later payment to go through.
Ive considered that argument carefully, but Im not persuaded by it. There is an asymmetry 
of knowledge between the parties here. Revolut ought to have known that there is no valid 
process for a customer to transfer their money to a safe account  so when Mrs S told it 
she was attempting to do so, it was on notice of the strong likelihood that she was falling 
victim to a scam.  
I also found that the intervention that did take place on the earlier payment was quite 
superficial, particularly in view of the clear risk. She was asked whether shed downloaded 
remote access software to her device. It doesnt appear that any further information was 
gathered. I think good practice required Revolut to ask her one or two additional open 
questions. On balance, I think its likely shed have explained the basis on which she was 
making the payment and Revolut couldve warned her that it could only be a scam.
Revolut has said that it cant be taken for granted that Mrs S wouldve been candid with it 
about the reasons for the payment. It says that she lied about the payments to a friend and 
her son. Ive not seen any evidence to suggest that she lied, although I recognise that she 
appears to not have told her son the reason why she needed to borrow money from him. 
However, I dont think it necessarily follows that Revolut wouldnt have been able to break 
the spell shed been placed under by the scammers, particularly since the evidence 
suggests she hadnt been given a false cover story to explain the reasons for the payment if 
she was challenged.
Ive also considered whether Mrs S can be considered partially responsible for her own 
losses here. In doing so, Ive considered what the law says about contributory negligence 
but also kept in mind that I must decide this case based on what I consider to be fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. Having done so, Im satisfied that she shouldnt be 
considered responsible. The scammers were able to persuade her of their legitimacy by 
spoofing the number of a genuine court and also sent her fake documentation to 
demonstrate the existence of the charges.
With the benefit of hindsight, its possible to spot problems or discrepancies and some 
consumers wouldnt have been fooled by the scam. Nonetheless, I dont think she was 
credulous  for example, she initially refused to speak to the scammer at the point of the first 
phone call. It was only his relentless persistence that made her listen to what he had to say. 
Overall, Im not persuaded that her actions here demonstrate contributory negligence. I think 
she was simply the unwitting and blameless victim of a cruel and manipulative fraudster.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I uphold this complaint.
If Mrs S accepts my final decision, Revolut Ltd should pay her £3,500 without delay. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2023.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman