DRN-1593465
Complaint
Mr S says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
What happened
Mr S bought the policy in 2003, when he called Capital One to activate his new credit card.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ss case.
Having carefully considered the complaint, I have not found that this policy was mis-sold  Ill 
explain why.
Neither side still has a recording of the phone call where the PPI was sold, which is 
understandable given just how many years ago it was. Indeed, under data protection rules, 
Capital One were required to dispose of Mr Ss data rather than hold onto it for too long. So 
while I completely understand why Mr S would like a copy of the call involved, I wouldnt 
expect a company to have kept a call recording for 17 years. Meanwhile, Mr S doesnt 
remember buying PPI, and I also think thats understandable given just how long ago this 
sale was, and since buying insurance is not often memorable. Ive thought carefully about 
whats most likely to have happened, based on the limited information I have.
From what weve seen of Capital Ones sales process from the time, it looks like staff were 
instructed to present the policy as optional, and only set it up if the customer actively agreed 
to it. Ive not seen any wider problems with Capital Ones process from the time, nor any 
evidence showing that it significantly departed from its normal practice here or otherwise 
misled Mr S. And in the absence of any other evidence, I think its most likely that this sale 
followed the normal process. So I think its most likely that Capital One made Mr S aware he 
had a choice about taking the PPI, and that he chose to take it at the time.
Capital One didnt give Mr S tailored advice about buying PPI, so they didnt have to check if 
it was right for him. They did have to give Mr S enough information to decide if the PPI was 
right for him.
It is possible that the information Capital One gave Mr S about PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
changed his mind. But from what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, it looks like Mr S 
was eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of its main exclusions or limitations. 
And he only had very limited work benefits and savings otherwise. So the policy would have been useful for Mr S in case something went wrong. And the PPI was paid on a rolling 
monthly basis, so Mr S could cancel it at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think 
better information about the PPI was likely to have put him off taking it out.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman