DRN-4030310
The complaint
Mr W complains that after two Child Trust Funds (CTFs) he held for his children were 
transferred to Killik & Co LLP, it sold the holdings in the CTFs and reinvested the proceeds 
in a discretionary portfolio, without obtaining his consent.
Mr W says the CTFs are worth less than they would have been if the original holdings had 
been retained. In order to put matters right he wants Killik to reinstate the CTFs with the 
original holdings.
What happened
Mr Ws previous CTF provider (The Share Centre) wrote to him in July 2021. It explained 
that the administration and management of its CTFs was moving to Killik. The letter referred 
to leaflets included in the mailing, and it said:
Going forward, dependent on the service you move to, Killik may make the investment 
decisions for you, so the service available to you could be different to what you experience 
now.  Please therefore ensure you read the information about each service carefully.
Mr W accepts that he received this letter. He said:
The Share Centre transferred the accounts to Killik & Co and notified me of the transfers. I 
presumed that they were transferred as shareholdings to another Self-Select Child Trust 
Fund.
Mr W says he didnt realise that the holdings in the CTFs had been sold and the proceeds 
reinvested until he contacted Killik in mid-2022, to instruct it to sell the holdings he thought 
were still held in the CTFs.
Mr W complained to Killik. He said he had expected to be able to access an execution only 
dealing service and that the CTFs would be managed on the same basis as the previous 
provider.
Killik did not uphold Mr Ws complaint. It said it thought Mr W had received sufficient 
information and adequate notice of the move to Killik. It also noted that if Mr W hadnt 
wanted the CTFs to transfer to Killik, it had allowed sufficient time for him to make alternative 
arrangements.  It said if Mr W remained unhappy with its discretionary management offering 
and wanted to move the CTFs to another provider, it would waive its transfer fees.
Mr W was not satisfied with Killiks response and referred the complaint to this service.
Our investigator said she didnt think Mr Ws complaint should be upheld. She noted that the 
letter sent to Mr W in July 2021, about the transfer of the CTFs to Killik, clearly set out that 
Mr W should reviewed the information provided regarding the service Killik could offer. 
The information explained that Killik would provide a discretionary service and would  
decide what to invest in for your childs CTF on your behalf. It also explained that Mr W 
could move the CTFs to another provider, free of charge, if he was not satisfied with Killiks 
offering. 
Mr W did not accept our investigators view. He said he didnt think the process Killik had 
followed was acceptable and he felt express consent should have been sought.  He said 
that if express consent could not be obtained Killik & Co should have either waived their 
self-imposed threshold or sent the customers physical share certificates. I cannot see how 
liquidating the shares at a random point in time and re-investing the proceeds into a random 
in-house, fee charging fund, could be deemed appropriate. 
Mr W also said he felt the information he had been sent about Killiks offering was quite 
ambiguous and unspecific. And he said he was struggling to see how it can be legal for 
my shares to be sold without my knowledge or express consent.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Killik has acted incorrectly in this matter. Ill explain why.
Information provided to Mr W
I have carefully reviewed the information that was sent to Mr W ahead of the transfer of the 
CTFs to Killik. I note that it is not in dispute that Mr W received this information. What is in 
dispute is whether the information was clear, fair, and not misleading.
I note that Mr W has said he found the information quite ambiguous and unspecific. In 
particular, he said when I read the word appropriate, I understood that to mean what I 
think would be appropriate.
Having reviewed the information sent to Mr W, I dont think it was unclear or ambiguous. The 
covering letter clearly set out that Mr W should carefully review the information it had 
enclosed about the changes, and it said:
Please note, The Share Centre offers an execution only service where you choose and 
manage your own investments. Going forward, dependent on the service you move to, Killik 
may make the investment decisions for you, so the service available to you could be 
different to what you experience now. Please therefore ensure you read the information 
about each service carefully.
The enclosed information explained:
SILO is a discretionary investment service, meaning your investments are chosen and 
managed by our in- house team of investment experts. In other words, we make all the 
investment decisions on your behalf so that you dont have to.
This was reiterated on page 4 of the information, under the heading How will my money be 
invested?, it said:
You are currently responsible for choosing your own investments with The Share Centre, 
however SILO is a discretionary investment service meaning we (the team at Killik & Co) will 
decide what to invest in for your childs CTF on your behalf.
You will be invested into one of the three portfolios or investment strategies available within SILO, each of which is made up of up to 15 different funds.
These portfolios are researched, chosen and monitored by our in-house investment team 
specifically for child focussed investment products.
It also provided a timetable that made clear the existing holdings in the CTFs would be sold. 
It said:
11th September - your investments from The Share Centre will arrive with us at Killik & Co
13th-24th September - we will begin the process of selling and reinvesting into your 
new portfolio with SILO
25th September - welcome to SILO! Well send you an email with a magic link allowing you 
to download and start using SILO
(bold is my emphasis)
Having carefully considered this aspect of Mr Ws complaint, I cant reasonably agree that 
the information about Killiks offering was ambiguous or unspecific. I think it clearly set out 
that existing holdings in the CTFs transferred to Killik would be sold and the proceeds 
reinvested in a discretionary portfolio, managed by Killik.
Did Killik need to obtain Mr Ws consent?
Mr W says he feels Killik should have obtained his express consent to the changes. And he 
says that if express consent could not be obtained Killik & Co should have either waived 
their self-imposed threshold or sent the customers physical share certificates. I cannot see 
how liquidating the shares at a random point in time and re-investing the proceeds into a 
random in-house, fee charging fund, could be deemed appropriate. 
I am sympathetic to Mr Ws position, but I must take into account that Killik has confirmed to 
this service that it carefully considered the relevant regulations and, having done so:
It was concluded that it is possible to migrate clients from one provider to another without 
gaining any additional consent, using the bulk transfer mechanism under The Child Trust 
Fund Regulations 2004. The FCA determined and confirmed to The Share Centre that as 
consent is not required pursuant to the CTF regulations, CASS rules which require consent 
to a transfer were not applicable.
As Killik has confirmed that the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
said that consent to the transfer was not required, I cannot reasonably find that Killik acted 
incorrectly when it did not obtain consent for the transfer from Mr W.
As I set out above, I am satisfied that the discretionary offering available from Killik was 
clearly explained in the information sent to Mr W ahead of the transfer. It also explained that 
if Mr W was not satisfied with the offering available from Killik, he could transfer the CTFs to 
another CTF (or Junior ISA) provider, free of charge. 
I do appreciate Mr Ws strength of feeling on this matter, but I am satisfied that the 
information he received about the transfer to Killik, and the offering available from Killik, was 
not unspecific or ambiguous. As this is the case, I cannot reasonably uphold this 
complaint. 
If Mr W remains unhappy with the Killik CTF offering, I understand that he is still free to move the CTFs to another provider without incurring transfer charges.
My final decision
My decision is that, for the reasons I have set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2023.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman