DRN-2759205
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that St Jamess Place UK plc (SJP) gave them less money than 
they were told theyd get from closing their unit trust account. 
What happened
On 27 February 2020, Mr and Mrs D signed a form confirming they wanted to take all their 
money out of their unit trust. I can see this was emailed to SJP just after 3pm that day. 
A few days later, on 3 March, an intermediary acting for Mr and Mrs D called SJP about the 
withdrawal. SJP gave them a figure for how much Mr and Mrs D would get. But when Mr and 
Mrs D later received their money, they found SJP had given them less than itd said. 
In response to Mr and Mrs Ds complaint, SJP said the figure itd given on the phone call had 
been wrong. It apologised, and paid Mr and Mrs D £200 compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused. But it said Mr and Mrs D had received what they were entitled to from the unit 
trust. So it wasnt going to pay the difference between that, and what itd said on 3 March.
Mr and Mrs D werent happy with this response, so they brought the matter to us. Our 
investigator agreed SJP had given the wrong value during the 3 March call. He also agreed 
with SJPs compensation payment for the trouble and upset caused. And he felt itd be unfair 
to ask SJP to pay the difference between what itd said Mr and Mrs D would get, and what 
they actually got. 
Mr and Mrs D didnt agree with that view, so the complaints come to me for a further review, 
and a formal decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I can appreciate its not the outcome Mr and Mrs D were hoping for, Ive decided not to 
uphold their complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive checked to see if SJP acted reasonably when Mr and Mrs D told it to withdraw their 
money from the unit trust account. A good starting point for deciding whats reasonable is the 
terms and conditions for the account. These set out what SJP said itd do, when it received a 
withdrawal request.
The terms say that SJP would sell the required number of units from the unit trust at the bid 
price that applied at the next valuation point after receiving the request to sell. 
Ive asked SJP for the valuations covering the period 28 February to 5 March 2020. These 
show me that the value Mr and Mrs D received is based on the 28 February valuation. 
Thats consistent with what the terms said SJP would do. The request was sent to them by 
email on 27 February, and 28 February is the next valuation point after that. 
Ive looked at the valuations on the other days  particularly on 3 March  to see if these 
show where the higher valuation came from that SJP gave in the 3 March phone call. But the 
value never gets as high as was said during the call. So I cant fully explain why SJP said 
there was that much in the account. 
With that said, Ive found that the value Mr and Mrs D received was in line with the terms of 
the product. And I find its fair for SJP to have applied their terms as written to Mr and 
Mrs Ds withdrawal request. So Im not going to tell it to take any steps to change the amount 
Mr and Mrs D received from selling their unit trust. 
But I recognise Mr and Mrs D were disappointed to find they received less than they could 
have been expecting after the call on 3 March. I dont see the error in March affected their 
decision to withdraw their money  that instruction was given in February. But I appreciate 
theres an emotional impact here, even though theres no actual financial loss.
Paying compensation is one way to acknowledge that sort of impact. But the exact amount 
to pay is always going to be a matter of opinion. The amount SJP paid in this case  £200  
is in keeping with the sort of awards wed usually make in a case like this, where theres 
been no financial loss, and the issue has been quickly identified as a simple mistake. 
With that in mind, Im not going to tell SJP it needs to do anything more to resolve this 
complaint. That means that, despite having found SJP made a mistake, Im not going to 
uphold the complaint against it, as theres nothing more it needs to do to put things right. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 July 2021.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman