DRN-3842386
The complaint
Miss R complains about the way BISL Limited handled a vehicle change on her motor 
insurance policy which she says left her driving uninsured. 
What happened
The background to the complaint is well-known to all parties so I wont repeat it here. In my 
decision Ill focus mainly on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome I have. 
In summary, BISL made an error when Miss R requested to change the vehicle insured on 
her motor policy. They say they changed the vehicle registration, but the previous written-off 
vehicle remained insured on the policy. They say this was due to human error and should 
have been picked up by their agents. 
Miss R says she was left uninsured as a result and could have been impacted had she been 
involved in an incident or stopped by police. Miss G also says shes a carer, and BISLs error 
could have damaged her reputation. So, she complained. 
BISL responded to the complaint and paid Miss R £125. £100 was compensation for any 
distress and inconvenience caused, and a £25 administration fee was refunded, amongst 
some other payments made against the policy. 
Miss R thought BISL should increase the compensation amount to recognise the impact their 
serious error could have had on her and her reputation. So, she brought the complaint to our 
service for an independent review. 
Our investigator didnt recommend it be upheld. He thought BISL took reasonable steps to 
acknowledge their error, and the impact this had on Miss R. Miss R didnt agree, so the case 
was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss R says she was distressed to find BISL failed to update her policy correctly despite her 
contacting them to do so. And the impact of this could have been substantial. She says shes 
had nightmares about what could have happened over the period her previous vehicle was 
insured on the policy, rather than her replacement vehicle. 
BISL say they provided assurances to Miss R that if she had been stopped by police or 
involved in an incident, she would have still been covered in line with the policy terms. 
Fortunately, Miss R wasnt stopped by police or involved in an incident during this period. As 
such, Im unable to require BISL to compensate Miss R for events that could have occurred. 
The impact here  in my view  is Miss R finding out BISL made an error and the worry and 
distress of this. 
I accept Miss R finding BISL made this error would have caused her to experience a level of 
distress and inconvenience. Ive gone on to consider what did happen, the impact on Miss R, 
and BISLs attempt to put matters right. And having done so, Im satisfied they took 
reasonable steps to acknowledge their error, and compensated Miss R fairly, reasonably, 
and proportionately here by paying her £100. 
Miss R says BISL should refund a portion of her premiums, but I dont agree thats fair. I say 
this because, although the incorrect vehicle was recorded on her policy, Im satisfied Miss R 
would have still been on cover in the event an incident occurred. And the insurer would likely 
have gone on to validate the claim in line with the policy terms. So, I wont be requiring BISL 
to take any action in respect of this complaint. 
I accept my decision will come as a disappointment to Miss R. But my decision ends what 
we  in attempting to resolve her dispute with BISL  can do for her. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman