DRN-2449970
The complaint
Mrs A is unhappy with Newline Insurance Company Limiteds (Newline) decision to decline 
cover for her pet insurance claim. She also complains that Newline incorrectly told her the 
claim would be covered. Mrs A wants Newline to settle the claim.
 
All references to Newline include agents appointed to act on Newlines behalf.
What happened
Mrs A renewed her pet insurance for her dog with Newline in 2019. In July 2020, Mrs A had 
an online chat with an agent at Newline about her dogs condition. During this chat, Mrs A 
explained her dog has a hip problem and would be going for CT scans the following day. Mrs 
A asked the agent whether her dog is covered for the procedure and the agent replied to say 
her dog was covered. Mrs A put in a claim for treatment costs in July  the claim was for her 
dogs right hind lameness. Newline declined the claim. 
Mrs A complained about their decision and being incorrectly informed the claim would be 
covered. Newline responded and referred to the policys terms and conditions which say 
they wont provide cover for a condition more than 12 months after the onset of the 
condition. Newline said the condition was first noted in June 2017 so the claim was correctly 
declined. Newline accepted there had been distress caused to Mrs A following the online 
chat as she was led to believe the claim would be successful. Newline apologised and 
offered £50 compensation which they said would be credited to Mrs A.   
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs A and felt that Newline hadnt acted unfairly in 
declining Mrs As claim. Mrs A disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mrs A will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
The claim
My starting point is Mrs As pet insurance policy which sets out the terms and conditions of 
her policy. Under a section headed Cover period limited for each separate condition it says 
provided your policy is continually renewed and in force during the period of 
treatment and for a maximum period of 12 months from the date the illness or 
injury was first noticed or until the maximum benefit for each condition or incident is 
reached, whichever occurs sooner, we will pay, the cost of veterinary treatment 
received for each illness or injury suffered by your pet.
After the period of 12 months from the date the illness or injury was first noticed or 
after the maximum benefit is used up, whichever is the sooner, treatment for that 
illness or accident will be excluded from cover for the remainder of the policys 
life.
I can see that renewal documentation was sent to Mrs A in 2019. This enclosed a separate 
document which provides a summary of the cover provided and says, under the section 
What is insured?:
Vet fees up to a maximum of £3000 for each condition or for 12 months from the 
date clinical signs are first noted for examinations, consultations, advice, tests, X-
rays, medication, surgery, nursing and care provided by a veterinary practice and/or 
if instructed by a vet.
So, taking this into account, I agree the policy sets out a time restriction which allows 
Newline to decline claims for any condition which was first noticed more than 12 months 
before. But, to assess whether Newline have applied their policy fairly, Ive looked at whether 
its reasonable for them to have started the 12 months from June 2017. 
I think its fair for an insurer to start the 12 months from when a consumer can first 
reasonably make a claim on their policy. This is usually when a vet recommends some sort 
of investigation or treatment for clinical signs displayed by the pet. Otherwise a consumer 
could lose out on much or even all of the cover provided by the policy so wont have had the 
benefit of the cover theyve paid for.
Newline have provided clinical notes which show there was a consultation in June 2017 
where the vet noted lameness and problems with Mrs As dogs hip. The notes show Mrs As 
dog underwent treatment the following day for this condition. A few days later there was 
another consultation where the vet noted there had been an improvement in the condition. 
The notes show Newline paid for the treatment costs following a claim in 2017.
Taking this all into account, I dont think Newline have acted unfairly in declining Mrs As 
claim. The clinical history shows the condition which Mrs A has claimed for in 2020 was the 
same condition claimed for in 2017  and which was paid out by Newline. I can see that 
Newline have relied on the clinical notes to support their decision to decline the claim. And 
theyve acted in line with the policy terms and conditions when relying on the 12-month 
exclusion. So, I dont uphold this part of the complaint. 
Communication 
Newline accept there has been an error during the online chat during which Mrs A was led to 
believe her claim would be paid. I agree with Newlines comment that any confusion couldve 
been avoided if they had brought the 12-month time limit to Mrs As attention. I think the 
apology and £50 compensation paid to Mrs A is fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
and I wont be asking them to take any further steps. 
I do understand Mrs As frustration at being told something which shes relied on, but this 
doesnt change the fact that Newline are entitled to decline a claim in line with the policy. 
And, I dont think it would be fair in the circumstances to expect Newline to pay a claim on 
the basis an agent didnt clarify the 12-month time limit. And this is particularly so, because I 
feel the policy and renewal documents do make the position clear on the time limit.   
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman