DRN-2224665
The complaint
Mr A complained about a loan he took out through a company called Evergreen Finance 
London Limited, trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk. Ill refer mainly to MoneyBoat in this decision. 
He says he was lent to irresponsibly and the loan caused him financial problems.
What happened
We now know that he took out one loan from MoneyBoat, in 2019. Ive enclosed a summary 
of his borrowing with MoneyBoat based on the information provided to us:
Loan Taken Out Amount Instalments Repayment
1 February 2019 £200 2 £107
One of our adjudicators said they didnt think we should uphold this complaint but Mr A 
asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Ive followed this 
approach when thinking about Mr As complaint.
MoneyBoat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that Mr 
A could repay the loan he was given in a sustainable manner. These checks ought to have 
taken into account a range of different factors, such as the amount being lent, the total 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. However, certain factors might point to the fact that 
MoneyBoat should have fairly and reasonably done more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer.  These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. Ive carefully considered all of these things 
and what they mean for Mr As complaint.
MoneyBoat told us it carried out certain checks before agreeing to lend to Mr A, including 
assessing his income, expenditure and creditworthiness. Im not going to list everything it did 
but suffice to say Ive looked over the checks it carried out thoroughly. However, I see Mr A 
declared his net income (after tax) as £4,000 per month and he also provided details about 
his expenditure. On the basis of this I think the repayments on the loan would have looked 
affordable. 
Overall however, the other checks MoneyBoat carried out would have revealed some, but 
certainly not all, of Mr As overall financial profile. MoneyBoat says that based on what was 
revealed by its checking procedure, the information showed that Mr A would be able to make 
the loan repayments he was committing to in a sustainable way. 
Ive also looked carefully at what Mr A has said in response to our adjudicators view that his 
complaint shouldnt be upheld. I also accept that we now know that Mr A was actually 
experiencing difficulties elsewhere and hed gotten himself into financial trouble. He was 
obviously having trouble managing money. But looking at all this through the lens of what 
MoneyBoat knew at the time, I think the checks it carried out indicated this loan was 
sustainable. Broadly speaking, I can see hed had some previous trouble with credit cards 
and other loans, but these pre-date the sale by some way. 
As Ive said above, our normal approach to these types of loan is that the early lending 
relationship usually means less thorough checks are proportionate. Im not aware that Mr As 
income  or what he himself told MoneyBoat at the point of application  revealed or 
suggested he was vulnerable. And none of the three issues Ive bullet-pointed above are 
apparent, so Im not going to deviate from that approach.
Whilst I agree its possible that more thorough financial checks would have exposed Mr As 
challenging financial situation much better, he was still at the very beginning of a lending 
relationship with this particular business and there doesnt seem to be anything that would 
have caused MoneyBoat to think he might be unable to pay this loan back sustainably. In 
short, I think the checks carried out in this case were proportionate and Im afraid there isnt 
enough evidence to uphold this complaint. Im sorry to disappoint Mr A.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Evergreen Finance London Limited to pay Mr A any compensation. Under the rules of 
the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or reject my decision 
before 25 November 2020.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman