DRN-4343528
The complaint
Mr R, Mrs R and Miss R (the insured) complain about the decision by Euroins AD to turn 
down their travel insurance claim.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The travel delay section of cover does pay benefit if the departure of the aircraft is 
delayed due to adverse weather conditions and/or mechanical breakdown or 
technical fault of the aircraft. However, the insureds initial flight wasnt delayed for at 
least 12 hours, as required by this section of the policy for benefit to be paid. 
Although the insured make the point that they arrived home two days later than 
planned, the policy only takes into account the delay of the aircraft departure, which 
was less than 12 hours. So I dont require Euroins to pay travel delay benefit.
The missed departure section of the policy covers necessary travel and 
accommodation costs required to reach a booked destination, but the insured didnt 
incur travel or accommodation costs to reach the UK. That means their costs for food 
etc arent covered, and I dont need to consider whether the claim meets the rest of 
the missed departure requirements under the policy.
Ive looked at the remaining sections of the policy, but theres no cover for the 
insureds particular circumstances. I therefore find that Euroins turned down the claim 
in line with the policy terms. 
Whilst I recognise the insured will be disappointed with my decision, I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R, Miss R and 
Mrs R to accept or reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman