DRN-2762069
The complaint
Mr A complains that National Savings and Investments (NS&I), switched him to paperless
correspondence without his consent and failed to provide him with a valid proof of purchase
for some premium bonds hed purchased.
What happened
Mr A has bought a number of premium bonds with NS&I over the years. His preference
throughout this period was to receive paper correspondence, and for any prizes due to him
to be posted out as cheques.
Following each investment, NS&I automatically sent him a letter titled Your new investment
(YNI). These YNI letters confirmed the purchase had been successful, the new value of Mr
As investment, and his new bond numbers. Mr A refers to these letters as certificates.
In 2020, NS&I told Mr A that in order to continue having prizes paid to him directly, hed need
to switch to receiving them electronically by bank transfer. Mr A logged in to NS&Is website
and updated his preferences. He did this on 1 November 2020.
On 24 November 2020, Mr A purchased more premium bonds. But he didnt receive the
certificates hed been expecting. Just an email confirming his purchase.
Mr A called NS&I on 6 December 2020 and, amongst other things, noted hed not received
any certificates. NS&Is call handler pointed out that Mr A was set to receive paperless
correspondence, so nothing wouldve been posted to him following his recent purchase.
They agreed to switch Mr A back to receiving paper correspondence and said theyd post
him a statement.
Mr A called NS&I again on 11 December 2020. He complained hed not received the
certificates he wanted, and that they werent available online. He also complained about
being switched to receive paperless correspondence. Mr A said hed never requested this
himself. He also explained how unhappy he was with the service hed received. NS&Is call
handler logged his complaint and agreed to send Mr A a bond record out in the post.
Mr A placed more calls to NS&I in the days following the conversation on 11 December
2020. And on 20 December 2020, he wrote it a letter in which he elaborated on the points
hed raised earlier. He explained that without the missing YNI letter, hed be at risk of not
being able to claim prizes which may be due to him. He also accused NS&I of fraud, for
failing to provide him with proof of purchase. 
In the days following Mr A sending his complaint letter, hes said he received a statement
showing his bonds. But not the certificates that hed wanted to see.
Mr A called NS&I again on 3 February 2020, the date hed been expecting to receive an
answer to his complaint. The call handler discussed the outcome of Mr As complaint. NS&I
hadnt upheld Mr As concerns. It set out that hed been switched to paperless
correspondence when he updated his preferences to receive prizes electronically. It also
explained that itd provided him with bond records when hed asked for them, and that he
could download these for himself via its website.
Mr A wasnt happy with NS&Is response to his complaint, so he brought the matter to our
service. Our investigator didnt uphold Mr As complaint. As Mr A disagreed, the matters
been referred to me.
I issued a provisional decision on 25 February 2022  I said that having considered the 
matter, I didnt intend to uphold Mr As complaint. This is what I said: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive arrived at the same conclusion as our investigator, but for different
reasons.
Mr A has submitted detailed submissions to support his complaint across the emails and
calls hes exchanged with our service. I would like to assure him that Ive considered all of
them in detail. But I hope he wont take it as a discourtesy that I shant be addressing every
point that hes raised with us individually. Ours is an informal service, and its within my
power to focus our determination on what I see the crux of his complaint as being. Thats
what Ive done here.
The switch to paperless correspondence
As part of my consideration of this complaint, Ive asked NS&I to elaborate on how it was Mr
A came to be subscribed to receive paperless correspondence. Hes been adamant
throughout this dispute that this wasnt something hed ever agreed to. And but for this, it
seems unlikely hed have experienced issues obtaining paperwork in the first place. So Ive
looked at the available evidence to establish whats happened here.
NS&Is records show the switch to paperless correspondence was keyed at the exact same
time as Mr As preferences were updated to receive prizes by bank transfer. This suggested
the processes were likely to be linked in some way. So I asked NS&I to provide evidence of
what Mr A will have seen when he signed in on 1 November 2020 to update his preferences.
NS&Is explained there were two paths Mr A couldve taken to make the switch to receiving
prizes electronically. The first path wouldve allowed him to opt in to receiving prizes
electronically, without also updating his correspondence preferences. The second path will
have updated both his correspondence and prize preferences simultaneously. And the
evidence available persuades me this is most likely to be the option that Mr A chose.
The second path will have presented Mr A with a webpage, which Ive seen. It presents the
reader with two options, including a description of what they each entail:
Paperless  prizes paid directly to your bank account, no paper Bond records
Well email you if you win a prize
Well pay your prizes straight to your nominated bank account
Well stop sending you paper records when you buy or cash in Bonds  view
them online insteadPaper  prizes sent by post, paper Bond records
Well send you a warrant (like a cheque) if you win a prize
Well send you an updated paper record when you buy or cash in Bonds
The fact that NS&Is records show Mr As correspondence and prize preferences were
updated to paperless simultaneously, persuades me that hes most likely to have selected
the paperless option on this web page. If hed updated his preferences via the first path,
which Ive also seen, it wouldve been possible for Mr A to amend his correspondence and
prize preferences independently of one another.
Having reviewed his complaint in full, I appreciate that Mr A is adamant he didnt ever agree
to receive paperless correspondence. But the evidence Ive outlined above persuades me
the most likely explanation for whats happened here, is that he opted for paperless as it
was outlined on the webpage Ive quoted above.
Ive considered whether the wording on this webpage is confusing or ambiguous in any way.
Because the rules require NS&I to communicate with its customers in a way thats clear, fair,
and not misleading. But Im satisfied that the contents of this page are sufficiently clear. And
significantly in this case, the page gives enough information about the two options for a
reader to understand the consequences of picking one over the other.
So I find the most likely explanation for why Mr A was switched to receive paperless
correspondence, is because he accepted this change as part of updating his preference to
receive prizes electronically. Having read his complaint, this seems likely to be something Mr
A did inadvertently. But Im satisfied that NS&I presented the options clearly enough, such
that Mr A couldve made an informed choice about what he was electing to change.
With this established, Ive turned my attention to the rest of Mr As complaint.
Obtaining paper records
Mr A says NS&I failed to provide him with the YNI letters he was used to receiving, following
his purchase on 24 November 2020. But these letters werent sent to Mr A because of the
update he made to his preferences on 1 November 2020. And as Ive established above, Im
persuaded NS&I clearly communicated this is what would happen at the time that update
was made. So I dont think NS&I was treating Mr A unfairly by not posting him the YNI
letters.
What NS&I did do following his purchase on 24 November 2020 was to send him a
confirmation of his purchase via its secure messaging system. It also made the new bonds
available to view online with the rest of his holdings.
Mr A doesnt believe this is sufficient, and has argued that without the YNI letters, he may
encounter difficulties when claiming prizes on those bonds. NS&I has refuted this. It says the
YNI letter doesnt form part of the process through which prizes are claimed and suggested
that Mr As concerns are unfounded.
The rules require NS&I to treat its customers fairly. And if I was persuaded that itd
disadvantaged Mr A by leaving him at risk of not receiving prizes, its within my power to
direct the business to put things right. 
Mr A hasnt submitted any evidence to support his concern that lacking a YNI letter, risks
him losing out on prizes. Theres nothing in his testimony that would suggest NS&I ever gavethe impression this might be something he needed to worry about. And having studied a
copy of a different YNI letter thats been submitted to us, it makes no suggestion that its of
any relevance to the prize claiming process. Considering this, its not overly clear to me
where Mr As belief came from.
In defending this complaint, NS&I has clearly explained the YNI letters dont fulfil the function
Mr A is ascribing to them. In an email sent directly to Mr A in February 2021, referring to the
paper bond record itd manually sent to Mr A at his request, it said that:
The bond record we sent to you contains sufficient proof of your bond numbers.
Proof of purchase also exists in the debit card receipt ant the transaction information
that can be accessed through your online account. Prizes of any value, including the
jackpot £1,000,000 can be claimed in the absence of a bond record or old certificate.
In response to this, Mr As said hes unwilling to accept these assurances by email. He
wants something more formal from NS&I before hes willing to accept that he can be without
the YNI letter. But Im not persuaded NS&I needs to provide this.
Im satisfied from the evidence Ive seen that the absence of the YNI letter, doesnt leave Mr
A at risk of missing out on prizes. Therefore NS&I isnt treating him unfairly by not providing
one. If he needed to prove ownership of the bonds when claiming a prize, Mr A has ample
evidence in the form of:
The paper bond summaries hes been sent.
The secure message NS&I sent him confirming his purchase.
His online account with NS&I where he can view the bonds he owns.
His own records of having paid NS&I to purchase the bonds in the first place.
Mr A has suggested he may need to show evidence of his bond holdings to other parties,
and that these other parties might be reluctant to accept the records he possesses,
favouring YNI letters instead. But from what I can see this is purely hypothetical. Mr A hasnt
presented any evidence of an entity disputing his ownership of the bonds he purchased on
24 November. Im therefore not persuaded this is of any detriment to Mr A.
The YNI letter is clearly something that Mr A wants, but it is not something any of the
evidence persuades me he needs, or that it would be fair or reasonable of me to require
NS&I to provide. Hes still able to benefit from prizes the same as any other investor. So
NS&I isnt treating him unfairly by not providing a YNI letter. Nor is it acting fraudulently as
Mr A has suggested. Im satisfied that Mr A has, as set out above, sufficient information and
correspondence from NS&I, electronically and physically, to evidence his rights to the bond
numbers he holds.
NS&Is service throughout
In his complaint, Mr A has made much of the time he feels hes had to spend following this
matter up with NS&I. But as Ive established, Mr As complaint stems from a change to his
preferences which the evidence persuades me he authorised himself, and which NS&I
clearly explained the consequences of. So I cant reasonably say NS&Is actions forced Mr A
to spend his time pursuing this matter. 
Ive listened to a sample of the calls Mr A had with NS&I. I think that overall, the business
has provided him with a reasonable level of service throughout, mindful of what his query
entailed.During the initial call about this issue, NS&Is call handler correctly identified the reason Mr A
hadnt received the YNI letter was because hed opted to receive paperless correspondence.
And that same call handler arranged for Mr As preferences to be updated to receive paper
correspondence again, as well as offering to manually provide Mr A with an up to date list of
his bonds, which I can see was followed up correctly.
Im aware that the document Mr A received in the post wasnt the YNI letter that he wanted.
But from the calls Ive heard, Mr A wasnt so specific about what it was he wanted NS&I to
send him, such that its staff couldve been certain he was referring to the YNI letters. I can
understand why NS&Is call handlers elected to send him records of his bond holdings based
on the discussions Ive listened to. Im not persuaded NS&Is actions have inconvenienced
Mr A, and so I wouldnt consider directing it to compensate him. Im satisfied that its treated
him fairly in this matter.
In summary
The evidence Ive seen persuades me that Mr A is likely to have inadvertently
updated his preferences to receive paperless correspondence, when his intention
was to simply receive prizes electronically.
Im satisfied NS&Is explanation of what paperless meant was sufficiently clear,
such that it wouldve been apparent to the reader that no paper bond records would
be sent following its selection.
When Mr A spoke to NS&I about this issue, it correctly identified whatd happened
during its first call with him. And in its subsequent calls, it seems to have provided
him with a reasonable level of service, mindful of what his query entailed.
Im satisfied Mr A hasnt been disadvantaged by not receiving a YNI letter for the
bonds he purchased. NS&Is systems show the bonds were correctly assigned to
him, theres no evidence that lacking a YNI letter could cause issues when claiming
prizes or proving ownership of the bonds. And Mr A has ample proof of purchase
across the various records that show he purchased premium bonds on 24 November
2020.
Overall, Im satisfied that NS&I has treated Mr A fairly in this matter.
Mr A responded to my provisional decision and disagreed substantially with my findings. 
Hes reiterated that he never opted in to receive electronic correspondence from NS&I. Its 
his belief that NS&Is systems have made this choice for him. He also raised concerns that 
hed not had sight of the evidence Id relied on when concluding that hed opted for electronic 
correspondence. 
In reply, our investigator shared this evidence with Mr A. Mr A replied to say that he did not 
consider the collection of documents our investigator shared with him to be evidence of 
anything at all. He recalled navigating to the section of NS&Is website where bank details 
can be added and making the amendment to receive prizes electronically from there. He 
remains adamant that he never consented to receive electronic correspondence. 
Mr A has also reiterated his believe that NS&Is YNI letters must have some significance, as 
theyre produced with their own unique serial numbers and bar codes. He suggests that as 
NS&Is terms and conditions dont explicitly say what is and isnt required to claim prizes, 
hes likely to be at a disadvantage because of the YNI letter hes missing. He feels that NS&I 
ought reasonably to be able to provide him with the document hes asked it for. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I will not be departing from the findings I made in my provisional decision. I 
shall explain why. 
As with my provisional decision, whilst Ive read and considered all of the submissions made, 
I wont be referencing every argument in what I set out below. Its within my remit to focus 
my decision on what I consider the crux of this complaint as being, and thats what Ive done 
here.  
Paperless correspondence
Mr As recollection of where on NS&Is website he navigated to, and what option he chose, 
differs from what Id concluded he was likely to have done. In his response, hes said that his 
selection was made on the same page that hed go to, to enter his bank details. 
Ive reconsidered my findings in light of this. But Im not persuaded Mr As recollections 
mean he didnt inadvertently authorise the switch to electronic correspondence himself. 
NS&I has provided evidence which confirms his bank details have been held on file since 
April 2017. This same piece of evidence notes that Mr As account details were subject to a 
modification on 1 November 2020 at 14:14:02. Having cross referenced this date and time 
with NS&Is records of Mr As account login history, I can see this is the exact same time I 
referenced in my provisional decision as being the time Mr As correspondence and payment 
preferences were updated simultaneously. NS&I has explained that the modification thats 
noted on the payment details screenshot, is the switch to electronic prizes thats highlighted 
on the login history screenshot. 
In my provisional decision, I explained why the fact these amendments took place 
simultaneously was key. NS&I has provided evidence in the form of screenshots from its 
website, which outline a user journey that concludes with prize and correspondence 
preferences being updated simultaneously. Its also shown a separate user journey where 
the two can be edited independently of one another. And given the timing of the 
amendments coincides with a successful login to his online account, on a day when Mr A 
does not dispute he signed in to update his prize preferences, I remain satisfied that, on 
balance, Mr A is more likely than not to have inadvertently made the amendment in question 
himself. And the fact that the preferences were updated simultaneously, persuades me hes 
likely to have done so whilst viewing the webpage NS&I has presented in evidence. 
NS&I is required to communicate with its customers in a way thats clear, fair and not 
misleading. And having studied its webpage carefully, Im satisfied NS&Is met with that 
obligation here. The webpage, which Ive previously quoted from in my provisional decision, 
clearly sets out the option for either choosing paperless and receiving only electronic prizes 
and correspondence, or paper and receiving letters and cheques. The webpage gives the 
reader a clear indication of the likely consequences of each choice. 
So whilst Ive considered Mr As recollections of his activities that day, Im still persuaded 
hes likely to have opted for paperless by following the journey Ive outlined above. Ive 
seen nothing which would persuade me Mr As choice, which I accept is likely to have been 
inadvertent, came as a result of NS&I treating him unfairly. Nor am I persuaded that NS&Is 
systems are likely to have made this selection for Mr A as hes suggested. Having said that, I also think its worth considering that even if Mr A didnt inadvertently opt 
for paperless correspondence, I do not consider that this switch has left him at any sort of 
disadvantage. I shall explain why.  
Proof of purchase
Mr A has presented no evidence that missing a YNI letter makes it more difficult for him to 
claim prizes. Ive read his submissions carefully and found no suggestion that NS&I has ever 
overtly given him the impression that this would be something he needed to worry about. 
From what I can tell, Mr As concern around the missing letter stems from an assumption he 
has made himself. And NS&I, the firm Mr A would be claiming prizes from, has explicitly told 
him the YNI letter is not required to claim prizes. Im satisfied that NS&I has explained its 
position on this matter sufficiently clearly and owes Mr A nothing further in this regard. 
Im similarly satisfied that NS&I has provided Mr A with adequate proof of purchase for his 
bonds. Whilst he lacks a YNI letter, Mr A has access to:  
The paper bond summaries hes been sent.
The secure message NS&I sent him confirming his purchase.
His online account with NS&I where he can view the bonds he owns.
His own records of having paid NS&I to purchase the bonds in the first place.
In my view, this is sufficient evidence that Mr A could reasonably prove his ownership of 
specific bonds with NS&I, were he called upon to do so. So Im not persuaded NS&Is 
decision to not provide him with the YNI letter is unfair. 
Mr As highlighted that NS&Is terms dont explicitly confirm how the prize claiming process 
will function. The suggestion being that as this is ambiguous, and the YNI letters appear 
superficially to be formal documents, its best that hes fully furnished with all of the 
paperwork possible. But I note that Mr A has won prizes on his bonds before, and so has 
some experience with how the process works. And as I understand it, NS&I has never 
required him to produce YNI letters in order to receive those prizes. Which further persuades 
me hes at no disadvantage because of the missing letter. 
I can appreciate that from Mr As perspective, given that the YNI letter is something he 
sincerely wants, it would be ideal if NS&I could retrospectively create one for him. But NS&I 
has said that it cannot do this, and for the reasons given above, Mr A is no worse off without 
the letter, practically speaking. All of this means that, in my view, NS&I isnt treating Mr A 
unfairly by not providing the letter. 
NS&Is service
Ive listened to a number of phone calls Mr A had with NS&I. And whilst I can acknowledge 
Mr A has indeed spent a long time on the phone dealing with this issue, Im satisfied this has 
not come as a result of an error or unfair treatment on NS&Is part. 
For the reasons given above, I think its likely this complaint stems from amendments Mr A 
made to his account. And any time spent following the YNI letters up has flowed from this 
amendment. 
In the calls Ive listened to, NS&Is staff have been courteous, and answered Mr As queries 
fairly, mindful of what was being asked of them. I also think its significant that the first call 
handler Mr A initially spoke to identified that it was Mr A whod updated his preferences to receive paperless correspondence and amended it for him straight away. So Im satisfied 
NS&I hasnt unfairly prolonged matters by not getting to grips with Mr As concerns. 
For all of the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr As complaint about NS&I. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2022.
 
Marcus Moore
Ombudsman