DRN-1573343
The complaint
Ms B is unhappy with the settlement given to her by Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc 
(RSA) in respect of her home insurance claim for theft following a burglary at her home. 
What happened
In September 2018 Ms B suffered a burglary from her home A large number of items were 
taken including, in particular, valuable items of jewellery and high value mens watches. She 
also lost a large amount of cash which shed been saving. She made a claim to RSA who 
asked her to provide a list of the items stolen. She wasnt able to do this until January 2019, 
following which a loss adjuster was sent out to visit her. They advised RSA that Ms B wasnt 
able to substantiate a large number of her items particularly the jewellery and watches.
RSA appointed a specialist company to make further investigations. They advised that it was 
a genuine claim but in view of the lack of substantiation RSA agreed to settle payments for 
the lower value items. It wouldnt pay for the high value watches and other items of jewellery 
as given their value it said it would be reasonable to expect some proof of ownership for 
them. It wasnt satisfied as to the amount of cash Ms B said she had in the house but in view 
of the £500 limit for this, agreed to settle that up to that limit.
Ms B was unhappy with this and was upset at the way she felt she was targeted by the loss 
adjuster/investigator. She felt she had been profiled to deny her claim. She pointed out that 
the policy didnt require her to keep receipts etc
On referral to the service our investigator thought that RSA had acted reasonably.
Ms B didnt agree and the matter has been referred to me for further consideration.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I fully understand that Ms B wont be aware of the technicalities of an insurance claim. But 
the nature of insurance is that the onus is on the consumer to prove their claim. The policy 
doesnt require receipts etc to be kept but the insurer can decide it requires them. The 
question to be decided then is whether thats reasonable in the circumstances of the case.. 
Having said that I appreciate that nobody keeps detailed receipts for everything and 
sometimes different forms of proof may be acceptable. If substantiation is provided for the 
majority of items stolen we may take the view that the insurer should settle the other items.
But here Ms B wasnt able to produce any receipts, valuations or photos for the jewellery and 
watches stolen, save for a photo of one watch which isnt clear enough to identify it. As well 
as the watches she had several valuable items of jewellery which it might be reasonable to 
expect to have some form of record of. 
When Ms B was interviewed RSA had concerns about the nature of the claim. Essentially it 
wanted to be assured that the claim wasnt fraudulent. I know that doesnt apply to Ms B so 
the questioning must have seemed harsh and tactless. Unfortunately that is the job of the 
special investigator. Several factors concerning the circumstances of the claim led RSA to 
question it e.g. that it took Ms B several months to provide a loss list, she didnt mention the 
jewellery or watches in her report to the police, she owned mens watches which she said 
belonged it her and which she wore, and that she had large amounts of cash in the house. 
RSA was entitled to take the view that it would only accept the claim for the high value 
jewellery and watches if Ms B provided sufficient substantiation of them. It took the view that 
the photo provided wasnt sufficient. And I think it was reasonable of it to take that view.
Im sorry that this means that Ms B didnt get paid for her jewellery and watches. I appreciate 
that this was distressing for her. But I think RSA acted reasonably in its decision to settle the 
claim excluding those items
   
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2020.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman