DRN-3115878
Complaint
Mrs V has complained about the overdraft charges HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) applied to 
her current account. Shes says HSBC applied charges when she was in financial difficulty.
Background
Mrs Vs complaint was then looked at by one of our adjudicators. He didnt think that HSBC 
had done anything wrong as HSBC didnt have reason to suspect she may have been in 
financial difficulty. So he didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mrs V disagreed with 
the adjudicator and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Vs
complaint. Ill explain why Ive done so in a little more detail.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the
various amounts HSBC charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or proportionate in 
comparison to the costs of the service provided. Ultimately how much a bank charges for 
services is a commercial decision. And it isnt something for me to get involved with.
That said, while Im not looking at HSBCS charging structure per se, it wont have acted 
fairly and reasonably towards Mrs V if it applied these interest, fees and charges to Mrs Vs 
account in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been
aware Mrs V was experiencing financial difficulty. So Ive considered whether there were
instances where HSBC didnt treat Mrs V fairly and reasonably. 
In other words, Ive considered whether there were periods where HSBC continued charging 
Mrs V even though it ought to have known she was in financial difficulty or it ought to have 
realised this was the case. Ive also looked through Mrs Vs statements throughout the 
period concerned I cant see that HSBC ought to have been aware that Mrs V might have 
been struggling during the period weve looked at. 
Its fair to say that Mrs V did consistently use her overdraft. And Mrs V might argue that this 
was in itself an indication she was struggling. I know that Mrs V feels that the overdraft 
charges were responsible for keeping her overdrawn. 
But while Im not seeking to make retrospective value judgements over Mrs V expenditure, 
nonetheless there are significant amounts of non-committed, non-contractual and 
discretionary transactions account going from the account. And there was nothing in this 
spending pattern which was indicative of difficulty or someone that was struggling. Equally 
the amount being credited to Mrs Vs account each month didnt indicate that the overdraft 
had become unsustainable and that HSBC ought to have taken corrective action in relation 
to it. So I dont think that its fair or reasonable for me to conclude that it was the charges that 
were responsible for Mrs V using her overdraft. 
I accept neither of these things in themselves (or taken together) mean that Mrs V wasnt 
experiencing financial difficulty. But there isnt anything in these transactions in themselves 
which ought to have alerted HSBC to potential financial difficulty. So, in these circumstances 
and in the absence of being told anything by Mrs V, I dont think that it was unreasonable for 
HSBC to have proceeded adding the charges that it did. And I dont think HSBC unfairly 
charged Mrs V in circumstances where it ought to have realised that she may have been 
experiencing financial difficulty.
As this is the case, I dont think that HSBC needs to refund any interest, fees and charges 
and Im not upholding Mrs Vs complaint. I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for 
Mrs V  especially as she has quite correctly pointed out that she has been waiting 
sometime for an answer from us. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision 
and that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs Vs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman