DRN-4061751
The complaint
A company Ill call E complains that Starling Bank Limited (Starling) delayed in returning its 
funds after closing its account.
E is represented by its director, Mr K.
What happened
In November 2021, Starling blocked Es account while it carried out a review. When it 
completed its review, it decided to close Es account. It wrote to E on 6 December 2021 
confirming its intention to close the account, and confirming that a cheque for the account 
balance of £79,505 would follow. Starling issued a cheque for the balance on 14 January 
2022. Mr K asked for Starling to issue a cheque in his personal name, rather than in Es 
name but Starling declined.
On 21 January 2022, Mr K told Starling that the new account he had opened didnt accept 
cheques, so he asked for a bank transfer instead. Starling agreed but later said the cheque 
needed to be cancelled before it could make the transfer, and the payment was later 
returned owing to a restriction on Es new account.
Starling ultimately issued another cheque on 25 February 2022, which Mr K cashed into 
another of Es accounts on 2 March 2022.
Mr K complained about the delay, but Starling didnt uphold his complaint so he brought his 
complaint to our service. Our investigator agreed Starling had caused a delay, but felt that 
the delay hadnt affected the overall timeframe. 
Mr K didnt agree, so he asked for an Ombudsman to review the matter afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I should say that Im aware Ive summarised the events of this complaint in far less 
detail than the parties, and that Ive done so using my own words. The reason for this is that 
Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here, which our rules allow me to do.
This approach simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts. And Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome in this case, particularly given the detailed 
background and chronology our investigator set out in his outcome. So, if theres something 
Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it, and I must stress that Ive considered 
everything both Mr K and Starling have said, before reaching my decision.
Account closure
A bank is entitled to close an account with a customer, so long as it does so in a way that 
complies with the terms and conditions of the customers account. 
Ive looked at the evidence Starling has provided to support its decision to close Es account, 
and Im satisfied it was entitled to do so. Starlings terms and conditions dont oblige it to 
disclose the reasons for its decision to E, and I can see Starling didnt want to tell E why it 
closed the account, beyond the information it set out in its final response letter. So, it doesnt 
have to explain itself to E, but I hope E can take comfort from the fact that I have 
independently reviewed its actions to make sure it followed the correct procedure, an treated 
E fairly.
Account balance
I dont have much to add beyond what our investigator has already said. There was a slight 
delay beyond the 14-day timeframe Starling advised E of when it first issued the cheque, but 
that didnt cause a delay in E receiving the funds as Es account wasnt able to receive 
payments by cheque. Starling told E it would send the payment by cheque, and I dont take 
issue with Starlings decision to issue the cheque to E not Mr K, given E was its customer 
and therefore the account funds belonged to E, not Mr K.
Starling then acted promptly in handling Es request for an alternative payment method, and 
Im satisfied it was reasonable to wait for the cheque to be cancelled before issuing the bank 
transfer, given the risk of the payment crediting Es account twice. And because Starling had 
said in advance that it would issue a cheque and because it was Es new bank, not Starling, 
that wouldnt proceed with the cheque, I cant hold Starling responsible for the delay caused 
by the fact that the cheque payment wasnt successful.
Then, when Starling tried to make a transfer, the payment bounced back owing to an issue 
with Es new account, so again I dont find fault on Starlings part. Starling then issued 
another cheque within the 14-day timeframe it had told E about at the outset. So again, I 
dont think it caused any unreasonable delays. And that cheque was ultimately banked by E 
in another account.
For the reasons Ive set out above, and having considered all of the circumstances of this 
complaint, Im not persuaded it would be appropriate for me to tell Starling to compensate E. 
So, I wont ask it to do anything more to put things right for E.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2023.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman