DRN-4126807
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited unfairly declined a claim 
under their home insurance policy. 
Whilst this policy is held in joint names, for ease of reading, Ill mainly refer to Mrs R as this 
is her claim. 
What happened
Mrs R made a claim under her insurance policy for a pair of diamond earring jackets which 
shed lost in her home. She says they were last seen on her bedside cabinet and, after an 
extensive search, she believes that they may have been knocked off and vacuumed up. 
Lloyds declined the claim; it said theres no cover under the policy for possessions lost in the 
home. Mrs R argued that the policy doesnt specify this. She also asked that Lloyds 
reconsider her claim on the basis that the earring jackets are now lost outside of the home  
as they wouldve been taken out with the rubbish after being vacuumed up. But Lloyds 
maintained its position, so Mrs R brought her complaint to our Service. 
Our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She was satisfied the policy doesnt provide 
cover for lost possessions in the home, unless they fall under the specified items cover  
which wouldnt apply in this case as the earring jackets hadnt been specified on the policy.
Mrs R disagreed with our Investigator. She said only possessions worth over £3,000 could 
be specified on the policy, and the earring jackets were worth less than that. Shes asked for 
an Ombudsman to consider her complaint, so its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start by saying that insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or 
situation. An insurer is entitled to decide which risks it wants to cover and which it doesnt, 
and it will charge a premium based on the level of cover its providing. As long as the cover is 
set out clearly in the terms and conditions of the policy, our service wouldnt involve 
ourselves in these commercial decisions.
Ive reviewed the terms and conditions of Mrs Rs home insurance policy. And whilst there is 
cover for loss of contents in the home as a result of flood, fire, theft, for example, I cant see 
that possessions being lost within the home is something thats listed as an insured risk. 
Whilst it may not be specifically excluded, it doesnt need to be. I say this because it isnt 
reasonable for an insurer to list everything it isnt prepared to cover; instead, it should list 
everything that it is providing cover for, along with any exclusions or conditions that would 
apply to that cover. 
Lloyds are prepared to cover possessions lost outside of the home. This section of cover 
says:
Personal belongings away from the home cover
This is optional cover foryour personal belongings if they are lost, stolen or 
accidentally damaged when you or your family temporarily take them away from your 
home.
Mrs R has asked for her claim to be considered under this section. But Mrs R didnt 
temporarily take her earring jackets away from her home and then lose them. They were lost 
in the home and only after that were they taken outside, if Mrs R is correct in her assumption 
of what happened to them.
Mrs R has opted for specified items cover on her policy, which covers high risk items and 
personal belongings provided that they are specifically listed on her policy schedule. This 
section does cover the items when lost in the home. But as the earring jackets arent 
specified on the policy or met the criteria for this section of the policy, they wouldnt fall under 
the cover available here. 
As such, I cant fairly say that Mrs Rs claim arises from an insured risk therefore there is no 
cover under the policy for her loss. So it follows that I dont consider Lloyds decision on her 
claim to be incorrect or unfair. I appreciate Mrs R will be disappointed with my answer, but I 
cant fairly ask Lloyds to pay a claim that isnt covered under the policy and for which Mrs R 
hasnt paid a premium. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman