DRN-1574201
 
The complaint
Mr K complains about poor service from Metro Bank PLC in connection with a payment he 
wanted to make from his account. 
What happened
Mr K attended a Metro Bank branch and made a payment from his account. But the bank 
returned the payment and asked Mr K to contact it. Mr K attempted the payment again, but 
this was also rejected. The bank told Mr K the payments had been returned in line with 
account's terms and conditions. It said this was because they weren't in line with the bank's 
risk appetite.
Metro Bank accepted that Mr K had spent a lot of time on the phone trying to find out what 
had happened. It paid him £30 for the inconvenience caused.
Mr K didn't consider the bank's compensation properly reflected the time he'd wasted and 
the stress he'd experienced. He said the bank should pay a much higher amount of 
compensation.
Our investigator considered the compensation paid by Metro Bank was fair. She was 
satisfied the bank had rejected the payments in line with the account's terms and conditions. 
So she didn't consider the bank had to pay anything else in addition to the £30 it had paid to 
cover Mr K's time on the phone.
Mr K didn't agree with the investigator's conclusions so the complaint has been passed to 
me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K's first payment was made when he attended his local Metro Bank branch. The bank 
reversed the payment and asked Mr K to contact it. When Mr K called, he was told the 
payment had been rejected in line with account's terms and conditions, because it wasn't in 
line with the bank's appetite for risk.
Mr K made the payment again, but when he called back later he was told that payment was 
also going to be rejected.
I accept that the account's terms and conditions allowed Metro Bank to reject Mr 
K's payments. So on the face of it, the bank hasn't done anything wrong.
But having listened to the calls between Mr K and Metro Bank, I think the bank could've 
done more to explain why the payments hadn't been successful. Metro Bank quoted the account term that allowed it to reject the payments. But when Mr K asked what that term 
meant, none of the bank's advisers seemed to be able to tell him.
I don't think it was unreasonable for Mr K to ask for an explanation, and I think it would've 
been reasonable for the bank to have explained the relevant term more clearly.
I'm also mindful that when Metro Bank gave its final response to Mr K, it quoted the wrong 
section of the terms and conditions as the basis on which the payments were rejected. 
But even if the bank had quoted the correct term, there was no explanation for what that 
term meant.
In addition, on one of the calls Metro Bank's adviser suggested Mr K's complaint would be 
closed down immediately because the bank was operating within the account's terms and 
conditions. In this respect, I think the bank's complaint handling could've been better.
When I take all of these points into account, I don't think Metro Bank's service or complaint 
handling was as good as it should've been. For that reason, I think it's reasonable for it to 
pay total compensation of £100 to Mr K.  
My final decision
My decision is that Metro Bank PLC should pay £70 to Mr K, in addition to the £30 it has 
already paid. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman