DRN-1471968
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that Santander UK Plc mis-sold them payment protection insurance 
(PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out by Mr and Mrs T in 2002. The policy was 
taken out to protect Mr and Mrs Ts monthly mortgage repayments if Mr T couldnt work. 
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint on the basis that Santander hadnt provided 
Mr and Mrs T with all the information it shouldve done. In particular, it hadnt made them 
aware that the policy offered only limited benefit in their particular circumstances given what 
theyd told us about existing and ongoing health conditions that had affected Mr T when hed 
taken out the policy.
Santander disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. 
The policy provided cover for up to 12 months in the event of accident, sickness and 
unemployment. But I dont think Santander did enough to point out to Mr and Mrs T a 
significant feature of the policy  specifically, the impact Mr Ts health problems would have 
on the cover hed get under the policy.  
Under the policy terms, any condition which Mr T knew about at the start date wasnt 
covered - unless hed been free from symptoms and hadnt had to consult a doctor about the 
condition during the 24 months running up to making a claim. 
Mr Ts health had been affected by some serious conditions which hed known about since 
he was a teenager. I've seen medical evidence from the hospital showing his first diagnosis 
in 1991  with further linked illnesses being identified during the 1990s and another in 2005. 
Ive seen medical records that show these conditions had a significant impact on Mr T, 
sometimes making him too ill to be able to work. And as these are lifelong conditions, that 
require careful management with ongoing medication, theres no likelihood that 
Mr and Mrs T were ever going to be able to claim for any absence from work related 
to Mr Ts existing health problems. I think if Mr and Mrs T had been aware of this, then they wouldnt have thought PPI provided 
them with good value. I say this because sickness cover was a significant part of the benefit 
Mr and Mrs T bought. 
Although Mr T wouldve been able to claim for other benefits under the policy, I think 
Mr and Mrs T have lost out as a result of Santanders failings in this case. I say this because 
I dont think theyd have taken out the policy for Mr T if theyd been properly informed.
Ive taken into account that Santander says that the policy wouldve been recommended to 
Mr and Mrs T based on the information they provided at the time. And that it would like to 
see documentary evidence in support of what Mr T has said about having a pre-existing 
medical condition. 
But this doesnt change my overall view. I can see that Mr T had been seeing a doctor and 
attending hospital about ongoing health problems for some time before before the policy 
started in August 2002. 
As this was an advised sale Id expect Santander to have asked appropriate questions to 
check if Mr T was likely to be caught by any policy limitation. I cant see how or if it did this. 
So it doesnt appear that Santander explained to Mr and Mrs T that there was a risk they 
wouldnt be able to claim on the policy in all the circumstances they mightve expected. 
And if Santander had asked for the sort of information I think it reasonably ought to have 
done, I think its likely it wouldve been apparent that there was a risk that his health 
problems could impact on Mr T being able to claim on the policy. 
For these reasons, I think its fair and reasonable for me to uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
Santander should put Mr and Mrs T in the position they wouldve been had they not taken 
out the policy for Mr T. So, Santander should: 
Pay Mr and Mrs T the amount they paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr and Mrs T made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Santander can take 
off what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander 
must give Mr and Mrs T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
If Santander has already repaid any commission amount to Mr and Mrs T that relates to this 
PPI sale, it can deduct that sum from the redress shown above. 
 My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Santander UK Plc to pay Mr and Mrs T as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 March 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman