DRN-3494300
The complaint
Mr K complains that NewDay Ltd were unreasonable to reject a chargeback claim he made 
to them.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint NewDay, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
The online marketplaces return policy explained that it was the sellers responsibility to pay 
for return postage if the goods were faulty.
Mr K says the goods were faulty as the tyre on the alloy wheel he bought using his NewDay 
credit card was popped. 
NewDay say Mr K didnt by a tyre, only an alloy wheel. But the description shown on the 
online marketplace for the alloy wheel clearly includes a tyre, and advertisements by the 
same seller for the same product also include a tyre. So, Im persuaded the alloy wheel that 
Mr K bought did include a tyre and as it was popped it was of unsatisfactory quality.
The chargeback scheme administrator here was Mastercard and Ive reviewed their rules in 
regard to defective items. I think Mr Ks case met those conditions and that his claim should 
have been successful. 
Mr K has provided evidence that demonstrates the seller accepted the return of the goods 
and promised a return label that never arrived. In those circumstances I think Mr K did 
everything that was expected of him and his claim should have been successful. In that case 
NewDay should have taken the claim to arbitration when it was rejected by MasterCard or 
have considered, and upheld, a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act (1974). 
That section says that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement has 
a like right to claim against the credit provider as against the supplier if there's a breach of 
contract. That was the case here and NewDay therefore need to take some further 
 
Putting things right
NewDay should refund the cost of the item (£75) and should remove and/or refund any 
interest accrued on the account as a result of this transaction.
Mr K has clearly been inconvenienced by these issues and Ive read his explanation of the 
stress that hes been caused. He will have been concerned about any adverse reports that 
may have been made to his credit file as a result of this issue. In the circumstances, I think 
NewDay should pay him £50 in compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell NewDay Ltd to:
Refund the £75 transaction fee.
Refund or waive any interest that has been accrued as a result of the transaction.
Remove any adverse reports they have made to Mr Ks credit file as a result of this 
issue.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman