DRN-2821277
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Evergreen Finance London Limited (trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk) 
lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr C was approved a £350 loan with MoneyBoat in June 2020. The loan was to be repaid in 
six monthly instalments, the highest instalment amount being £96.33.
The last correspondence from MoneyBoat shows there was an outstanding balance. But Mr 
C has since confirmed that he has repaid the loan in full.
In our most recent assessment one of our adjudicators looked at Mr Cs complaint. She 
thought that the results of a credit check completed by MoneyBoat showed Mr C had a 
significant number of outstanding loans with other lenders. And that this should have 
directed it to have verified Mr Cs circumstances. Had MoneyBoat verified Mr Cs 
circumstances, our adjudicator thought MoneyBoat would have seen that the loan was not 
affordable or sustainable. So, she upheld Mr Cs complaint in full.
It appears that Mr C agreed with our adjudicators opinion. 
MoneyBoat responded to say the checks it carried out were proportionate.  It said as it was 
early on in the lending relationship the decision to lend was automated and it would be 
unrealistic for the underwriter to sit and review every line of the credit file. 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time the facility was provided.
 
MoneyBoat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr C 
could repay his loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts, and 
the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that 
MoneyBoat should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. 
The industry regulator defines sustainable as being without undue difficulties and in 
particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And 
it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Mr Cs complaint. 
When Mr C approached MoneyBoat for his loan, MoneyBoat asked Mr C to declare his 
monthly income and expenditure, and it completed a credit check. Mr C declared he was 
working full time, receiving a net monthly income of £1,913, and that his monthly expenditure 
amounted to £835. 
MoneyBoat completed some credit checks which included verifying Mr Cs income. It 
recorded Mr Cs monthly income as £1,605. After subtracting Mr Cs declared expenditure 
amount, this would have left him with a disposable income of £770 from which to meet his 
contractual repayments, which were no more than £96.33. So, I think the repayments 
appeared affordable based on the information Mr C declared to MoneyBoat about his 
financial circumstances.
But the results of the credit check suggested that the information that Mr C had declared to 
MoneyBoat wasnt a true reflection of his actual circumstances.  Whilst Mr C had no defaults, 
County Court Judgements or delinquent accounts, there was other adverse information 
showing which suggested Mr Cs finances were not in the best shape. 
Mr C had 21 active accounts and he had settled a further 21 accounts  but this was likely 
over the previous six years. He had also opened seven accounts within the previous six 
months of his application. Whilst this information, alone, was not concerning, Mr C had 35 
credit searches on his credit file, of which 12 searches had occurred in the previous three 
months before his application. And all of this information is found within the first few pages of 
the report MoneyBoat has provided. 
To me, this suggests that Mr C had on average three to four credit searches per month. And 
that Mr C was still actively looking for further credit  most likely short-term loans. I find it difficult to understand why Mr C would need to urgently apply for credit accounts without 
concluding that it was short-term loans to help satisfy a short-term hole in his finances. I 
think the fact that Mr C had opened seven new accounts within the previous six months of 
his application with MoneyBoat, also suggested he was most likely reliant on short-term 
lending. Afterall, Mr C had declared he was living with his parents, so the information on the 
credit checks didnt tie in with the information he declared about his circumstances. 
Furthermore, Mr Cs balance to limit ratio was 101% suggesting he was not managing his 
finances as needed.
I think all of this information should have led MoneyBoat to have looked into Mr Cs credit 
checks in more detail. Had the lender done this, I think it would have seen that Mr C had 11 
unsecured loans, three home credit accounts and two Advance against income accounts. 
So, it seems in total Mr C had potentially 16 outstanding loans with other providers, with total 
monthly repayments of more than the income MoneyBoat used for assessing affordability. 
Having considered Mr Cs overall financial circumstances, I think MoneyBoat ought to have 
known that he was having problems managing his money. It couldnt simply just ignore the 
information it gathered from the credit checks. I think all of this information should have led 
MoneyBoat to have verified Mr Cs circumstances by obtaining his bank statements. This 
would have enabled the lender to see exactly what Mr Cs financial situation was like at the 
time and whether he would be able to sustain the repayments over the duration of the loan.
Had MoneyBoat verified Mr Cs information it wouldve likely discovered that the information 
it gathered in the credit report was accurate, and this information shows that Mr C wasnt in a 
position to take on any more loans because the repayments to these other creditors took up 
most of Mr Cs income. 
So, for these reasons, I think MoneyBoat were wrong to approve Mr Cs loan as the loan 
repayments were likely to be a detriment to his financial situation.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress MoneyBoat should fairly pay in this case, Ive thought about what
might have happened had it not provided Mr Cs loan, as Im satisfied it ought to have. 
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Mr C may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, he may have 
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, Mr C may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed, a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Mr C in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Mr C would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce MoneyBoats liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Mr C has told us he has settled his loan since he brought his complaint to our service. So, 
my recommendation below are based on the loan being settled.MoneyBoat should refund all the interest, fees and charges Mr C paid for this loan.
Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr C from the
date Mr C originally made his payment, to the date the complaint is settled.
MoneyBoat should remove any adverse information recorded about the loan from 
Mr Cs credit file.  
*HM Revenue & Customs requires you to deduct tax from this interest. MoneyBoat should 
give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax is deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Mr Cs complaint.
Evergreen Finance London Limited (trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk) should put things right for 
Mr C as Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman