DRN-2185325
The complaint
Ms B has complained that she has been overcharged over a number of years for her 
HomeCare policy by British Gas Insurance Limited (BG).
References to BG include its agents.
What happened
The background to this case is well known to both parties and has been set out by our 
investigator in his view, so I wont repeat it again here. Instead Ill focus on giving the 
reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to uphold Mrs Bs complaint and Ill explain why.
This service isnt able to tell insurers how to price their policies. Insurers offer different 
services and have different assessments of risk.  But what we can do is to make sure that an 
insurer is being consistent and not taking advantage of any particular group of customers. 
Our role is to make sure that a customer has been treated fairly and in line with how other 
customers have been treated. For example, we dont think its fair for an insurer to increase 
premiums each year just because the customer hasnt responded to the renewal process for 
some years, and has been loyal to the insurer, which appears to be the case with Ms B.
Insurers constantly update how they rate the risk presented by their customers and their 
rates continually change. Claims made on a policy, or an insurer amending its view of a 
particular risk, will impact the premium. Its normal for insurance premiums to increase each 
year. Although we cant tell an insurer its charged too much, we do expect an insurer to 
explain why they have applied the increases that they have each year to demonstrate that 
they were treating the customer fairly, and not, for example, taking unfair advantage of the 
fact that they were not comparing renewal quotes in the marketplace.
BG has explained why Ms Bs premiums have increased. During the life-time of the policy 
cover, it gathers additional information on her property, the appliances she has covered, 
their age and the likely cost of any repairs, and other factors such as the number of previous 
claims. It uses this information to generate a renewal price that is reflective of the risk being 
covered. This is reviewed at every renewal and is reflected in the premium charged.
BG has provided this service with confidential business sensitive information to explain in 
some detail how Ms Bs price increases since 2015 were calculated. Ive considered this, but 
Im afraid I cant share it with Ms B. What I can say is that Ms Bs premiums have been 
calculated by reference to a number of criteria, some of which are fixed and apply to all 
customers, and some of which are variable and will apply only to Ms B based on her area, 
her level of cover, the number of appliances she has under cover, their age, and her claims 
history.
Im satisfied that the price Ms B was quoted for each year since 2015 has been calculated by 
reference to these criteria and that increases in premium reflect identified increases in risk. 
For example, Ms Bs appliances are getting older and therefore more likely to require 
attention. Ms B has also had at least 22 visits from BG since 2015. IPT has also increased. 
Im satisfied that all BGs customers with similar criteria will have their premiums calculated 
on a similar basis, although no two customers are likely to have identical criteria.  
I therefore dont consider that Ms B has been treated unfairly by BG because she has 
remained loyal to it. I also take into account that BG agreed a discretionary 20% discount on 
her 2019 renewal premium in order to keep her business as a longstanding customer.
 
I therefore dont consider it would be reasonable for me to require BG to provide any 
reimbursement to Ms B
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im not upholding Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2021.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman