DRN-2411370
The complaint
Mr A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt credit a payment into his account for 
about a month.
What happened
Mr A says his father sent him money in January 2020, but the money didnt reach his 
account. He says a trace was made and the money was held in a Barclays holding account. 
Mr A says the lack of money caused problems in paying bills and caused him distress and 
inconvenience. He says Barclays was at fault and ought to apologise as well as pay him 
compensation. Mr A says the delay was Barclays fault and its not offered any explanation.
Barclays says it received the money on 3 February 2020 and credited it to Mr As account 
that same day. It has looked at the e-mail exchange between Mr As father and the sending 
bank in Germany and says it appears issues were raised between the sending bank and a 
third-party bank and that it didnt raise any compliance issues.
Mr A brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought it more likely that the delay in crediting Mr As account was caused by the third-party 
bank or sending bank and not Barclays.
Mr A doesnt accept that view and says Barclays has refused to take responsibility for what 
took place.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Barclays hasnt made a mistake or 
acted unfairly. I appreciate how strongly Mr A feels about this complaint and that he will be 
disappointed by my decision.
I have looked at the e-mail exchange Mr A has given us. I dont think there is any dispute 
here that Mr As father made the transfer for 1,000 Euros on 5 January 2020. And I can see 
that on 23 January 2020 a compliance request was made for further information about the 
transfer which Mr As father provided the information for on 24 January 2020. So, Im 
satisfied on balance that the reason for the delay was the request for further information.
The key question is which bank made that request for further information. And I think based 
on the information Mr A has provided that it is clear the request was not made by Barclays 
but by a third-party bank. I dont think there is any reference to Barclays on the compliance 
request but there is to a third-party bank, and I also think at that stage Barclays would not 
have received the money. So, I cant fairly hold Barclays responsible for the delay in the 
money reaching Mr As account. And I think it likely an intermediary bank involved in the 
transfer held the transfer for further compliance checks, which Mr As father complied with, 
which then allowed the transfer to be authorised.
I have looked at Barclays records and can see it received the money on 3 February 2020 
and credited Mr As account that same day.
Overall, Im satisfied the delay was not caused by Barclays and I dont think there is any 
evidence to suggest it held the money in a holding account as Mr A says. For that reason, I 
cant fairly order Barclays to pay the compensation Mr A would like.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 January 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman