DRN-2120202
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L say The Co-operative Bank Plc trading as Britannia mis-sold them a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs L took out the monthly premium MPPI policy in 2002 when they applied for a 
mortgage. The policy covered Mr L only and gave him cover for accident, sickness and 
unemployment for up to 12 months for each successful claim he made. His unemployment 
cover was free for the first 12 months.
Mr and Mrs L say they werent given enough information about the MPPI to make an 
informed decision about it. And they say Mr L had good work benefits, as well as some 
savings, which meant they didnt need it. 
The adjudicator who looked at Mr and Mrs Ls complaint didnt uphold it. Mr and Mrs L 
disagree and so their complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. Ill explain why.
From the information Ive got, I think its likely Mr and Mrs L agreed to the MPPI knowing 
they didnt have to. Their signed mortgage application form said they wanted MPPI (and it 
gave them a clear option to say no to it). And they also signed a separate MPPI application 
form  which contained quite a lot of detailed information  to apply for it.
Both Mr and Mrs L and the Co-operative say the MPPI policy wasnt recommended to them 
and I think thats right. This means the Co-operative didnt need to make sure the MPPI was 
right for Mr and Mrs L in their particular circumstances  this was a decision they needed to 
make themselves. But the Co-operative did have to give Mr and Mrs L enough clear 
information about the policy for them to make that decision in an informed way.
Ive looked at the documents available from the time. From these, I cant be sure                
Mr and Mrs L were given clear enough information about some aspects of the policy when 
they bought it. But I also need to look at whether they wouldve acted differently  and not 
gone ahead with the MPPI  if theyd been given clearer information. 
Based on what they say of their circumstances at the time and the policy details Ive got, I 
think its unlikely to have changed their decision to take out the MPPI policy because: 
 Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage was a significant monthly commitment. I think its reasonable 
they wouldve wanted some protection to cover their repayments if Mr L was sick, had an 
accident or lost his job. 
 I think Mr L was eligible for the policy. And, from the information I have, he wasnt affected 
by any of the main things the policy didnt cover (such as known medical conditions), which 
might have made it more difficult for him to make a successful claim. So there was nothing to 
stop him getting the full policy benefit.
 I dont think the cost of the policy  which was just over £2 per month initially  wouldve 
stopped Mr and Mrs L taking it out  and I can see Mr and Mrs L increased their monthly 
benefit from £72 a month to £200 a month within a few months of taking out the MPPI.
 
 Mr L says he got good sick pay from his employer and also had some savings. But if Mr L 
had made a successful claim for accident, sickness or unemployment, the MPPI policy 
wouldve paid a benefit for up to 12 months. This would have been in addition to his sick pay 
and wouldve lasted for longer than his full sick pay did. It would also have meant he and  
Mrs L wouldnt have needed to use their savings  which they may have needed for other 
things  to pay the mortgage. So I think the policy could have been useful if Mr L he had 
been off sick for a long time or lost his job. 
So even if Mr and Mrs L had been given clearer information about the MPPI, I think they 
would still have taken out the policy. 
This means the Co-operative doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and 
Mrs L.
But the Co-operative has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs L because:
 
 the Co-operative got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium)  so it shouldve told Mr and Mrs L about that. Because the Co-operative 
didnt tell Mr and Mrs L, that was unfair.
 
 To put that right, the Co-operative has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think thats fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Co-operative Bank Plc trading as Britannia doesnt 
have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs L. 
But The Co-operative Bank Plc trading as Britannia does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs L 
any commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I 
understand it has already done this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 December 2020.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman