DRN-4359100
The complaint
Mr S complains that OneSavings Bank Plc trading as Kent Reliance wont increase the 
interest rate on the fixed rate savings account he holds. 
What happened
In April 2023, Mr S applied for a one-year fixed rate savings account paying 4.51% AER. 
Kent Reliance wrote to Mr S on 11 April 2023 to confirm the account had been opened and 
said there was a 14-day cooling off period which ends on 25 April 2023.
On 19 May 2023, Mr S contacted Kent Reliance and asked to move his funds into the higher 
rate fixed rate savings account that that bank was now advertising.
Kent Reliance said this couldnt be done. In its final response letter, it explained that it was 
unable to allow any changes to be made to the account Mr S holds outside of the cooling off 
period. It said this information was in the accounts terms and conditions and was also 
included in the letter hed been sent on 11 April 2023. 
As Mr S was unhappy with Kent Reliances response, he referred the complaint to us. One 
of our Investigators looked into it, but she didnt recommend that it should be upheld. She 
said the information about how the account worked was made available to Mr S when he 
opened it. She didnt think it was unfair for Kent Reliance to rely on the terms and conditions 
to say it was unable to transfer the funds to an account offering a higher interest rate outside 
of the cooling off period. 
Mr S was disappointed. He didnt think Kent Reliance has the right to hold his money until 
next year. He pointed out that he didnt ask for the money to be moved, just for the interest 
rate on his account to be increased. He said nobody reads the terms and conditions and felt 
Kent Reliance could let him have the money back or update his account, but it is hiding 
behind their Ts & Cs.
As no agreement could be reached, the matter has been referred to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im satisfied that Kent Reliance hasnt treated Mr S unfairly. I know this isnt 
the outcome he was hoping for, so Ill explain why. 
When a customer opens a fixed term savings account, they agree that their money is to be 
held in the account for a specified period and, in return, they have the certainty of a 
guaranteed interest rate for this time. Banks then rely on that commitment to use the funds 
for the period they are locked in, such as by lending the money out to other borrowers. 
Whilst the precise terms and conditions of fixed term deposit accounts will vary from provider 
to provider, generally withdrawals or early closure are not permitted during the fixed term. 
Ive looked carefully at the information Kent Reliance gave Mr S about the account when he 
opened it. In its welcome letter it said that there is a 14-day cooling off period and that Mr S 
should read the terms and conditions to ensure he was happy. The terms and conditions 
specific to the one-year fixed rate account Mr S opened are detailed in one page. The terms 
and conditions set out what Mr S can expect. They say the interest rate on the account is 
fixed and cannot be changed throughout the account term. They also say that withdrawals 
and early closures are not permitted during the account term. I think Kent Reliance gave 
Mr S enough information about how the account worked to enable him to make an informed 
choice as to whether it was right for him.
Initially, Mr S was happy with the account. Hes pointed out he didnt ask for the money to be 
moved, suggesting he broadly accepts he cant withdraw the money or close the account 
until the end of the agreed term. Mr Ss dissatisfaction occurred when he discovered that 
Kent Reliance had released a new fixed term account paying a higher rate of interest than 
hes receiving. I appreciate Mr S wants to make the most of his savings and to benefit from 
higher interest rates. But by entering into a fixed term account, Mr S has agreed to tie up the 
funds in exchange for that fixed interest rate for the duration of the term. This is the case 
even though Mr S has said he didnt read the terms and conditions at the time. I do 
recognise that wider market conditions have changed since Mr S tied his money up into this 
account but Im unable to fairly say that Kent Reliance should have to increase the interest 
rate on Mr Ss account as a result of that when he has entered into a fixed rate account. 
I realise Mr S feels strongly about this complaint and Im sorry to disappoint him. But I dont 
agree Kent Reliance has made any mistakes here. I believe it has treated him fairly and 
reasonably overall. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman