DRN-3415458
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Interactive Investor Services Limited (IISL) hasnt acted on her 
regular investment instruction since January 2020. She wants it to compensate her for the 
price difference for buying the shares now, compared to when they should have been 
purchased.
The complaint is brought on her behalf by her husband. For ease, I will refer to everything 
hes told us as being said by Mrs D.
What happened
Mrs D says that when her account was with her previous provider, it was set up for regular 
investment in a share I will refer to as P. She says that when enough cash had 
accumulated, through dividends and her regular contributions, shares in P would be 
automatically purchased in her account.
IISL acquired Mrs Ds previous provider and in September 2019 sent her its terms and 
conditions.
Mrs D says she complained in December 2019 that the automatic investment hadnt taken 
place. She says IISL upheld her complaint and paid her compensation. She says she was 
reassured that the regular investment option was in place going forward. But that theres 
been no investment since January 2020.
IISL said it offers a free regular investing service to automatically trade on the third 
Wednesday of every month, but that the individual subscription must equal, or be more than, 
the share price. It doesnt automatically invest any accumulated cash balance.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that 
there had been some confusion caused by what IISL told Mrs D in response to her 
December 2019 complaint. But that IISL had acted in line with its terms and conditions, so 
wasnt required to do anymore.
Mrs D didnt agree so the complaint was passed to me to consider.
My provisional decision
I thought the complaint should be upheld. And I explained why. I said:
IISLs terms and conditions set out its regular investment service in some detail. In 
particular they say:
The Regular Investment Service is designed to enable you to Purchase, once per 
month, units of Regular Investments to a total value of no more than your Regular 
Investment Value in respect of each Regular Investment Instruction you make. (7.1)
Your Investment Subscription Surplus will remain as cash in your Account. Unless 
you give us specific instructions to do so, we will not use your Investment 
Subscription Surplus to Purchase Regular Investments. You may instruct us to 
Purchase particular Regular Investments on the Purchase Date in addition to your 
Total Investment Instruction using your Investment Subscription Surplus. (7.7)
I find its reasonably clear that IISL will only invest the subscription amount and not 
any surplus cash. And that the subscriptions are not accumulated for investment. If 
Mrs D wanted to invest the surplus, she would need to give specific instructions to do 
so, once the amount of cash held equalled the price of at least one whole share.
This differs from the service she was used to with her previous provider. Mrs D was 
sent IISLs terms and conditions when it acquired the previous provider. Whilst it was 
Mrs Ds responsibility to read and understand the new terms, they ran to 36 pages. 
And Ive not seen anything to show that the difference in the regular investment 
service was drawn to her attention. In the circumstances, its not surprising that 
Mrs D didnt realise the terms for this part of her service had changed.
In December 2019, Mrs D complained that the automatic investment hadnt taken 
place. In response, IISL agreed Mrs D had lost out and paid her compensation.
After our investigator issued their view, we asked IISL to provide a copy of the 
recording of the call which took place with Mr D following Mrs Ds 2019 complaint. 
During the call, Mr D sought clarification more than once about how the regular 
investment process would work in the future. Mr D specifically asked:
Can we set up a regular investment that will trigger when it hits, when theres 
enough money to purchase or is that not possible, do you have to go in manually and 
do it?
And he was told:
It will do that when the account recognises that theres enough money in there. 
When you pay in that £50, youll have a monthly payment of £50. Itll probably 
recognise that theres not enough cash in the account and then the next month when 
the other £50 goes in itll then do an investment.
The member of staff also referred to the money piling up for the next investment. 
And, when Mr D again asked, Is the £50 set up as a regular investment and it will 
trigger if the balance is big enough, the member of staff confirmed his 
understanding.
This was also set out in IISLs final response letter which said:
 with Interactive Investor all of your cash is kept within one account and grouped 
together. This means that your account can accrue a balance and carry out a regular 
investment trade or dividend reinvestment when the balance hits the appropriate 
level.
I think it was reasonable for Mrs D to understand from the phone call and from the 
final response letter that in the future the accumulated cash balance would be 
invested each month. And whilst this is not how IISLs regular investment service is 
designed to work, I think it would be fair for IISL to compensate Mrs D on this basis.IISL told us that Mrs Ds 2019 complaint and its response is a separate issue and is 
outside of the six months timescale Mrs D had for referring it to this service. I agree 
that the 2019 complaint was resolved and that this service cant investigate it. This 
decision does not change the outcome of that complaint. But its fair that I take into 
account what Mrs D was told about how the regular investment service would 
operate.
And I set out what I thought IISL needed to do to put things right. I said:
IISL should rework Mrs Ds account for the period from and including February 2020 
to date to reflect regular investment in P shares using the accumulated cash balance 
in her account. Thereafter, Mrs D will need to manually give specific instructions if 
she wants to invest the accumulated cash balance in the future.
IISL should also pay Mrs D £100 for the distress and inconvenience its caused.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs D asked that IISL be required to provide her with a copy of its compensation calculation.
IISL didnt respond to my provisional decision, despite a reminder to do so.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any new information or evidence in response to my provisional 
decision, I see no reason to depart from my earlier conclusion.
I appreciate Mrs Ds request for IISL to provide her with its calculation, and I think that would 
be fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Interactive Investor Services Limited should:
1. Rework Mrs Ds account for the period from and including February 2020 to date to 
reflect regular investment in P shares using the accumulated cash balance in her 
account. Interactive Investor Services Limited should provide Mrs D with a copy of its 
calculation. Thereafter, Mrs D will need to manually give specific instructions if she wants 
to invest the accumulated cash balance in the future.
2. Pay Mrs D £100 for the distress and inconvenience its caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman