DRN-2435300
Complaint
Mr P complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited (trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance) unfairly entered into an unaffordable conditional sale agreement with him. Hes said 
that the monthly payments were always unaffordable. 
Mr P is being assisted in his complaint by a representative who Ill refer to as Miss N.
Background
In November 2016, Barclays provided Mr P with finance to buy a used car. The purchase 
price was £19,917.80 and the entire amount was funded with a conditional sale loan from 
Barclays. The agreement had an annual percentage rate (APR) of 9.9%, had interest, fees 
and total charges of £5,735.00, and was due to be repaid in 48 instalments of £344.35 
followed by a final payment of £9,124.00. 
In March 2020, after Barclays had commenced legal proceedings to recover the vehicle, 
Miss N, on behalf of Mr P, complained that the finance was unaffordable and so should 
never have been provided in the first place. Barclays didnt uphold the complaint. It said that 
its checks confirmed that the finance was affordable and so it was reasonable to lend. In its 
view Mr Ps difficulties maintaining the agreement were as a result of a change in 
circumstances, rather than the payments being unaffordable at the outset.
Mr Ps complaint was considered by one of our investigators. He didnt think that Barclays 
had done anything wrong or treated Mr P unfairly. So he didnt recommend that Mr Ps 
complaint should be upheld. Mr P disagreed with our investigator and the complaint was 
passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ps complaint. 
Barclays needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
that Barclays needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether any 
lending was sustainable for Mr P before providing it.
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low, the 
amount lent was high, or the information the lender had  such as a significantly impaired 
credit history  suggested the lender needed to know more about a prospective borrowers 
ability to repay. 
Having carefully thought about everything Ive been provided with, Im not upholding           
Mr Ps complaint. Id like to explain why in a little more detail.
Barclays says it agreed to this application after Mr P provided details of his monthly income. 
It says it also carried out credit searches on Mr P which showed that apart from a residual 
amount left to repay after a previous agreement for a vehicle was settled by an insurance 
claim for an accident, he had no other credit commitments. On the other hand, Miss N, on 
behalf of Mr P, says the repayments were unaffordable and there was no way he was able to 
maintain them.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr P and Barclays have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that much like our investigator, I dont think that the checks 
Barclays carried out at the time of the application did go far enough. That said, I also think it 
important to point out that I am familiar with the unaffordable and irresponsible lending 
guidance on our website which Miss N has referred to. But I dont agree with Miss Ns 
assertion that a lenders failure to carry out proportionate checks, in itself, means that an 
agreement was unaffordable, or that a lender acted irresponsibly. and so any complaint 
should automatically be upheld. 
What the guidance referred to requires and what I think is fair and reasonable here, is to look 
at whether it is more likely than not that a proportionate check would have told Barclays that 
Mr P wouldve been unable to sustainably make the payments to this agreement. So Ive 
gone on to decide what I think Barclays is more likely than not to have seen had it obtained 
further information from Mr P and whether it would have been fair and reasonable to lend in 
those circumstances. 
Bearing in mind, the length of time of the agreement and the amount of the monthly 
payment, I would have expected Barclays to have some kind of understanding about Mr Ps 
regular living expenses as well as his income and existing credit commitments. 
The information Miss N has provided about Mr Ps circumstances does appear to show that 
when his living expenses and existing credit commitments are deducted from his monthly 
income, he did have the funds, at the time at least, to sustainably make the repayments due 
under this agreement. Miss N says that Mr P was paying £2,000 a month in rent. But this 
isnt supported what was going out from Mr Ps bank account or the tenancy agreement Mr P 
has provided, which suggests another person living at the property was the lead tenant. 
Equally when reasonable amounts for Mr Ps proportion of rent, council tax and bills, which 
Mr Ps statements dont completely demonstrate he was paying, are deducted from Mr Ps 
income it looks like he still had enough left to make the payments to this agreement, the 
residual left on the previous agreement and running costs for this car. I also think Barclays 
would more likely than not have reasonably concluded that Mr P had enough left over to 
cover any other reasonable expenses going forward too. 
Ive also thought about what Miss N has said about Barclays not leaving any provision for  
Mr Ps expenses increasing bearing in mind he was young at the time of this agreement. But 
I dont think that Barclays could speculate about additional commitments Mr P could take on 
at some undefined point in the future  such as the loans he took from others sometime after 
this agreement. All Barclays could do was find out about Mr Ps existing commitments and form a view on 
whether hed be able to make the payments to this agreement while meeting the 
commitments he already had. I dont think that it would be fair or reasonable for Barclays to 
have declined Mr Ps agreement  in circumstances where the payments were clearly 
affordable  simply because he was young and could go on to take on additional, as yet 
undefined, commitments at some unspecified point in the future. This to me at least would 
be far too speculative and remote a possibility for it to be reasonable.
Furthermore, it seems to me that Mr Ps difficulties making the payments to this agreement 
stem from payments to additional credit he took out sometime after this agreement and a 
change in his employment situation. And while I sympathise with the fact that Mr P might 
have found more it difficult to make the payments on his agreement from a reduced income, 
Ive not seen anything to suggest that Barclays ought to have known at the outset that this 
was a realistic prospect at the time the agreement was entered into.
So overall and having carefully considered everything, while I dont think that Barclays 
checks before entering into this conditional sale agreement with Mr P did go far enough, Im 
satisfied that carrying out such checks would more likely than not have failed to prevent 
Barclays from providing these funds, or entering into this agreement.
Overall and having carefully considered everything Miss N has said on Mr Ps behalf, I dont 
think that Barclays acted unfairly when entering into this conditional sale agreement with    
Mr P. So Im not upholding this complaint. Although Im not upholding this complaint, Id like 
remind Barclays of its obligation to exercise forbearance if it intends to collect any 
outstanding balance remaining on the account and its the case that Mr P is experiencing 
financial difficulty.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman