DRN-3772555
The complaint
Mr G complains about West Bay Insurance Plcs (West Bay) handling of his claim following a 
car accident he was involved in, under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
In March 2022 Mr G was involved in an accident. He contacted West Bay and it registered 
his claim. Mr G says it took a long time to get through to someone at the business to try and 
obtain updates. He says it took two hours to fully register the incident with West Bay and it 
had no record of the information he previously gave from the roadside.
Mr G says there were two reports regarding the damage to his car. This resulted in 
confusion. He was given contradicting information as to whether the car would be repaired or 
considered a total loss. Mr G also says he understood a courtesy car would be provided, but 
this wasnt the case. He missed four days of work because he had no car and also wasnt 
able to check on his elderly grandfather. 
West Bay says a high volume of calls were experienced around the time of Mr Gs claim. It 
apologised for the delays. It acknowledges there was a misunderstanding as to whether the 
car would be repaired or was a total loss. Because of the miscommunications West Bay 
offered Mr G £150 compensation. But it says a courtesy car isnt provided under its policy 
terms in the event of a total loss. 
Mr G didnt think this was fair and referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator 
didnt uphold his complaint. He thought West Bays call handling couldve been better and it 
couldve communicated the total loss decision more effectively. But he didnt think a courtesy 
car was provided for under its policy terms and he felt West Bays compensation offer was 
reasonable.
Mr G still didnt think this was fair and asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold Mr Gs complaint. Im sorry to disappoint him but I 
will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
I can understand Mr Gs frustration and upset that he didnt have access to a car after his 
accident. He needed his car to get to work and to check on his elderly grandfather. So, when 
he experienced difficulties contacting West Bay and received conflicting information, it made 
matters worse.
In the event of a claim its likely that some level of inconvenience will be experienced. But we 
expect an insurer to handle claims effectively, in a timely manner, and with good 
communication in order to minimise any disruption.  
Ive read the information Mr G supplied, which includes screenshots of the phone calls he 
made, in order to understand what happened. As well as the contact records West Bay has 
provided. 
I can see that Mr G registered his claim on 25 March 2022 and was in regular contact with 
West Bay throughout. It must have been frustrating when he had to repeat the information 
he initially provided at the roadside because there was no record of this. I accept that West 
Bay needed to ask Mr G questions to validate and progress the claim. But I dont think this 
was handled well by the business.
Mr G was told he would receive an update within 24 hours on how the claim would be 
progressed. This didnt happen resulting in him chasing the business. Some confusion then 
followed as to whether the car was being repaired or if it was to be categorised as a total 
loss. 
I can see that three days after making his claim Mr G asked West Bay about a courtesy car. 
The notes show he was advised to speak to the garage it had appointed. Due to the number 
of customers contacting the garage, Mr Gs call had to be cold transferred into a queue. 
Later the same day Mr G followed up on his call and was told his car was a potential total 
loss, which had yet to be assessed. 
Mr G spoke to the garage the next day and was told no instruction to repair his vehicle had 
been provided. He spoke to West Bay and it advised the garage had only just received 
instructions to assess the car. Following this Mr G was sent a letter explaining it was thought 
his car was a total loss and the matter had been passed to the relevant team. The letter says 
Mr G will be contacted to discuss a valuation for his car.
I can see from West Bays records that it attempted to call Mr G five days after it sent this 
letter but there was no answer. It appears further calls were attempted until a settlement 
payment was agreed and payment provided on 13 April 2022.
Mr G hasnt disputed the value of the settlement payment he was paid. So, Im not 
considering this here. But I have thought about his comments that he couldve been 
searching for a replacement car sooner had West Bay handled his claim effectively. The 
business acknowledges Mr G experienced difficulties when making contact. It also 
acknowledges the miscommunication about whether the car was being repaired or treated 
as a total loss.  
From what Ive seen I think West Bays communication with Mr G and with its appointed 
garage couldve been better. This has impacted on the overall claim handling time and 
caused Mr G frustration and some distress. I acknowledge his reference to needing a car to 
commute to work and in order to check on his elderly grandfather. I think its appropriate that 
West Bay acknowledged this with an apology and £150 compensation. 
I accept Mr G doesnt think the payment West Bay offered adequately reflects the impact 
these issues had on him. Im sorry he had a poor experience, but I think West Bays offer is 
reasonable and in line with awards our service deems fair in circumstances such as those 
described.  
Finally, Ive considered Mr Gs complaint about the lack of a courtesy car. Ive read his policy 
terms to understand what is expected here. The terms under Section D say:
..the repairer will provide you with a courtesy car [subject to availability] for the duration of the repairs.
Mr Gs car was confirmed as a total loss four days after he registered his claim. As no 
repairs were carried out the provision of a courtesy car isnt included under his policy. Our 
investigator explained that where a customer has suffered the loss of use of their car, in this 
case due to the insurers actions, we consider compensation at £10 per day reasonable. 
West Bay was responsible for a delay in the handling of the claim. So, Mr G was without the 
use of a car for longer than was necessary. But I think the £150 payment already sent to him 
is fair in acknowledging this. 
In summary I dont think West Bay treated Mr G fairly when handling his claim due to the 
miscommunications and delay. But I think its apology and £150 compensation is reasonable 
to resolve his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman