DRN-4378962
The complaint
Mr and Mrs N are unhappy with the settlement provided by QIC Europe Limited after their 
home was damaged by an escape of water.
Mr and Mrs N held buildings and contents insurance in joint names, underwritten by QIC. For 
ease of reading, Ill refer only to Mrs N, and any reference to QIC includes actions taken by 
its agents.
What happened
In February 2023, Mrs N asked QIC to send someone to take a look when she found that the 
carpet in her understairs cupboard was wet. QIC said it didnt do that and shed need to get 
her own contractor. Mrs Ns contractor started rot rectification works, at which time they 
identified a leak from the stop tap. The contractor confirmed that the leak was hidden behind 
kitchen cabinets and had caused the damp and rot in the sub floor.
Mrs N claimed under her policy. After carrying out two inspections, QIC accepted the claim 
for damage caused by the leak and offered a cash settlement. However, it declined the claim 
for repairs to the sub floor caused by rot. QIC relied on the following policy exclusions where 
cover was not available for: 
poor workmanship (lack of ventilation)
gradually occurring damage (rot)
rot, regardless of cause  
Mrs N was unhappy with QICs cash settlement because it didnt cover the full cost of 
repairs. She also disputed QICs reliance on the policy exclusions. Mrs N provided 
confirmation from her own contractor that the sub floor was adequately ventilated and that 
the damage was caused by the leak.
QIC didnt agree that the ventilation was adequate, and it maintained its position that the rot 
was excluded from cover regardless of cause. 
Mrs N also complained that QIC hadnt paid her a disturbance allowance while she was 
without use of her kitchen. QIC said it paid a food allowance, so no further allowance was 
due under the policy. 
Mrs N brought her complaint to us.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He didnt think QIC had offered a fair settlement in the 
circumstances because Mrs N couldnt have known about the damage being caused to her 
sub floor. Further to this, he thought the evidence provided by Mrs Ns contractor was more 
persuasive. Our investigator thought QIC should pay the full repair costs and pay interest on 
the reimbursement, but he didnt think a further disturbance allowance or compensation was 
warranted. 
QIC didnt agree. It repeated its view that there was inadequate ventilation in the sub floor 
which wouldve caused the rot to develop over time. Therefore, QIC didnt think it should pay 
any more than it had already offered. QIC asked for the complaint to be decided by an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Ns complaint. Ill explain by 
addressing the key issues under separate headings.
For me to agree that QIC fairly settled Mrs Ns claim for only part of the repairs, Id 
need to see that it has done so in line with the policy, and reasonably in all the 
circumstances. QIC paid the repair costs it wouldve incurred had it completed the 
work for the damage it believed was caused by the leak. QIC declined cover for the 
rot rectification work because it believed the damage was caused gradually, due to 
poor workmanship, and the policy didnt provide cover for rot, regardless of cause.
Poor workmanship
QIC said the sub floor rot was due to poor ventilation. It relied on its contractors 
evidence which said there was just one air brick, and on another occasion no air 
bricks. QIC also relied on the fact that Mrs Ns contractor had installed eight new air 
bricks which wouldnt have been necessary if the ventilation was already adequate.
The evidence shows that there was more ventilation than QICs contractors reported. 
Photos taken by QICs contractors show around eight air bricks which have a 
consistent appearance with the rest of the brickwork. Mrs N provided photos which 
show the new air bricks, which have a different appearance to the rest of the 
brickwork. So Im satisfied that there was more ventilation than QIC initially reported.
QICs surveyor said, If there were already 8 air bricks in situ, there would be no 
requirement to remove and replace them. The photos provided by the policy holder 
shows only 1 airbrick. 
This indicates to me that eight air bricks wouldve been sufficient. Just because Mrs 
Ns contractor installed more, I dont agree that it means the ventilation was 
insufficient. Based on QICs surveyors assessment of eight air bricks being sufficient, 
the installation of more appears to be a belt and braces approach. 
Therefore, I dont find that QIC has provided sufficient evidence to fairly rely on the 
poor workmanship exclusion.Gradual cause 
QIC said the rot wouldve happened over a long period of time and the policy excludes cover 
for damage which happens gradually. 
Ive looked at the policy documents and I accept that QIC declined the claim in line with the 
policy exclusion.
That said, I cant say that QIC declined the claim fairly and reasonably in the circumstances. 
Thats because the leak was behind the kitchen cupboards and running directly down to the 
sub floor. So, thered be no reason for her to know that the damage was happening. When 
Mrs N first noted evidence of damage  the wet understairs carpet  she reported the matter 
to QIC. 
When considering gradual causes, our approach is to look at whether an insured peril 
caused the damage and, if so, whether the policyholder ought reasonably to have been 
aware of the damage happening. In the circumstances reported, Im satisfied that the leak is 
an insured peril, but I cant say Mrs N ought to have been aware of the damage happening 
due to the location of the leak.
Therefore, I dont find that QIC fairly or reasonably relied on the gradual cause exclusion.
Rot
QIC declined the claim for the sub floor rot because the policy excludes cover for rot 
regardless of cause. 
The policy documents confirm this, so I accept that QIC declined this element of the claim in 
line with the policy exclusion.
However, our approach to the blanket exclusion of cover for rot mirrors our approach to 
gradual causes. Providing an insured peril caused the rot, then QIC would need to consider 
all the circumstances. 
Ive already concluded that the rot was more likely than not caused by the leak. The leak is 
an insured peril. The rot wouldve happened gradually, but theres no reason Mrs N ought to 
have known sooner than she did. 
Therefore, I dont find that QIC fairly or reasonably relied on the policy exclusion for rot 
regardless of cause.
Settlement
QIC offered Mrs N a settlement for the element of the claim it accepted based on its own 
cost to repair. QIC said Mrs N had the work done, so it was entitled to offer a reduced 
settlement. The policy allows QIC to do this where it can offer a repair using its contractors.
I accept that where a policyholder chooses to have the repairs done, QIC would be entitled 
to pay only what it wouldve done using its own contractors. However, in this case, QIC 
advised Mrs N to employ her own contractor, which she did. The leak was only identified 
during that work, and QIC declined cover for the remaining element of the claim. Therefore, I 
cant see that QIC offered to do the work or that at any point Mrs N might reasonably have 
believed QIC was offering to do the work.
So, in the circumstances, I dont think it was fair or reasonable for QIC to settle at its discounted rate.
Ive seen the estimates Mrs Ns contractor provided for the full works, but its not clear 
whether there are any duplicate elements in those estimates, and I havent seen any 
evidence of payment. Based on my findings that QIC unfairly declined parts of Mrs Ns claim, 
Im satisfied that QIC should reimburse her for the full cost of necessary repairs, including 
the rot rectification work, less the policy excess. As Ive decided that the additional air bricks 
werent necessary, I cant fairly ask QIC to pay for those. And its reasonable for QIC to see 
evidence of a detailed invoice and payment before reimbursing Mrs N for the repair costs.
Interest
Mrs N paid for the repairs, so she lost the benefit of those funds during the dispute. As Ive 
decided it didnt handle her claim fairly or reasonably, I consider it reasonable for QIC to pay 
8% per annum simple interest from the date Mrs N paid the invoices to the date it issues 
payment. Id expect Mrs N to provide, promptly, any additional information QIC requests in 
order to make its payment.
Disturbance allowance
Mrs N said QIC offered a disturbance allowance, but it hasnt paid it. QIC said its food 
allowance payment was the disturbance allowance.
The disturbance allowance, here, is intended to cover additional costs beyond those 
ordinarily incurred due to loss of cooking facilities. So, without their kitchen, Mr and Mrs N 
may have incurred additional costs for, say, ready meals, takeaways, etc. QIC paid a food 
allowance which was in line with what Id usually expect.
The actual disturbance of being unable to use their kitchen is not something Id expect QIC 
to pay for. Thats because QIC wasn't responsible for the loss of facilities. Instead, it was a 
loss caused by the escape of water. So, I see no reason to ask QIC to pay anything more in 
respect of a disturbance allowance.
However, if Mrs N incurred any further, additional costs which she thinks are covered under 
the policy, shed need to provide evidence directly to QIC for consideration.
Putting things right
Overall, while QIC declined elements of the claim in line with the policy wording, I find that it 
wasn't fair or reasonable in the circumstances. So, to put matters right, QIC should settle the 
claim at Mrs Ns costs, less any betterment and policy excess, and pay interest on the 
settlement.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that QIC Europe Limited must:
settle Mr and Mrs Ns claim for the full repair costs, excluding the cost of the 
additional air bricks, and
pay 8% per annum simple interest* on the reimbursement from the date Mr and Mrs 
N paid the invoice to the date QIC pays the claim costs.
*If QIC considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs N how much its taken off. It should also give Mr and 
Mrs N a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HMRC if 
appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 November 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman