DRN-3870861
The complaint
Mr S complains that Nationwide Building Society has recorded incorrect information about 
his mortgage.
What happened
Mr S has an interest only mortgage taken out through the Mortgage Works. The Mortgage 
Works is owned by Nationwide and Mr S believes the balance of this mortgage should be 
£275,201.12. He says Nationwide has recorded a balance which is higher than it should be 
with credit reference agencies. The balance showing which he says is wrong is £286,354. 
Mr S says this has impacted his ability to obtain credit, find a job and move house. He asked 
that Nationwide correct the balance on his mortgage and what is reported to credit reference 
agencies and pay him £250 for the distress and inconvenience. 
The Mortgage Works responded to explain why it had reported the balance it has and why 
this is the correct balance. It said Mr S and Nationwide was currently involved in legal 
proceedings against a third party who was challenging the beneficial interest of the 
mortgaged property and that the mortgage was obtained without the third parties consent. 
Nationwide had instructed a solicitor to act on its and Mr Ss behalf in response to these 
proceedings and the terms and conditions of the mortgage allowed it to add the cost of these 
fees to the mortgage. 
It also explained interest had been added to the mortgage following a three-month payment 
holiday together with a product fee of £1,995 added after a new deal was arranged in 2020.
Our investigator looked at Mr Ss complaint and said that he didnt think Nationwide had 
done anything wrong. He thought the balance showing on Mr Ss credit file reflected the 
costs that Nationwide had added to the mortgage because of the legal fees, product fee and 
interest following the payment holiday. He didnt believe Nationwide had acted unfairly when 
adding these costs to the mortgage and the balance recorded with credit reference agencies 
was correct.
Mr S disagreed with the view. He didnt provide any new information but simply reiterated 
what he thought the balance should be and asked that the complaint be looked at again. 
Because he disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me for decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint for much the same reasons as our investigator and 
will explain why. 
The transaction history for Mr Ss mortgage shows that in September 2020 a product fee of 
£1995 was added to the balance and that he had a payment holiday in 2020 for three 
months. This added interest to the balance of the mortgage too. But it is not the balance of 
these transactions that Mr S is disputing. It is the difference of the costs added which relate 
to legal fees.
The terms and conditions for Mr Ss mortgage explain that any costs incurred relating to 
legal action will be passed on in full if Nationwide has acted reasonably incurring them. If 
these costs arent paid, interest will be added in line with the mortgage interest rate. So the 
debt will be treated in line with the mortgage debt as it is money owned to Nationwide. 
It isnt disputed by Mr S that Nationwide and its appointed solicitor has been acting for both 
Nationwide and Mr S in the dispute over the beneficial interest of the property. So I think it is 
fair to say that Nationwide has acted reasonably when defending the claim and incurring the 
associated costs. It follows that I dont think Nationwide has acted unfairly when it has added 
these costs to the mortgage.
If Mr S would like these removed and the balance reduced, hell need to pay these costs. If 
not, Nationwide is entitled to add interest to these each month inline with the interest rate of 
his mortgage. And Nationwide has acted fairly when it has added the outstanding balance to 
the mortgage until it is repaid.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2023.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman