DRN-4226888
The complaint
Mr Hs complaint about TSB Bank plc (TSB) relates to the destruction of certain 
documentation he sent to the solicitors appointed to act on his behalf. 
What happened
In August 2021 Mr H wanted to re-mortgage his property and chose to use TSBs free legal 
service. TSB use a conveyancing panel management company (LMS) who allocate cases to 
solicitors practices on their panel. In Mr Hs case that firm was M&M.
At the material time, Mr Hs property was not registered at The Land Registry of Scotland 
(Land Registry), and so he was asked, and in fact did, send a variety of legal documents 
(title deeds) to M&M. In so doing he asked that they were ultimately returned to him or to his 
own solicitor.
On receipt of the title deeds, M&M made a digital copy in preparation for registration, but 
then mistakenly shredded the originals. The re-mortgage did not proceed, and it was when 
Mr H asked for his title deeds back that he learned of their destruction.
 
TSB contacted LMS who in turn investigated the complaint. LMS concluded that Mr H 
shouldnt incur any additional costs when the time came for the property to be registered. 
Additionally, LMS offered Mr H £50 for the inconvenience it had caused him through its 
appointed panel solicitor M&M.  
Mr H was unhappy with TSBs final response and contended that TSB should pay for the 
cost of registering his property with the Land Registry so that in future he would face no 
problems. He also felt he should receive compensation from TSB. Mr H approached this 
service to see if we could assist in resolving the dispute and our investigator looked into it 
but concluded that TSB hadnt done anything wrong and had dealt with the complaint fairly.
Mr H didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My summary of what happened is brief and I know the parties went into a lot more detail. Im 
going to focus on what I think are the key issues. Our rules allow me to do this, and it reflects 
the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. So, if theres something Ive 
not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it, its because I dont need to comment on every 
individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
M&M have accepted that it made a mistake when it shredded the title deeds. The destruction 
of the title deeds did not come about as a result of any policy, guidance or instruction 
provided or issued by TSB. The fault lays entirely with M&M. I have no powers to make any 
findings or make any award against M&M, since it is a firm of solicitors and not a financial 
products or services business. Should Mr H wish to pursue a complaint against M&M he 
should approach their governing body who will be in a position to make findings upon the 
adequacy of the legal service provided.
Similarly, a complaint against LMS would need to be addressed to the organisation which 
governs them, since they are also not a financial products or services business and thus I 
cannot make any findings or award against them. 
That said I do recognise that there are contractual arrangements which exist between TSB 
and LMS, and also LMS and M&M. But my role is to consider whether TSB have acted fairly 
and reasonably in so far as its dealings with Mr H are concerned, and it is clear that it had no 
direct involvement in the destruction of the title deeds. 
Having received a complaint about LMS, TSB acted fairly by referring it to LMS for them to 
undertake an investigation, since it was their appointed panel firm, M&M, who shredded the 
title deeds. An investigation was carried out with the conclusion being in Mr Hs favour, save 
for the level of compensation offered. I cannot make any findings over the adequacy of the 
compensation offered or the investigation, since it is outside of my remit.
So, although Mr H will probably be disappointed with my decision, I cant say TSB has acted 
unfairly or unreasonably here since it was not the cause of the destruction of the title deeds, 
and when it received Mr Hs complaint it dealt with it appropriately. Im therefore not 
upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2023.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman