DRN-1839906
The complaint
Ms R and Mr S complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) acted unfairly and 
unreasonably in declining their claim under a legal expenses insurance policy. They want the 
claim accepted and proceedings issued.
What happened
Ms R and Mr S had a legal expenses insurance policy with RSA through their household 
insurance, and made a claim for assistance in order to sue a plumber who they said had 
incorrectly fitted a new boiler. It was declined due to the legal advice RSA received from 
panel solicitors, who advised that the ability to recover money from the plumber was an 
issue and the claim didnt have reasonable prospects of success as the repair work made it 
hard to prove the original work done wasnt good enough. The solicitors also said the 
information provided wasnt from someone seen as an independent expert by the courts.
Ms R and Mr S felt that the plumber might have unknown assets and it shouldnt be 
expected for them to show that he was worth suing. They also disputed the view that the 
repair work made it more difficult for an independent expert to assess the work done by the 
plumber originally.
Ms R and Mr S complained to RSA. It said the policy required the claim to have reasonable 
prospects of success and to achieve a reasonable outcome. In Ms R and Mr S case, 
solicitors had advised this wasnt the case and RSA said that it was entitled to rely on the 
advice. It explained that the solicitors had been concerned with both the claim itself and the 
ability to recover any money from the plumber, and the policy expressly referred to a 
reasonable outcome. RSA said it would consider a second legal opinion, but it would be for 
Ms R and Mr S to pay for it initially.
Ms R and Mr S complained to us. The investigators view was that the complaint shouldnt 
be upheld. He said that the policy only covered claims with a reasonable prospect of 
success and a reasonable outcome. The investigator said RSA could rely on the legal advice 
received that neither of these requirements applied to Ms R and Mr S claim. He thought that 
it was fair to say if Ms R and Mrs S wanted to challenge it, they needed to get a second legal 
opinion in their favour from a suitably qualified lawyer.
Ms R and Mr S disagreed. They said as the plumber had a van and tools, there was a 
reasonable chance of recovering something and the policy didnt say Ms R and Mr S had to 
show he was worth suing.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When I refer to RSA, Im also referring to its agents. The relevant rules and industry 
guidelines say that RSA has a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. And it 
shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy. It says for a claim to be accepted, 
it must have reasonable prospects of success and of achieving a reasonable outcome. The 
policy also says if the view about reasonable prospects of success changed, the cover can 
be withdrawn.
RSA is an insurer, not lawyers. Its reasonable for insurers to consider the advice given by 
suitably qualified lawyers, provided that there isnt an obvious mistake within that advice 
which would be obvious to a layman. Ive seen the advice and Ive satisfied from the 
evidence available to me that it was given by a suitably qualified law firm; it also doesnt 
seem to be obviously wrong. For example, there are strict rules about what the courts sees 
as an independent expert and the requirements for such reports  the report Ms R and Mr S 
provided doesnt comply with those rules.
In terms of achieving a reasonable outcome, no reasonable person would want to take the 
risk and expense of conducting litigation without being reasonably confident of recovering 
the money sought if successful in court. Insurers are as entitled to take this view as anyone 
else. The tools of a trade arent available to be used to repay debts, and theres no evidence 
that the plumber is worth suing. Ms R and Mr S are bound by the terms and conditions of the 
policy, which does require reasonable prospects of achieving a reasonable outcome. Its not 
unreasonable or unfair for RSA to conclude this provision hasnt been met in light of the facts 
and the advice received.
And its fair and reasonable for RSA to say if Ms R and Mr S get a second opinion from a law 
firm which supports their position, it will review the matter.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R and Mr S to accept or reject my decision 
before 12 October 2020.
 
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman