DRN-3881187
The complaint
This complaint arises out of a buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage Mr H holds with Platform 
Funding Ltd. On his complaint form, Mr H has explained that he is complaining about the 
following matters:
despite writing to him over several months offering to extend the mortgage term, 
Platform has refused to extend the term of his mortgage;
after issuing possession proceedings in relation to a claim for approximately £24,000 in 
service charges, Mr H paid Platform this sum, but Platform has been unable to tell him 
who the ultimate beneficiary was of these funds and he is now being pursued by the 
building manager for the same amount;
the complaint is therefore about the misleading letters and Platforms conduct in paying 
away monies and then not taking this into account in considering his request for a term 
extension.
To settle the complaint, Mr H wants Platform to reconsider his term extension request and to 
establish who it paid the £24,000 to.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont 
include any information that might lead to Mr H being identified. So for these reasons, I will 
keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
Mr H has an interest-only BTL mortgage taken out in July 2007. The mortgage term came to 
an end on 15 July 2022.  
Service charge issues: The majority of the issues which led to this complaint have been the 
subject of legal action, either between Mr H and the freeholders/management company 
(which arent  covered by our service) or between Mr H and Platform (details of which are 
given below). However, I think its important to set out some of the background in order to 
provide clarity to Mr Hs complaint about this issue.
For several years Mr H has been in dispute with the freeholder/managing agents of the 
property in relation to service charges. In March 2019 Platform wrote to Mr H setting out its 
position on this. 
Platform explained that, after paying ground rent or service charges in the past in order to 
avoid forfeiture of the lease, the bank was concerned that these payments (which were 
added to the outstanding mortgage balance) might be an indicator of financial difficulty. 
Platform said that if further requests were made for payment of unpaid ground rent or service 
charges, it would begin possession proceedings.
Thereafter Platform received further demands for payment from solicitors I will call JBL. On 
13 January 2020 Platform wrote to Mr H giving formal notice of its intention to start 
possession proceedings unless payment of £22,779.45 was made within 15 working days. 
Mr H disputed these charges and the entitlement of JBLs client to claim any amount from 
him. Mr H said that there was a long-running dispute with the building management and 
tenants over maintenance of the building. I understand that the First Tier Property Tribunal 
had appointed a manager for the building.
After taking advice, Platform told JBL that it would not make any payment unless it was 
provided with a court or tribunal determination confirming Mr H was liable for the sums 
claimed. Evidence was provided to Platform by JBL that in court proceedings Mr H had 
accepted liability for service charges of just over £12,000 as well as legal costs. 
Because a section 146 Law of Property Act 1925 notice hadnt been received by Platform 
(which gives notice of the intention to forfeit the lease), Platform wasnt in a position to make 
the payment. However, on 24 December 2020 JBL confirmed to Platform that the amount 
due was now over £24,000, with interest accruing at a daily rate. A section146 notice dated 
10 December 2020 was supplied to Platform by JBL.
In early January 2021 Platform confirmed to Mr H that it was going to make the payment, 
unless Mr H did so, or provided proof that the amount was in dispute. Mr H said that the 
claim was in dispute and that the previous property manager had lied in court. Mr H said that 
the new property manager was taking legal action against the previous one. Mr H said JBL 
was acting on behalf of the previous property manager and no longer acted for them. As a 
result, Mr H believed that Platform wasnt required to make payment to JBL.
However, Platform noted from the court order supplied by JBL that Mr H had acknowledged 
that the charges were payable by him and that he was liable for costs. As a result, Platform 
concluded that (after taking legal advice) that it was required to make the payment in order 
to protect its security.
On 12 January 2021 Platform wrote to Mr H confirming it was going to make a payment of 
just over £25,000 (including accrued interest) and debit this to Mr Hs mortgage account. 
Platform also said that it would begin possession proceedings because Mr H was in breach 
of the mortgage conditions by not paying service charges and ground rent.
On 13 January 2021 Platform paid £25,033.26 to JBL. On 18 January 2021 Platform wrote 
to Mr H confirming the breach of mortgage conditions and requiring him to pay £25,033.26 
within 15 working days, in default of which Platform would instruct its solicitors to begin 
possession proceedings. However, because of the pandemic, there was a moratorium on 
possession proceedings imposed by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), so Platform 
wasnt able to proceed at that time.
On 17 March 2021 Mr H confirmed to Platform that his son was living in the property, which 
Platform explained was in breach of the terms of a BTL mortgage.
In April 2021 Platform renewed its request for Mr H to reimburse the payment it had made to 
JBL in January 2021.
Following the lifting of the FCA moratorium, Platform began possession action. Mr H 
submitted a defence. I understand Mr Hs defence was (and I summarise):
his son living in the property is not in breach of the mortgage terms;
there was no real risk of forfeiture because hed made Platform aware that he didnt think 
he was liable for the payment claimed and so it shouldnt have been made on his behalf;
he doesnt accept that other historic payments for service charge of over £40,000 were 
payable to the landlord.After various preliminary and procedural hearings, the matter was listed for trial on 
3 November 2021. However, in October 2021 a consent order was entered into, with Mr H 
agreeing to pay £24,786.32 by 25 October 2021, and on those terms the proceedings were 
stayed. Mr H made the payment on 18 October 2021, and it was credited to the account the 
following day (a digit was missing from the payment instruction, resulting in this short delay).
Term extension:  For several months before the end of the mortgage term, Platform sent out 
system-generated letters to Mr H reminding him of the impending term end. The letters 
noted that Mr H had a repayment plan of refinancing to pay off the mortgage. 
The letters went on to set out general information about potential options available to 
borrowers who might be in difficulty with their repayment plans, including sale of the 
property, converting the mortgage to capital repayment or a term extension.
On 26 October 2021 Mr H asked for a term extension. Platform noted that Mr H had said he 
would refinance other properties from his large portfolio to raise the funds to pay off the 
balance. Mr H said he thought this would take about a year.
The request was declined by Platform on 5 November 2021. This was because there were 
nine months still to run before the mortgage end date, and so Platform considered Mr H had 
sufficient time to put in place his repayment strategy of refinancing and arranging a 
mortgage with another lender.
On 27 January 2022 Mr H complained to Platform. He wanted to know who had been the 
recipient of the £24,786.32 hed paid. Mr H was also unhappy that Platform had sent him 
letters inviting to apply for a term extension and then declining his request.
Platform didnt uphold the complaint so Mr H brought it to our service. An investigator looked 
at what had happened but didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr H asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. In his email of 31 January 2023 
Mr H referred again to the dispute with the freeholders and reiterated his concerns that he 
doesnt know the identity of the party the payment Platform made in January 2021 was 
ultimately paid to by JBL. Mr H says he doesnt think it was fair for Platform to have pursued 
him for payment of those costs in the first place if Platform wasnt going to pay them to the 
correct party. 
Mr H also said that the investigator hadnt dealt with a point hed raised in August 2022 
about an overpayment. Mr H made no further comment about the term extension.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read everything provided by Mr H and Platform. Some of the information received from 
Platform relates to legal advice the bank was given. As this is subject to legal privilege, I 
have accepted it in confidence, as our rules allow me to do.Service charge: I will begin by explaining that I can only consider the actions of Platform in 
the context of the mortgage account. So whilst Ive noted the long-standing dispute between 
Mr H and the freeholders and/or managing agents of the property, that is not something that 
involves the Financial Ombudsman Service or indeed Platform. I also note that the dispute 
with the freeholder/managing agents has already been the subject of court proceedings.
So although Ive noted everything Mr H has said about the underlying dispute between him 
and those other parties (which has been helpful), this complaint is actually much simpler 
than at first appears. 
The crux of the complaint is this: Platform paid JBL £25,033.26 on 13 January 2021, and 
Mr H wants to know who JBL paid that money to. Mr H doesnt think its fair, after he 
reimbursed Platform for the majority of this (when he paid £24,786.32 on 18 October 2021) 
that he had to pay this money if Platform cant tell him to whom JBL ultimately disbursed the 
payment made in January 2020.
Platform had received a section 146 notice, supported by a county court judgement, and so 
there was a risk of forfeiture of the lease. Platform was entitled to seek relief against 
forfeiture by paying the amount claimed, and adding this to the mortgage debt. The 
mortgage terms and conditions provided for this. After payment was made, Platform was 
entitled to look to Mr H for reimbursement of the payment and to begin possession 
proceedings if reimbursement wasnt made.
So in this respect, Platform has acted entirely within the terms of the mortgage terms and 
conditions. Notwithstanding Mr Hs claim that there was a dispute about the service charges, 
Platform had been provided with a court order from 2017 where Mr H had agreed to pay 
service charges and costs. Mr H confirmed to us that his appeal against this in 2019 had 
been unsuccessful.
Mr H says it is unfair that he paid the £24,786.32 to Platform in October 2021 when he hasnt 
been told who JBL made the payment to. But Mr H entered into a consent order with 
Platform agreeing to make this payment. If Mr H truly thought this wasnt fair, he had the 
option of going to trial instead and asking the court to determine whether Platforms actions 
were fair. 
Platform made the payment to JBL. If Mr H wants to know who JBL paid the money to, he 
will need to ask JBL. Platform wasnt required to make any enquiries about this, and neither 
is the Financial Ombudsman Service. I therefore dont uphold this part of the complaint.
Term extension: I dont think the system-generated letters sent by Platform reminding Mr H 
of the impending end of the mortgage term were any guarantee that a term extension was 
an option. The letters say at the start that Platform has noted Mr Hs repayment plan of 
refinancing to repay the mortgage.
Platform isnt under any obligation to offer a term extension, particularly on a commercial 
BTL mortgage. Mr H had explained to Platform, nine months before the term ended, that he 
was intending to refinance other properties in his large portfolio in order to raise the funds to 
pay off the mortgage to Platform. 
As a commercial borrower it was up to Mr H to ensure that he had the funds available to pay 
off the mortgage at the end of the term, and to take steps in good time to meet the deadline 
for repayment. I think Platform gave fair consideration to Mr Hs request for an informal term 
extension. However, given that Mr H still had nine months before the end of the term, I agree 
with Platform that he had sufficient time to put the wheels in motion to raise the funds to pay off the mortgage. It was therefore reasonable for Platform to decline to extend the term 
beyond the repayment date of July 2022.
In the circumstances, I cant find any basis on which Platform has treated Mr H unfairly in 
relation to a term extension. I dont uphold this part of the complaint.
Other matters: Mr H says that we have failed to look into an issue he raised in August 2022 
about Platform having paid £7,901.83 in service charges for a period before he owned the 
property. However, this wasnt raised in Mr Hs original complaint to Platform, and isnt 
mentioned on his complaint form. As this wasnt part of the original complaint, we cant 
consider it until Platform has had an opportunity to look into it and provide its response. Mr H 
will need to contact Platform about this matter, as its not something Im able to look at here.
I know this isnt the outcome Mr H was hoping for. I can see from what hes told us that hes 
been in dispute with the freeholder/managing agent for many years, and I can understand 
how stressful this is. But ultimately thats a matter between him and those parties. I dont 
know the extent to which Mr H might have exhausted his legal remedies against those other 
parties, but if there are avenues open to him through the courts, Mr H will need to pursue his 
concerns about the service charges in that way. The Financial Ombudsman Service cant 
get involved in any disputes between leaseholders and freeholders/managing agents.
For all the reasons given above, Im satisfied that Platform hasnt done anything wrong here. 
Because the mortgage term has now expired, if Mr H has not already made arrangements to 
repay the outstanding balance, he will need to make arrangements for this, in order to avoid 
any further legal action by Platform.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2023. 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman