DRN-2858599
The complaint
Miss S complains that AWP P&C SA (AWP) unfairly declined her travel insurance claim.  
What happened
Miss S took out an annual trip travel insurance policy with AWP in February 2020. And she 
planned to travel abroad on 10 March 2020, having booked travel and hotel accommodation 
separately in November 2019. 
On 9 March 2020, the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO), advised against all but 
essential travel to Miss Ss intended destination country. So Miss S cancelled her trip with 
the provider the next day. 
Miss S said she received no refund for her cancelled hotel bookings  she contacted the 
providers but received no response. So she made a claim against her policy with AWP. Miss 
S booked the hotel accommodation for herself and others to use, but she has provided 
evidence that she paid for it.
At the time Miss S made her claim, she was looking to recover travel and hotel costs, but 
she was later able to recover the costs of her train travel from the provider. 
AWP declined the claim on the basis that Miss Ss policy provided no cover for cancellation 
due to the FCO advising against travel. 
Miss S complained to AWP and said she thought shed been treated unfairly. AWP 
maintained its decision to decline the claim had been correct.
Unhappy with the response from AWP, Miss S brought her complaint to this service. An 
investigator here looked into what had happened.  She said Miss S wasnt covered by her 
policy if she cancelled her trip, but also wasnt covered if shed travelled against the FCOs 
advice.  And in the circumstances, she thought it was fair and reasonable that AWP should 
pay the claim.
Miss S accepted the investigators view. However, AWP disagreed. In summary it said the 
general policy exclusion regarding travel against FCO advice was common across the travel 
insurance industry. It said this was separate from the sections of cover under the policy, and 
it didnt think it was unreasonable to expect the consumer to need to read the list of insured 
risks. 
AWP asked for a decision from an ombudsman, and so the case has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 The relevant rules and guidance
 
The relevant regulatory rules (the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) Principles for
Business) say;
a firm should pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
The FCAs Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) requires insurers to;
act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its 
customer;
handle claims promptly and fairly.
ICOBS 6 also requires insurers to give customers appropriate information about a policy in 
good time and in a way that is easy to understand. This is so the customer can make an 
informed decision about the arrangements proposed.
Appropriate information includes the information that must be set out in an Insurance 
Product Information Document (IPID) which gives customers an at a glance summary of 
their cover. This includes a summary of the insurance cover, including the main risks 
insured, the insured sum and, where applicable, the geographical scope and summary of 
excluded risks.
Relevant regulatory guidance (the FCAs The Responsibilities of Providers and Distributors 
for the Fair Treatment of Customers) says firms should consider the impact of their actions 

or inactions  on the customer throughout the lifecycle of the service being provided.
The policy terms and conditions 
The cancellation section on page 26 of the policy, is set out as follows. 
Section 1 Cancellation or cutting your trip short
What is covered
We will pay up to the amount shown in the schedule (see pages 4 to 6) in total for 
unused accommodation, transport, excursions and other travel expenses which 
you have paid or will have to pay and that you cannot recover from anywhere else.
We will provide this cover in the following necessary and unavoidable circumstances.
For cancellation
If you cancel your trip before it begins because one of the following happens.
The death, serious injury or serious illness of you, someone you were going to 
stay with, someone booked to travel with you, or a close relative or business 
associate of yours or someone booked to travel with you.
You or someone booked to travel with you is called for jury service in your 
home country or as a witness in a court in your home country.The police say that you or someone booked to travel with you need to stay in 
your home country because of a burglary or damage caused to your home or 
place of business by serious fire, storm, flood, explosion, subsidence, 
vandalism, fallen trees or being hit by an aircraft or vehicle.
If you are aged 18 to 65, being made redundant by an employer you have been 
employed by for a continuous period of two years or more.
At the end of the cancellation and curtailment section of the policy, on page 28, the policy 
states  
The general exclusions (page 21), general conditions (pages 22 to 23) and claim 
conditions (page 24) also apply.
Within the general policy exclusions, under the section General exclusions on page 21, the 
policy states the following. 
3 You not following any advice or recommendations made by the Foreign and 
Commonwealth Office, the World Health Organization, or any government or other 
official authority...
And on page 8, which is the second page of a section headed Important information the 
following information is provided. 
You will not be covered if you travel to a country or region the Foreign and 
Commonwealth Office has advised against travelling to at all or for any reason other 
than essential travel. For more details, visit the website at gov.uk/foreign-travel-
advice.
Ill refer to this as the FCO exclusion. 
The IPID
At the top of the document, the IPID states:
This document provides a basic summary of the cover provided by the policy. The 
full terms and conditions are shown in the policy document, which you should read 
carefully to make sure you have the cover you need.
On the second page, under the section headed Where am I covered?, the IPID includes 
the following.
You will not be covered if you travel to a country or region the Foreign and 
Commonwealth Office has advised people against travelling to at all, or for essential 
travel only. For more details, go to gov.uk/foreign-travel-advice.
Has Miss Ss claim been unfairly declined?
Miss S cancelled her trip because the FCO had advised against all but essential travel to her 
intended destination, the night before she was due to travel. This isnt one of the specific, 
listed insured events for which cancellation cover is provided. 
If Miss S had disregarded FCO advice, and travelled anyway, her policy would have been 
invalidated and shed have had no cover. So had she travelled, shed have had no access to benefits under the policy including lost or stolen possessions or cover for emergency 
medical treatment. So, the policy would have been, in effect, of no use to her at all.
Although the policy terms dont list cancellation due to a change to FCO advice as a specific
insured event, I also need to consider what I think is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Miss Ss complaint. In doing so, Ive looked at the industry rules and 
guidance outlined above, as well as the relevant law (including the unfair terms provisions in 
the Consumer Rights Act 2015).
Having done so, I dont think its fair or reasonable in the circumstances for Miss S to have 
no cover when she had to cancel her holiday due to a change in FCO advice, after shed 
bought her policy.
Ive considered what AWP has said about the general exclusion relating to travelling against 
FCO advice being common. And its expectation of the consumers reading of the policy. Ive 
also considered that there was a 14 day cooling off period in which Miss S could have 
considered the terms after shed bought the policy.
However, I dont think the exclusion from cover of cancellation claims arising from the FCO 
advising against travel, was clearly sign-posted to Miss S. And I dont think the implications 
of this were made clear to her. I think this has left Miss S in an unfair position, and Ill explain 
why.
The IPID is designed to make sure that customers have essential information about the 
policy in a way thats easy to understand. However, I dont think the FCO exclusion is 
prominent in the IPID, and cancellation claims due to FCO advice against all but essential 
travel arent included in the What is not insured section of the IPID.
The FCO exclusion in Miss Ss policy doesnt specifically state that no cover is provided 
for cancellation of a holiday in the event of FCO advice changing between the date the 
policy was purchased and the policyholders date of departure.
The terms and conditions of Miss Ss policy includes a table of benefits which sets out that 
there is cover for cancellation and cutting short a trip. As Ive outlined above, similar 
information is contained within the IPID. Both documents also refer the consumer to their 
policy documentation for the full terms and conditions of the contract. This means a 
consumer would need to go further into the detail of the policy wording, to work out whether 
they could claim if they had to cancel their trip because of changes to FCO guidance after 
theyd bought their policy.
When a consumer reaches page 26 of the policy document, which sets out the cover 
available if they are unable to go on their trip, claims arising from a change in FCO advice 
arent listed as a specific exclusion. Instead, claims for this reason are something that 
arent listed as included. So a consumer would also need to cross refer this information 
with the IPID and page 21 of the policy to understand that they werent covered for 
cancellation due to a change in FCO advice.
Ive also taken into account that there are references within the policy to other relevant 
pages. But, a consumer would still need to read the other areas of the policy and make the 
connection as Ive explained above. 
I dont think the exclusion from cover of cancellation claims is transparent enough. The 
section of the policy setting out what will be covered if the consumer is unable to travel, on 
page 26, is in plain English. But the FCO exclusion isnt presented in the same place. So, I 
dont think it would be obvious to a consumer that they would have no cover whatsoever under the policy, if FCO advice changed in respect of their destination, after they 
purchased their policy. Even with a cooling-off period, I think a consumer might not be 
able to easily understand the full effect of the policy. And I think the way the cancellation 
section of cover and the FCO exclusion under the other sections of the policy are 
presented separately, means their combined effect isnt clear.
In the circumstances, I think this is unfair and results in a significant imbalance between
Miss S and AWP. Miss S was left without any cover at all when the FCO advice
changed, and this shifted the rights and obligations under the contract significantly in 
AWPs favour. I think the terms and conditions didnt properly take Miss Ss interests into 
account, and Im not persuaded she would have freely agreed to a policy that left her 
without any cover in these circumstances, if shed realised that was how the policy would 
operate.
So, overall, I think the way the information about the cover available under this policy is 
presented is not fair, and AWP isnt acting in the best interests of its customer when 
presenting the information in this way.
Putting things right
AWP needs to put things right by treating the claim as covered under the cancellation 
section of the policy. And assessing Miss Ss claim subject to the remaining terms and 
conditions of her cover.
 
My final decision
Im upholding Miss Ss complaint against AWP P&C SA and directing it to put things right in 
the way Ive outlined above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 July 2021.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman