DRN-1620122
 
The complaint
Mr C complains that Santander UK Plc wrongly paid a cheque from his business account for 
£629 that he had stopped.
What happened
Mr C phoned Santander and told it to stop the cheque. A member of staff confirmed that this 
had been done. But on 2 September 2019 it was debited to his account. He wants the 
money refunded.
Santander said it wouldnt be refunding the money. It accepted it had made a mistake. But it 
said that Mr C had told it he had post dated the cheque some six to eight weeks earlier for 
goods that he had received. The post dating of a cheque was outside its terms and 
conditions. Mr C was now in dispute with the same supplier about further parts. It said that 
this was a civil dispute. It paid him £75 in compensation.
Our investigator didnt recommend that it do anything more. He agreed that the dispute was 
with the supplier, not Santander. It had paid Mr C compensation for the inconvenience.
Mr C didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander paid a cheque from Mr Cs business account against his specific instructions. The 
fact it was post dated at first is neither here nor there now. The supplier hadnt tried to cash it 
before the date Mr C had originally agreed to make a payment. Unlike with a debit card 
payment or direct debit there are no specific schemes for Santander to recall money paid by 
cheque in error. So, the only recourse to the person who received the money is a legal one.
Mr C wants to hold Santander liable for what he sees as a loss it caused and also because 
this had put him in a weaker negotiating position with his supplier. He says that this cheque 
was the final payment for a machine that Mr C accepts he had received and had been using. 
The dispute which he described during a phone call with Santander on 3 September 2019 as 
being for a few hundred pounds was over different goods which he claimed were faulty and 
had caused disruption to his business.
I cant resolve Mr Cs dispute with his supplier here as its not a party to this complaint 
referred to this service. And even if I could, the payment that Santander made in error was 
for legitimate goods that Mr C says he had received. So, I am going to look at this in a 
straightforward way. If I was to require Santander to refund him £629, I think he may well be 
unjustly enriched. And I cant see Santander would have a basis to recover the money from 
the supplier. Only Mr C has the ability to do that if he can show he has legal grounds. For 
these reasons even though Santander clearly made a mistake I dont have a reasonable 
basis to require it to pay Mr C £629.
Santander has in my view compensated him adequately for the inconvenience caused and I 
wont be asking it to do anything further. I fully understand how disappointed Mr C will be by 
this. He is free to pursue this matter in court if he doesnt accept my decision subject to any 
relevant time limits.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint in the sense that Santander UK PLC need 
not do any more than it has already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2020.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman