DRN-3227741
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D have complained about the insurer American International Group UK Limited 
(AIG)s decision to decline a claim they made for water damage under their home and 
buildings insurance policy. 
Mr and Mrs D are being represented by a third party Loss Adjuster (LA) Mr E in their 
complaint. 
What happened
In February 2021 Mr and Mrs D made a claim for damage to their property which they said 
was caused by a named storm in January 2021. AIG instructed a surveyor to attend their 
property to carry out an inspection. Having done so, the surveyor said the damage had been 
caused gradually. So AIG declined Mr and Mrs Ds claim. 
Mr E on behalf of Mr and Mrs D challenged the surveyors findings. In summary he says that 
the surveyor hasnt provided evidence to show that the exclusion for gradual damage under 
the policy applies. Mr E says the evidence shows that the damage was caused by a storm. 
Our investigator thought AIGs decision to decline the claim was reasonable. 
Mr E didnt agree and wants an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both the surveyor and Mr E have provided substantive responses to support their opposing 
opinions as to whether the damage Mr and Mrs D are claiming for was caused gradually or 
by a storm. 
Mr and Mrs Ds policy with AIG says that it will provide cover for loss or damage to their 
home and building, but it excludes cover for the following:
loss or damage caused by gradually operating causes such as wear and tear, 
deterioration, inherent vice, latent defect, mould, presence of mould or fungus, 
mechanical or electrical breakdown, warping or shrinkage, rust or other corrosion, 
wet or dry rot, aridity, dampness or temperature extremes;
Based on the surveyors findings, AIG declined Mr and Mrs Ds claim as it said the damage 
was caused gradually. The surveyor reported historical defects within traditional heavily 
embossed wallcoverings on the staircase where Mr and Mrs D noticed damp. He said Mrs D 
had eluded to the damage being there for some time. Mr and Mrs D deny saying this. 
The surveyor said the growth of fungi supported his view that the damage had been ongoing 
for some time. He highlighted defects in the roof and said there was no evidence of damage 
caused by a one off storm event. He did however state that the several missing and cracked 
roof tiles didnt appear to be contributing to the water ingress, but was in need of immediate 
repair. The surveyor used a pole camera to obtain photos of the roof. 
The surveyor reported elevated moisture readings in the area. And he found that the 
wallcovering had de-bonded in multiple areas. He said cracking would occur when the paper 
becomes wet and then dries, making it crumbly to touch.
In response, Mr E was instructed to act on behalf of Mr and Mrs D and in March 2021 
attended their property along with a contractor to assess the water damage and moisture 
levels to the affected area. 
The contractor reported that an ingress of water had ran down the rafters and tracked into 
the masonry below, resulting in the plaster work blowing. They said rain water had continued 
to track down through and behind the panelling which has resulted in the panelling warping 
and distorting. They reported water marks to the cloakroom situated under the stairs directly 
below. They found mould had formed on the wallpaper in the cloakroom and water had 
dissipated into the surrounding area. The contractor wrote:
Judging on the extent of the water damage I would have thought the damage has 
occurred at the same point as the rain storm. If this wasn't the case then the water 
ingress would have been visible for quite some time.
Mr E said that although the surveyor had reported cracked and missing roof tiles and debris 
within the lead valleys, hed acknowledged that this didnt appear to contribute toward the 
water ingress. 
Mr E said all that was clear was that neither the surveyor nor the contractor could identify the 
actual point of ingress. 
Mr E said Mr and Mrs D said they had a general discussion with the surveyor about the 
traditional wallcovering in the property  but had only confirmed carrying out minor repairs in 
the past in a completely different area and not in relation to any external water damage. 
Mr E said that the only area where the plaster had blown was due to the recent ingress of 
water and not gradually over time. He says high moisture readings identified by the 
contractor in the downstairs cloakroom show the water travelled downward but there were 
no outward signs in the cloakroom to have made Mr and Mrs D aware of the ingress. 
Clearly theres a dispute as to whether Mr and Mrs D discussed whether the damage being 
claimed for had been known to them for some time before the surveyor visited. Im unable to 
make a finding that the surveyors report was fraudulent and so I havent disregarded this 
part of the surveyors report. 
Mr E says that moisture readings elsewhere in the property , including the area of damage, 
showed they were dry. This was approximately six weeks after Mr and Mrs D say the 
damage occurred when they contacted AIG. 
In relation to the plaster being blown, Mr E said there were two reasons why there would be 
visible signs of water damage due to its robust construction: these being:
i) there had been a steady ingress of water for a considerable period of time or
ii) there had been a considerable amount of water ingress over a relatively short 
period of time.
Mr E arranged to visit the property again later in March 2021 after scaffolding had been 
erected and a builder had accessed the roof to the property. Mr E provided photos to show 
that there was a hole in the roof. He found that the surveyor had incidentally taken a photo of 
the same area but it wasnt as clear. He wrote:
To be clear, there is no evidence of water ingress via cracked, or missing tiles, from 
the debris in the valley, from dilapidated ridge tiles, or from ridge gutter failure. The 
water ingress was via a large hole, where a single tile has recently moved, adjacent 
to the valley. You can see (surveyors name inserted here) photograph, Roof Dormer 
3, and todays photograph of the same area, showing the same tile, in the same position. It is not apparent from (surveyors name inserted here) photograph, but the 
dark shape on the photo, above the tile, is a large hole which has recently allowed 
significant water ingress in a short period of time. The hole is of such a size that it 
must be recent as, if it had been present for some time, then the damage would have 
occurred some time ago, from any earlier, significant rainfall. Most likely is that the 
tile has been moved by Storm (name of storm inserted here), 18th Jan to 20th Jan. 
With further heavy rain the week following, 26th to 29th Jan, even the most resilient 
Edwardian plaster finish has buckled with the large amount of water, which has 
entered via the slipped tile. You can also see on both photographs that the tile above 
has been lifted, again most likely by Storm (named). Further evidence that this is 
recent damage, caused by a significant water ingress over a short period of time, is 
that despite (surveyors name) view, there are no signs of timber rot. On the contrary, 
the timber is dry. See photo attached where the flashing and tiles have been 
removed adjacent to the internal damage. To be clear, the fungus that was evident 
after the damage appeared internally, was most likely Peziza, commonly known as 
plaster fungus. This is often mistaken for dry, or wet, rot, and is not harmful to 
timber. It is regularly found in areas suffering from water ingress.
Finally, it should be noted that (contractors name inserted here) came to the same 
conclusion, (that this was a significant amount of water ingress in a short period of 
time)
Mr E concluded that the surveyor failed to identify the cause of damage where a tile had 
recently moved as a result of a storm. He said that where an insurer applies an exclusion, 
the onus is on the insurer to demonstrate how the exclusion applies and that the customer 
was aware. Mr E says in this case AIG hasnt shown either of these and it is therefore unfair 
to apply the exclusion. 
In September 2021 Mr E provided further comments on the surveyors report. In summary he 
says the photos of the missing tiles on the roof by the surveyor show that one of the tiles had 
been lifted by the application of a force. 
Mr E provided photos of the rafters to show there was no evidence of rot as suggested by 
the surveyor where fungi had grown. 
He said the type of fungi in Mr and Mrs Ds property can grow as quickly as overnight and 
therefore was possible it was caused by the recent ingress of water and not gradually. 
Mr E said that once a roofer was appointed and the area stripped, the area of where the 
water was leaking through was identified. Photos show there was no long term fungi growth 
and no rot. He concluded that the surveyor had provided no evidence to support AIGs 
decision to apply the exclusion that the damage had happened gradually. 
The investigator asked AIG for their comments  and the surveyor responded on behalf of 
AIG. 
In summary he maintained his view that fungi required certain conditions to grow. He said 
the robust construction of the wallcovering only meant that it would take longer for the water 
ingress to come through and would have saturated for a longer period. 
The surveyor wrote:
With reference to the rainfall mentioned within my report, I highlighted this to 
demonstrate a defect with the roof covering. The fact that we are seeing an ingress 
of water highlights a defect with the roof covering, it does not apportion this to be the 
proximate cause. At no point have I denied water ingressed the property at the 
presented occurrence date. I am in agreeance that water ingressed on this date.  
However, I am of the opinion this is not the first time the ingress occurred and 
therefore I refer back to gradually operative cause. Failing to combat the external defects has resulted in extensive debonding of plaster and deterioration of the 
woodwork. The damage is not indicative of a single event.  
Photographic evidence of the roof demonstrate frost damage to the tile faade, 
slipped tiles and a complete lack of maintenance. The deterioration evident on the tile 
would suggest possible nail fatigue. Not only this, the debris evident in the valley 
demonstrates a lack of maintenance. I maintain my stance that there is no evidence 
of a one off storm event.  
I further wish to comment of the reference to Peziza Domiciliana, this is common in 
traditional buildings of a certain age and is often contributed from ventilation issues 
that often leads to decay. The proximate cause is often associated with the evidence 
of damp or rot.
I remain of the opinion that most of the damage has resulted from an ongoing ingress 
opposed to a one off event. In my opinion, insurers may only consider the decoration 
of the damaged areas as part of accidental damage cover. However, it remains my 
opinion that the incident has occurred on multiple occasions, contributing to an 
overall loss.
The surveyor said that heavy rainfall without storm strong winds would not be enough to 
dislodge tiles unless there was an already gradual deterioration of the tiles/facade. Photos of 
the roof show it wasnt in a good state of maintenance. 
The LA has pointed out that Mr and Mrs Ds policy with AIG is an all risks policy and so it 
doesnt provide cover for only insured perils. The policy wording says:
We will insure the property shown in your schedule against all risks of physical loss 
or physical damage which happens during the policy period unless an exclusion 
applies
Therefore, the claim should only fail if AIG can show an exclusion applies for the loss or 
damage being claimed for. In this case, the exclusion is being applied for a gradually 
operating cause. 
However, I dont think the evidence is persuasive that the hole in the roof was caused by the 
force of a storm and therefore suddenly and not gradually  looking at the overall condition 
of the roof and the travel of the water to the downstairs cloakroom. I appreciate that the LA 
says the tile revealing the hole was most likely dislodged by the storm. But I think the 
surveyors testimony as to the existing condition of the roof and tiles  along with the 
weather conditions of heavy rainfall but not heavy winds constituting storm  is more 
persuasive that bad weather highlighted an existing problem due to wear and tear. I also 
note that the existence of the named fungi here can also be found in areas of significant 
damp. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs D. But I think AIG has reasonably applied the exclusion of 
a gradually operating cause when deciding to decline their claim for damage. I think there is 
enough evidence to say the dislodged tile causing the hole in the roof was more likely due to 
an existing maintenance issue  and a gradually operating cause. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 February 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman