DRN-3332919
The complaint
Mrs P complains about Royal & Sun Alliance Plcs decision to decline a claim under her 
home insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs P has a home insurance policy underwritten by Royal & Sun Alliance Plc (RSA) which 
covers buildings and contents, amongst other things.
She made a claim in February 2020 relating to water ingress at her home following Storm 
Ciara.
RSA arranged for a surveyor to visit the property, although they didnt do so until September 
2020. The delay was in part caused by the national lockdown due to COVID.
The surveyor said the damage to the inside of Mrs Ps home had occurred over a period of 
time and was caused by water ingress through a roof which had fallen into poor repair.
Mrs P then asked a roofer to visit the property. They thought the roof was in good condition.
Mrs P complained to RSA about their decision to decline the claim, but they maintained their 
position. So, Mrs P brought her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into it and didnt think RSA had done anything wrong.
Mrs P disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. She wants RSA to 
agree her claim and pay for repairs to her property. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute here about what Mrs Ps policy does and does not cover. In line with 
most home insurance policies, it covers damage caused by insured events such as storms. 
But it doesnt cover damage due to wear and tear. 
Theres also no dispute that there were storm conditions in Mrs Ps area in early 
February 2020.
The key question for me is whether it was fair and reasonable for RSA to decide that the 
water damage to Mrs Ps home  which affected walls in her porch, dining room and living 
room  was caused by a gradual ingress of water due to wear and tear in her roof.
The surveyor appointed by RSA provided a report which included several photographs of the 
roof in question. They appear to support his assertion that there were broken and slipped 
tiles on the roof, the gutter was filled with debris and the flashings were in poor repair.
The roofer Mrs P asked to take a look at her roof said it was in good condition but noted that 
the odd slate had slipped. They didnt indicate how the water might have gotten into Mrs Ps 
property other than through the roof.
I know that Mrs P will be disappointed by this, but I cant reasonably conclude that RSA did 
anything wrong in declining her claim. 
In the absence of any other compelling explanation of how the water ingress occurred, its 
not unreasonable for them to decide that the issue was with the roof not being maintained 
and suffering wear and tear. 
RSA are entitled to accept the findings of their surveyor, given the lack of any explanation or 
detail in the roofers report. The roofers report is three sentences long. One of those 
sentences says simply that Mrs P asked them to look at the roof. And one sets out the cost 
to Mrs P.
Im sure RSA will look again at the claim if Mrs P can provide a surveyors report (or similar 
evidence) which sets out how and why the water damage may have occurred  other than 
through the roof in question  and/or makes a compelling case that the roof was in good 
repair at the time of the storm. And if they then uphold the claim, Id expect them to 
reimburse Mrs P the cost of obtaining that report.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman