DRN-2707802
The complaint
Miss H complains that Ageas Insurance Limited unfairly declined a claim she made on her 
home insurance policy for damage to a refrigerator. Where I refer to Ageas, this includes its 
agents and claims handlers.
What happened
Miss H is represented by her husband, but for ease of reading Ill only refer to Miss H. When 
I do it includes anything said or provided by her representative. 
Miss H said three of the shelves of her fridge door had come down when she opened the 
door. And one of the shelves near the bottom had cracked. When she tried to get a 
replacement shelf she noticed one of the shelf brackets had broken. So she contacted her 
insurer to put in a claim for accidental damage.
Miss H said Ageas declined the claim due to wear and tear. But she said the fridge was 
relatively new. And she wants the fridge door repairing or replacing.
Ageas said Miss H had reported that the top shelf had collapsed when shed opened the 
fridge door. And thatd caused damage to the two shelves below. So itd appointed its 
preferred supplier to look into Miss Hs claim. The engineers report said the incident had 
occurred due to the age and general failure of the refrigerator. 
Miss H told Ageas the top shelf had been overloaded with food. And thatd caused the 
damage to the shelf below. But Ageas said the report didnt suggest the problem had been 
caused by accidental damage - it was because of general wear and tear. And that wasnt an 
insured peril covered by Miss Hs home insurance policy.
Miss H wasnt satisfied with Ageass response. So she contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. He looked at Miss Hs policy and considered whether 
Ageas had acted fairly in declining the claim for accidental damage. Although the damage 
had been sudden and unexpected he could see the policy excluded claims for wear and tear 
or anything that happens gradually. 
Our investigator felt it wasnt unreasonable for Ageas to rely on its engineers report when 
determining whatd caused the damage. And it was the engineers opinion that the parts had 
failed due to general wear and tear through usage.  So our engineer didnt think Ageas had 
acted unfairly in applying the exclusion and declining the claim.
Miss H didnt agree. So shes asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When deciding whether I think Ageas decision to decline the Miss Hs claim is fair, I have to 
start by deciding whether an insured event has taken place. An insured event would be the 
cause of the damage. 
And it would have to be listed as an insurable peril in the policy document. But if the cause of 
the damage is noted as an exception, Im sorry to say a claim cant be made.
Miss Hs home insurance policy document states what the policy does and doesnt cover. 
Section D deals with accidental damage to your contents. And it describes this as damage 
that is unexpected and unintended, caused by something sudden and which is not 
deliberate. 
I realise Miss H says the damage was accidental. The shelf collapsed suddenly when the 
door was opened. So it was sudden and unexpected. But the policy also has a list of 
exclusions that mean a claim would be declined.
In the section things we dont pay claims for Ageas says it excludes claims for wear and 
tear or anything that happens gradually. And the engineers report is clear that the damage 
was caused by parts failing over a period of time due to general usage and wear and tear. 
The evidence doesnt suggest that the top shelf wouldve collapsed while simply opening the 
door unless there was some wear and tear. And therefore an insured event hasnt taken 
place.
Based on everything Ive seen I can say Ageas has acted unfairly in declining Miss Hs claim 
for accidental damage to the fridge. I think Ageas is entitled to rely on the expert advice of its 
engineer when deciding whether an insured event has taken place. And on this occasion its 
more likely that the damage was caused by general wear and tear.
I know Miss H is unhappy with the time its taken for the claims process to take place. But 
Ive not seen anything to suggest Ageas has caused any unnecessary delays while dealing 
with the matter. Unfortunately it can sometimes take a little time to look into things.
I realise Miss H will be disappointed with this outcome. But I dont think Ageas has acted 
unfairly or unreasonably. It declined the claim within the terms and conditions of the home 
insurance policy. And I wont be asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman