DRN-3086150
The complaint
Mr H complains that The Enterprise Fund Limited (EFL) didnt treat him fairly while he was 
experiencing financial difficulty as a result of the pandemic.
What happened
Mr H ran a sole trader business, and had taken commercial lending with EFL. Following the 
imposing of national lockdowns and Covid restrictions, his businesss income was affected, 
and he couldnt trade for a sustained period. He first approached EFL for support with his 
loan in March 2020  who agreed to a three-month payment holiday until June 2020. EFL 
also confirmed interest wouldnt accrue and nor would his credit file be affected during the 
deferment period. 
Mr H applied for a further payment holiday after the first one ended as his circumstances 
remained unchanged. That was agreed by EFL, with the same conditions as the first. In 
October 2020, he requested another three-month payment holiday starting from November 
2020, taking the total deferment period to nine months. That was also agreed by EFL  who 
advised the next payment date would be in February 2021.
In February 2021 Mr H called EFL and said he couldnt resume full contractual payments as 
he was still receiving no income from his business. He asked for another payment holiday, 
but EFL said it couldnt offer further deferments. According to EFLs agent, that was because 
the guidance from the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) said only six months of payment 
holidays had to be offered. So instead Mr H was offered a 30 day hold on the account and a 
payment plan, which would impact his credit file. Mr H was adamant that his credit file 
couldnt be adversely affected by any arrangement  as that could cause him problems 
down the line. He also couldnt afford a reduced payment plan of any kind.
Mr H subsequently spoke to the regulator, and says he was told the guidance allowed for 
further payment holidays to be offered. He called EFL again a few days later, who 
maintained it wasnt prepared to offer further deferments. The agent also advised Mr H to 
free up funds to pay for the loan by transferring a balance from his credit card. Concerned by 
that advice, and EFLs refusal to grant another payment holiday, Mr H raised a complaint. 
While waiting for a response, Mr H noticed late payment markers had been reported to the 
Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs). Mr H was under the impression his credit file wouldnt 
be affected while EFL investigated, so he flagged this with the lender. EFL sent its final 
response in April, and said it had removed the adverse credit file information  even though 
it believed the account was technically in arrears. EFL also granted a further three-month 
payment holiday (from May to July 2021), in accordance with the FCAs tailored support 
guidance  adding that no arrears would be reported to the CRAs for six months (until 
October 2021). The response acknowledged that the advice Mr H had been given during the 
call, about taking funds from his credit card to make payments, had been unacceptable and 
EFL apologised for any distress caused.
Mr H wasnt happy with the response and so referred things to us for review. He told us he 
didnt think it was fair he would have to pay extra on top of his contractual monthly payments 
to make up the three months of arrears after the latest payment holiday finished. Mr H also 
said the advice to use his credit card, and seeing information had been reported to the CRAs 
when EFL had agreed not to, had caused him additional worry when he was already under 
pressure. He didnt feel the apology was enough, and thought compensation was due.   
An investigator here reviewed everything and didnt recommended EFL needed to do 
anything further to resolve the complaint. He sympathised with the financial difficulty Mr H 
had experienced as a result of the pandemic, but thought EFL had acted within the 
guidelines set out by the regulator. He also considered the apology sufficient for the other 
concerns. Mr H didnt agree with the investigators view, and so the complaint was passed to 
me for a final decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not directing EFL to do anything further in resolution of the complaint. I 
appreciate that will come as a disappointment to Mr H, who I know feels strongly about what 
happened. But I hope my rationale, which Ive set out below, is at least helpful in 
understanding how I reached this outcome. While Ive agreed things did go wrong, Ive 
decided that overall EFLs subsequent actions were enough to balance out the poor service. 
I also want to acknowledge that Ive described the circumstances above in my own words 
and in far less detail than has been provided to me. No discourtesy is meant by that, Ive just 
focussed on what I consider to be the key aspects of the timeline  and the crux of the 
complaint.
Ive listened to the call recordings, and Ive found that what Mr H was told over the phone in 
February 2021 was confusing. EFL were implying that the FCAs guidance didnt permit any 
further payment deferrals. Its true that the Payment Deferral Guidance allowed a maximum 
of six months in total  but the Tailored Support Guidance (which was applicable to Mr Hs 
position by February 2021) also gave payment deferrals as an option. 
The call in February 2021 was very difficult for both parties. Mr H was worried and upset  
and EFL has pointed out that the conversation was a challenging one for its agent. EFL was 
under pressure to get up to speed quickly with evolving guidance, in a very uncertain 
landscape. I also appreciate the FCAs Tailored Support Guidance was less prescriptive, so 
EFL was likely having to agree bespoke arrangements for a lot of its customers. But Mr H 
was also navigating his own very serious pressures, and was understandably frustrated by 
what he was being told  as the relevant guidance did allow EFL, if it was right for the 
circumstances, to approve another payment holiday. 
I also consider it ought to have been clear in February 2021 that a further payment deferral 
was the only viable option. The country was still in lockdown, and the roadmap to exiting 
restrictions hadnt yet been set out. Mr Hs circumstances hadnt changed either, meaning he 
couldnt resume instalments for reasons outside of his control  so a payment plan wasnt 
going to be possible. EFL did eventually offer another three-month deferral period as part of 
its response to the complaint  but by then Mr H had already spent the intervening period 
worrying about what might happen, when he was already in very precarious place financially. 
A point of contention during the conversation was the potential impact on Mr Hs credit file 
associated with the arrangements EFL offered. But the Tailored Support Guidance says that 
normal reporting should resume for arrangements granted under it. So, according to the 
Information Commissioners Office (ICO) guidance, for a payment deferral period that would 
mean reporting arrears on the account for any months loan instalments werent received. Reporting arrears (e.g. one month in arrears) would impact a customers credit score, and 
might look the same on a credit report as a missed payment (depending on the CRA). Mr H 
has said that a different lender recorded he was in an arrangement, and didnt report any 
adverse information  and while that may be the case, the guidance from the FCA allowed 
the reporting of arrears under any Tailored Support Guidance arrangements. 
Had things been properly explained during the call with EFL (i.e. we can agree a further 
deferral, but well report arrears on the account with the CRAs), I think the conversation 
wouldve been less frustrating for Mr H. But I still dont think he would have been happy to 
agree to something that would have adversely affected his credit score. I also understand 
why Mr H was unhappy with the advice to take money from his credit card  that was clearly 
not responsible practice from a lender, and wouldve been worrying to hear. But Mr H 
ultimately used that method to pay for his arrears in July 2021  and so benefitted from that, 
as he didnt have any other way to pay those arrears before the reporting started again. I 
know Mr H felt he had to pay back the arrears all at once, and that caused him some short-
term financial pressure. But I havent seen anything in EFLs communication that gave the 
impression that was needed. EFLs offer meant he could have gradually paid back any 
arrears until October 2021 before they would start being reported.
Up until February 2021, Mr H had been granted a total of nine months of deferrals  
meaning hed had an extra three months without there being any impact to his credit file 
(when the Tailored Support Guidance, applicable after the first six months of deferral, would 
have allowed EFL to start reporting arrears). Mr H also benefitted to an extent from raising a 
complaint  as no arrears ended up being reported for those two months. I do accept, 
though, this was after Mr H flagged with EFL the late payment markers on his credit file  
and there was some inconvenience associated with that. EFL then offered in its final 
response a three-month payment holiday taking things to July 2021, and said it wouldnt 
report any arrears for six months. So, the forbearance EFL agreed to during the pandemic 
went further than what the FCAs guidance said it had to do  and left Mr Hs credit file far 
clearer than it could have been. 
Ive thought carefully about what Mr H has said about the impact this situation had on him  
and I accept a very stressful time was acerbated by EFL. But I think some of the frustration 
arose from his disagreement with the idea that it was fair to report arrears, when government 
restrictions meant he was unable to pay his loan. Given that was in line with the FCAs 
guidance, its difficult for me to say EFL acted unfairly by advising arrangements would have 
to be reported.
Overall, I agree there was some poor customer service here  particularly not agreeing to a 
further deferment period straight away. I also acknowledge he had a worrying wait to find out 
EFLs answer on a way forward, and had to chase for the removal of late payment markers. 
In addition, I can understand why Mr H was upset by the advice on how to circumvent the 
rules around not using a credit card to make payments. While Im not in any way condoning 
that advice, I think the upset caused was balanced out to an extent by Mr H later employing 
it to pay his arrears and avoid adverse credit file information. EFL has also recognised its 
error and apologised. 
As the arrangements EFL did put in place went further than what the guidance required, and 
Mr H benefitted from a clear credit file position for a lot longer than he might have, I dont 
think compensation is due on top. So I find the apology is sufficient for the service concerns.My final decision
My final decision is I dont require The Enterprise Fund Limited to do anything further to 
settle Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2023.
 
Ryan Miles
Ombudsman