DRN-4461834
The complaint
Miss G complains about Monzo Bank Ltds handling of her flexible payments towards an 
outstanding debt. She said she was told she could make smaller payments, but this wasnt 
put in place by Monzo due to its lack of contact and action. 
What happened
Miss G complained to Monzo but said it twice failed to respond within the eight-week time 
limit and provided poor customer service and misleading information. Miss G said she has 
experienced long call wait times and unfulfilled promises of call backs from managers. And 
she said she had been misinformed with assurances that her flexible debt payment under 
the Breathing Space arrangement would not impact her credit score, which has proven not 
to be true.
The poor customer experience began for Miss G when she informed Monzo of her difficult 
financial situation and requested it reduce the amount she has to pay, and Monzo agreed. 
She wants to be compensated for the financial loss shes had and for the misleading 
information provided, and she wants Monzo to rectify her credit rating.
Miss G raised a second complaint, which Monzo responded to, but she was unhappy as 
Monzo didnt look into the calls recordings which showed the poor advice it provided to her. 
To settle her complaint, Miss G would like compensation for the distress caused and for 
Monzo to clear the negative information from her credit file.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld. He said Miss G approached 
Monzo for support to help clear the debt in smaller payments and was happy to set up a 
payment plan. But due to Monzos delays, she raised a complaint and Monzo told her it 
would put the account under Breathing Space arrangements while it looked into what 
happened and said the Breathing Space wouldnt affect her credit rating. 
The investigator said Miss G noticed her credit rating had been affected by the recording of 
missed payments and had she known this, she would have made at least the minimum 
payments. Monzo then automatically issued a default notice, forcing her to pay the full 
balance to avoid a default from being registered. He said Miss G had followed Monzos 
guidance and had done all she could to alert Monzo that action needed to be taken and she 
complied with any and all requests in a prompt manner.
The investigator said Miss G was caused considerable distress and unnecessary financial 
pressure. He recommended that Monzo issue an amendment to the credit reference 
agencies clearing all adverse information regarding late payments on Miss Gs account. And 
in respect of her distress and inconvenience it should pay her £250 compensation.
Miss G agreed with the investigator, but Monzo responded to say it had been unable to meet 
deadlines and requested an extension until 5 December 2023. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Monzo hasnt provided its file in response to Miss Gs complaint, and hasnt responded to 
our investigators view even though we have allowed the additional time it requested.
Miss G felt it was unreasonable of Monzo to issue a default when she was still waiting for it 
to process her request to pay back her debt in smaller instalments. She said she completed 
two income and expenditure forms, but Monzo didnt get back to her, and over time this led 
to the default process. 
I can understand that Miss G felt reassured her credit file wouldnt be affected by the 
temporary breathing space provided, and while Monzo looked into her complaint and set up 
a payment plan for her to pay the balance in smaller instalments. She received reassurance 
about this on calls with Monzo. I can see her frustration when the end result was that she 
faced a default being registered on her credit file. 
Miss G said she called Monzo several times and had long wait times to speak with an agent, 
only to be assured that everything with her account was alright. Miss G then received 
notifications about missed payments and on checking, Monzo confirmed it wouldnt affect 
her credit file. 
I think Miss G would have made the minimum payments to her debt had she known the 
likelihood of a default but was assured by Monzo that all was in order. However, when 
confronted with the prospective default notice, it was understandable that Miss G wanted to 
avoid the impact on her credit file of an adverse marker for six years by clearing the whole 
debt, even though this affected her finances. 
I can understand Miss Gs upset to receive a default notice in the post, when Monzo hadnt 
responded to her complaint. I agree with Miss G that it was reasonable for her to await the 
outcome of her complaint before proceeding with repayment options in a new plan as these 
were related issues. 
Miss G needed Monzos support at a difficult time but didnt receive it. Theres nothing from 
Monzo to suggest that anything other than the version of events from Miss G took place, and 
so I find this to be persuasive. In conclusion, I find that Monzos lack of action and failure to 
address Miss Gs difficult circumstances made her situation more stressful and problematic 
than it needed to be. 
Putting things right
I agree with the investigator that Monzo hasnt treated Miss G fairly and its poor 
communications and service have adversely affected her. I think that Monzo should correct 
Miss Gs credit file and pay her compensation for the impact its poor service has had upon 
her.
 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld. 
I require Monzo Bank Ltd to issue an amendment to the credit reference agencies clearing 
all adverse information regarding late payments on Miss Gs account. I also require Monzo 
Bank Ltd to pay Miss G £250 compensation for the long delay it caused in responding to her and the time she has spent pursuing Monzo for information, as well as the distress and 
inconvenience it caused by sending the default notice. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman