DRN-4448918
The complaint
Mr D complains about Marshmallow Insurance Limiteds (Marshmallow) handling of a claim 
he made under his motor insurance policy. 
Any references to Marshmallow include its agents.
What happened
In January 2023, Mr D was involved in a car accident. He made a claim to Marshmallow, and 
he understood arrangements would be made for repairs to be carried out and for a courtesy 
car to be provided. Over the next couple of weeks, Mr D says repairs would be promised and 
then cancelled at short notice, and the same thing happened with arranging the courtesy car. 
As he didnt have a car to drive, he had to use his mothers, and arranged insurance for this. 
Almost three weeks after the accident Mr D received a hire car, but the repairs hadnt been 
arranged. When the car was taken into the approved repairer, some two months after the 
accident, Mr D was told the car was to be written off. Marshmallow offered Mr D a settlement 
figure for the car, but he declined this and said it was too low. Mr D made a complaint. 
To put things right Mr D said he wanted Marshmallow to increase the settlement figure 
offered for the car, to fully compensate him for the additional costs he said hed incurred as a 
result of their poor handling of the claim and compensate him for the misleading information 
given. Marshmallow responded to Mr Ds complaint. It acknowledged the service provided 
could have been better and offered £75 compensation in respect of this. But it said the 
valuation for Mr Ds car was fair and in line with the policy terms, so wouldnt increase it. 
Mr D referred his concerns to us. We reviewed what happened and said Marshmallow 
should increase the amount offered in line with a higher valuation wed received from a 
motor trade guide. Our investigator said it was fair and in line with the policy terms to deduct 
the excess and remaining premium from the settlement. But she recommended 
Marshmallow increase the compensation offered to £250.
Marshmallow agreed to the investigators conclusions, but Mr D didnt. He reiterated his main 
concerns were the valuation figure, out of pocket expenses as hed not been able to remove 
items from his car and the compensation offered. So, this case has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Valuation & settlement figure
As a starting point, I think its helpful if I set out what the policy terms say about the market 
value of the car:
Market value: Market value: The cost to replace a vehicle with one of similar age, 
same make and model, mileage and condition at the time of the accident or loss. We 
decide this amount and will take into consideration factors such as a valid MOT, how 
the vehicle was purchased and whether it has been previously declared a total loss.
The policy specifically says itll consider the same make, model, mileage, and condition. Ive 
looked at the online adverts Mr D supplied as part of his suggestion Marshmallow needed to 
increase the settlement figure it offered him. However, I dont think these adverts 
represented a like for like comparison. As a starting point, the adverts were for five-door cars 
whereas Mr Ds car was a three-door car. There were also some differences in the mileage 
quoted as well. On the basis of the differences in terms of the model of the car and mileage, 
Im satisfied it was reasonable for Marshmallow to disregard these.
Ive reviewed the valuations provided by Marshmallow. It offered Mr D a figure of £9,556 for 
his car and said it based the valuation on an average of the following three motor trade 
guides:
Percayso (formerly Cazoo): £9,393
Glasss: £9,600
CAP: £9,675
This Service would typically consider four motor trade guides when deciding complaints 
about motor valuations. Marshmallow provided the three guides it used, and we obtained a 
fourth valuation from Autotrader, which came back at £10,491. Mr D also provided some 
valuations for his car from other motor trade guides. All of these guides broadly contained 
valuations within a similar range. However, in in with our published approach on motor 
valuations, we asked Marshmallow to pay the amount of the highest valuation obtained as 
theyd not been able to provide separate evidence to support the figure paid was fair. They 
agreed. We also reached out to Mr D to let him know about the intention to increase the offer 
but didnt receive a response from him.
To put things right, I require Marshmallow to pay the difference between the average 
valuation figure offered to Mr D and the Autotrader one  this amount is £935. I also require 
Marshmallow to pay 8% simple interest on this amount from the date the original valuation 
figure was paid until the date of settlement.
Ill turn now to the deductions made from the settlement figure. Its not unusual for an insurer 
to deduct a policy excess from a settlement figure, so I dont think the fact Marshmallow 
made this deduction was unreasonable. 
Mr D was unhappy there was also a further deduction made for an outstanding premium. But 
the policy terms allow for this. They say if the insured vehicle is a total loss and there isnt a 
replacement vehicle to insure (as was the case here) all outstanding premiums need to be 
paid. So, Im satisfied it was reasonable for these to be deducted from the settlement figure. 
Courtesy car and personal possessions
In response to the investigators conclusions, Mr D acknowledged his policy didnt guarantee 
him a courtesy car. So, while I can see Mr D was inconvenienced by having to make 
alternative arrangements as a result of being without his car or a courtesy car, I dont find 
Marshmallow acted unfairly by not providing one as soon as Mr D indicated hed need one.
In addition to this, I note Mr D had some items in the car he wasnt able to retrieve. He says 
Marshmallow didnt cover these as part of the claim but should have. However, Ive looked at 
the level of cover Mr D took out, and this didnt provide cover for personal possessions. 
While I can understand Mr Ds frustration, this wasnt something his policy provided cover for, so I dont think Marshmallow acted unfairly in declining to reimburse Mr D for the 
contents he says he lost. 
Overall claim handling
Its clear that at time during the claim, Mr D found the matter frustrating. Ive looked back at 
the correspondence exchanged with Marshmallow and I think it could have done more to 
communicate more effectively with Mr D. For example, it could have told him much sooner 
that his policy didnt provide cover for personal possessions in the car. This, along with the 
time it took to tell Mr D that Marshmallows representative was struggling to find a repairer 
that had capacity to carry out the repair. 
Im satisfied £250 represents a fair and reasonable payment caused by the frustration of 
having to contact Marshmallow for answers and updates it could have been more 
forthcoming in providing. Though I think its important to note it wouldnt have changed the 
overall situation for Mr D. Im not going to require Marshmallow to increase this payment 
beyond the total of £250 recommended by our investigator. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. To put things right, I require Marshmallow Insurance Limited to pay 
Mr D:
- £935  this being the difference between the average valuation figure and the highest 
valuation obtained.
- Pay 8% simple interest on the above amount from the date average valuation figure 
paid until date of settlement.
- A total compensation payment of £250, less anything already paid. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024. 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman