DRN-3635662
The complaint
Mrs T complains that J D Williams & Company Limited trading as Simply Be irresponsibly 
gave her a running account credit agreement she couldnt afford. 
What happened
In May 2019, Mrs T applied for a catalogue shopping account with Simply Be. She was given 
a running account credit agreement with an initial credit limit of £175. Between June and 
November 2019, Simply Be increased the credit limit five times until it reached £1,900. It 
then applied two further credit limit increases in June and July 2020 so that the limit reached 
£2,250. 
Mrs T complained to Simply Be in 2022. She said that it should never have given her access 
to credit. She said she hadnt been employed since 2011 and had Simply Be completed 
appropriate affordability checks it would have seen she had an outstanding CCJ for a debt 
on a previous Simply Be account and that she couldnt afford more borrowing. 
Simply Be said it had completed adequate affordability checks and these hadnt shown any 
concerns with affordability. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought the checks 
Simply Be completed when opening the account were reasonable and these didnt show any 
affordability concerns. He said that when Simply Be increased the credit limit to £600 in 
August 2019, it should have completed more thorough affordability checks. 
He said by October 2019, Mrs T was around £3,000 overdrawn in her current account and 
he said Simply Be ought to have done more to verify her income and expenditure at this 
stage. However, he didnt think this would have showed any affordability concerns. This was 
because the large overdraft was caused by Mrs T paying for an expensive holiday and when 
considering her income and expenditure, the lending would have appeared affordable to her.  
Mrs T didnt accept that outcome. She said that she had struggled to make payments and by 
giving her access to more credit, Simply Be had made her financial difficulties worse. 
The complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before lending to Mrs T, Simply Be were required to complete affordability checks to ensure 
the credit wasnt going to cause her financial difficulty. There isnt a set list of checks that 
had to be completed for each lending decision, Simply Be just had to ensure any checks it 
did complete were proportionate in the circumstances. Some of the things it needed to 
consider when deciding what would be proportionate included (but werent limited to): the 
amount of credit, the size of the repayments and Mrs Ts circumstances. 
Simply Be completed a credit check when it opened the account, this didnt show any 
defaults, CCJs or other adverse information such as payment difficulty on existing accounts. 
I therefore dont think it was unreasonable to give Mrs T an initial credit limit of £175. 
Mrs T says that she did have a CCJ relating to a previous Simply Be account she had taken 
out. She said the fact she defaulted on an account previously means she shouldnt have 
been given another one. However, the credit checks didnt show any CCJ, nor has Mrs T 
provided any evidence of one. She has shown us that a previous Simply Be account 
defaulted, but that was in 2011  eight years prior to taking out this account. Given the 
significant amount of time that had passed, I dont think this meant Simply Be shouldnt have 
given her a new account. 
The next two limit increases were relatively small and I havent seen anything from the credit 
checks Simply Be completed or from the way Mrs T managed the account to suggest that 
more thorough affordability checks were required. However, the third increase to £600 in 
August 2019 was a substantial one. Further, it seems that at this stage Mrs T had become 
significantly overdrawn in her current account which was likely to have been evident from the 
credit check Simply Be completed. I think these things ought to have prompted more 
thorough affordability checks. 
I think Simply Be ought to have asked Mrs T about her income and expenditure. I cant be 
sure what Mrs T would have disclosed. However, I think its reasonable for me to rely on the 
information contained in her bank statements as an indication of what Simply Be would most 
likely have found out. These show that Mrs Ts income was in excess of £3,000 each month. 
When taking into account her committed, essential expenditure for bills and other credit 
commitments, it appears she had more than enough disposable income to be able to afford 
a credit limit of £600. While Mrs T was almost £3,000 overdrawn in her current account at 
this time, this was due to her spending a significant amount of money on a holiday. So, I 
dont think there was anything to indicate Mrs T was likely to be in financial difficulty. In fact, 
it seemed that she had enough disposable income to repay her overdraft in a reasonable 
period of time. 
For the same reasons, I dont think more thorough affordability checks would have revealed 
any affordability concerns with the limit increases in September, October and 
November 2019. I dont therefore think Simply Be acted unfairly in increasing Mrs Ts credit 
limit at these times. 
There was a gap of around seven months until Simply Be increase the credit limit again. It 
did so in June 2020 and increased the limit to £2,000. At this point it seems Mrs T was no 
longer overdrawn in her current account, as she seems to have received a refund from the 
holiday company she paid. She appears to have used this refund to repay her overdraft as 
well as make substantial repayments towards other credit she had at the time, including this 
Simply Be account. 
So, although I think Simply Be should have completed more thorough affordability checks 
than they did, I dont think any additional checks would have revealed any affordability 
concerns at that time. This is because it seems Mrs Ts financial position had dramatically 
improved that month and when considering her income and committed expenditure, she 
appeared to have more than enough disposable income to make sustainable and affordable 
repayments towards a credit limit of £2,000. When the limit was increased for a final time the 
following month to £2,250, for the same reasons I havent seen anything to demonstrate that 
Simply Be would reasonably have seen that the further increase was unaffordable.
I havent seen anything else in the way Mrs T has managed her account that would suggest 
that Simply Be ought to have realised Mrs T was in financial difficulty and therefore acted differently. I note Mrs T has now informed Simply Be of her difficulty in repaying and I remind 
Simply Be of its obligation to ensure it treats her fairly in relation to the outstanding balance. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman