DRN-2434597
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy with Aviva Insurance Limiteds (Aviva) decision to decline their 
claim under their travel insurance. Mr and Mrs B feel Aviva should reimburse the full cost of 
their return journey. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs B took out travel insurance with Aviva for a trip abroad. Their return flight to the 
UK was cancelled due to storm conditions. The next available flight wasnt until a few days 
later so they paid a total of £496 for alternative transport as they needed to return to the UK 
sooner. Mr and Mrs B then made a claim on the policy for full reimbursement of the return 
travel costs but this was declined by Aviva who paid £50 for the delay Mr and Mrs B incurred 
in travelling back to the UK.   
Mr and Mrs B complained to Aviva who said the claim wasnt covered under the policy and 
the payment for the alternative transport isnt covered under any of the terms and conditions. 
They didnt uphold the complaint.     
Our investigator looked into things for Mr and Mrs B. He thought Aviva hadnt acted unfairly 
in declining the claim. Mr and Mrs B disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr and Mrs B will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
Travel insurance policies do not cover every eventuality. Insurers are allowed to decide what 
risks they are prepared to cover. The policy documents form part of the insurance contract 
and sets out what is and isnt covered. So, my starting point is Mr and Mrs Bs travel 
insurance policy document. This sets out the terms and conditions and says, under the 
heading Delayed Departure after Check-in, Cover under this section only applies for your 
outward international journey from the UK and for your final international return journey to 
the UK. Mr and Mrs Bs return journey was cancelled so Ive looked further into this section. 
The terms and conditions go on further to say, 
If the scheduled departure of the ship, aircraft or train on which you are booked to travel is 
delayed at the point of international departure, we will pay you either:
1. the benefit shown on your policy schedule for each full 12 hour period that the ship, 
aircraft or train is delayed; or
2.up to the limits shown on your policy schedulefor your own unused personal travel 
and accommodation costs which you have paid or legally have to pay but cannot get 
back if the delay lasts for more than 24 hours on your outward journey from the UK, 
and you choose to abandon your trip.
I can see Aviva have relied on point 2 of this section to support their decision to decline the 
claim. They say, a claim under point 2 is limited to an outbound journey. And, this doesnt 
apply to Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances as the cancellation was to the return flight. Mr and 
Mrs B say this section doesnt apply to their circumstances as it refers to delays rather than 
cancellations. They also refer to the policy saying If your flight is delayed for 24 hours or 
cancelled by the airline you can claim for abandonment of your trip.
At the start of the Delayed Departure after Check-in section, it does say it applies to return 
journeys. However, point 2 of this section does specify that any claim, under this particular 
point, is limited to outward journeys. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for Aviva to decline 
the claim as this related to a return journey. Ive also looked at Mr and Mrs Bs point about 
the policy wording which refers to abandoning a trip if a flight is cancelled. Whats important 
here is that the wording refers to making a claim for abandoning a trip. So, Ive looked to see 
whether this is a claim which was available to Mr and Mrs B. The terms and conditions 
contain a section headed Abandoning your holiday which says, If you have to unavoidably 
abandon your trip and return home early we will pay up to the limits shown on your policy 
schedule foradditional travel costs (if you cannot use your return ticket). This section 
does allow a claim to be made for additional travel costs, which is what Mr and Mrs B 
incurred. But, the policy defines abandonment as: 
Returning to the UK before your scheduled return date (including being transported 
back to a UK hospital by us) or being an in-patient in hospital for more than 24 hours 
during your trip    
That hasnt been the case here so Mr and Mrs B dont meet the policys definition of having 
abandoned their trip. Although theres no dispute Mr and Mrs Bs return flight was cancelled, 
this didnt lead to them returning to the UK before their scheduled return date. Additionally, 
the terms and conditions set out a range of situations which would lead to Aviva paying a 
claim for abandonment, but the circumstances in this case dont fall into any of those 
covered. So, the policy wording Mr and Mrs B have referred to doesnt make them eligible to 
make a claim for abandonment. 
Ive looked at other areas of the policy to see whether Mr and Mrs Bs return journey costs 
might be covered under a different type of claim. The policy provides cover for cancellation 
but this relates to a policyholder cancelling their trip before leaving home. This also refers to 
a range of situations which would lead to Aviva paying a claim for cancellation but Mr and 
Mrs Bs circumstances dont fall into any of those covered. The policy also covers claims for 
missed international departures but this relates to circumstances where a policyholder 
arrives too late to the airport and is then unable to check in or board their flight. That hasnt 
been the case here. 
As far as any other claims go which are relevant to Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances, there is a 
claim for delayed departure. This is the claim which Aviva did meet and, in line with the 
policy, paid £50. Ive seen the policy schedule which says Aviva will pay £25 for each 12 
hour period of delay. Mr and Mrs B were delayed by 17 hours so Aviva paid them £25 each. 
And, I think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.    
I do understand Mr and Mrs Bs frustration at not being covered for everything by their 
insurance. When their return flight was cancelled, they had to arrange alternative transport - 
which I imagine would have been stressful. I can appreciate their disappointment when they learned their additional travel costs werent covered by their insurance. However, I have 
looked to see whether Aviva have acted in line with the policy when dealing with Mr and Mrs 
Bs claim. And, having carefully reviewed the terms and conditions, I think they have. I 
understand Mr and Mrs B feel the policy wording wasnt clear. But, I think the policy wording 
was clear on this and that the circumstances described by Mr and Mrs B wouldnt be 
covered.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 January 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman