DRN-2612758
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Santander UK plc mis-sold a payment protection insurance
(PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out by Mrs S in 2001, in connection with a
mortgage. The policy provided Mrs S with cover for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators
opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ss case.
It seems to me that the relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as those
set out on our website. And the main questions I need to consider are:
- If Santander gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it
recommended was suitable for Mrs Ss needs?
- Did Santander give Mrs S the information she needed to decide whether to
take out the policy?
If there was a problem with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider whether
Mrs S is worse off as a result. That is, would she have done something different  such as 
not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
I have decided not to uphold Mrs Ss complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mrs S says the PPI wasnt mentioned when she took out her mortgage, and that she 
wouldnt have agreed to buy it if it had been offered. Ive noted everything Mrs S has said.
Santander hasnt been able to provide much information from the time the policy was sold. 
Thats not surprising given the amount of time thats passed, and its similar to some other 
cases Ive seen.
The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between Mrs S and 
Santander when the policy was sold. Im also mindful that these events took place many 
years ago, and that exact recollections of what happened can fade over time.
Without anything else to support what Mrs S has told me, I dont think I can fairly and 
reasonably say that Santander didnt make her aware that the policy was optional.
Santander has accepted that it advised Mrs S to take out the policy and it doesnt look like it
was unsuitable for her based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. I say this
because:
- Mrs S was eligible for the policy given her circumstances and the PPI terms
and conditions.
- Mrs S says she would have received some work-related benefits if she couldnt
work due to sickness or accident. But the policy would have paid out in addition to 
Mrs Ss occupational benefits and would do so, it seems, for longer. Having the 
policy in place would mean Mrs S could use her work-related benefits to pay for other 
expenses. So I think Mrs S would have had some use for the policy despite her 
existing arrangements.
- Mrs S wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits,
such as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical
conditions. As she could have benefited from the full extent of the cover I think it
unlikely she needed better advice or information about the policys exclusions and
limitations.
- I cant be sure that the cost of the PPI was made clear to Mrs S before she agreed
to buy it. But she agreed to buy the policy knowing she would have to pay
something for it. And Ive seen nothing to suggest it was unaffordable or that the
benefit wasnt enough to cover her monthly mortgage repayments.
Its possible the information Santander gave Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it
should have been. But she chose to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted this
type of cover. As Ive already said, Mrs S wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or
limitations and the policy seems to have been affordable. So I think it unlikely Mrs S
would have made a different decision if better information had been provided  overall, I
think she would still have taken out the policy.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman