DRN-3089023
The complaint
Mrs R is unhappy that Santander UK Plc has not reimbursed a payment she made from her 
account.
Whats happened?
In March 2019, Mrs R invested £20,000 (the payment) in a company which Ill refer to as S 
throughout this decision. She says she came across S when searching for investment 
opportunities online, and she attended an event S hosted at a well-known hotel chain. She 
was given some literature and told that S had appeared on the BBC. She didnt invest in S 
immediately, she waited around a year. And before deciding to go ahead, she asked S 
questions about the investment opportunity and spoke to a current investor.
Mrs R says that soon after she made the payment, she had cause to believe that S may be 
operating a scam. So, she contacted Santander in early April 2019 to ask for its assistance 
in recovering her funds. She was told that S was a genuine company that held a business 
account with Santander, and she had nothing to worry about. On this basis, she did not 
pursue the matter further until she came across further evidence that S was operating a 
scam a few months later. She contacted Santander again and, in late 2019, it told her that it 
had not been able to recover her funds.
Mrs R believes that Santander caused her loss and she wants it to reimburse her. She says 
that:
Santander has not complied with the Lending Standards Boards Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM Code), and it could have prevented the scam from 
occurring if it had done so.
Santander should have identified that the payment was unusual or out of character 
and contacted her to discuss it further. Had it done so, she wouldve thought twice 
about investing, she wouldnt have made the payment that day and she wouldve 
carried out further checks.
If Santander had not misinformed her that she had nothing to worry about in April 
2019, the matter could have been dealt with a lot sooner and her funds may have 
been recovered.
Santander declined to reimburse Mrs R. In summary, it said that it acted in accordance with 
Mrs Rs instructions when it processed the payment, there was no reason for it to intervene 
with the payment, and it doesnt agree that it couldve done more to recover her funds.
It also said that S is a large company, and Companies House (CH) confirms it is still 
trading. It is not a scam company, although some investors may not have received the 
investment returns they expected due to the effects of the pandemic.
What did our investigator say?
Our investigator did not uphold Mrs Rs complaint. In summary, he said:
the payment pre-dates the CRM Code.
S does not appear to be a scam company.
even if Santander had intervened with the payment, its likely it wouldve gone 
through.
Santander could not have done more to recover Mrs Rs funds.
Mrs R didnt agree with our investigators findings and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
She said that Santander intervened with another transaction she authorised, and this led her 
to make further checks. She would have done the same with the payment.
The complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander has signed up to the CRM Code, but it wasnt in force when Mrs R made the 
payment. So, it doesnt apply in this case.
Its common ground that Mrs R authorised the payment in line with the Payment Services 
Regulations. Santander had an obligation to follow Mrs Rs payment instructions, and Mrs R 
is presumed liable for her loss in the first instance. But thats not the end of the story.
Taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I think that Santander 
should:
Have been monitoring accounts and payments made or received to counter various 
risks, including fraud and scams, money laundering and the financing of terrorism.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps or made additional checks before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect its customers from the 
possibility of financial harm.Ive looked at Mrs Rs account activity in the months leading up to the payment. The 
payment was by far the highest value transaction Mrs R had made in months and, 
considering the value of the payment and that it was going to a new payee, I think it stands 
out as unusual and out of character. So, its reasonable to expect Santander to have asked 
Mrs R some questions about the payment.
Ive gone on to consider whether an intervention from Santander is likely to have made a 
difference and stopped Mrs R from going ahead with the payment, and I dont think it would. 
Ill explain why.
In the circumstances, I wouldve expected Santander to have asked Mrs R some questions 
about the payment, and taken some additional steps, in order to satisfy itself that she was 
not at risk of financial harm. I wouldnt have expected Santander to be taking steps to satisfy 
itself that Mrs R was entering into a good investment, but I would have expected it to have 
taken steps to satisfy itself that she wasnt sending money to a scam company.
Mrs R has said that she attended an event hosted by S in a well-known hotel chain and 
considered the investment opportunity for a long time before deciding to go ahead  she did 
her research on S and spoke with a current investor in that time. She received some 
literature from S and she was told that S had appeared on the BBC. These are things she 
would likely have told Santander if it had asked her some probing questions about who she 
was paying and what for. In general, investment scams do not operate in this way  it is not 
usual for a fraudster to host events in order to meet their victims, or for them to meet their 
victims in person, appear on the BBC or allow their victims many months to consider 
investing with them. So, I dont think the answers Mrs R would likely have given Santander 
about the payment wouldve suggested she may be at risk of financial harm.
Ive checked CH and I can see that S is active and has been for several years. And S holds 
its business account with Santander. So, on the face of it, there wouldve been nothing to 
suggest that S was a scam company if Santander had done some checks on it.
Overall, I dont think it would have been reasonably obvious to Santander, from the 
information it would most likely have gathered from an intervention, that S was a scam 
company or that it was out to defraud Mrs R, if that is in fact what S intended. So, I cant 
reasonably say that it shouldnt have processed the payment, or that it should reimburse the 
payment on the basis that it failed to take action which would most likely have prevented it 
from being made.
I appreciate that Mrs R has said that an intervention from Santander wouldve made her 
think twice about making the payment, and she wouldve gone away and done some more 
checks on S. But given that I think its unlikely an intervention from Santander would have 
caused it concern, I dont think its reasonable to expect it to have advised her not to make 
the payment without carrying out further checks. And, as Mrs R has said she had been 
researching S and deciding whether to invest with it for some time, Im not persuaded that 
she wouldve felt the need to do more in absence of such advice from Santander, at that 
time.
Finally, Ive thought about whether Santander could have done more to recover Mrs Rs 
funds after she made the payment. But from the evidence Ive seen, Im not satisfied that it 
could have done more by the time she contacted it in early April 2019.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2022.
 
Kyley Hanson
Ombudsman