DRN-2411556
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Vanquis Bank Limited (Vanquis) didnt tell him about a remaining debt 
on his credit card account which it reported to credit reference agencies.
What happened
Several years ago, Mr S entered into a debt management plan through an external 
organisation (Agency A) to pay an outstanding balance on his Vanquis credit card account. 
As part of setting this up, Vanquis provided Agency A with information on the outstanding 
debt. Mr A made his payments to Vanquis through Agency A.
In 2020, Mr S confirmed with Agency A that he had paid off his debt. However, Vanquis then 
contacted Mr S to say there was still an outstanding debt. As Mr S had now missed some 
payments, Vanquis reported these to credit reference agencies.
Mr S complained to Vanquis. When Vanquis replied it said it was satisfied that Mr S was 
aware for some time that Agency A held a lower balance than Vanquis. This was because 
Mr S had previously raised a complaint about this, which Vanquis had responded to. Mr S 
had also spoken to Vanquis on the phone about the debt. Vanquis said it was required to 
provide factual updates to credit reference agencies. However, as Vanquis provided 
incorrect information during a phone call about whether Mr Ss debt had been sold, it offered 
him £25 compensation.
Mr S complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said he 
thought it was more likely than not that Mr S was aware of the additional balance that was 
payable and that it was reasonable for Vanquis to have reported the missed payments to 
credit reference agencies.
As Mr S did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, although Im aware this will disappoint Mr S, I dont uphold this complaint. I 
will explain why.
In November 2018, Mr S contacted Vanquis to say that he had received a statement from 
Vanquis that had a higher balance than that held by Agency A. Mr S provided the two 
balances. I listened to that phone call to confirm what was discussed. On that basis, Im 
satisfied that Mr S was aware that Vanquis had a higher balance than Agency A and that he 
knew what that amount was.
Mr S then complained to Vanquis. Vanquis replied to the complaint and explained that it had 
received two direct debit indemnities about 18 months after Mr S entered into the debt 
management plan. These totalled about £400. As a result, this amount was added to Mr Ss 
Vanquis account and caused the balance to increase. Vanquis confirmed the outstanding 
balance and said this would need to be cleared in full before the account could be closed. It 
advised Mr S to contact his bank if he had any queries about the direct debit indemnity.
Mr S said he didnt receive Vanquis response to his 2018 complaint. Ive looked at the 
address on Vanquis letter. Based on the records Ive seen, this was sent to the correct 
address. Vanquis also provided a screenshot that showed the record from its system of 
when it had been sent. So, I think it is more likely than not that Vanquis sent the letter. 
However, once it entered the postal system, Vanquis wasnt responsible for its delivery, so it 
cant be held responsible for whether it arrived or not.
When Mr S complained in November 2018, he still had over a year left on his debt 
management plan. So given he was aware that there was a difference in the balances held 
by Vanquis and Agency A, I think that Mr S had the opportunity to follow up with Vanquis if 
he didnt receive the reply or was uncertain about how much of his debt was still outstanding. 
However, I dont think that Vanquis had any reason to think Mr S was unaware of the 
amount he still had to pay or that he hadnt received a reply to his complaint. Vanquis also 
didnt have a duty to contact Agency A to update the balance it held. It was for Mr S, in 
discussion with Agency A, to ensure that his debt management plan covered all of the 
outstanding debt. 
Vanquis did, however, have a duty to provide information to credit reference agencies about 
Mr Ss account. So it was appropriate for Vanquis to provide them with information about the 
missed payments.
So, thinking about all of the above, Im satisfied that Vanquis told Mr S about the amount that 
he owed and that it was reasonable for it to report the missed payments to credit reference 
agencies. I dont uphold this complaint or require Vanquis to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman