DRN-3436307
The complaint
Mr A complains that Freetrade Limited didnt allow him to take the share alternative following 
an enhanced scrip dividend announcement. He wants compensation for the loss hes made 
in not being able to take the shares.
What happened
Mr A has an execution only dealing account with Freetrade and has a holding of ordinary 
shares in a company which I will refer to as H. On 11 November 2020, H announced an 
enhanced scrip dividend. Mr A contacted Freetrade because he wanted to elect to take the 
scrip alternative.
Freetrade told him it wasnt currently set up to allow dividends to be paid out as scrip, and 
that this was set out in its terms and conditions.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She concluded that 
Mr A had waived his right to exercise any corporate actions and that Freetrade was able to 
act as it saw fit.
Mr A didnt agree so the complaint was passed to me to consider. 
My provisional decision
I was minded to uphold the complaint and I explained why. I said:
H announced an enhanced scrip dividend. Freetrades terms and conditions say 
(24.1):
You hereby: (i) acknowledge and agree that we will have no duty to inform you of 
any corporate actions related to any Securities that are beneficially owned by you 
through our Services, even if we become aware thereof, (ii) irrevocably waive your 
right to exercise any corporate actions that may be exercised by the holder of the 
Securities that you beneficially own through our Service, and (iii) agree that the 
Custodian may in its discretion act on those corporate actions as it sees fit (which 
may include not to take any action at all).
I dont find there was any obligation under the agreed terms for Freetrade to tell Mr A 
about the enhanced scrip dividend, or to seek his instructions. It was for Freetrade to 
decide whether to take the dividend in cash or scrip.
But whilst I find Freetrade acted in line with the agreed terms and conditions, I need 
to think about whether Freetrade treated Mr A fairly in the circumstances here. 
Particularly, taking into account FCA rules which say a business shouldnt seek to 
exclude or restrict its regulatory obligations to comply with its clients best interests.
The scrip alternative announced by H was a particularly attractive option, being worth 
ten times more than the cash dividend. And, whilst the terms and conditions allow 
Freetrade to act in its discretion, I think Mr A would reasonably expect it to act in his 
best interests. And it was clear from Mr As phone call with Freetrade on 
23 November 2020 that Mr A was keen to take the scrip alternative because it was 
worth so much more to him.
Freetrade says it is not currently operationally set up to allow it to take scrip 
dividends. As noted earlier, I cant comment on how Freetrade operates. But I note 
that Freetrades terms do not state that it is not able to execute certain actions like 
receiving dividends in shares. If the terms had explained this, Mr A may have chosen 
to use a different broker. And, considering all the circumstances here, I think 
Freetrade should compensate Mr A for the loss he made in not taking the scrip 
alternative for him, reflecting its duty to act in accordance with the best interests of its 
client.
And I set out what I thought Freetrade needed to do to put things right. I said:
I would expect Freetrade to put Mr A in the position he would have been in if it had 
taken the scrip dividend on his behalf. I understand Mr A has already bought the 
equivalent number of shares in the market because he did not want his shareholding 
diluted. I think Freetrade needs to reimburse Mr A for the cost of the shares he 
bought, less the cash dividend he received.
Mr A wouldnt have had to use his own money to buy the shares if Freetrade had 
taken the enhanced scrip dividend. So I think Freetrade should pay simple interest on 
this sum at the rate of 8% per year from the date Mr A purchased the shares, to the 
date it reimburses him.
The failure to act in Mr As best interests has caused him some distress and 
inconvenience. I think its fair Freetrade should pay him £100 to compensate him for 
this inconvenience.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr A wanted to highlight that he never spoke to Freetrade on the phone. All communication 
was via its chat app and email. And he updated us that he sold his holding of H shares in 
October 2021.
Freetrade responded in some detail to explain why it didnt agree with my provisional 
decision. It said, in summary, that:
Its conflicting to say that Freetrade acted in line with its terms and conditions, but then to 
say it didnt make the terms explicit enough.
Its terms cover corporate actions as a whole. Mr A would have been aware from the 
terms that he wouldnt be able to exercise any options which he might be provided with.
Freetrade couldnt assume that taking the scrip dividend would have been acceptable to 
all its customers. And Mr A was aware from the outset that Freetrade wouldnt be able to 
take the scrip on his behalf. So saying it didnt act in Mr As best interests isnt justified.
If the need to give instructions on corporate actions was of particular priority or concern 
for Mr A, he should have checked the terms and conditions to check if it was something 
Freetrade could facilitate.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank Mr A for updating me and for correctly my understanding about how hed 
communicated with Freetrade.
Ive carefully considered what Freetrade has said in response to my provisional decision. 
Having done so, it hasnt made a difference to my conclusion for the following reasons:
I accept Mr A had waived his right to give instructions on any corporate actions. Although 
I wouldnt necessarily have expected him to read every detail of the terms before he decided 
to open an account with Freetrade, and I havent seen evidence to show that this term was 
highlighted or brought to his attention. 
After waiving his right, he agreed that the Custodian may in its discretion act on those 
corporate actions as it sees fit. In acting as it sees fit, I would expect Freetrade to be 
mindful of the Financial Conduct Authoritys principle of customer interests which requires 
Freetrade to pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly. 
Freetrade has explained that it needed to consider the interests of all of its customers. And 
that it couldnt assume all of its customers would want to take the scrip option. But I need to 
decide what Freetrade should fairly and reasonably have done for Mr A. In the case of H 
shares, the scrip dividend was worth ten times more than the cash alternative. In the 
particular circumstances here, I dont find it was in Mr As interests to take the cash dividend.
I want to be clear that my decision does not mean that Freetrade needs to seek Mr As 
instructions for corporate actions in the future. I have decided on what it should have done in 
response to this particular scrip dividend. As Freetrade has pointed out, if its of particular 
importance to Mr A to be able to give instructions about corporate actions, he should be 
aware that he has waived his rights to do so by accepting Freetrades terms and conditions.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Freetrade Limited should:
1. Put Mr A in the position he would have been in if it had taken the scrip dividend on his 
behalf. Mr A bought the equivalent number of shares in the market because he did not 
want his shareholding diluted. Freetrade should reimburse Mr A for the cost of the 
shares he bought, less the cash dividend he received.
2. Mr A wouldnt have had to use his own money to buy the shares if Freetrade had taken 
the enhanced scrip dividend. So I think Freetrade should pay simple interest on this sum 
at the rate of 8% per year from the date Mr A purchased the shares, to the date he sold 
the shares.
3. Pay Mr A £100 to compensate him for the inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman