DRN-3920914
The complaint
Mr W complains about how Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) responded to a 
dispute he raised over a payment.
What happened
Mr W holds a bank account with Halifax. He had a dispute with another business over a 
payment he had made to it from his Halifax account. During this dispute, he asked Halifax to 
use the chargeback process to refund the payment to him.
Halifax says that it sent Mr W a text message on 4 May 2022 in relation to this request, 
asking for further information about it in relation to the other businesss cancellation policy. 
Mr W says that he never received this text. Halifax says that the additional information was 
never received and so the request could not be processed. It says that it emailed Mr W on 
18 May 2022, denying the refund request, for this reason.
That email asked that Mr W contact the bank through an email address. Mr W was 
concerned by this, as the branding on it wasnt Halifax. He says that this made him think it 
might be a scam email. 
On 1 June 2022, Halifax sent Mr W an encrypted email, and then- at his request- an 
unencrypted email, setting out how to proceed with his payment dispute with the other 
business. Mr W says that, by this stage, the underlying dispute had been resolved as he had 
been refunded by the other business.
Mr W says that he was invited to log in to a portal with the other named business, rather than 
Halifax in order to pursue his dispute. He says that this was inappropriate and unnecessary. 
He says that the information could have been exchanged through his usual online banking 
inbox. He says that he was never warned that this process would be followed. 
Halifax says that Mr Ws online banking inbox does not provide for replies, which are 
necessary in ongoing payment disputes. It agrees that Mr W received no warning about the 
process or the branding on it, but says that all the brands are all part of the same banking 
group, Lloyds Banking Group, which follow the same process.
Our investigator thought that Halifax had acted reasonably toward Mr W here. They did not 
think that it needed to do anything to put things right.
Mr W did not agree and so this has come to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Halifaxs records show that a text message was sent on 4 May 2022, requesting specific 
information in relation to the chargeback and giving a reference to use when contacting it. 
This message was shown as delivered at 8:39am on the same day, and I can see that the 
mobile number listed is the same one that Mr W has provided to this service in the course of 
this complaint. While I believe Mr W when he says that he did not see this message, I am 
also satisfied that it was more likely than not sent. The bank could not control whether or not 
the message was received or read.
The email of 18 May 2022 refused the chargeback request. The additional information being 
requested in the text message wasnt unreasonable in order for the bank to consider the 
chargeback, as it would have set out the cancellation policy of the other business. In fact, 
that other business did process the cancellation and no chargeback was necessary.  But the 
cancellation policy information which had been reasonably requested was never received by 
the bank. So I am satisfied that the bank acted reasonably in denying the request at that 
stage. And it asked Mr W to send any additional information he wanted the bank to consider, 
which I think was reasonable.
The branding on this email, and subsequent communication, was not that of Halifax as Mr W 
would have expected. I have considered the terms and conditions of Mr Ws account, which 
state, at section A:
we use us in this agreement to mean Bank of Scotland plc;
Halifax is a part of Bank of Scotland; and 
Lloyds Banking Group includes us and other companiesHalifax and Bank of Scotland 
brands.
So, while Mr W had not expected the branding to be used interchangeably, I am satisfied 
that this was provided for by the terms and conditions of his account. He had been told in the 
terms that these named groups were all part of his agreement. While he was reasonably 
concerned about the possibility of a scam, this could have been addressed by contacting the 
bank directly, and his fears could have been immediately addressed.
Halifax explains that online banking inboxes do not allow for customer replies, and so are not 
suited to the back and forth which is involved in disputes. Replies and accompanying 
documentation are an integral part of considering such matters and so using a standalone 
portal isnt an unreasonable way of doing this. 
Any losses caused by the underlying chargeback request were dealt with when the other 
business refunded the money to Mr W. While I can understand Mr Ws concerns about the 
branding which was used at various points in his dealings with Halifax, I do not think that the 
bank was acting unreasonably or unfairly toward him by using other of its brand names. So I 
am not going to ask Halifax to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 
Marc Kelly
Ombudsman