DRN-2087361
The complaint
Miss A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC applied a fixed rate to her mortgage which 
she hadnt agreed to. She moved to another lender and incurred and early repayment 
charge (ERC). To put things right she wants Barclays to refund the ERC.
What happened
Miss A had a mortgage with Barclays which was due to reach the end of its term in 2020. In 
February 2020 as she wanted to extend it by ten years and change the rate. She spoke with 
a mortgage broker. The broker recommended another lender (who Ill refer to as S) and 
submitted an application on behalf of Miss A. But he recommended she spoke with Barclays 
to see if it could offer anything similar. Miss A spoke with Barclays in March and signed a 
declaration on 13 March. Miss A says she believed she believed she was signing the 
declaration in order to get a comparison. She says at this stage she didnt think she was 
agreeing to take the extension or a new mortgage rate. Barclays however says that this 
declaration was Miss A agreeing to proceed with both the mortgage rate change and 
extension.
Miss A says she didnt hear anything from Barclays so decided to proceed with the mortgage 
with S. However, on 18 March Barclays applied a new rate to her mortgage and extended 
the term. A few days later the mortgage with S completed. Barclays charged the ERC of 
around £6,900 which applied to the new rate. Because this wasnt paid, Barclays refused to 
release the charge it held on her property. This caused problems with S as she was now in 
breach of the terms of her new mortgage. Miss A said she hadnt heard anything from 
Barclays regarding the rate switch and extension so had assumed nothing had been done.
Miss A complained to Barclays about this saying shed only asked for a quote and hadnt 
agreed to proceed with the extension and new rate and that her solicitors hadnt told her 
about an ERC. Barclays said shed signed a declaration agreeing to the new rate and the 
ERC. It said her solicitors had requested the redemption statement before the new rate was 
applied to her account which is why the ERC wasnt detailed on the redemption statement. 
Unhappy with Barclays response, Miss A referred the complaint to us where one of our 
investigators looked into it. Miss A maintained she had never formally accepted the new 
mortgage offer from Barclays. Initially, our investigator was satisfied that it was clear Miss A 
was making a full application for a new mortgage rather than just applying for a quote. 
However, upon further review he thought Barclays had failed to make it clear that Miss A 
would be bound by the offer just by submitting an application. He recommended that 
Barclays refund the ERC with 8% interest.
Miss A accepted this but Barclays didnt. It maintained that the declaration shed signed was 
clear and she should be bound by the terms of the offer which included the ERC. Barclays 
asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. So its been passed to me to 
consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays main reason for believing the complaint shouldnt be upheld is that it thinks Miss A 
was aware that she was applying for a new mortgage rate. Having looked at the documents 
Miss A was provided with and signed, Im satisfied that she did make a full mortgage 
application as Barclays says. Whilst Miss A says she thought she was just applying for a 
quote, I think it shouldve been clear that she was submitting an application rather than just 
simply asking for a quote to be provided. Especially as she was provided with an illustration 
prior to making the application. But I dont think that is the key issue here. Miss A says she 
hadnt heard anything from Barclays so chose to proceed with the mortgage with S. So, what 
I need to consider is whether Miss A shouldve been aware that following this application, the 
mortgage would automatically and immediately complete without further input from her and 
that it had already completed.
In the case of a standard rate switch, I would expect Barclays to apply it once a consumer 
had agreed and signed the declaration. However, this wasnt a normal rate switch 
application. Miss A wasnt just applying for a new mortgage rate to be applied to her 
account. She was also asking for the term to be extended by ten years. So, this is different 
to a standard rate change as further underwriting would need to be carried out to ensure the 
extension was affordable. And based on this, I would expect an offer to be sent to Miss A 
and for her to be able to review it before agreeing for it to be implemented.
Barclays is relying on Miss A signing the mortgage declaration. Point 18 of this document 
says that Miss A will agree to be bound by the terms in the mortgage offer. At the time of 
signing this declaration, shed been provided with an illustration, but not the offer. Whilst this 
does make it clear that Miss A is agreeing to be bound by any mortgage offer issued, I dont 
think that by signing this, Miss A has agreed to proceed on an offer which she hasnt yet 
received. So, I understand why Miss A didnt realise the new rate was going to be applied 
without further interaction from her. 
The offer was issued on 18 March and it seems that the rate switch and extension 
completed on the same day. Given that this was posted, Miss A wasnt able to review the 
document or decide whether she wanted to proceed or not. Ive noted that Barclays says she 
wouldve been able to access the document online. But Ive not seen anywhere that Barclays 
had let her know this was now available. And its clear from Miss As testimony, text 
messages between her and the mortgage advisor, and Barclays complaint notes that shed 
had problems with both getting in touch with Barclays and accessing the online documents 
previously.
Ive also thought about what Miss A was told by the mortgage advisor. I know we dont have 
a record of the mortgage meeting. However, based on Miss As actions, I think its more 
likely than not that she wasnt told that the mortgage would automatically complete 
immediately following it being agreed. I say this as, if she did, I dont think she would have 
agreed to proceed with the mortgage with S as she wouldve known she had a large ERC. 
The mortgage with S had a higher rate of interest, and was not financially beneficial to Miss 
A. She says she proceeded as she hadnt heard anything from Barclays and the term of her 
mortgage was coming to an end shortly. I think this is a reasonable explanation, and based 
on the available evidence, I think this is most likely what happened.
Barclays says a likely explanation is that she forgot to cancel the mortgage application with 
S. But I dont agree. Ive seen emails between Miss A and her solicitor in which she pauses 
the application in February, and then on 18 March she asks for the mortgage to continue and 
complete. She would unlikely have done so had Barclays made her aware the new mortgage 
would and had completed automatically.In summary, whilst Im satisfied that Miss A did make a full application, I dont think she was 
made aware that if the application was successful it would automatically complete 
immediately. Had she been, I dont think she wouldve proceeded with the remortgage to S.
Putting things right
Barclays should refund the ERC to Miss A together with 8% simple interest from the date 
she paid it to the day it makes the payment to her.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and require Barclays Bank UK PLC to 
put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 January 2021.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman