DRN-3004665
The complaint
Miss M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC failed to make reasonable adjustments and 
failed to protect her interests when an application was made to add her former partner to her 
mortgage. This complaint is brought by Miss Ms father on her behalf.
What happened
Miss M had a mortgage with another lender. Miss M says that she was in an abusive 
relationship and her former partner coerced her into adding his name to the title deeds of the 
property and adding his name to her mortgage, moving it to Barclays. The relationship has 
now ended and Miss M is trying to get her finances back on track. But her former partner is 
demanding a share of the property.
Miss M is totally deaf and without speech, and reliant on British Sign Language (BSL) to 
communicate. She says that during the process of adding her former partner to the 
mortgage, Barclays failed to make reasonable adjustments  such as providing an 
independent interpreter  to ensure that she understood and played a full part in the 
process. And it failed to ensure that she received her own independent legal advice. 
Barclays said that the application to add Miss Ms former partner was made in a branch in 
2017. The adviser was aware that Miss M was deaf, but understood that Miss M was able to 
understand and play a full part in the process. No request for a BSL interpreter was made  
if one had been, Barclays would have arranged one. However, it accepted that it should 
have checked with Miss M whether any adjustments were required too, and offered £250 
compensation.
Barclays said that as part of the re-mortgage, Miss M and her partner took legal advice. The 
solicitors were paid for by the bank as an incentive, but were advising Miss M. 
Our investigator thought Barclays offer was fair. But he thought Barclays should also 
arrange an appointment  with an interpreter  to explore whether Miss M could take the 
mortgage into her sole name. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to hear about Miss Ms situation and everything shes been through. And Ive 
taken into account everything she and her father have said in deciding what I think is fair and 
reasonable in this case.
It seems there were two visits to Barclays branches in 2017. On the first occasion, where 
initial discussions were held and documents discussed, Barclays attempted to provide 
access to a live signing service but couldnt get the connection to work.
At the second appointment, no attempt was made to provide adjustments for Miss M. 
Barclays relied on her partner to interpret rather than arranging a professional interpreter, or 
asking Miss M what she would prefer.
I think Barclays knew that Miss M needed an adjustment to be able to communicate with it, 
and it shouldnt have assumed that it could rely on her partner at the second appointment  it 
should have checked what her preference was and made the necessary arrangements as it 
tried to do at the first appointment. It has offered £250 compensation for failing to put 
reasonable adjustments in place.
Ive thought about what would have happened had an independent interpreter been 
arranged. I cant know this for sure. But on the balance of probabilities, I think its most likely 
that the outcome would be the same, that a mortgage for Miss M and her former partner 
would have been arranged.
It's not uncommon for couples in a relationship who own property separately to decide to 
combine ownership, and theres nothing about that that should, of itself, have given Barclays 
cause for concern.
I do understand that Miss M has said that this was an abusive relationship, and that she 
feels that she was coerced into signing away half her property and taking on a joint 
mortgage when the previous one was in her sole name.
Its important first of all to separate the mortgage loan from the ownership of the property. 
Barclays is not responsible for the property ownership and has no control over who is on the 
title. Nor can it give advice about the property ownership  and it wouldnt have been 
appropriate, as Miss Ms father suggests, for it to have insisted on her taking out a 
cohabitation agreement. 
The change in ownership of the property is a legal matter, and essentially between Miss M 
and her former partner. The solicitors were not acting for Miss M or her partner, only for 
Barclays in registering the mortgage. But they recommended Miss M and her partner take 
their own independent legal advice if they wanted it.
And for the same reasons, theres nothing Barclays can do  or that I can do  to change the 
ownership of the property now. Ultimately if necessary that will be a matter for a court to 
decide.
Barclays was involved in the mortgage only. Ive considered carefully what Miss M and her 
father have said about the situation at the time. And it does seem that Miss M knew that a 
mortgage was being arranged for both of them and was prepared to go ahead with that. I 
dont know whether she felt coerced at the time, or whether this is something shes come to 
recognise since.
In this particular case, it would have been more difficult for Barclays to ascertain whether 
there was coercion because all communication was via Miss Ms partner, not with her direct. 
And so Ive thought very carefully about whether the failure to provide a reasonable 
adjustment meant that Barclays failed to pick up on signals that there might be an issue 
which would have been clearer if it had been able to communicate with Miss M direct. 
But based on the evidence I have, I dont think there was anything that would have made 
Barclays aware at the time that there were particular concerns about whether Miss M was 
entering into the transaction willingly  and I dont think it was just the failure to provide 
reasonable adjustments which meant that any signs of coercion might have been missed.
I appreciate that Miss Ms father says that Barclays should have done more to protect 
Miss M and her position at the time. But as I say, this sort of transaction is not uncommon and Ive not seen evidence that Barclays ought to have been aware of cause for concern at 
the time, or that it would have been but for the failure to make reasonable adjustments. I 
think its likely that had an independent interpreter been arranged, the transaction would still 
have gone ahead.  
Putting things right
However, Barclays is now aware of the circumstances. A mortgage cannot just be 
transferred from joint names into sole names  the rules of mortgage regulation set out that 
matters such as affordability need to be considered in most cases. And theres the issue of 
whether the third party consents to coming off the mortgage. 
It seems to me that the issue of ownership of the property is something Miss M will need to 
take legal advice about. But if as part of that process she wishes to make an application to 
take the mortgage into her own name, Barclays should give careful consideration to that 
application  and should make sure it takes place face to face with an independent 
interpreter present to assist Miss M.
As Ive said, I do think Barclays should have put reasonable adjustments in place at the 
second appointment. But I dont think that if it had done so the outcome would have been 
any different. So I think its offer of £250 compensation is fair in all the circumstances.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I think Barclays Bank UK PLC has made 
a fair and reasonable offer to settle this complaint. It should pay Miss M £250 compensation, 
and if she wishes to apply to take the mortgage into her own name, should ensure that an 
appointment with an interpreter is arranged and that it gives careful consideration  taking 
into account all the circumstances  to the application.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 October 2021.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman