DRN-3477979
The complaint
F, a limited company, is represented by one of its directors, Mr W. He complains that Alan 
Boswell Insurance Brokers Limited mis-sold business interruption insurance since the full 
policy wording wasnt provided at annual renewals. 
What happened
F runs a hospitality business across several locations. Insurance cover was first bought in 
April 2017 and it renewed each year thereafter. Like many businesses, the Covid-19 
pandemic impacted how F operated and could trade. F wanted to make a claim under the 
policy terms and believed it should be entitled to receive £50,000 made up of the £25,000 
policy limit for policy years 2019 and 2020. The thrust of Fs complaint against Alan Boswell 
is that it didnt send the full policy wording and this disadvantaged F in so far as F wasnt 
able to make a fully informed decision about the extent of insurance cover. 
Alan Boswells position is as follows:
- While it could have sent the full policy terms more often, its not under a regulatory 
duty to do so. The full terms were sent in 2017. 
- The policy summary sent at renewal explicitly signposts the customer to the policy 
wording and states a copy is available on request. So, F could have requested a 
copy.
- F wasnt disadvantaged as Covid-19 was not on the list of specified diseases the 
policy covered and wasnt known about until long after the policy renewed in 
April 2019. Therefore, given the specified list of disease in the policy, which hadnt 
changed from the initial list in 2017, Fs decision about renewing the policy in 2019 
wouldnt have changed. 
- Fs policy renewed again in April 2020 at which point F was aware the insurance 
policy didnt cover the pandemic having been told this in March 2020. So, at renewal 
in April 2020 it was highly unlikely that F could have got specific cover Covid-19 but, 
in any case, knew Covid-19 wasnt covered.
Our Investigator didnt uphold Fs complaint. He explained how he agreed with 
Alan Boswells points about there being no detrimental changes to the policy that could have 
a detrimental effect on Fs cover. While Alan Boswell had a duty to highlight changes in 
cover, there were no changes to highlight. The Investigator did think Alan Boswell should 
have provided the policy terms at renewal though.
However, the Investigator went on to think about whether F would have done anything 
differently had the terms been provided at renewal. He pointed out that the policy covered 
losses caused by a specified list of diseases / illnesses and in April 2019 (when the policy 
renewed) Covid-19 wasnt recognised and so it was unlikely that F would have decided to 
seek out a different policy that covered different diseases. And by April 2020 when Covid-19 
was recognised, a national lockdown had started in March and it would have been 
impossible for F to find an insurer willing to cover Covid-19.
F disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the impact of the pandemic and Government actions on Fs business. 
Having considered everything carefully, Im not going to require Alan Boswell to make any 
payment to F. Ill explain why.
The issue for me determine is whether Alan Boswell mis-sold the policy or caused F to lose 
out financially based on it not proving the full policy terms and conditions to F at the 
renewals in 2019 and 2020. And for the avoidance of doubt, its an excepted fact that no 
such information was provided.
Relevant industry rules1 say that when selling a policy, a firm should specify a customers 
demands and needs and propose a policy thats consistent with these. And theres general 
guidance on interaction with the customers best interest that a firm should include 
consideration of the information needs of the customer. This includes what a customer 
needs to understand the relevance of any information provided by the firm, and at which 
point in the sale process will the information be most useful to the customer to make an 
informed decision. And of note, guidance states a firm should provide evidence of cover 
promptly after inception of the policy.
There are no rules that specify the policy terms and conditions must be sent at renewal of a 
policy. And I am satisfied that the policy terms were sent at inception of the policy in 2017. In 
the absence of any duty to provide the full terms at renewal I have considered other 
information sent by Alan Boswell. One of its duties is to communicate information in a way 
that is clear, fair and not mis-leading. 
The renewal letters for April 2019 and 2020 included a copy of the policy summary and 
within the summary, in fact the opening paragraph, it states the summary doesnt contain the 
full terms and conditions of the insurance contract, which can be found in the policy wording 
and is available on request. Im satisfied the documentation Alan Boswell sent at renewal 
contained the relevant information it was required to give concerning the limits of cover, the 
benefits and significant limitations and exclusions. There were no changes concerning the 
infectious disease cover and hence no further information was provided after the full terms 
and conditions were provided at inception.
Ive also thought carefully about what is likely to have happened even if the full terms were 
provided at renewal. The 2019 renewal is the most relevant given that by the time of the 
2020 renewal the pandemic had begun, and the Government had required most businesses 
to close. And indeed, in March 2020, F was told its policy didnt cover losses because of the 
pandemic. 
1 Insurance: Conduct of Business sourcebook (ICOBS)At the 2019 renewal Covid-19 wasnt in contemplation or a threat. The policy terms on 
infectious disease, which F had been given in 2017, were restricted to a specific list of 
diseases. F didnt consider it worthy of discussion with Alan Boswell about the extent of that 
cover when taking out the policy and the position was no different in April 2019. So, Im not 
persuaded the lack of the full policy in 2019 or 2020 made any difference to Fs ability to 
make an informed decision. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome F is hoping for, but for the reasons given it wouldnt be fair 
to hold Alan Boswell responsible for any financial loss F suffered because of the pandemic.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2022.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman