DRN-4355415
The complaint
Mr K complains that HBOS Investment Fund Managers Limited trading as Halifax Financial 
Services (HFS) have applied incorrect charges to his income drawdown plan. In addition, 
hes unhappy about how HFS have handled his queries and subsequent complaints to them.
Mr K would now like HFS to refund all of the charges that they have levied on his plan that 
are in excess of the 0.5% he says he originally signed up for.
What happened
Mr K held an income drawdown plan with HFS that he took out in September 2003.
After receiving his yearly statement in 2021 that was in a different format to previous 
versions, Mr K became concerned about the charges that were being applied to his plan. Mr 
K felt that the costs that were set out in the statement were in excess of the 0.5% that hed 
previously agreed to with HFS when he originally took his plan out. 
After querying the charges with HFS and not receiving a satisfactory answer, Mr K decided 
to formally complain to them. In summary, he said that he felt HFS were overcharging him 
and as such, it was impacting the value of his plan. He wanted the extra costs he believed 
HFS had levied to be refunded to his plan.
After reviewing Mr Ks complaint, HFS concluded that they were satisfied that theyd done 
nothing wrong. In November 2021, HFS wrote to Mr K, explaining that they werent 
upholding his complaint and telephoned him to explain why. HFS explained that they needed 
to present the costs and charges information differently in statements following a rule 
change by the Regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. They went on to say the costs 
hadnt increased.
Following the complaint, Mr K went on to raise a number of further queries with HFS and 
additional complaints.
Mr K was unhappy with HFSs various replies so he referred his complaint to this service in 
November 2022. In summary, he said that he didnt think that the various responses hed 
received from HFS adequately addressed his concern. That was, he felt HFS had been 
charging him more than the 0.5%, which hed originally agreed to, when he took the plan out 
with them.
The complaint was then considered by one of our Investigators. He concluded that whilst 
HFS may have issued communications that were initially unclear, having looked at the 
documentation presented to him, it appeared that he was only paying the 0.5% that he 
agreed to. He also went on to say that he felt the £650 that HFS had offered to Mr K for the 
trouble theyd caused was fair.
Mr K, however, disagreed with our Investigators findings. In summary, he said that given 
hed received various conflicting messages from HFS about how the charges were being 
applied, he wasnt confident that their latest explanation was accurate. In addition, Mr K also 
said that given HFSs original plan documentation doesnt state any other charges will be 
levied, in his view, the additional transactions costs he believes theyve charged have 
resulted in around £40,000 worth of extra costs being taken over the last 20 years for which 
hed like refunded.
Our Investigator was not persuaded to change his view as he didnt believe that Mr K had 
presented any new arguments that hed not already considered or responded to. As he 
remained unhappy with the outcome, Mr K asked the Investigator to pass the case to an 
Ombudsman to review that outcome.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Can I consider this complaint?
I appreciate that Mr K feels strongly that HFSs actions have resulted in a financial impact on 
him but, if a business, in this case HFS, objects to this service looking into their concerns 
due to the complaint not being submitted to us in time, I must first look to see if it meets the 
regulators rules on whether this service can or cannot look at the case. Those are covered 
under the Financial Conduct Authoritys Dispute Resolution Rules - DISP2.8.2. The rules 
explain that for this service to be able to consider Mr Ks complaint, he must have submitted 
his concerns to us no later than six months after having received HFSs final resolution letter. 
HFS believes Mr K has submitted his complaint to us outside of that requirement.
Mr K says that HFS are trying to escape on a technicality, highlighting the weakness of their 
case. However, the six-month rule is in place to ensure fairness to both parties and allows a 
line to be drawn in the sand following a complaint  otherwise firms would be faced with an 
open-ended liability.
Both our Investigator and HFS have shared a detailed timeline of what happened and when. 
As that timeline is well known to both Mr K and HFS and isnt being disputed by either party, 
I dont see the need to repeat it here. However, I will focus on what I consider to be the key 
dates that are important in determining whether this service has the jurisdiction to hear Mr 
Ks complaint.
When Mr K first raised his concerns with HFS, they provided their final resolution letter to 
that complaint on 23 November 2021 and at that point, they provided the appropriate 
referral rights to this service. That meant that he had until 23 May 2022 to raise his 
complaint with ourselves about the charges.
Unhappy with HFSs response, Mr K raised a further complaint with them. HFS 
responded to that complaint on 17 January 2022. As it covered the same points, HFS 
reiterated that Mr K had six months from the date of the original resolution letter to refer 
his concerns to this service  so, that still meant by 23 May 2022.
As Mr K remained unhappy with their response about the charges, he raised further 
concerns with them. HFS wrote a third resolution letter to Mr K on 21 April 2022. In that 
letter, they explained that theyd reviewed his complaint about the charges again, but reached the same decision as they did previously. Again, HFS reiterated that Mr K had 
six months from the date of the original resolution letter to refer his concerns to this 
service.
HFS wrote again to Mr K on 22 September 2022 in response to his further complaint, this 
time to their Chief Executive. That letter provided a further explanation of why theyd 
reached the previous decisions theyd issued and apologised for the poor levels of 
customer service hed received. Importantly, that letter stated his complaint had been 
reassessed and HFS issued new referral rights to this service. So, by specifically telling 
the complainant that its new response was a reinvestigation of the complaint, and 
providing new referral rights to us, HFS were withdrawing their earlier final responses in 
respect of the six-month rule. This meant that Mr K then had until 22 March 2023 to raise 
a complaint to this service.
As Mr K submitted his complaint to us on 21 November 2022, it therefore follows that Ive 
concluded this service does have the jurisdiction to hear his complaint.
Charges
I have summarised this complaint in far less detail than Mr K has done and Ive done so 
using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this; our rules allow me to do this. This simply 
reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it - I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome. Instead, I will focus on what I find to be the key issue here  and thats Mr Ks 
disappointment that he believes HFS have been overcharging him on his income 
drawdown plan.
Having done so, I am upholding Mr Ks complaint in part. And, thats purely from the 
perspective about the way in which HFS handled his original queries, telephone calls, follow 
up emails and letters about the charges. But, for me to be able to uphold Mr Ks complaint 
about the charges, I would need to find that something has gone wrong and that he has lost 
out as a result. Having carefully reviewed the information that HFS have provided, Ive not 
been persuaded that Mr K has been overcharged. Therefore, I agree with our Investigators 
view and for largely the same reasons. Whilst I dont have a great deal more to add over 
what our Investigator has already explained, I appreciate that this will likely come as a 
disappointment to Mr K, Ill explain why.
Mr K is concerned that having received a new style of statement from HFS in 2021, hes 
been paying more than the 0.5% in costs than he originally agreed to when he took the 
plan out in 2003.
I think it would be helpful to provide the background as to why HFS had to make the 
alterations to Mr Ks statement that it did though. In July 2019, the Financial Conduct 
Authority, updated its rules around what information firms should present to consumers 
who were taking an income from their pensions. Those updated rules required firms to 
provide information on the actual costs and charges that consumers were paying for their 
pensions post-sale, during the decumulation phase (i.e. when they are in drawdown like Mr 
K is). The aim of the exercise was to help ensure that consumers were placed in a fully 
informed position about all of the costs that were being applied to their retirement pots.
Amongst other things, the Regulators new rules required HFS to disclose costs and 
charges in pounds and pence, as evidence suggested consumers are generally better able 
to understand presentations that use pounds and pence rather than percentages. However, the rules also allowed firms to disclose costs and charges information in percentage terms 
too. The Regulator provided a 12-month implementation period, starting from 1 August 
2019, to give firms time to make the necessary systems changes required to meet the new 
rule requirements. This meant that only those costs and charges incurred by consumers 
after the end of the implementation period (i.e. after 1 August 2020) had to be identified and 
disclosed to consumers who are in drawdown in their annual statement. Thats why Mr K 
saw the changes to his statement when he did.
In running a plan such as Mr Ks, theres various costs involved including, but not restricted 
to - administration and IT expenses, trading costs, fund manager fees including research as 
well as custodial charges. Previously, firms just included a single cost for running the plan 
but now, greater transparency is provided around where many of those charges are 
incurred. Some of those costs are known in advance but, in some cases, the firm has to 
estimate those charges until a better understanding is reached on the actual cost incurred.
From what Ive seen, HFS initially undertake a manual calculation to estimate the 
consumers charges. The letter that HFS issues explains why the charges are an estimate 
(under the sections An explanation of your fund charges and An explanation of other 
charges). I wont repeat all of that text here because Mr K has copies of that 
correspondence, but HFSs systems then calculate any charge adjustments due on the 
plan on 31 December each year, regardless of when the plans anniversary date is. HFS 
take their regular charges by cancelling units but importantly, as Ive already said, some 
costs arent always known in advance and as such, are only estimates. What that means in 
practice is that any charge adjustments due from January 2021 to September 2021 for 
example, would not be calculated by their system until 31 December 2021. As such, the 
costs in that period have to be estimated so HFS can issue their letter at the plan 
anniversary date. 
The normal yearly management charge is already included in the price of the units within 
Mr Ks fund. And, at the end of the year, HFS then work out the actual yearly charge that 
was due. HFS have explained that extra units are then added to the plan which has the 
same effect as reducing the annual management charge.
Whilst its clear that, at the moment, HFSs systems require manual intervention to 
incorporate the Regulators new rules, once all of the costs are taken account of, Mr K does 
appear to only pay 0.5% in charges on his plan. From what I can see, the costs Mr K is 
paying arent new, its just that following the new rules the Regulator introduced, the way in 
which the information needs to be broken down and presented to consumers has altered. 
Having looked at the Regulators rules that were introduced on this issue, its clear that 
theyre not expecting businesses to be able to provide this level of detail retrospectively. 
So, whilst I can appreciate that Mr K may wish to see a detailed prior picture of the costs 
that were applied to his income drawdown plan before 2021, HFS have said that their 
systems are simply not calibrated to provide that level of historic detail  but to be clear, 
that doesnt mean HFS are doing anything wrong. The important consideration is that 
theyre applying the Regulators new rules from the point that theyre required to do so 
moving forward. And, whilst I well appreciate that Mr K may wish to see this historic 
information, I cant force HFS to give him information that theyre neither able to give or 
required to do so by the Regulator.
HFSs Customer Service
In his complaint to this service, Mr K explained that hed found the whole experience of 
dealing with HFS on this issue extremely stressful. He went on to say that they mishandled 
what shouldve been very much an open and shut case, taking twice the time to resolve things for him than they should have.
As Ive already explained earlier, Im not planning on repeating the timeline of what 
happened and when because its well known to both parties. I also think that its important 
to acknowledge that HFS have already conceded that the service theyve provided to Mr K 
when responding to his queries and complaints about the charges hasnt been as effective 
as it couldve been. I am therefore upholding this element of Mr Ks complaint.
Whilst I am sympathetic to the trouble and upset Mr K says HFS have caused him, they 
advised him on four separate occasions about his right to refer his complaint to this service. 
But, from receiving the new style of statement showing the charges on his plan to raising 
multiple complaints with HFS, it took Mr K over a year to raise his concerns with this service. 
I think, had he done so earlier, some of that inconvenience couldve been limited. 
Ive therefore carefully considered the £650 that HFS have already offered Mr K for the 
trouble that theyve caused him. Based on the facts of the case Im satisfied that amount is 
fair and reasonable and as such, I will be directing HFS to pay those monies to Mr K if 
theyve not already done so.
My final decision
HBOS Investment Fund Managers Limited trading as Halifax Financial Services has already 
made an offer to pay Mr K £650 to settle the complaint and I think that this offer is fair.
Therefore, my decision is that HBOS Investment Fund Managers Limited trading as Halifax 
Financial Services should pay Mr K £650 if theyve not already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2023.
 
Simon Fox
Ombudsman