DRN-4335573
The complaint
Mrs E complains that Sapia Partners LLP (Sapia) mis-sold him her investment in the
Blackmore Bond Innovative Finance Individual Savings Account (the Blackmore Bond).
Mrs E is being represented in this complaint by a claims management company (CMC).
However, for ease of reference, my decision will refer to Mrs E only.
What happened
The Blackmore Bond
In September 2018, Mrs E invested £20,000 into the Blackmore Bond, issued by Blackmore 
Bond Plc (Blackmore).
Goji Financial Services Limited (Goji), an appointed representative of Sapia from 24
November 2016 until 19 October 2018, provided a platform through which companies could
appoint it to facilitate the administration of the investments and payments. Goji provided its
platform services to Blackmore with respect to the Blackmore Bond offering. As such, Sapia
is responsible for a complaint about Goji which is about the acts and omissions which took
place during this time, for which Sapia accepted responsibility.
Goji was responsible for arranging for investors to receive the financial promotional material
prepared by Blackmore and approved by NCM Fund Services (NCM), and for making an
investment into the Blackmore Bond.
As described in the Information Memorandum, Goji acting for Sapia, entered into an
agreement with bondholders under which Sapia undertook to perform the following
functions:
to treat investors in bonds as its clients
on their behalf to receive payments in respect of the Blackmore Bonds
to make payments, when due, in respect of the Blackmore Bonds to the investor
to facilitate the exercise of their security rights over the assets of Blackmore
The Blackmore Bond was non-readily realisable and therefore there were rules restricting
who it could be promoted to and on how to test whether the investment was appropriate for
the potential investor. Gojis online application process took steps to meet the obligations
created by these rules. I have set out details of the application process below and will set out
and consider the relevant rules in my findings.
In October 2019, Blackmore stopped making payments to bondholders and in April 2020 it
went into administration. 
Mrs Es investment in the Blackmore Bond
Mrs E completed the online application form on 18 September 2018.
Mrs E says the only other experience she had with investing in non-mainstream investments 
was investing in an Innovative Finance ISA.
Mrs E says she understood the Blackmore Bond would provide a better return than a 
savings account and she believed it to be a safe investment due to the level of security 
included. 
The application process
I have seen screen prints of each stage of the application process. These show the
application journey that Mrs E underwent.
Certification
Mrs E completed a self-certification process, which involved him making a declaration that 
she was a Restricted Investor.
The appropriateness test
Having completed the certification, Mrs E was required to complete an appropriateness test.
This test set out the following multiple-choice questions:
What is a bond?
A savings account that pays interest once a year
An investment where I lend money to a company and earn a return for doing so
If you invest in a Blackmore Bond ISA, is your capital at risk?
No  the Financial Services Compensation Scheme guarantees my investment
Yes  this is an investment which is not covered by the FSCS and my capital is at
Risk
Are interest payments guaranteed?
Yes  Blackmore will guarantee my interest payments
No  The insurance that Blackmore has in place only covers capital repayment and
not interest repayment so interest repayments can not be guaranteed
Are you able to withdraw your money early?
Yes  I can withdraw my money at any time
No  I am committed for the length of the investment term I selected
Should you put all of your investment money into a Blackmore ISA?
Yes  I should put all the money I have available to invest into a Blackmore ISA
No  I should spread my money across a number of investments to diversify risk and
not put a large amount of my capital in any single investment
Is Blackmore guaranteeing your investment?
Yes  Blackmore will underwrite any losses I suffer
No  Blackmore will not guarantee that I will get my money back, although Blackmore
has put a security scheme in place to provide an element of protectionHaving answered these questions, Mrs E was provided with an Information Memorandum
which contained several risk warnings regarding the Blackmore Bond.
Mrs Es complaint and Sapias response
Mrs E complained to Sapia in November 2021. She said that Sapia had negligently 
promoted and arranged her investment into the Blackmore Bond. She said Sapia had failed 
to ensure the Information Memorandum was clear, fair and not misleading when it was 
presented to her. She also said Sapia put its interests ahead of hers, failed to treat her fairly 
and failed to take steps to ensure the bond was appropriate for her. 
Sapia responded to Mrs Es complaint but didnt think Goji, on its behalf, had acted unfairly. 
In summary, it said Mrs E had declared herself as a Restricted Investor, completed an
appropriateness assessment and received the Information Memorandum associated with the
investment - clearly setting out the risks of the investment. Consequently, it didnt consider
that it had failed in its duty of care to Mrs E.
Sapia also says Mrs E had invested in an Innovative Finance ISA (IFISA) as it had noted she 
had used the funds from this investment to invest in the Blackmore Bond. Sapia says this 
evidences that Mrs E had previous experience in investing in alternative investments and so 
the Blackmore Bond was appropriate for her. 
Our investigators view
One of our investigators considered Mrs Es complaint and concluded it should be upheld. In
summary, they said:
The investment wasnt a straightforward product. There were risk factors which would 
need to be considered for Mrs E to understand it, including the inherent risks of 
property developments (delays, budget overruns etc) and the track record of 
Blackmore.
Looking at the appropriateness test Mrs E was directed to complete during the 
application, theyd not seen that Goji asked for an appropriate amount of information 
about her knowledge and experience.
The appropriateness test didnt adequately test whether Mrs E had the knowledge to 
understand the specific risks associated with the Blackmore Bond  particularly when 
there were limited options for answers and repeated efforts were allowed.
It wasnt sufficient to just test that Mrs E understood she could lose money  but how 
and why that may be likely to happen.
Had Gojis process met what was required under the rules, and sufficiently asked Mrs 
E about her knowledge and experience, then they considered Goji ought to have 
reasonably concluded Mrs E did not have the necessary knowledge and experience 
to invest in the Blackmore Bond.
They acknowledged that Mrs E had previously invested in an IFISA but didnt think 
this meant she had sufficient experience. They said the particular IFISA was 
launched in late-March 2018 and So Mrs E cant have been invested in this for any 
more than six months before transferring to the Blackmore bond.
As the bond wasnt appropriate for Mrs E, Goji was required to present a warning to 
Mrs E and should she have wanted to continue anyway, then Goji ought to have 
considered whether in the circumstances, she should be allowed to go ahead despite 
the warning.
In the test Mrs E completed, had an incorrect answer been selected then she was 
prompted to read the risk statement and he could take the test again. This doesnt meet what is required under the rules which require a warning to be given that the 
bond wasnt appropriate.
Allowing Mrs E to silence the warning by changing an answer reduces the impact this 
warning was intended to provide. This approach also meant there wasnt an 
opportunity for Goji to consider whether Mrs E ought to go ahead investing in the 
bond in the circumstances.
If Goji had given itself the opportunity to consider in the circumstances whether to
allow Mrs E to proceed, having asked for appropriate information about her 
knowledge and experience, it would have been fair and reasonable for Goji to 
conclude it should not have allowed her to proceed.
If she had been asked for appropriate information about her knowledge and 
experience this would have shown she may not have been able to fully understand 
the risk associated with the bond, as she had no prior experience with investing.
Having considered whether Goji tested and assessed the appropriateness of the 
bond for Mrs E, the investigator didnt think Goji had treated her fairly or acted in her 
best interests. Had Goji acted fairly and reasonably in meeting its regulatory 
obligations around appropriateness, Mrs E wouldnt have got beyond this stage and 
so wouldnt have made the investment.
The Information Memorandum for the bond would only be available to Mrs E once 
she had properly progressed through the categorisation and appropriateness parts of 
the application. And so, any information within that cant now reasonably be relied on 
to show she was aware of the risks associated with the Blackmore Bond.
Mrs Es response to the view
Mrs E accepted the investigators findings and was happy with the proposed resolution.
Sapias response to the view
Sapia didnt accept the investigators view. It said, in summary:
It considers that it has limited responsibility for the set of events that have 
subsequently occurred with respect to the Blackmore Bond and there is not a causal 
link between any action or inaction by Sapia and any loss suffered by Mrs E.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) has brought in new rules relating to the 
format of appropriateness testing which would render the Blackmore test non- 
compliant. However, the fact that new rules were required to implement this higher 
standard strongly indicates that there was no prior requirement for firms to apply 
limits on the number of answers or the number of failures that should be applied.
Mrs E was responsible for correctly completing the self-certification process and the 
appropriateness test and for ultimately making the investment.
Its entirely legitimate to argue that the number of tests and answers are irrelevant, 
provided that at the end of the process, Mrs E has clearly acknowledged the 
pertinent risks of the investment.
Even if Mrs E had answered a question incorrectly, but was required to re-take the 
test, that would not have resulted in him investing without the requisite knowledge.
It is the responsibility of Mrs E as an experienced investor to consider her own risk 
appetite. Mrs E had a high-risk appetite at the time of investing in the Blackmore 
Bond based on her previous investment experience.
The argument that testing knowledge that capital was at a risk was insufficient is not 
only without foundation in the rules, but also ignores that the fundamental reason 
behind Mrs Es complaint is that she didnt understand that her capital was at risk, 
despite declaring that she was aware of this in the appropriateness test.Mrs E was provided with an Information Memorandum which contained extensive risk 
warnings.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Es complaint concerns what she considers to be a mis-sale of the bond by Goji, on
Sapias behalf. Im satisfied that this includes Goji, acting on Sapias behalf, applying
relevant tests regarding investor categorisation and appropriateness. Therefore, I will first set
out the relevant considerations when looking at the application process Goji, on Sapias
behalf, conducted before allowing Mrs E to invest.
Relevant considerations
I have carefully taken account of the relevant considerations to decide what is fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. In considering what is fair and reasonable
in all the circumstances of this complaint, I have taken into account relevant law and
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and where
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
In my view the key consideration as to what is fair and reasonable in this case is whether
Sapia met its regulatory obligations when Goji, acting on its behalf, carried out the acts the
complaint is about. I consider the following regulatory obligations to be of particular
relevance here.
The Principles for Businesses
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs Handbook are a general
statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN
1.1.2G). I think Principles 6 and 7 are relevant here. They provide:
Principle 6  Customers interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its
customers and treat them fairly.
Principle 7 - Communications with clients - A firm must pay due regard to the information
needs of its clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and
not misleading.
COBS 4  Communicating with clients, including financial promotions
Principle 7 overlaps with COBS 4.2 - Fair, clear and not misleading communications, which I
also consider to be relevant here:
COBS 4.2.1R said:
(1) A firm must ensure that a communication or a financial promotion is fair, clear
and not misleading.As mentioned, the bond was non-readily realisable and therefore there were rules restricting
who it could be promoted to and how to test whether the investment was appropriate for the 
potential investor. These rules were set out in COBS 4.7 and COBS 10. I have set out below
what I consider to be the relevant rules, in the form they existed at the time.
COBS 4.7 - Direct offer financial promotions
COBS 4.7.7R said:
(1) Unless permitted by COBS 4.7.8 R, a firm must not communicate or approve a
direct- offer financial promotion relating to a non-readily realisable security [...] to or
for communication to a retail client without the conditions in (2) and (3) being
satisfied.
(2) The first condition is that the retail client recipient of the direct-offer financial
promotion is one of the following:
(a) certified as a high net worth investor in accordance with COBS 4.7.9 R;
(b) certified as a sophisticated investor in accordance with COBS 4.7.9 R;
(c) self-certified as a sophisticated investor in accordance with COBS 4.7.9 R;
(d) certified as a restricted investor in accordance with COBS 4.7.10 R.
(3) The second condition is that firm itself or the person who will arrange or deal in
relation to the non-readily realisable security will comply with the rules on
appropriateness (see COBS 10) or equivalent requirements for any application or
order that the person is aware, or ought reasonably to be aware, is in response to the
direct offer financial promotion.
COBS 10  Appropriateness
At the time COBS 10.1.2 R said:
This chapter applies to a firm which arranges or deals in relation to a non-readily
realisable security, derivative or a warrant with or for a retail client and the firm is
aware, or ought reasonably to be aware, that the application or order is in response
to a direct offer financial promotion.
COBS 10.2.1R said:
(1) When providing a service to which this chapter applies, a firm must ask the client
to provide information regarding his knowledge and experience in the investment
field relevant to the specific type of product or service offered or demanded so as to
enable the firm to assess whether the service or product envisaged is appropriate for
the client.
(2) When assessing appropriateness, a firm must determine whether the client has
the necessary experience and knowledge in order to understand the risks involved in
relation to the product or service offered or demanded.
COBS 10.2.2R said:The information regarding a client's knowledge and experience in the investment
field includes, to the extent appropriate to the nature of the client, the nature and
extent of the service to be provided and the type of product or transaction envisaged,
including their complexity and the risks involved, information on:
(1) the types of service, transaction and designated investment with which the client
is familiar;
(2) the nature, volume, frequency of the client's transactions in designated
investments and the period over which they have been carried out;
(3) the level of education, profession or relevant former profession of the client
COBS 10.2.6G said:
Depending on the circumstances, a firm may be satisfied that the client's knowledge
alone is sufficient for him to understand the risks involved in a product or service.
Where reasonable, a firm may infer knowledge from experience.
COBS 10.3.1R said:
(1) If a firm considers, on the basis of the information received to enable it to assess
appropriateness, that the product or service is not appropriate to the client, the firm
must warn the client.
COBS 10.3.2R said:
(1) If the client elects not to provide the information to enable the firm to assess
appropriateness, or if he provides insufficient information regarding his knowledge
and experience, the firm must warn the client that such a decision will not allow the
firm to determine whether the service or product envisaged is appropriate for him.
COBS 10.3.3G said:
If a client asks a firm to go ahead with a transaction, despite being given a warning
by the firm, it is for the firm to consider whether to do so having regard to the
circumstances.
Having taken careful account of these relevant considerations, to decide what is fair and
reasonable in the circumstances, and given careful consideration to all Sapia has said, Im
satisfied the complaint should be upheld. Ill explain my findings below.
The online application process
I acknowledge that Sapia says there were a number of parties involved in the Blackmore
Bonds, but nonetheless, Goji, on behalf of Sapia, played an integral part in Mrs Es
investment. As such, the starting point is for me to consider the act(s) Goji, on Sapias
behalf, carried out, and decide whether its fair and reasonable to find it did something
wrong.
There were a number of regulatory obligations which applied to the sale of the Blackmore
bond. The bond was non-readily realisable and therefore there were rules restricting who it
could be promoted to and on how to test whether the investment was appropriate for Mrs E.
These are the two conditions set out in COBS 4.7.7R which must be satisfied before a
business such as Goji (here acting on Sapias behalf) could communicate or approve adirect-offer financial promotion relating to a non-readily realisable security, such as the
bonds issued by Blackmore.
The online application took steps toward meeting the rules which set out how a busines must
satisfy the conditions, which I have set out above. I will consider the steps taken by Goji, on
behalf of Sapia, focusing on the appropriateness test in conducted.
At the outset I think it is again important to emphasise the bond Mrs E invested in was not a
straightforward product. Risk factors associated with the bond included those which the
investigator explained  the inherent risks of property developments (delays, budget
overruns etc), as well as the track record of Blackmore. All of these points (and this is not an
exhaustive list) would need to be considered in order to understand the investment. Its
important to give these specific risks for context, as it demonstrates that the bond was
complex, risky and specialist. I dont think it was the investigators intention to say the
appropriateness test needed to include, necessarily, these specific questions, and neither is
it my intention, as I will provide my findings on the appropriateness test in more detail below.
However, I think its important to note that the rules required Goji, acting on Sapias behalf,
to consider the nature and extent of the service to be provided and the type of product or
transaction envisaged, including their complexity and the risks involved and so the
complexity of the bonds and the risks associated with them was relevant considerations
when appropriateness was being tested.
In the market for corporate bonds listed on the main exchanges, institutions  ratings
agencies  carry out analysis work to assess the risk associated with a bond and express a
view (a rating), and investment managers often carry out further credit analysis before
deciding to invest in a bond. Here there were no such aids to a consumers understanding of
the product. There was also a liquidity risk. The bond was not listed on a recognised
exchange, and so could not be readily sold.
As the bond was complex, risky and specialist, the bond fell into a category of investment on
which the FCA puts restrictions as to who it could be promoted. The purpose of the rules is
consumer protection  to ensure risky investments are not promoted to those who may not
fully understand their risks. The importance of Goji, on behalf of Sapia, fully meeting its
regulatory obligations here was therefore high. Its responsibility was significant. And the
steps it took to meet its regulatory obligations need to be considered with that in mind.
Appropriateness test
The second condition set out in COBS 4.7.7R required BG Ltd to comply with the rules on
appropriateness, set out in COBS 10 and quoted in the relevant considerations section
above.
The rules at the time (COBS 10.2.1R) required Goji, acting on behalf of Sapia, to ask Mrs E 
to provide information regarding her knowledge and experience  and for this information to 
be relevant to the product offered (the first limb of the rule). The rules required that 
information to then be assessed, to determine whether Mrs E did have the necessary 
experience and knowledge in order to understand the risks involved (the second limb of the 
rule).
As set out above, COBS 10.2.2 R required Goji, acting on behalf of Sapia, when considering
what information to ask for, to consider the nature of the service provided, the type of
product (including its complexity and risks) and for it to include, to the extent appropriate to
the nature of the client:
(1) the types of service, transaction and designated investment with which the clientis familiar;
(2) the nature, volume, frequency of the client's transactions in designated
investments and the period over which they have been carried out;
(3) the level of education, profession or relevant former profession of the client
Having reviewed the appropriateness test Mrs E was directed to complete during the
application, Im not persuaded Goji, on behalf of Sapia, asked for an appropriate amount of
information about Mrs Es knowledge and experience, as required by COBS 10.2.1R and
COBS 10.2.2 R.
The appropriateness test, as set out above, asked seven questions which tested Mrs Es
knowledge. However, nothing was asked about Mrs Es experience, despite it being required
by the rules (COBS 10.2.1R).
Whilst I accept that, depending on the circumstances, a firm may be satisfied that the client's
knowledge alone is sufficient for him to understand the risks involved in a product or service
(COBS 10.2.6G), Im not persuaded Mrs E had the sufficient knowledge here. I say this as 
Mrs Es answers only suggest that she understood what a bond was, that her capital was at 
risk, interest payments werent guaranteed and that she was unable to withdraw her 
investment early. In my opinion, this falls a long way short of adequately testing whether Mrs 
E had the knowledge to understand the risk associated with the bonds  particularly in 
circumstances where the multiple-choice options were limited to two. The risks, as I set out 
earlier, were complex and multifactorial. It was not, for example, a question of whether Mrs E 
simply understood money could be lost  but whether she was able to understand how likely 
that might be and what factors might lead to it happening.
As the first limb of COBS 10.2.1R was not met, Goji, acting on behalf of Sapia, was unable
to carry out the assessment required under the second limb. Goji, acting on behalf of Sapia,
should have been confident, from the information it asked for, that it was able to assess if 
Mrs E had the necessary experience and knowledge in order to understand the risks 
involved with investment in the bond. But it was not in a position to make such an 
assessment, based on the information it obtained.
I also acknowledge Sapias point about the argument the investigator made about the
insufficient testing of knowledge of capital being at risk. Sapia says the fundamental reason
behind Mrs Es complaint is that she didnt understand that her capital was at risk, despite
declaring that she was aware of this in the appropriateness test. Whilst I accept that taking 
Mrs Es appropriate test answer in isolation would suggest she knew her capital would be at 
risk, Ive also considered, as mentioned above, that the question didnt sufficiently test her
understanding of how likely it would be that she could lose her capital and/or what factors
might lead to it happening.
I understand Sapia suggests the FCA has provided guidance on its expectations around
appropriateness since Mrs E made her investment in 2018, and the regulatory environment
has changed since then. To be clear, my findings are based on the rules that existed at the
time she invested.
Im persuaded that, had the process been consistent with what the rules required and Mrs E
had been asked for appropriate information about her knowledge and experience, the only
reasonable conclusion Goji, acting on behalf of Sapia, could have reached, having assessed
this, was that Mrs E did not have the necessary experience and knowledge to understand 
the risks involved with the bond. I note Sapia, in its response to the view, mentions Mrs E 
had invested in a similar investment and therefore did have experience of investments such 
as the Blackmore bond. However, I do not think the fact Mrs E invested in an IFISA within a year of taking out the bond in question, if considered by Sapia (and I have seen no evidence 
it was), was a reasonable basis to conclude Mrs E had experience of investments of this 
type. As previously mentioned, COBS 10.2.2 R required Goji, acting on behalf of Sapia, to 
consider the nature, volume, frequency of the client's transactions in designated 
investments and I dont think one previous investment in an IFISA is sufficient for it to have 
determined Mrs E had the required knowledge and experience. 
If Goji, acting on behalf of Sapia, assessed that the bond was not appropriate, COBS
10.3.1R said a warning must be given and the guidance at COBS 10.3.3G said a business
could consider whether, in the circumstances, to go ahead with the transaction if the client
wished to proceed, despite the warning. Ive explained why the test fell a long way short of
adequately testing Mrs Es knowledge and experience, and had it adequately tested this, 
Goji, acting on behalf of Sapia, would have come to the conclusion that the bond wasnt
appropriate for Mrs E.
A clear, emphatic statement would have left Mrs E in no doubt the bond was not an
appropriate investment for her. And she ought to have been privy to such a warning, had an
appropriateness test consistent with the requirements of the rules been conducted.
Furthermore, had Goji, acting on behalf of Sapia, given itself the opportunity to consider in
the circumstances whether to go ahead with the transaction if Mrs E wished to proceed,
having asked for appropriate information about Mrs Es knowledge and experience, it would
have been fair and reasonable for Goji, acting on behalf of Sapia, to conclude it should not
allow Mrs E to proceed. Had Mrs E been asked for appropriate information about her
knowledge and experience this would have shown she may not have the capacity to fully
understand the risk associated with the bond. As mentioned, I have seen no evidence to
show Mrs E had anything other than a basic knowledge of investments. In these
circumstances, it would not have been fair and reasonable for Goji, acting on behalf of
Sapia, to conclude it should proceed if Mrs E wanted to, despite a warning (which, as noted,
was not in any event given).
All in all, Im satisfied Goji, acting on behalf of Sapia, did not act fairly and reasonably when
assessing appropriateness. By assessing appropriateness in the way it did, it was not
treating Mrs E fairly or acting in her best interests. If it had acted fairly and reasonably to 
meet the relevant regulatory obligations when assessing appropriateness, Mrs E would not 
have got beyond this stage.
As the second condition set out in COBS 4.7.7R could not be met and things could not have
proceeded beyond this, Mrs E wouldnt have received the Information Memorandum for the
bond. And so, any information within that cannot now reasonably be relied on to show she
was aware of the risks associated with the bond. In any event Ive also not seen sufficient
evidence to show Mrs E had the capacity to fully understand the Information Memorandum 
a lengthy and complex document  given her limited knowledge and experience. As such,
Sapia cant fairly rely on any possible reading of this as a means to correct the failings set
out above.
Is it fair to ask Sapia to compensate Mrs E?
Sapia says Mrs E expressly acknowledged on numerous occasions that by proceeding with
the investment she was at risk of losing the capital she invested, and this is evidence Mrs E
would have proceeded to invest in the bond regardless of what it did. However, I do not think
it would be fair to say Mrs E should not be compensated on this basis.
Firstly, she should not have been able to proceed, had Goji, acting on Sapias behalf, acted
fairly and reasonably to meet its regulatory obligations. I acknowledge that other parties mayhave caused or contributed to Mrs Es eventual loss but, notwithstanding that, Im satisfied it
is fair to ask Sapia to compensate Mrs E as the appropriateness test was a critical stage, for
which Goji, on behalf of Sapia, was responsible for.
Secondly, for the reasons I have given, I am not in any event persuaded Mrs E did proceed
with a full understanding of the risks associated with the bond. I am not persuaded Mrs E
looked at the full detail of the acknowledgements she gave, given what Mrs E has said about 
her understanding of the bond and her lack of investment experience. I am not persuaded 
Mrs E had the capacity to fully understand the risks associated with the bond  and she was 
in this position because Goji, acting on behalf of Sapia, did not act fairly and reasonably to
meet its regulatory obligations at the outset. Im therefore satisfied it is fair to ask Sapia to
compensate Mrs E for the loss he has suffered.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mrs E
as close to the position she would probably now be in if she had not invested in the bond. I
think Mrs E would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely what she would
have done, but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable given Mrs
E's circumstances and objectives when she invested.
What should Sapia do?
To compensate Mrs E fairly, Sapia must:
Compare the performance of Mrs E's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Pay interest as set out below
Provide the details of the calculation to Mrs E in a clear and simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Investment 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
The
Blackmore
Bond
Innovative
Finance
Individual
Savings
AccountStill exists
but illiquidAverage rate
from fixed
rate bondsDate of
investmentDate of my
final decisionSapia Partners
LLP must pay
the
compensation
within 28 days of
the date on
which we tell it
Mrs E accepts 
my
final decision. If it
pays later than
this it must also
pay interest on
the
compensation
from the date ofmy final decision
to the date of
payment at 8%
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If at the end date the investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open
market), it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual
value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mrs E agrees to Sapia taking
ownership of the investment, if it wishes to. If it is not possible for Sapia to take ownership,
then it may request an undertaking from Mrs E that she repays to Sapia any amount she 
mayreceive from the investment in future.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Sapia should
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Apply
those rates to the investment on an annually compounded basis. Any additional sum paid
into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation from the point in time when
it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the investments should be
deducted from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to
accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular
payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Sapia totals all those payments and
deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair value instead of deducting periodically. If
any distributions or income were automatically paid out into a portfolio and left uninvested,
they must be deducted at the end to determine the fair value, and not periodically.
Im unaware if Sapia charge fees for operating the IFISA account. However, the wrapper
only exists because of illiquid investments. In order for the wrapper to be closed and further
fees that are charged to be prevented, those investments need to be removed. Ive set out
above how this might be achieved by Sapia taking over the investment.
Third parties are involved and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. If Sapia are
unable to purchase the investment, to provide certainty to all parties I think its fair that Sapia
pay Mrs E an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years worth of wrapper fees but illiquid
from fixed rate bonds investment settlement applicable (calculated using the fee in the
previous year to date). This should provide a reasonable period for the parties to arrange for
the wrapper to be closed.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen this method of compensation because:
Mrs E wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risking any of her capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure given Mrs E's 
circumstances and objectives. It does not mean that Mrs E would have invested only in a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a consumer could have 
obtained with little risk to their capital.
The information about the average rate can be found on the Bank of Englands website by
searching for quoted household interest rates and then clicking on the related link to their
database, or by entering this address www.bankofengland.co.uk/boeapps/database, clicking
on: Interest & exchange rates data / Quoted household interest rates / Deposit rates - Fixed
rate bonds / 1 year (IUMWTFA) and then exporting the source data.
There is guidance on how to carry out calculations available on our website, which can be
found by following this link: https://www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk/businesses/resolving-
complaint/understanding-compensation/compensation-investment-complaints. Alternatively,
just type compensation for investment complaints into the search bar on our website:
www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Sapia Partners LLP should pay the amount 
calculated as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Ben Waites
Ombudsman