DRN-3682018
Complaint
Miss H is unhappy that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) closed her accounts and 
registered a fraud prevention marker against her.
Background
In April 2021, Miss Hs current account received payments of £200 and £90. The funds were 
then transferred to another of Miss Hs Halifax accounts before then being transferred on to 
a third party. Halifax subsequently received a notification from the bank responsible for 
sending the payments to Miss Hs account stating the payee of the funds had reported being 
a victim of fraud. Halifax reviewed Miss Hs account and as a result of its investigation, it 
decided to close her accounts and record a fraud prevention marker.
Miss H complained about Halifaxs actions. Halifax didnt uphold Miss Hs complaints about 
closing her accounts or recording the fraud marker. As Miss H remained dissatisfied, she 
referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss Hs concerns. He didnt think that Halifax had done 
anything wrong or treated Miss H unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Miss H disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For reasons that will become clear further on, Ive started by looking at Halifaxs decision to 
record a fraud prevention marker against Miss H.
The marker that Halifax has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of facility 
 relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a marker, it 
isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Miss H is guilty of fraud or a financial 
crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or concern. The 
relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that Halifax must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
entered Miss Hs account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. Secondly, 
Halifax also needs to have strong evidence to show that Miss H was deliberately dishonest 
in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment. 
This can include Miss H allowing someone else to use her account in order to receive an 
illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was 
unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Miss Hs complaint, I need to decide whether I think Halifax had 
enough evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Miss Hs account and that her actions 
suggest she was complicit in this. And having considered everything, I find that Halifax did 
have enough to record a fraud prevention marker here. Id like to explain why in a little more 
detail. 
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that the funds in question, which entered Miss Hs 
account in April 2021, did so as a result of fraudulent activity. So the only matter which 
remains in dispute here is whether Miss H was complicit in allowing her account to receive 
the illegitimate payment. 
Miss H says that she didnt know anything about the payments or where they came from. 
She also confirmed that she only provided her account details to friends and family so that 
they could transfer money to her when she was running low on funds.
Ive thought about what Miss H has said. But Im afraid that Miss Hs version of events 
simply isnt plausible. I say this because the payments were transferred between Miss Hs 
accounts before being transferred onwards. And while I appreciate that Miss H says she 
didnt have access to the transactions, she would have seen who the funds were from at the 
time the transfers were made. 
Its difficult for me to accept that Miss H didnt have some idea what was going on when she 
transferred the fraudulent funds as soon as they were received in her account. And without 
anything to corroborate that Miss Hs online and/or mobile banking credentials had been 
compromised, I cant reasonably conclude she was an unwitting participant here. Instead, I 
think that Halifax was reasonably entitled to conclude that its more likely than not Miss H 
was complicit in her account receiving fraudulent funds. 
So overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that Halifax did have sufficient 
evidence to show that fraudulent funds entered Miss Hs account. And it was also 
reasonably entitled to conclude that it was more likely than not that Miss H was complicit in 
this. As this is the case, I dont think that it was unfair for Halifax to record a fraud prevention 
marker in the circumstances that it did. 
I now turn to the closure of Miss Hs accounts. The terms and conditions of Miss Hs 
accounts state Halifax could close an account without notice in certain circumstances. These 
included where it reasonably think(s) there is illegal or fraudulent activity on or connected 
to the account. Ive already explained why I think Halifax was reasonably entitled to 
conclude that Miss Hs accounts had been used for fraudulent purposes when explaining 
why it didnt act unfairly in recording the fraud prevention marker. As this is the case, Im also 
satisfied that, for much the same reasons, the terms and conditions permitted Halifax to 
close Miss Hs accounts in the way that it did. 
 
Finally, I note that Halifax agreed to pay Miss H £50 in compensation for any delays and 
miscommunications caused. I appreciate that Miss H was caused a level of inconvenience 
as a result of two separate incidents being conflated. But given Halifax was reasonably 
entitled to close Miss Hs accounts because of the fraudulent activity, Im satisfied that the amount of compensation already offered is fair and reasonable bearing in mind all the 
circumstances of this case.  
So overall I dont think that Halifax acted unfairly towards Miss H and Im not upholding this 
complaint. I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Miss H. But I hope that she will 
understand the reasons for my decision and that shell at least feel her concerns have been 
listened to. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 October 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman