DRN-4179404
The complaint
Mr G complains that Transunion International UK Limited (TU) has blocked access to his 
online credit file with them and this has prevented him from being able to obtain credit.
What happened
Mr T tried to access his online credit file through a third-party website, which for the 
purposes of this decision Ill refer to as M. Ms site displayed a message to Mr G saying that 
TU were unable to verify his identity and access to his credit report was restricted.
Mr G complained to TU and provided TU with a screenshot of the message that was 
displayed to him on Ms website. 
TU didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint and responded to him saying they have measures in 
place to protect the data they hold and that this means that unfortunately on occasions its 
possible that genuine applicants are unable to access their service.
Mr G remained unhappy with their response and so brought his complaint to this service. It 
was only after our service became involved that TU realised that Mr G wasnt using their 
service directly, but he was trying to access his credit report through M, despite Mr G having 
providing evidence to them that showed this when he first complained. 
Our investigator upheld Mr Gs complaint in part. He explained that TU werent responsible 
for the sign in procedures used by M and so couldnt be held accountable for Mr G not being 
able to access his credit report through M. But he felt TU should have explained this to Mr G 
much sooner and so felt TU should compensate Mr G for this and suggested TU pay Mr G 
£150 for this. He also told Mr G that TU could provide him with a paper copy of his credit 
report if hed like that.
TU agreed they should have explained this to Mr G sooner and accepted the 
recommendation of £150 compensation for this. Mr G didnt agree he said this didnt solve 
matters as he still doesnt have access to his online credit report and still believes this is 
stopping him from obtaining credit.
The matter has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done so
using my own words. Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the key issues. The rules 
that govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt mean that Ive not considered
everything that both parties have given to me. 
Having done so, I have to tell Mr G that I have reached the same outcome as the 
investigator, in that Im partially upholding his complaint, and for broadly the same reasons. 
Ill explain, but in doing so Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont 
comment on a specific point, its not because I havent considered it but because I dont think 
I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome.
TU have a duty to protect the data they hold and need to have relevant security measures in 
place to do this. However, when Mr G complained they should have realised that he wasnt 
trying to access his credit report directly through them, based on the screenshot he provided. 
Had they done so they would have been able to explain to him much sooner that the 
problem he was facing was with the security sign in on Ms website and could have directed 
him to speak directly with M to help him with this. So, for this reason I do think they caused 
him unnecessary frustration, and to recognise the upset they caused here they should pay 
him the £150 they have already agreed to.
Mr G says that TU have restricted access to his data, and this has caused him to be unable 
to obtain credit, he has provided evidence to show he has been refused credit. The evidence 
he has provided is from a lender and says his application was unsuccessful based on 
information provided in his application combined with data they may have collected from an 
authorised credit reference agency (CRA) one of which is TU as well as another. So, while 
Mr M was refused credit by this particular lender, it wasnt on the basis that he couldnt 
access his credit file information, but because of a combination of information he provided in 
his application and information displaying on his credit file, which the lender was able to see. 
So I cant agree the TU have been responsible for Mr G not being able to obtain credit.
Following our investigator issuing his findings Mr G tried to access his credit report online 
directly with TU, he was unable to do this. And while this doesnt form part of this complaint, 
as it happened after Mr G had brought this complaint to us TU have confirmed to us that he 
is not blocked from accessing his credit file and can try again if he wants to. Although TU 
have shared information with us about why Mr G wasnt able to access his report online Im 
unable to share this information on, as its commercially sensitive, but Im satisfied that TU 
declined his access fairly based on their security processes.
I fully appreciate how frustrating it must be for Mr G not to be able to access his TU credit 
report online and understand why he might feel the paper version TU has offered to him in 
its place isnt suitable. However, I think it would be helpful for him to have this, I say this 
because part of the verification process Mr G is going through online is answering questions 
based on information held on his credit file. If Mr G were to have a paper copy of his credit 
file, he could use this to help him ensure he is answering any questions correctly based on 
the information TU holds. It could also help him to identify if any of the information TU holds 
is incorrect. In light of this if Mr G would now like a paper copy of his credit file, he should let 
TU know and they can arrange for it to be sent to his home address.
I know Mr G will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision ends what we  in trying 
to resolve his dispute with TU  can do for him.
Putting things right
In order to put things right for Mr G TU should now pay him £150 for the trouble and upset 
caused to him.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and I require Transunion International 
UK Limited trading as TransUnion Information Group to carry out the actions as set out 
under the Putting things right section of this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2023.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman