DRN-3638947
The complaint
Mr B complains that Santander UK Plc unfairly closed his current account and recorded a 
default on his credit file. 
 
What happened
Mr B opened a student account with Santander in 2016. The account terms and conditions 
said Mr B needed to make monthly payments from his main source of income into his 
account. 
Santander says Mr B used his account until December 2020. But from that point, the 
account wasnt operated in line with the account terms and Santander says Mr B appears to 
have moved his banking arrangements elsewhere. 
Santander issued various letters to Mr B about his account and asked him to get in contact. 
Some small payments were received into Mr Bs account during this time, but payments 
werent in line with the account terms. Santander says that because the account wasnt 
being managed correctly, it sent Mr B a default notice setting out its intention to close the 
account. 
Mr B has told us he visited a Santander branch on 16 June 2021 and found his account 
wasnt working. Mr B says his address was updated during this visit. But Santander says 
there was no record of Mr Bs address being updated in branch. Mr B has explained that 
branch staff told him he didnt have to repay the overdraft for around a year. 
On 6 July 2021 Santander issued a default notice that said Mr B needed to clear the 
outstanding balance in the next 14 days. No payment was received so the account was 
terminated and referred to a third party to collect. A default was recorded on Mr Bs credit 
file. 
The third party traced Mr B and went on to discuss his account with him. Mr B went on to 
complain about Santanders actions and decision to close his account. 
Santander didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint and said the default was correctly recorded on his 
credit file. An investigator at this service looked at Mr Bs complain but thought Santander 
had dealt with it fairly. Mr B asked to appeal, so his complaint has been passed to me to 
make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander says it closed Mr Bs account after he failed to follow the terms because it didnt 
receive regular monthly payments. Looking at Mr Bs account history, I can see that the 
majority of deposits stopped in mid 2020. So I think it was reasonable for Santander to 
review the account and contact Mr B. 
Where the circumstances of a complaint are disputed by the parties involved Ill base my 
decision on the balance of probability. That is, what I consider most likely to have occurred 
based on all the available information and evidence.
Mr Bs told us his address was updated in branch on 16 June 2021. But Santanders 
systems evidence shows there was no attempt by branch staff to amend Mr Bs address. 
And Santanders evidence shows the system it uses to update addresses wasnt accessed 
either. In my view, if Santanders branch staff had attempted to amend Mr Bs address (even 
unsuccessfully) there would be a trace on its systems. Im sorry to disappoint Mr B but I 
havent been persuaded that Santander failed to amend his address. 
Mr B has also explained branch staff told him repayment didnt have to be made for a year. 
Santander denies this and says the advice is at odds with the status of Mr Bs account and 
fact it had been referred to its recoveries team. Santander has also provided records that 
show Mr B accessed his account online during the months before it was closed. In my view, 
the information available shows Santander provided clear information to Mr B about his 
account and requested repayment before taking the decision to close it and record a default. 
I havent been persuaded that Santander acted unfairly. 
I am very sorry to disappoint Mr B but as Im satisfied Santanders decision to close his 
account and record a default was fair, Im not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman