DRN-4272036
The complaint
Miss M complains about incomplete repairs and the lack of a hire car from esure Insurance 
Limited (esure) following an accident claim she made, under her motor insurance policy.  
What happened
Miss M was involved in a car accident. She says the other driver was at fault. esure 
arranged for the repairs to her car. However, after the repairs both near-side tyres were 
losing pressure. Miss M says this was caused by the collision and asked esure to complete 
the repairs, but it declined to do so.  She says esure also failed to provide a hire car as 
promised. 
In its complaint response esure says the hire company should deal with the complaint about 
the hire car. It says this company is a separate entity from esure and Miss Ms concerns 
have been forwarded on for it to respond. 
With respect to the tyre pressure issue esure says this matter was reviewed by a senior 
engineer. The engineer didnt think the nearside tyres were affected by the collision. It says 
this caused only minor damage to the rear offside of Miss Ms car. esure said no further 
repairs would be carried out.  
Miss M felt shed been treated unfairly and referred the matter to our service. Our 
investigator upheld her complaint in part. He says the hire car provision should be dealt with 
by the company responsible, not esure. He asked esure for its engineers report so he could 
consider if this supported its decision not to cover repairs to the nearside tyres. As esure 
didnt respond, he wasnt satisfied itd shown the tyre issues were unrelated to the accident. 
Our investigator says Miss Ms tyres should be repaired as part of her claim. He says esure 
should also pay £150 compensation to Miss M for the trouble and upset it caused her. 
Miss M accepted our investigators findings. esure didnt respond. So, its been passed to me 
to provide a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided to uphold Miss Ms complaint in part. Let me explain. 
Miss Ms policy covers her for damage to her car. The policy terms say esure will pay to 
either repair or replace whats been damaged  depending on whats more cost effective. In 
this case it was the rear off-side section of Miss Ms car that was damaged and needed 
repairing. esure arranged for these repairs. Theres no dispute from Miss M about this or 
about the quality of these repairs. 
Under Miss Ms policy, as it had accepted her claim, esure must arrange for repairs of all 
damage caused by the accident. But I can see from its complaint response that it didnt think 
the tyre damage had resulted from the accident. It says this damage is on the opposite side 
of the car from the collision damage. 
Im not a motor engineer, so I must rely on the expert opinion of those who are. However, 
despite our investigator requesting further information from esure, no evidence has been 
provided to support its argument. Because of this I cant say with certainty that the tyre 
damage wasnt caused by the collision. 
In these circumstances I agree with our investigator that esure should include the damaged 
tyres as part of Miss Ms claim. 
Ive thought about Miss Ms comment that a hire car wasnt provided when promised. She 
says this caused her inconvenience and some distress. I can see from her policy terms and 
conditions that esure provides for a courtesy car where repairs are being carried out. 
If esure didnt provide a courtesy car in line with the policy terms  its ultimately responsible 
for this. And it should deal with this point as part of the complaint Miss M raised. 
However, the indication from the information provided is that Miss M used a credit hire 
service, as opposed to esure providing a courtesy car. These services are usually offered 
where there is a non-fault claim. The customer can benefit from a like-for-like hire vehicle 
and wont need to pay their policy excess charges upfront. The credit hire company will then 
recover its costs from the at-fault partys insurer. Its important to note that a credit hire 
company provides its services separately to the insurance company dealing with the 
accident claim.  
I asked esure to confirm if a replacement car was provided as a courtesy car or on a credit 
hire basis. It didnt respond. I also asked Miss M if she could provide some clarity on this 
point. She provided some of the documentation she received from the company that 
supplied her with a hire car. From this Im satisfied that it wasnt esure who provided a 
courtesy car. Rather Miss M used a credit hire company for this purpose. So, I agree with 
esure that she should contact this company directly to complain about the service it 
provided.  
Having considered all of this I dont think esure treated Miss M fairly when declining to deal 
with her damaged tyres as part of her claim. It should now arrange to do so. Miss M 
describes how she was caused distress and some inconvenience when trying to deal with 
this matter. In these circumstances, to acknowledge the impact this had, I think its fair that 
esure pays her £150 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. esure Insurance Limited should:
deal with the tyre damage under Miss Ms claim; and
pay £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 October 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman