DRN-4005276
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Paysafe Financial Services Limited have closed his account.
What happened
In July 2021, Paysafe wrote to Mr B and explained that they had made the decision to close 
his account with immediate effect. Mr B wasnt happy with this, especially as Paysafe 
wouldnt explain why theyd come to that decision. So, he raised a complaint.
Paysafe looked at Mr Bs complaint. They reiterated their position but declined to provide 
further information to Mr B as to why they no longer wanted to provide services to him. Mr B 
wasnt satisfied with Paysafes response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that Paysafe had acted 
unfairly in how theyd managed the situation and noted that Paysafe werent obliged to 
provide the rationale behind their decision as Mr B would like. Mr B remained dissatisfied, so 
the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In much the same way as a customer can choose whether they will continue to operate an 
account with a particular business or not, so a business can also choose whether it will 
continue to provide its services to any specific customer. 
In this instance, Paysafe have made the decision to no longer offer services to Mr B, and to 
therefore close his account. Mr B would like to better understand why Paysafe have made 
this decision, but Paysafe arent obliged to provide an explanation of their reasoning to him.
Paysafe have explained why they made the decision to no longer offer services to Mr B to 
this service. And having reviewed Paysafes explanation, Im satisfied that Paysafe havent 
acted unreasonably by closing Mr Bs account as they did, and that Mr B hasnt been treated 
in an unfair manner as a result. 
Paysafes terms and conditions permit the immediate closure of an account without notice in 
certain circumstances, and Im satisfied these circumstances have been met in this instance. 
I realise this still doesnt provide Mr B with the more detailed understanding of Paysafes 
decision that he would like, but as explained, Paysafe arent obliged to provide any such 
further information to him. I hope that it will be of some comfort to Mr B to know that 
someone impartial has considered this matter on his behalf.
Finally, Paysafe have explained that while a minimal balance was present in Mr Bs account 
at the time of closure, this balance equated to 0.01 Euro and as such was too small to be 
reimbursed to Mr B. This seems reasonable to me, and I dont feel that any further action is 
merited from Paysafe in this regard.
All of which means that I dont feel that Paysafe have acted unfairly towards Mr B as he 
contends here, and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing 
Paysafe to take any further action.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr B was wanting, but I trust hell understand, given what 
Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 April 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman