DRN-3407906
The complaint
Mr P complains about the advice given by Mulberry Wealth Management Limited (Mulberry) 
to transfer the benefits he held in the British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a personal 
pension. The BSPS is a defined benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme. Mr P says the 
advice was unsuitable for him.
Both Mr P and Mulberry are being represented by third parties. But, for ease of reading this 
decision, Ill largely refer to representations as being made by Mr P and Mulberry.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ps employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a 
new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could 
transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a Time to Choose letter which gave 
them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the BSPS2 or 
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choice was 11 
December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017). 
The trustees of the scheme provided Mr P a summary of the transfer value of his scheme 
benefits on 24 November 2017. This said his benefits had a cash equivalent transfer value 
(CETV) of £93,251.06.
Mr P was concerned about what the announcement meant for the security of his pension. 
So, he contacted Mulberry on 30 November 2017 for advice, having been referred by a 
colleague of his.
Mulberry completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Ps circumstances and 
objectives. It noted that Mr P was 47, married, with two non-dependent children. He was 
recorded as being in good health and employed full time  having been with his employer 
(and accrued benefits into the DB scheme) since 2008. He owned his own home, mortgage 
free, had savings of around £20,000 and had no outstanding liabilities with his combined 
household income comfortably exceeding outgoings. 
Mr P was a member of the new defined contribution pension scheme that had been set up 
by his employer, with both he and his employer making regular contributions. And it was 
recorded that Mr P had benefits in another DB pension  the CETV of which was noted as 
being approximately £148,000  which as of September 2017 Mr P said was projected to 
provide him an annual pension of roughly £7,940, from age 60.
Mulberry says Mr P was interested in transferring his pension as there was a general 
mistrust in his employers ongoing management of the pension, given what had happened to 
that point. So, he wanted control of the pension. It also says Mr P wanted to retire at age 60 
so wanted flexibility in how he could draw these benefits. And, as he had another DB 
scheme which provided a guaranteed income, he was willing to take a risk with this pot to try 
and improve on the benefits hed receive.
Mulberry also carried out an assessment of Mr Ps attitude to risk (ATR), which it deemed to 
be moderate or a three on a scale of one to five.
Mulberry arranged for a transfer value analysis (TVAS) to be carried out in December 2017. 
The introduction within the report explains that its purpose was to give an indication of the 
likelihood of being able to match or exceed the benefits provided by your existing scheme 
with a transfer to an alternative plan. The report noted it was comparing the existing benefits 
with those that could be purchased by transferring to a specific provider  which happened 
to be the provider that Mulberry ultimately recommended to Mr P. 
The TVAS included calculations of various critical yield CY figures  the growth rate 
required of a new pension to allow Mr P to purchase equivalent benefits to those hed be due 
under his existing scheme, depending on when he retired and whether he took tax-free cash 
(TFC) when the pension began. Remaining in the BSPS as it was, wasnt an option, so the 
report looked at what Mr P was projected to be entitled to under the BSPS2 and the PPF. 
The adviser from Mulberry met with Mr P again on 11 January 2018. The notes provided 
indicate that, at that meeting, a pensions options document was discussed. Mulberry has 
provided a copy of that document and the options outlined were remaining in the BSPS and 
entering the PPF, opting to transfer to the BSPS2 or transferring to an alternative 
arrangement. The document said there was no right or wrong answer with respect to what 
to do with the accrued benefits. It noted the pros and cons of each but that transferring to an 
alternative arrangement provided the most flexibility. Mr P was then asked to indicate how 
he wished to proceed. And he signed to say, after discussing this with Mulberry, he would 
like to transfer to an alternative arrangement.
Some of the application forms to enable the transfer were completed and returned in the 
days that followed.
On 15 January 2018, Mulberry sent Mr P a written summary of its recommendation  after 
the completion of a number of the relevant forms. This set out his circumstances and 
repeated a lot of the information about the pros and cons of the identified options from the 
pensions options document that Mulberry says was discussed a few days earlier. It went on 
to say that the reasons Mulberry deemed it acceptable to forego guaranteed benefits and 
transfer were;
Mr P categorically stated that he wanted a clean break of this fund from his employer.
The revaluations of the pension benefits that would be provided by the BSPS2 were 
considered low by Mr P and he felt he could achieve better growth than this. 
It was felt that greater returns than the maximum rate applicable to the BSPS2 
benefits could be achieved on average.
The projected pension at age 60 and 65 under the BSPS2 or the PPF was not 
enough to meet Mr Ps requirements, so taking a risk to achieve better benefits was 
acceptable to him.
Mr P wanted control of his benefits and didnt want his employer to be able to dictate 
terms.
Mr P wanted more flexible death benefits.
There was potential for being able to take greater tax-free cash at retirement.
Mr P wanted more flexibility in how he could take his benefits.
Mr P was prepared to take a risk with the fund and manage this himself with the 
assistance of professional advisers.Mulberry went on to say that transferring best satisfied these objectives. So, it recommended 
a transfer to a personal pension. It also recommended a specific pension provider and an 
investment strategy that it felt was in line with Mr Ps ATR.
The transfer went ahead in line with Mulberrys recommendations, and the funds were 
received by the new pension provider in May 2018.
Mr P complained to Mulberry in January 2021 about the suitability of the transfer advice. He 
said Mulberry had been wrong to say that better returns were likely achievable, he was not 
an experienced investor so his desire for control had been overstated, he was a long way 
from retirement and so his plans were not decided, and his needs could have been met 
through a combination of the benefits available under the BSPS2 and his other provisions. 
So, he felt the advice given was not suitable.
Mulberry didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. It said Mr P had obtained a CETV before contacting 
it and had already begun considering the option of transferring before advice was given. It 
felt the advice was suitable based on Mr Ps circumstances and objectives, adding that the 
BSPS2 had not been confirmed at the time so recommending Mr P move to that was not an 
option. It also suggested that Mr P wouldve still looked to transfer his benefits had it advised 
against doing so as he was unhappy with his employer and the issues with the BSPS and 
didnt trust their ability to manage the pension moving forward.
Mr P referred his complaint to our service. An Investigator upheld the complaint and thought 
Mulberry should pay compensation in line with the regulators redress methodology for 
unsuitable DB transfer advice as well as £250 for the distress caused. In summary, he felt 
Mr P was always likely to be worse off as a result of transferring as the growth required to 
match the benefits available under the BSPS2 or the PPF was unlikely to be achieved based 
on his circumstances and attitude to risk. He also felt Mr P couldve met his income needs 
without transferring, through a combination of these benefits and his other provisions, so 
didnt have a genuine need to transfer. And he felt Mulberry shouldve done more to address 
any concerns Mr P had relating to his pension benefits  in particular regarding the PPF and 
the proposed BSPS2. As a result, the Investigator felt that the advice wasnt in Mr Ps best 
interests and if suitable advice had been provided thought hed have ultimately moved his 
benefits to the BSPS2.
Mulberry didnt agree, saying the investigator had assessed the case on the wrong basis. It 
said it wasnt required to guarantee that the transfer would be in Mr Ps best interests. 
Instead, the adviser was simply required to take reasonable steps to ensure the advice was 
suitable for him. And it said the Investigator had used a significant degree of hindsight, which 
it thought was unreasonable. 
Mulberry said the Investigator had placed too much weight on the critical yields and discount 
rate and that these were unreliable and largely irrelevant as Mr P didnt intend to take an 
annuity. Mulberry also said Mr P had made a fully informed decision to proceed with the 
transfer, which the Investigator hadnt considered, and which it felt was crucial. It also 
maintained that the BSPS2 was not a confirmed option at the time of the advice. And it didnt 
agree that Mr P wouldve acted differently, as he wanted to break ties with his employer, nor 
did it agree hed have accepted the possibility of the benefits transferring to the PPF.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have provided detailed arguments and a lot of documentation to consider. And 
Id like to reassure both parties that Ive carefully considered all the evidence provided. If I 
dont comment on or refer to everything Ive been sent or that either party have said this isnt 
meant as a discourtesy or because I havent thought about it. Rather, it is because my 
decision will address what I consider to be the key issues in deciding what is fair and 
reasonable. 
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice but provides useful context for my assessment of Mulberry's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
Mulberry says that its adviser was only required to take reasonable steps to ensure the 
advice was suitable for Mr P. I agree that under COBS Mulberry was required to take 
reasonable steps to ensure that its personal recommendation to Mr P was suitable for him 
(COBS 9.2.1). However, as Ive mentioned above, additional regulations apply to advising on 
transferring out of DB schemes. These additional regulations say that the starting 
assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. And that a business 
should only have considered a transfer out of the scheme if it could clearly demonstrate that 
the transfer was in Mr Ps best interests (COBS 19.1.6). And having looked at all the 
evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his best interests. Ill explain why.
Financial viability 
Some of the reasons given in the recommendation letter for supporting the transfer were that 
Mr P thought the revaluation rate under the BSPS2 was unappealing, he could achieve a 
better return than this and he was willing to take a risk to obtain better pension benefits than 
he was due. But exceeding the revaluation rate under the BSPS2 didnt mean Mr P would 
receive greater pension benefits by transferring elsewhere. Because the CETV didnt 
represent the cost of purchasing equivalent benefits. The CETV, when invested, would need to grow by significantly more than the BSPS2 revaluation rate just to allow Mr P to purchase 
the same benefits that he wouldve been guaranteed under the BSPS2. With the same 
applicable for the PPF. The rate it would need to grow by was the critical yield.
Mulberry says the critical yield is of limited relevance and can be unreliable. And it is based 
on the growth required to produce a fund large enough to purchase an annuity on the same 
basis as the benefits provided by the DB scheme  but Mulberry says Mr P didnt want to 
purchase an annuity. Given though Mr P was 47 and had a number of years until he could 
take his pension benefits  in which time his circumstances or plans could change  it was 
entirely possible that when he did retire he may have wanted greater guarantees for his 
income. And in any event, the regulator required Mulberry to consider the rate of investment 
growth that would have to be achieved to replicate the benefits being given up. So, I do think 
an analysis of the critical yield is a relevant consideration here.
The TVAS report listed several different critical yields based on different scenarios. It said, 
for retiring at 60  which Mulberry says was when Mr P indicated he intended to retire  to 
match the benefits Mr P would be due if he moved to the BSPS2 the critical yield was 8.84% 
if he took a full pension or 7.25% if he took the maximum allowable tax-free cash (TFC) 
initially and a reduced pension. To match the benefits that would be due at age 60 under the 
PPF, the critical yield was 8.28% if taking a full pension or 7.89% if taking TFC and a 
reduced pension.
For retiring at age 65, the normal retirement age for the DB scheme, the critical yield to 
match the BSPS2 benefits was 7.34% if taking a full pension or 6.12% for a reduced pension 
and TFC. And to match the benefits Mr P wouldve been entitled to under the PPF at age 65 
the CY was 6.64% for a full pension and 6.31% for a reduced pension and TFC.
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. 
Mulberry says that referring to the discount rate was not required by the regulator when 
giving advice. So, has suggested our Service is wrong to take this into account. But I think 
discount rates are a reasonable additional consideration when seeking to determine what 
level of growth was reasonably achievable at the time of the advice for a typical investor. 
And under COBS 19.1.2 the regulator required businesses to compare the benefits likely to 
be paid under a DB scheme with those payable under a personal pension by using 
reasonable assumptions. So, businesses were free to use the discount rate as this would be 
considered a reasonable assumption of the likely returns achievable for a typical investor.
The relevant discount rates closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to were 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017. These 
were 4.0% for 12 full years to retirement  as wouldve been the case if Mr P retired at age 
60  and 4.4% for 17 full years to retirement  relevant if he retired at age 65. Ive kept in 
mind that the regulator's projection rates had also remained unchanged since 2014: the 
regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the 
lower projection rate 2%. 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Ps 
moderate attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. There would be little point in Mr P 
giving up the guarantees available to him through a DB scheme only to achieve, at best, the 
same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, given the discount rates and the 
regulators middle projection rate were all below the lowest critical yield figure, I think Mr P 
was most likely to receive benefits of a substantially lower overall value than those provided by the PPF and the BSPS2 if he transferred to a personal pension, as a result of investing in 
line with that attitude to risk. 
Mulberry has provided our service with copies of cashflow simulations carried out at the time 
of the advice. These simulations were based on Mr P drawing a pension equivalent to the 
full pension hed have been entitled to under the BSPS2 (without taking TFC) at ages 60 and 
65. And these simulation indicate that, if he did this, while keeping his remaining fund 
invested, his fund would last into his late nineties, significantly beyond his life expectancy. 
But the lowest pessimistic growth rates used in these simulations were 6.85% for taking 
benefits at age 60 and 6.41% for taking benefits at age 65. Which based on Mr Ps ATR, the 
discount rate and regulators standard projections, dont appear likely to have been 
obtainable without taking more risk that Mr P was comfortable with. The TVAS included a 
section called drawdown income which indicated that, if Mr P drew an equivalent pension to 
that hed be entitled to under the BSPS2 at age 60, his fund would likely run out before he 
reached his life expectancy if the fund achieved the medium rate of return used in the report. 
And again, these models were based on simply replicating what he was already guaranteed 
 while introducing additional risk.
So overall, I think Mr P was always likely to receive lower retirement benefits by transferring 
to a personal pension. And for this reason alone, a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in 
Mr Ps best interests. Of course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving 
transfer advice. There might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, 
despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered this below.
Flexibility and income needs
The pension options document Mulberry says it discussed with Mr P suggested that 
transferring provided greater flexibility. And the recommendation letter Mulberry 
subsequently sent said Mr P wanted greater flexibility in terms of how he could access his 
benefits. With the indication being this was because he intended to retire at age 60 and had 
indicated hed likely require an income of £18,000 - £20,000. But I dont think Mr P required 
flexibility in retirement as I think he couldve met his objectives by staying in the DB scheme. 
Mr P couldnt take his DB scheme benefits flexibly. He could take a full pension on 
retirement, which hed then receive for the rest of his life, and which would continue to 
escalate. Or he could choose to take TFC and a reduced, escalating pension but would have 
to do so together. I havent seen anything to indicate that Mr P had a need for TFC  
particularly given he had no recorded debts at all. But in any event, I also havent seen 
anything to suggest Mr P intended to take his benefits in a different way than the DB scheme 
would allow  as it appears he intended to take his benefits continually from the time he 
retired, whether drawing TFC or not. So, the DB scheme couldve met his needs in this 
respect. And my understanding is he couldve taken benefits under the BSPS2 or the PPF at 
age 60  which he apparently intended to do.
The TVAS report indicated that if Mr Ps benefits moved into the PPF, at age 60 hed be 
entitled to an estimated annual full pension of £5,124.95 or a reduced annual pension of 
£4,250.16 and TFC of £28,334.41. Under the BSPS2 it was estimated that Mr P would be 
entitled to a full annual pension of £5,466 or a reduced pension of £3,932 and £26,219 TFC. 
All of these annual pension amounts wouldve continued to escalate in retirement. But 
clearly on their own wouldnt have met Mr Ps stated annual income need.
However, Mr P had another DB scheme  which had a normal retirement age of 60. And 
Mr P told Mulberry during the fact finding that a recent revaluation of this had indicated hed 
be entitled to a pension of £7,940 from age 60. And the information Ive seen indicates 
Mr Ps income entitlement under this scheme is actually more than he understood at the time.
Mr P also had savings of around £20,000 at the point of the advice. And his household 
income comfortably exceeded his outgoings. So, over the approximately 13 years until his 
intended retirement, he was in a position to increase his savings to help provide for his 
retirement.
Mr P also confirmed he was a member of the new defined contribution pension scheme his 
employer had put in place after the BSPS had closed. And he and his employers combined 
contributions to this were equivalent to 16% of his salary. He also said he intended to remain 
with his employer until his retirement during which time contributions would continue. And  
before even accounting for increases in salary, investment growth or Mr P increasing his 
contributions  by age 60 this fund wouldve been worth in excess of £70,000. And this fund 
couldve been used flexibly from age 60, to support the guaranteed escalating incomes from 
both of his DB schemes, to meet his retirement needs until he began receiving the state 
pension at age 67. 
Once he was in receipt of state pension, based on the amount it was estimated he would be 
due, this, plus the guaranteed benefits under Mr Ps DB schemes, wouldve met his income 
requirements. And that was before even accounting for any income Mrs P could contribute.
So, I dont think at the time of the advice, Mr P needed flexibility in his pension arrangements 
in order to meet his objectives.
Mulberry has said that BSPS2 wasnt confirmed at the point of the advice and was just a 
possibility so it couldnt have recommended that Mr P join that scheme and that this wasnt a 
genuine option. And if it hadnt gone ahead and Mr P hadnt transferred to a personal 
pension, he wouldve ended up in the PPF. 
I think Mulberry overestimated and has overstated the chance of the BSPS2 not happening. 
The restructuring of the BSPS had been ongoing for a significant amount of time by the time 
Mr P took advice. I understand Mr P had also received his time to choose pack by the time 
the advice was given  BSPS2 being one of the choices set out. And details of the scheme 
had been provided setting out that the BSPS2 wouldve offered the same income benefits, 
but the annual increases wouldve been lower. I think the trustees were confident at that 
point that it would go ahead. But in any event, as the figures Ive set out above indicate, 
even if Mr Ps pension had ended up in the PPF, I still think he couldve achieved his 
objectives.
Overall, Im satisfied Mr P could have met his income needs in retirement through the 
BSPS2 or the PPF and his other provisions at age 60. So, I dont think it was in Mr Ps best 
interests to make an irreversible decision to transfer his pension at the point he did just to 
have flexibility that he didnt need. Particularly given Mr P was 47 at the time of the advice. 
So, it was 8 years until he could take any benefits under the BSPS (whether he moved to the 
BSPS2 or the PPF) and 13 years before he apparently intended to retire. And so, while Mr P 
mightve had a plan in mind, given the time until he was intending to retire, I dont think those 
plans were finalised and couldve been subject to change, just as his circumstances and 
needs may have altered. 
Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr P. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr P might have thought it was a good idea to transfer to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to advise Mr P about 
what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily designed to provide 
income in retirement. And I dont think Mulberry explored to what extent Mr P was prepared 
to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr P 
was married and so the spouses pension provided by the DB scheme wouldve been useful 
to his spouse if Mr P predeceased her. I dont think Mulberry made the value of this benefit 
clear enough to Mr P. This was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not dependent on 
investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was. 
The sum remaining as a potential legacy wouldve also been reduced by any income Mr P 
drew in his lifetime. Mr P was in good health, so there wasnt anything to suggest he was 
unlikely to reach at least his average life expectancy. And as Ive mentioned, the TVAS 
suggested that if he did so and drew a pension equivalent to what hed have been due under 
the BSPS2, the fund wouldve been depleted by that point. So, the pension was unlikely to 
provide the legacy Mr P may have thought when he first considered the CETV. In any event, 
Mulberry should not have encouraged Mr P to prioritise the potential for higher death 
benefits through a personal pension over his security in retirement.
The fact find also recorded that Mr P had death in service benefits from his current 
employer, which appear to have been a more appropriate method by which to leave a 
legacy. The new defined contribution pension he was contributing to also provided 
alternative forms of death benefit to his DB schemes. And, if Mr P didnt think these were 
enough and genuinely wanted to leave a further legacy for his family, which didnt depend on 
investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, I think Mulberry 
shouldve instead explored life insurance. Which I cant see that it did.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr P. 
Control and concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
Mulberry says that Mr P wanted a clean break from his employer and wanted control over 
his pension, based on a general mistrust of how things had been handled to that point.
Firstly, I think Mr Ps desire for control over his pension benefits was overstated. Mr P was 
not an experienced investor and I cannot see that he had an interest in or the knowledge to 
be able to manage his pension funds on their own. Indeed, the recommendation letter 
suggested he would remain reliant on professional advisers. So, I dont think that having 
control was a genuine objective for Mr P  it was simply a consequence of transferring away 
from his DB scheme.
Im also conscious that while Mulberry says Mr P was keen for a clean break, he still 
worked for the same employer. And hadnt suggested he intended to find alternative 
employment. And he was a member of the new defined contribution pension scheme via his 
employer. So, he wasnt going to achieve a clean break by transferring, as he would remain 
tied to the employer in other respects. I think it also shouldve been mentioned that his 
employer and the pension scheme trustees were not entirely one and the same.
Its clear that Mr P, like many of his colleagues, was concerned about his pension. His 
employer had made the announcement about its plans for the scheme, the consultation had 
been ongoing for over a year and hed been recently told he needed to make a choice. And I 
dont doubt he was worried his pension would end up in the PPF or that hed heard negative 
things about the PPF and so thought this was something to be avoided and he was drawn to 
having more control over his pension fund. Its also quite possible that Mr P was also leaning towards the decision to transfer because of the concerns he had about his employer and his 
negative perception of the PPF. However, it was Mulberrys obligation to give Mr P an 
objective picture and recommend what was in his best interests.
As Ive explained, by this point details of BSPS2 were known and it seemed likely it was 
going ahead. And I think this shouldve alleviated some of Mr Ps concerns about the 
scheme moving to the PPF. Mulberry has said that Mr P didnt think the revaluation rates of 
the BSPS2 were that attractive. Im not sure as an inexperienced investor Mr P would 
necessarily have been able to make this assessment. But as Ive already explained, 
matching or exceeding the revaluation rate didnt mean that Mr P wouldve been better off. 
So, I think a fuller discussion around the BSPS2 shouldve taken place.
But even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that Mulberry 
shouldve reassured Mr P that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he 
thought. The income available to Mr P through the PPF wouldve still been guaranteed and 
escalated. It combined with his other provisions would still have met his goals. And he was 
unlikely to be able to exceed this by transferring out. And while the increases in payment in 
the PPF were lower, again the income was guaranteed and was not subject to any 
investment risk. So, I dont think that these concerns shouldve meant Mulberry 
recommending Mr P transfer out of the DB scheme altogether. 
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for alternative death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr P. And, as Ive 
said, he mayve gone into discussions with Mulberry thinking that transferring was a good 
idea. But Mulberry wasnt there to just transact what Mr P might have thought he wanted. 
The advisers role was to really understand what Mr P needed and recommend what was in 
his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr P to transfer was suitable or in his best 
interests. He was giving up a guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income through either the 
BSPS2 or the PPF. By transferring to a personal pension arrangement, in my opinion, Mr P 
was always very likely to obtain lower retirement benefits  either at age 65 or if he retired 
earlier at age 60 as he suggested  compared to either the BSPS2 or the PPF. In my view, 
there were no other particular reasons which would justify a transfer and outweigh this.  And 
overall, I dont think it was in Mr Ps best interests to transfer his DB scheme to a personal 
pension at the time, when he had the opportunity of opting into the BSPS2.
I appreciate that the BSPS2 hadnt been confirmed when the advice was given but, as Ive 
said, I think it was clear to all parties that it was likely to be going ahead. Mr P had over 12 
years before he expected to retire, and he didnt know for sure what his needs in retirement 
would be. So, I don't think that it would've been in his interest to accept the reduction in 
benefits he would've faced by the scheme entering the PPF, as it wouldn't be offset by the 
more favourable reduction for very early retirement. And by opting into the BSPS2, Mr P 
wouldve retained the ability to transfer out of the scheme nearer to his retirement age if his 
circumstances changed and he had the need to. Also, Mr P was married, and his wifes 
pension would be set at 50% of his pension at the date of death. The annual indexation of 
his pension when in payment was also more advantageous under the BSPS2. So, I think 
Mulberry shouldve advised Mr P to opt into the BSPS2.
Im mindful that by the time Mulberry provided Mr P with its recommendation, the deadline 
for opting into the BSPS2 had passed. However, Im satisfied that in giving Mr P advice on 
his options, Mulberry ought to have been aware of the deadline and ensured that it delivered 
its initial recommendation to Mr P before the deadline expired. And I think Mulberry had everything it needed to make that recommendation before 22 December 2017; it had 
completed the fact-find and attitude to risk assessment and had also completed the TVAS. 
So, I think Mulberry shouldve been able to advise Mr P to opt into the BSPS2 in time.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr P would've gone ahead and transferred anyway, 
against Mulberry's advice. Mulberry says it thinks Mr P wouldve always transferred. It has 
said he had obtained a CETV before contacting it and that he was adamant he wanted to 
transfer due to a mistrust of his employer. It has also argued that Mr P made an informed 
choice to proceed with the transfer.
Ive considered this carefully. Its true that Mr P does appear to have received a CETV 
before he was in touch with Mulberry. But, as Ive said, I understand by that time hed also 
been sent literature by the trustees of the BSPS saying that he needed to make a choice 
about his pension. Obtaining a CETV allowed him to make an informed choice. But I dont 
think this means his mind was already made up. Mr P had to take advice before he could 
transfer out and crucially, Mulberry wouldve always required the CETV to give him advice. 
So, I dont think the fact Mr P had obtained a CETV shows an intention on his part to transfer 
out of the DB scheme regardless of any advice he received.
Mr P was no doubt unhappy with the situation regarding the BSPS and his employers and 
couldve had a negative impression of them. Again, though the BSPS scheme trustees were 
not the same as his day to day employer contacts. And again, he still worked for the 
employer and hadnt indicated an intention to stop. He wasnt obtaining a clean break 
through a transfer, as Mulberry has suggested. And Mr P was an inexperienced investor who 
sought independent advice and guidance. 
I accept that Mulberry disclosed the risks of transferring to Mr P - albeit the transfer seems to 
have been begun before the final written recommendation was issued. And Mulberry 
provided him with a significant amount of information. But ultimately it advised Mr P to 
transfer out, and I think Mr P relied on that advice. 
Im not persuaded that Mr Ps concerns about his employer or the PPF were so great that he 
wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he 
had sought out, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. And if Mulberry 
had explained that Mr P was always unlikely to exceed the benefits available to him through 
the PPF if he transferred but could still meet his income needs, without incurring additional 
risk I think that wouldve carried significant weight. So, I dont think Mr P would have insisted 
on transferring out of the DB scheme.
In light of the above, I think Mulberry should compensate Mr P for the unsuitable advice, 
using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Our Investigator recommended that Mulberry also pay Mr P £250 for the distress caused by 
the unsuitable advice. I dont doubt that Mr P has been caused distress and concern by 
finding out the advice may not have been suitable  particularly given the circumstances and 
uncertainty under which he first asked for this advice. And Im conscious this upset wouldnt 
have happened but for the unsuitable advice. So, in the circumstances, I think the award the 
Investigator recommended is fair.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr P, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for Mulberrys unsuitable advice. I consider Mr P would 
have most likely opted to join the BSPS2, rather than transfer to the personal pension if he'd 
been given suitable advice. So, Mulberry should use the benefits offered by BSPS2 for comparison purposes.
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for 
non-compliant pension transfer advice. The consultation closed on 27 September 2022 with 
any changes expected to be implemented in early 2023.
In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers 
it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress. 
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 whilst the consultation takes place. 
But until changes take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their 
compensation to be calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that may come into 
force after the consultation has concluded.
Weve previously asked Mr P whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for any new guidance / rules to be published. 
Mr P has chosen not to wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle his complaint.  
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr P.
Mulberry must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, I understand Mr P has not retired yet, and is not due to do so for some time. So, 
in the circumstances, I think compensation should be based on his normal retirement age of 
65, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance. 
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ps acceptance of the decision.
Mulberry may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ps 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ps SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ps pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr P as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr P within 90 days of the date Mulberry receives notification 
of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Mulberry to pay Mr P.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect Mulberry to carry out a calculation in line with the 
updated rules and / or guidance in any event.
In addition, Mulberry should pay Mr P £250 for the distress caused by the disruption to his 
retirement planning.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Mulberry Wealth 
Management Limited to pay Mr P the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, 
up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require 
Mulberry Wealth Management Limited to pay Mr P any interest on that amount in full, as set 
out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Mulberry 
Wealth Management Limited to pay Mr P any interest as set out above on the sum of 
£160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Mulberry Wealth Management Limited pays Mr P the balance. I would additionally 
recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr P.
If Mr P accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Mulberry Wealth 
Management Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr P can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr P may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2022.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman