DRN-2162058
The complaint
Mr B complains about the way in which Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc trading as Post Office 
Financial Services handled his section 75 claim.   
What happened
 In March 2019 Mr B booked accommodation and paid £309.88 using his BOI credit card. 
When Mr B arrived at the accommodation, he found that it wasnt as described. He was 
unable to resolve matters with the merchant, so he raised a section 75 claim with BOI.
BOI asked Mr B to provide further information and told him that the claim had to be looked at 
first as a chargeback. It later acknowledged that this was incorrect information and offered to 
settle the section 75 claim as a gesture of goodwill by refunding 50% of the transaction 
(£154.94). It also offered £100 for trouble and upset.
Mr B wasnt happy with the outcome and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She was satisfied that there had been aa 
misrepresentation by the merchant. She took into consideration that Mr B had stayed at the 
accommodation for the duration of his stay and said BOI should refund 75% of the cost.
BOI didnt agree. It didnt think there was any basis to increase its offer to refund 50% of the 
cost. Amongst other things, it said the accommodation was advertised as having two 
bathrooms including a private bathroom and the fact that there was an en suite bathroom 
and an upstairs bathroom meant that this fell within the description of the accommodation. 
BOI said that Mr B hadnt complained about the accommodation whist he was there, and 
that if he had, he may have been moved to alternative accommodation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against a 
supplier of goods or the provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or a 
misrepresentation by the supplier. In order to uphold Mr Bs complaint about BOI, I would 
need to be satisfied that theres been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation, and that 
BOIs response to the claim under section 75 wasnt fair or reasonable. 
Firstly, Id like to set out my role here. In considering a complaint about a financial services 
provider (BOI), Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party (Mr B) might have 
under section 75. Rather, in deciding whats a fair and reasonable way to resolve Mr Bs 
complaint, Ive taken section 75 into account. But this doesnt mean Im obliged to reach the 
same outcome as, for instance, a court might reach if Mr B pursued a claim for breach of 
contract or misrepresentation. 
In order to prove that theres been a misrepresentation, Mr B would need to show that the 
supplier made an untrue statement of fact which induced him to enter into the contract.
Ive considered all of the issues complained about by Mr B. I wont comment on all of them 
but will instead focus on those which I think are most relevant. 
Mr B says that he booked accommodation which was described as a villa of 1614 square 
feet.  The villa was advertised (at the time when Mr B booked it) as having a dining area with 
a dining table. It was also described as having a private bathroom. The prices quoted on the 
booking website were per villa. 
Mr B says that when he arrived the accommodation was not a villa but was instead two 
rooms on different floors with shared bathroom facilities. He said the space available for him 
to use was not the 1614 square feet advertised and that there was no dining area or dining 
table.
Ive looked at the advertisement that Mr B saw when he booked the accommodation. Ive 
also looked at the pictures provided by Mr B and Ive compared these to the pictures on the 
accommodations website.
The advertisement states that the villa is 1614 square feet, that it has two private bathrooms 
and a dining area with a dining table. However, the evidence provided by Mr B shows that 
this wasnt as described. The accommodation wasnt a large villa but was instead two 
separate bedrooms on different floors of what turned out to be a hotel. There was an en 
suite bathroom in one of the rooms, but the other bathroom was a shared facility. There was 
no dining area or dining table available for Mr B to use. 
There are also some marked differences between the photos on the accommodations 
website and the photos supplied by Mr B. These differences go to the standard of the 
accommodation as opposed to a misrepresentation of what accommodation would be 
provided, so whilst Ive taken account of what Mr B has said about this, Ive focussed on the 
misrepresentation aspects of this complaint for the purposes of my decision. 
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that the accommodation was misrepresented to Mr B. 
I also need to consider whether the advertisement for the accommodation induced Mr B to 
enter into the contract. Mr B has explained that he wanted villa accommodation with private 
bathroom facilities and that he was travelling with guests who had food preferences and 
required an area to prepare food and dine in. Im persuaded that the main reasons Mr B 
booked the accommodation was because it was described a villa with the facilities he 
wanted. I dont think he would have booked the accommodation if hed been aware that it 
wasnt a villa but was instead two separate rooms with shared facilities.
Ive taken into account all of the points which BOI has made in response to the investigators 
view. Ultimately, and despite these points, the fact remains that Mr B booked 
accommodation which was advertised to him as a 1614 square feet villa with a private 
bathroom. On any analysis, its clear that this isnt what Mr B received. Whilst it may well be 
the case that if Mr B had complained whilst he was there, he may have been moved to 
alternate accommodation, but theres no evidence that this would have been possible (and 
no evidence that he could have been moved to what he booked which was a 1614 square 
foot villa).   
Putting things right
 The redress in circumstances like this would generally be to try and put the consumer back 
in the position they would be in had the representation not been made. I dont think Mr B 
would have booked this particular accommodation if hed known that it wasnt a villa. That said, its right to acknowledge that Mr B derived some benefit from the accommodation  
although it wasnt the accommodation experience he was expecting, he had a bed to sleep 
in and a breakfast on each morning. Taking this into account, I dont think it would be fair to 
require BOI to refund 100% of the cost of the accommodation, but because the 
accommodation was so different from what Mr B was led to expect, I think a 75% refund is 
reasonable. 
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc trading as Post 
Office Financial Services must refund Mr B 75% of the cost of the accommodation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 March 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman