DRN-2361022
The complaint
Mr T had a motor insurance policy with esure Insurance Limited when his car was damaged 
in an accident. He says esure provided very poor service to him after he reported it.
What happened
Mr T told us that he advised esure in November 2019 that another car had driven into his 
cherished vehicle and that the other driver was entirely to blame for the accident. The other 
driver fled the scene, but Mr T got his cars registration plate number. He told us he made it 
clear to esure that he wanted it to pursue the other driver and claim on his policy, and that he 
wanted to retain his car. 
esures agent collected Mr Ts car in order to assess the damage to it and esure contacted 
the other insurer. Mr T then received a cheque for £550 from esure in December 2019 with 
no explanation. He contacted esure to say he hadnt made a claim  and he didnt cash the 
cheque, or a further cheque he received later on. Mr T later reminded esures engineer that 
he wanted his car back, due to its sentimental value, so esure put a hold order on it. 
In April 2020, the other drivers insurer finally admitted full liability for the accident, but when 
esure contacted its agent to get the car back, it found it had been sold in error. As esure 
couldnt retrieve the car, Mr T said he wanted a brand-new car (or its cash value). When 
esure only offered him the cars market value, plus £450 for its error, and £150 for other poor 
service, Mr T complained to us. 
Our investigator thought esure had offered Mr T a fair sum representing his cars market 
value (minus the policy excess, which was later sent to Mr T) and had accepted that it had 
provided very poor service to him. The investigator thought its offer of £600 compensation in 
total for distress and inconvenience was reasonable. 
Mr T said the investigator hadnt understood the amount of distress hed faced as a result of 
esures poor service, especially when he hadnt made a claim on his policy. He also said 
esure hadnt paid him enough for the car, and he thought it had profited from the cars sale, 
as the other drivers insurer had paid the claim, not esure. 
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T told esure from the start that if he couldnt claim off the other drivers insurance, he 
didnt want to make a claim on his own policy. I think that was understandable, as the 
accident wasnt Mr Ts fault and he didnt want his no claims discount (NCD) to be affected. 
He was told by the advisor that he could contact the other insurer directly or alternatively 
esure would contact the other insurer and he could decide what to do later on, after the car 
had been assessed. But for whatever reason, esure dealt with the claim on his policy when 
Mr T hadnt said he wanted it to do that, so the issue is how he was affected by it.
Had he claimed on the other drivers policy, Mr T would eventually have been offered the 
market value for his car by that insurer, without a deduction for the policy excess. He could 
have discussed the valuation with it, but I think its unlikely hed have been offered more for 
the car than esure paid him. The other insurer is very likely to have relied on the valuations 
in the national trade guides, just as esure did, as thats standard practice. The trade guides 
base their valuations on extensive research of likely selling prices for cars nationwide.  
As Mr T wouldnt then have made a claim on his own policy, his NCD wouldnt have been 
affected. But when the other insurer accepted liability in April 2020, esure sent the policy 
excess to Mr T and his NCD was restored. So I dont think he  lost out financially as a result 
of esure dealing with the claim, although I understand why he wasnt happy with the process. 
Mr T has said several times that esure only paid him a third of what he considered to be the 
cars value, although he hasnt explained the basis for that opinion. Mr T was entitled to the 
cars pre-accident market value. We think the fairest way to establish market value is to rely 
on the valuations set out in the trade guides. esures engineer consulted them and Mr T was 
offered £1,110, which was in line with the valuations the engineer found. 
Weve checked the valuations in the trade guides esure used, plus those in another two 
trade guides that it didnt use. All the valuations were very close together and the highest 
one was £1,113. So I think esure made a fair market value offer to Mr T. Had Mr T been able 
to retain the car, a significant salvage deduction from the market value sum would have 
been made for that, in line with standard industry practice.  
  
Understandably, Mr T had a strong emotional attachment to the car, as it belonged to his 
late mother. He suggested to esure that - although the car was irreplaceable - providing him 
with a brand-new one would go some way towards acknowledging its sentimental value. He 
later told us that the suggestion was made in order to arrive at a compromise about the 
valuation and that he didnt really expect esure to pay him the sum hed proposed. 
I have no doubt that the cars value to Mr T was far greater than its market value, but Mr Ts 
entitlement (from esure or from the other insurer) was limited to the market value. Mr T could 
have discussed the valuation with the engineer earlier had he replied to the text sent to him 
by esure advising him of its offer and inviting him to accept or decline it. The text was sent 
before the cheque was issued to Mr T in December 2019  and the payment was only made 
because esure thought hed accepted the offer (as there was no reply to the text).
  
When Mr T first complained about the valuation, the engineer said he could cancel the claim 
and Mr T could have the car back  or it could be left with esures agent (on hold) until 
liability for the accident was sorted out. Mr T didnt say he wanted the car back then, so it 
remained  with esures agent, with an instruction not to sell it. In further conversations with 
esure in January 2020 - when Mr T pointed out that hed never made a claim - he was told 
he could destroy the cheque esure had sent him and have the car back. Mr T said he 
wanted esure to continue to pursue liability and didnt ask for the car to be returned. So I 
think esure gave Mr T options if he wasnt happy with the way the claim was being handled.  
The other insurer didnt accept liability until April 2020. In May 2020 when esures engineer 
told Mr T the car would be returned to him, he didnt know it had been sold in error. Mr T 
thinks esure lied to him, but I dont think theres any evidence that it did. As the new owner 
bought the car in good faith, esure couldnt get it back, so the only way it could try to deal 
with the agents error was by offering Mr T compensation. I think £450 was a fair offer. A new car would have cost around £22,000. Mr T hasnt said how far hed have been prepared 
to compromise on that sum, but I dont think it was unreasonable for esure not to negotiate. 
esure had already offered Mr T £150 for the poor service he got when trying to contact it. For 
part of the period, that was caused by problems relating to the pandemic. But esure 
accepted that it should have offered Mr T better service. I think £150 was a reasonable sum 
to make up for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr T by the initial poor service. 
I dont think Mr T can show that esure profited from the claim. The other insurer would have 
refunded esures outlay, once it accepted full liability for the accident. But esure would have 
had to pass on to the other insurer the proceeds of the cars sale, in exchange for the sum 
that insurer had refunded esure for the payment it had made to Mr T
  
In my opinion, esure tried to put Mr T back in the position he was in when he first contacted 
it. esure paid him the pre-accident market value for the car, later returning the policy excess 
and restoring his NCD when liability was resolved. It compensated him for its poor service 
with a total payment of £600. We think thats a substantial amount - and its in line with the 
sum Id have required esure to pay Mr T had it not done so already. In addition, esure 
apologised to Mr T for the loss of the car in its correspondence with him. 
I appreciate that Mr T was very badly affected by the loss of the car in particular, and I 
sympathise with the situation hes had to deal with. But given its sentimental value, the cars 
loss cant be compensated for in monetary terms. I think esure made a fair attempt to put 
matters right, and to acknowledge Mr Ts distress. So although I know Mr T will be 
disappointed with my decision, I dont think it would be reasonable to uphold his complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 May 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman