DRN-4229607
The complaint
Mrs E complains that Mortgage Express (MEx) went ahead with a repossession of her Buy 
To Let (BTL) property, despite her offer of partial payment and a private sale. She said it 
then sold her house at well below the market value, leaving her facing a shortfall.
What happened
Mrs E bought a BTL property some years ago, on an interest only mortgage. She said shed 
planned to hold the property for a while, then sell. But the value of the house dropped, and 
Mrs E said she was left in negative equity. The mortgage ended in 2017. Mrs E said putting 
the property on the market with an agent wouldnt have realised enough to pay the loan, and 
her efforts to sell it privately werent successful.
Mrs E said she kept making her payments, and some overpayments. MEx gave her grace 
periods to try to sell. Mrs E told us about some difficult personal circumstances during this 
time. But in December 2021, MEx told Mrs E it had instructed solicitors to begin possession 
proceedings. 
Mrs E said she was still trying to sell, but the buyers purchase funds didnt come through. 
She said repossession was averted on a few occasions in 2022, but because there was no 
formal confirmation of a sale moving ahead, MEx took possession of the property on 7 
October 2022. Mrs E said the value of properties in the area had been increasing, and shed 
pleaded with MEx to allow her to make further overpayments and also put the property on 
the market with a local agent within the week. Mrs E said she thought that would let her 
repay the mortgage and have some money left over as a nest egg.
MEx refused, and took possession. Mrs E said then she didnt hear anything from MEx, and 
had to chase to find out what was happening. She told us it took a month for MEx just to put 
the property on the market. When it was listed, it was with an agent in another town, and well 
below the valuations she said shed received from two local agents. 
Mrs E said she complained, but MEx gave her the wrong address, and her letter of complaint 
was returned. The house price was then reduced, and Mrs E said her complaint wasnt dealt 
with until the house had sold. 
Mrs E said she was left with a considerable shortfall, and she was now deeply worried about 
how she would pay this.
MEx has shown our service responses it sent to previous complaints by Mrs E. In October 
2018, it wrote to say that her interest only mortgage had ended in August 2017, and she 
hadnt yet paid back the capital. MEx had put legal action on hold, as Mrs E said then that 
the property was being sold, but after the planned completion date passed with no sale, legal 
action was then due to resume. 
MEx sent us a further complaint response from February 2022. That was a lengthy 
response, which set out a detailed history of the mortgage since the original mortgage term 
ended. The letter set out a number of times when MEx had granted grace periods, deferring 
legal action, because Mrs E had told it about a sale in progress, but unfortunately no such 
sale had gone through, starting in April 2018, and running up to September 2021. MEx also 
said Mrs E told it shed tried, and failed, to remortgage elsewhere. 
MEx said it cancelled the hearing due to take place in January 2022, because Mrs E 
received no notice of the hearing. Mrs E said again then that a sale was progressing. But 
MEx said it had again received no evidence of a sale in progress, so it planned to go ahead 
with proceedings once Mrs E had been made aware of these. 
MEx also sent our service its response to this complaint by Mrs E. It said it had responded to 
many of the points Mrs E was raising now, in its previous letter. And it thought it had acted 
reasonably once the property was in its possession. 
MEx said it got valuations from two estate agents and from an independent qualified 
surveyor before taking any decision about the price to set for marketing purposes. It then put 
the property on the market just over a month after it was taken into possession, which MEx 
thought was reasonable. 
MEx said it was governed by the relevant Code, the Mortgage Conduct of Business rules, 
which said it had to market the property as soon as possible, and obtain the best price 
that might reasonably be paid, taking account of the factors such as market conditions as 
well as the continuing increase in the amount owed by the customer under the regulated 
mortgage contract.
So MEx pointed out that in a sale like this, it has to take account of the arrears that were 
building up on Mrs Es outstanding mortgage. That meant it couldnt just extend time for a 
sale to happen. It reviewed the position within a month of beginning marketing, and because 
there had been no interest at all, it reduced the price. The property then sold. Unfortunately, 
it did leave a shortfall. No further interest would be charged on that.
MEx was satisfied it had correctly followed the accepted industry practice and guidance, 
before selling Mrs Es property for the best price possible under the circumstances. It didnt 
think it had done anything wrong in the sale. It said it was sorry it hadnt dealt with Mrs Es 
complaint before the sale, but that was just due to the pressure of work at the time.
MEx accepted it had given Mrs E the wrong address for her complaint letter. It offered her 
£50 to cover the cost of postage and phone calls. 
Our investigator said we couldnt look at what happened up until the February 2022 letter, 
because Mrs E hadnt complained to our service in time. Both sides have accepted that. 
Our investigator thought we could look at Mrs Es complaints that MEx refused to allow her 
to make overpayments and privately sell the property in October 2022, and that it sold her 
property for less than it was worth leaving her a shortfall. But he didnt think those complaint 
points should be upheld. 
Our investigator said he could only see one instance where Mrs E offered a lump-sum 
payment to cancel the eviction, on 31 August 2022. MEx said then it would cancel the 
eviction if Mrs Es solicitor provided documentation evidencing an exchange and completion 
date for the ongoing sale. But no evidence was provided and so the eviction was re-instated. 
Our investigator thought that was reasonable. Our investigator said MEx took professional advice on how to price Mrs Es property, and he 
thought it had made a reasonable decision based on that advice. As there was unfortunately 
no interest in the property, it was reasonable for MEx to then reduce the price. Our 
investigator said it was very unlikely to sell for the much higher value Mrs E was given. 
Mrs E didnt agree. She said there might not be written evidence of her offering further 
overpayments if MEx allowed her to market the property herself, but she had phoned MEx 
on the morning of the repossession, 7 October, to plead with them over the phone. But MEx 
refused. Mrs E said shed made further payments, but MEx had added substantial fees, and 
shed had no breakdown of these.
Mrs E said the two local agents she spoke to were more than confident they could secure a 
sale, for considerably more, in a local market which was still buoyant in October 2022. She 
thought MEx was only worried about recovering what it was owed. Mrs E said shed bought 
another local property too, and run into problems with that one as well. She contrasted the 
treatment she received from that lender with MExs behaviour. 
Our investigator didnt change his mind. He said there wasnt evidence of a call on the date 
of the repossession, so he couldnt say MEx had acted unfairly in not stopping the eviction 
on the day. And he said if Mrs E was unhappy she hadnt received a breakdown of fees 
charged, shed need to raise that as an issue with MEx before our service could look into 
that for her. 
On the price achieved by MEx, he thought just because an estate agent gave Mrs E an initial 
estimate of what they felt was achievable on her property, doesnt mean that it wouldve 
been guaranteed to sell for this amount. Our investigator thought that if the figure Mrs E had 
been given was realistically achievable, then the figure MEx first marketed the property at 
(which was £20,000 lower than the price Mrs E was given) would definitely have been 
achievable. But even that much lower price generated no interest at all. 
Our investigator said he understood Mrs Es point about the different treatment shed 
experienced with another lender, but said we could only look at what MEx had done here.
Mrs E still thought if shed been able to repaint and repair the house, to make it more 
appealing, she could have achieved a better price with a local agent. Mrs E wanted an 
ombudsman to consider her complaint, so it was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
MEx has shared with our service a considerable amount of the previous history on Mrs Es 
mortgage account. Like our investigator, I dont think our service is able to consider the 
issues that Mrs E has previously complained about, and received a final response letter for 
in February 2022. But I do think the previous history on this account is relevant to what has 
happened since, and Ive taken that into account in reaching my decision. 
In short, Mrs Es mortgage fell due in 2017. Since then, she has been trying to arrange a 
private sale of the mortgaged property, unfortunately without success. In 2022, MEx 
renewed its possession proceedings. Mrs E complained that MEx wouldnt let her make an overpayment and sell the property in 
October 2022, but instead went ahead with a scheduled eviction. And she says MEx then 
sold the property for considerably less than it was worth. 
Our investigator said he could only see that Mrs E had made an offer of a lump sum on 31 
August, when Mrs E offered £8,000 from her savings, and said a friend would also contribute 
£20,000 shortly. At that time MEx cancelled eviction proceedings, and asked for evidence of 
an exchange and completion date for a sale Mrs E said was ongoing. As no evidence was 
provided, MEx then rebooked a new eviction date. Our investigator thought this was 
reasonable, and I also think that. 
Mrs E said there wouldnt be written evidence of the later offer, because it was done over the 
phone. But I note that MEx keeps call logs, and does seem to have what appear to be quite 
comprehensive notes from the time.
I cant see notes of a call on the date Mrs E refers to, 7 October. I can see Mrs E had made 
a request for a redemption statement close to the time of the eviction, and it looks as if MEx 
did try to contact Mrs E the day before the possession action, to check again whether there 
was yet firm evidence of a sale going ahead. 
By this time, I think MEx had made its position clear. It wouldnt defer the possession action 
again, without proof Mrs Es sale was finally going ahead. As MEx had previously deferred 
possession on this basis, and not received the requested proof of a sale proceeding, most 
recently at the end of August 2022, I dont think MEx had to defer again in October 2022, 
without evidence a sale would complete. This evidence unfortunately wasnt produced in 
October. So I dont think it was unreasonable for MEx to go ahead with the eviction.
Mrs E said MEx then sold the property for much less than it was worth. I dont agree. I think 
MEx acted reasonably quickly, once it had possession of the property, to arrange for the 
property to be cleaned and prepared for sale, and to obtain valuations and decide an initial 
price, before it then put the property on the market. 
MEx got valuations from a qualified surveyor and two separate estate agents. These 
valuations set out a market value and gave advice on an asking price. I think that the initial 
price set by MEx was in line with this advice. 
MEx had been advised that, at this price, the property would generate interest, and should 
have about ten viewings in the first two weeks. But the market had experienced a slowdown, 
and no viewings took place. I note that MEx then reviewed the asking price promptly, at this 
point, and reduced the price accordingly. 
I should say, for the avoidance of doubt, that I dont think it would have been appropriate for 
MEx to wait, and hope the market would improve. There was, of course, no guarantee it 
would do so, and in the meantime Mrs Es debt would continue to increase. I know that a 
lower selling price would leave Mrs E with a shortfall, but I do think the price reduction MEx 
made was appropriate in the circumstances.
The property then sold at £100,000. I know that Mrs E is very worried about how she will pay 
this shortfall, and Im sorry to hear about the difficulties shes now facing. But I dont think 
that is because of mistakes that MEx made, either in proceeding with the eviction in October 
2022, or in arranging the subsequent sale. I know MEx offered £50 for giving Mrs E the wrong address to send her complaint, and I 
cant see that this has yet been paid. I think that is a fair and reasonable way of resolving 
that part of Mrs Es complaint, so Ill require MEx to pay that now, if it hasnt already done so.
I dont think MEx has to do more than that, in this case. I know Mrs E will be disappointed, 
but I dont think her complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
My final decision is that Mortgage Express must pay Mrs E £50 in compensation which it 
offered in its final response letter of 2 March 2023, if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2023. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman