DRN-3684813
The complaint
Mr L complains that Santander UK Plc were unable to recall a £10,000 payment which he 
sent in error. 
Mr L is represented by his wife in bringing this complaint. But for ease of reading, Ill refer to 
any submission and comments she has made as being made by Mr L himself.
What happened
Mr L made a transfer of £10,000 from his personal account, to what he thought was his 
business account on 2 February 2021, however, the funds went to a third party instead. Mr L 
contacted Santander, who tried to recall the funds. They said he would receive a letter with 
the outcome. They werent able to recall the funds as the recipient wouldnt return the funds. 
Mr L said he did not receive a letter with the outcome. Mr L made a complaint to Santander.
Santander did not uphold Mr Ls complaint. They said he had completed a faster payment 
online and they followed their process to recall the funds, however, this was unsuccessful. 
They apologised for saying he would receive a letter as this was a miscommunication and 
they said they sent him a text message instead, informing him the case had been dealt with 
and closed. Santander said no further action could be taken with them to recall the funds 
and they advised him of his next steps, such as speaking to a solicitor in order to retrieve the 
funds from the third party recipient. 
Mr L said Santander hadnt responded to his follow up requests to see where the money had 
gone. He brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator upheld his complaint in part. 
She said that he had input incorrect beneficiary details when setting up the payment initially, 
so she couldnt hold the bank liable for the money being sent to the wrong place. She said 
that there was an onus on him to ensure the payment details were correct before sending. 
Our investigator said that Santanders terms and conditions state they will make reasonable 
efforts to recover any money paid out as a result of an incorrect payment. She said since it 
wasnt the bank who made the payment in the first place and because they raised a recall to 
try and recover the funds, she was satisfied Santander acted fairly and reasonably here on a 
best endeavour basis, but they were unsuccessful in doing so.
Our investigator said Santanders contact notes stated Mr L would receive a text message to 
confirm the outcome of their investigation, however, she hadnt seen any evidence to show 
the text message had been sent, which resulted in Mr L chasing up Santander. She said 
Santander should pay him £100 for the poor customer service, as he was not aware the 
investigation had been completed. 
Mr L asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He made a number of points. In 
summary, he said Santanders system did not check if the name of the recipients account 
matched their business name as he did not enter any account information on Santanders
banking page apart from selecting his company name from the drop down menu. He said the 
recipient who received the funds was a contractor that he used previously, and he denies 
that he received the funds and no longer answers Mr Ls calls or emails.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything 
hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be 
focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
Id like to explain to Mr L that it is not within this services remit to tell a business what their 
reasonable efforts should consist of to recover any money paid out as a result of an incorrect 
payment. It would be the role of the regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority, who have 
the power to instruct Santander to make changes to their policies and procedures, if 
necessary. Our service acts as an informal dispute resolution service for complaints about 
financial businesses. We look at the circumstances of individual complaints and, on a case 
by case basis, taking into account relevant industry guidance for example, make findings 
about whether a financial business has failed their customer.
Santanders terms and conditions state that they will try to use reasonable efforts to recover 
any money paid out of your account or not paid into your account as a result of the failed or 
incorrect payment. So Ive considered whether Santander have followed their process here. 
Im satisfied they have and Ill explain why.
Santander have explained to me that as part of their customer payment recovery process, 
they contacted the third party recipient by telephone, but they did not receive a reply to the 
call. They also sent the customer a letter, but they have not received a response from the 
third party recipient. Santander have said that their process does not require a call being 
made to the recipient, but this was attempted on this occasion. Santander said they must 
obtain debit authority from the recipient and they couldnt return the funds without it. So this 
is why the payment recovery was unsuccessful here. 
Ive considered what Mr L has said about Santanders system not checking if the name of 
the recipients account matches his business name as he did not enter any account 
information on Santanders banking page apart from selecting his company name from the 
drop down menu. But here, he selected a mandate, which he had previously sent money 
to, which he had not deleted after it was set up in 2019 (mandate number four). And when 
he sent the money to the contractor previously, the evidence shows from Santanders 
screenshots they sent me, that Mr L had entered his own business name on the payment to 
the contractor.
As the payment was originally set up prior to the confirmation of payee scheme which 
Santander have explained came into force for them in May 2020, then this is why no 
confirmation of a payee was completed here, as this was a historic bill payment set up on 27 
May 2019. 
From the screenshots that Santander have sent us, when making a payment to a historic 
mandate, it would still show the sort code and account number and ask the customer to 
check the details before confirming the payment. So I cant hold Santander responsible for 
the incorrect payment when Mr L selected the incorrect recipient  of which he had 
completed the details of this mandate originally in May 2019. 
Im sorry to hear that the third party recipient is no longer returning Mr Ls phone calls or 
emails. Our investigator and Santander have set out the next steps that Mr L may wish to 
consider taking in order to try and reclaim the payment, so I would urge him to speak to any of the third parties theyve suggested.
Ive considered the service which Santander provided Mr L here. They told him a letter would 
be sent to him to communicate the outcome of their investigation. But they didnt send a 
letter to him and they admit this appears to be a miscommunication that a letter would be 
sent. Although Santander say they had sent Mr L a text message to communicate the 
outcome, we havent been provided evidence that this has been sent. And Mr L has detailed 
that they hadnt responded to his chase up requests, which would have been distressing at a 
time where he was already distressed at making an incorrect payment and this would 
inconvenience him for having to chase them up. 
So Im satisfied that it would only be fair for Santander to pay Mr L compensation for the 
impact the poor customer service would have had on him. Im satisfied that £100 would be 
reasonable and in line with our established guidelines for what happened here. So it follows 
that Santander should pay Mr L £100 for distress and inconvenience. 
Putting things right
Our investigator has suggested that Santander pays Mr L £100 which I think is fair in the 
circumstances. Im persuaded this reflects the impact on Mr L for Santander providing him 
poor customer service in relation to their investigation of the incorrect payment. 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint in part. Santander UK Plc should pay Mr L £100 for distress and 
inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman