DRN-3979178
The complaint
Miss H complains that Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending Stream (Lending Stream) didnt
carry out sufficient proportionate affordability checks before it granted her loans which she
couldnt afford to repay because she was in financial difficulties at the time.
What happened
Miss H was advanced three loans between August 2018 and October 2018. Ive included
some of the information weve received about these loans in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
monthly 
instalmentshighest 
repayment
1 £100.00 09/08/2018 outstanding 6 £25.16
2 £500.00 12/10/2018 outstanding 6 £181.48
3 £110.00 16/10/2018 outstanding 6 £38.97
Miss H has had some problems repaying her loans and it looks like that she hasnt made
any repayments to either loan 2 or loan 3. As a result of these repayment problems,
Lending Stream has said the outstanding balances have been passed to a third-party
collection agency.
The highest repayment column is the largest amount due per loan, so where loans
overlapped the cost will be greater. For example, when all loans were running concurrently,
Miss Hs commitment to Lending Stream was £245.61 per month.
Following Miss Hs complaint, Lending Stream wrote to her to explain that it wasnt going to
uphold the complaint because it had carried out proportionate checks which showed the
loans were affordable. Unhappy, Miss H, then referred the complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.
An adjudicator reviewed the complaint and didnt uphold it. She thought Lending Stream had 
made a reasonable decision to provide these loans because Lending Stream had carried out 
proportionate checks.
Lending Stream agreed with the outcome the adjudicator had reached.
Miss H didnt agree, she said that when she hadnt paid back the first loan that ought to have
led Lending Stream to question what it knew about her financial position. In Miss Hs view 
Lending Stream needed to have carried out further checks before loans 2 and 3 were 
granted.
The case was passed to me, and I issued my provisional decision explaining the reasons 
why I was not intending to uphold Miss Hs complaint based on the information that I 
currently had. However, I was satisfied the checks Lending Stream had carried out for loans 
2 and 3 werent likely to be proportionate and it shouldve gone further with its checks. A 
copy of the provisional findings follows this in italics and smaller font and forms part of this 
final decision.
Both Lending Stream and Miss H were asked to provide anything further for consideration as 
soon as possible, but in any event, no later than 21 February 2022.  
Lending Stream responded to say that it agreed with the proposed outcome. 
Miss H hasnt responded to the provisional decision. 
The deadline for responses has now passed, and I see no reason to delay the issuing the 
final decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Lending Stream had to assess the lending to check if Miss H could afford to pay back the
amounts shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was
proportionate to the circumstances. Lending Streams checks couldve taken into account a
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments,
and Miss Hs income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Lending Stream should
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss H. These factors
include:
Miss H having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Miss H having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Miss H coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Miss H. As Miss H only had three
loans, the adjudicator didnt think this applied to her case.
Lending Stream was required to establish whether Miss H could sustainably repay the loans
 not just whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having
enough money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Miss H was able
to repay her loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, andthought about what this means for Miss Hs complaint.
Neither Lending Stream nor Miss H appear to disagree with the outcome the adjudicator
reached about loan 1. I therefore no longer think the loan is in dispute and so I say no more
about it. But I have kept them in mind when thinking about the overall lending relationship.
Loans 2 and 3
For these loans, Lending Stream carried out the same types of checks. It started by asking
Miss H about her income and expenditure.
For both of these loans, Miss H declared she had a monthly income of £1,707. For loan 2,
she also declared monthly outgoings of £600 and then £750 four days later when loan 3 was
approved. This wouldve led Lending Stream to believe that Miss H had at least £995 of
monthly disposable income to afford the largest combined monthly repayment (due for loans
1  3) of nearly £246 per month. Based, solely on the income and expenditure details, loans
2 and 3 looked affordable.
In addition, before these loans were approved, Lending Stream says it also carried out a
credit search. It is worth saying here that although Lending Stream carried out a credit
search there isnt a regulatory requirement to do one, let alone one to a specific standard.
Therefore, its entirely possible that the information Lending Stream received may not
entirely reflect the information Miss D may be able to view in her actual credit report. There
could be a number of reasons for this, such as Lending Stream only asking for certain pieces
of information like the number of active credit accounts. But what Lending Stream couldnt
do is carry out a credit search and then not react to the to the information it received.
Looking at the credit file, I do think there was enough in the results Lending Stream has
provided to have alerted it that Miss H may have been having financial difficulties. To be
clear, I am not saying that Lending Stream shouldnt have provided these loans, only the
credit check results ought to have prompted it to have made further enquires with Miss H.
For both loans, it knew that Miss H had three accounts marked as being in default on her
credit file  which was an increase on two from loan one, only two months before. Not just
that, but the value of defaulted accounts had increased from £4,000 to £5,700. The most
recent of these defaults had been recorded only three months before these loans  this is in
my view close enough to suggest that Miss H may have been having financial difficulties.
On top of this, it knew, in total, Miss H had five delinquent accounts and it had only been one
month since the most recent account entered delinquency (so for example Miss H had
missed a payment). Again, this is close enough to the loans that Lending Stream ought to
have considered that Miss H may have been having financial difficulties and so shouldve
taken steps to investigate Miss Hs financial position further.
Therefore, I think it needed to gain a full understanding of Miss Hs actual financial position
to ensure the loans were affordable and sustainable. This couldve been done in several
ways, such as asking for evidence of her outgoings, or looking at bank statements and/or
Miss Hs full credit file.
However, that isnt the end of the matter. For me to be able to uphold these loans, I have to
be satisfied that had Lending Stream carried out what I consider to be a proportionate check
it wouldve likely discovered that Miss H couldnt afford them, or Lending Stream was given
evidence that indicated the loans were unsustainable in some other way.
Miss H hasnt provided a copy of her credit file, bank statements or any other documentation
covering the period leading up to the loans 2 and 3 being advanced. Without anything
further, I cant be sure what Lending Stream may have seen had it carried out better checks.
So, I cant fairly uphold the complaint about these loans.Although Lending Stream didnt carry out proportionate checks, Im not able to conclude that
further checks wouldve led it to conclude that loans 2 and 3 shouldnt have been advanced.
So, Im intending to not uphold Miss Hs complaint about her loans.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lending Stream agreed with the findings that were outlined in the provisional decision and 
Miss H hasnt provided anything new for me to consider. Therefore, I see no reason to 
depart from the findings that I reached in the provisional decision.
I still think Lending Stream before loans two and three were granted ought to have carried 
out further checks given the results it was provided from the credit reference agency. But Im 
not in a position to uphold these loans because I dont know what further checks may have 
shown Lending Stream. 
Im therefore not upholding Miss Hs complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im not upholding 
Miss Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman