DRN-2230280
The complaint
Mr S complains that Lloyds Bank PLC has blocked a payment he was trying to make using 
an app on his phone.
What happened
Mr S said payments he was trying to make using apps on his phone were being blocked by 
Lloyds. This complaint is about an instance when Mr S had queued for petrol, only to find 
that his payment through the stations app wasnt authorised. Instead, Lloyds texted him, to 
say if he replied, it would clear the payment within ten minutes. Mr S explained that he didnt 
want to enter retail premises at the moment for health reasons, and that he wasnt prepared 
to sit in his car for ten minutes to wait for the payment to clear. So he said he had to leave, 
and return later. 
Mr S says he uses this app often, and it requires biometric security. He thinks this is in fact 
more secure than just a reply to a text message, which is what Lloyds wanted him to do to 
identify himself. Mr S told us that Lloyds had blocked payments made through apps several 
times previously, including when trying to use his phones payment app in the supermarket, 
and hed had to abandon his groceries. 
Mr S said these apps were more robust than contactless payment. He thought Lloyds was 
just trying to discourage the use of these apps to save costs. 
Mr S wanted Lloyds to reassure him that transactions which are regular and within his usual 
spending pattern, and protected by biometric security, wouldnt be blocked. He wanted an 
apology for blocking his transaction and rejecting his complaints. And he wanted 
compensation for the inconvenienced and cost he incurred. 
Lloyds said that card security is its priority. The fraud team had confirmed a fraud block was 
placed on Mr Ss account on the date he complained about, and Mr S verified the payment 
on the same day to use his card again. Lloyds said it understood Mr Ss frustration at having 
to get in touch, but the blocks were put in place for the protection of his account. It wouldnt 
guarantee that this wouldnt happen again in future. 
When Lloyds wrote to us, it said that this hadnt happened to Mr S before. The only other 
time it had declined a transaction in 2020 was when there was no address match for Mr S, 
which happened twice in March, on two separate transactions. He had also had a later petrol 
payment flagged, but he was able to make this payment successfully. 
Lloyds said that the payments Mr S was making werent chip and pin verified, so the system 
appeared to be checking against Mr Ss address. Lloyds said it couldnt prevent this 
happening again, but if Mr S checked his address on any app he was using was the same as 
the address Lloyds hold for him, and also avoided using the Wi-Fi away from home when 
using any payment app, that might assist. 
Lloyds didnt think it had done anything wrong by blocking this transaction. And it said that 
the terms of Mr Ss account allow it to do this.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He thought it was 
understandable why Lloyds wouldve flagged this transaction. Lloyds does occasionally flag 
transactions and require extra verification before transactions can be processed. And our 
investigator said he hadnt seen anything to suggest this was done deliberately. He said he 
wouldnt be asking Lloyds to do anything further. 
Mr S said he wanted this complaint looked at by an ombudsman. He said this only happened 
with the app, and only at his local petrol station. He said Lloyds had told him it had higher 
than average fraud with this app, but wouldnt offer any further information on that. And Mr S 
then said the problem had happened again, Lloyds had blocked a transaction on the same 
app for £20 and locked his whole account. 
Our investigator said that Mr S would have to discuss this most recent incident with Lloyds 
before we could look at it. The case was then passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator.
Mr S told us he thinks access to the app he uses to pay for petrol is just as secure as access 
to any text message sent by Lloyds to his phone. I do recognise the point he makes there. 
But we simply dont know how secure the app itself is otherwise, for instance, how resistant 
it is to external hacking. 
I think its reasonable for Lloyds to be concerned when Mr S is making a large payment 
through a system it doesnt control. Mr S has suggested that more recent payments were for 
relatively low amounts, but I can see that the blocked payment that Mr S complained about 
was for £100. I dont know if Mr S was trying to spend that much on petrol, or if the app just 
takes a large pre-authorised amount then returns the rest. But this is very significantly over 
the amount that can be spent through a contactless payment. 
Like our investigator, I dont think that Lloyds has blocked this app for sinister reasons, like 
trying to prevent Mr S from using the app. I havent seen anything to suggest that Lloyds 
blocked this payment for any reason except a desire to protect Mr Ss account. I do 
understand that this was frustrating, and that Mr S doesnt want to use alternatives that 
would involve going into a store. But Lloyds has shown us that it will clear payments if Mr S 
gets in touch, and that it can do so very quickly, so I dont think Lloyds is preventing Mr S 
from accessing his account. 
Ive considered this complaint carefully, and I recognise the inconvenience to Mr S, but I 
dont think Lloyds has done anything wrong, so I wont ask it to do more. My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2020.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman