DRN-2379337
The complaint
Mr B complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC has treated a transaction as a cash
transaction, when he says it doesnt fall within Tescos definition of cash transactions. He 
also raised questions over how he was notified of what counts as a cash transaction.
What happened
Mr B told us he bought an expensive watch. He paid £3,480 using his Tesco credit card.
That was a deposit, half of the full purchase price, and he entered into a 24-month finance
agreement to pay the rest. He then discovered that hed been charged a fee of £138.86 plus
interest of £2.23 on the transaction by Tesco.
Mr B cast doubt on how Tesco had notified him of a change to his terms and conditions
which expanded the definition of cash transactions. And he also said that, even using this
expanded definition, the purchase shouldnt have been treated as a cash transaction.
Mr B wanted Tesco to pay him back what hed been charged. He wanted Tesco to pay
compensation too, for the time hed put into making this complaint, and to punish it for its
behaviour in this complaint.
Tesco said it had issued a notice of variation in April 2018, telling customers of changes to
their terms and conditions. That notice said Tesco would be changing the types of
transactions that it classifies as cash transactions, and also the fees it would charge for that.
Cash transactions now include things like gambling, investments, and repaying borrowing.
All such transactions now incur a 3.99% handling fee, and interest is charged on them.
Tesco at first said Mr B had been notified of this change when a leaflet was sent with his
statement in April 2018. But when Mr B said that he got paperless statements, Tesco said it
wouldve been an attachment sent with his online statement.
Tesco has since shown us the statements that Mr B received in April 2018 and April 2019,
both of which mention changes to his terms. And its sent us the pdf document it says he
wouldve been alerted to at the time. It says that there was a link to this document in the
email he received to tell him his statement was available to view online. And it sent us a
copy of the template email saying that, which it issued in April 2018. Tesco also said that a
separate issue it had flagged in April 2019 had again included a reminder about what counts
as a cash transaction.
Tesco said that the business that Mr B paid this money to, had sent Tesco information that
this was a payment for finance, so the fee was chargeable. And it said that Mr B had
purchased this watch using a credit agreement. So it said that the deposit he paid upfront
formed part of that agreement. It thought this definitely fell within its definition of cash
transactions. Tesco said it wouldnt make any changes or pay Mr B back.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She thought that Mr B had
been alerted to the change to his terms and conditions. Even if he hadnt, he wouldve seen
on his statements a notice saying a change had been made, so he shouldve asked Tesco
about this. But she did think Tesco had told him about the change.
Our investigator thought that Mr Bs purchase was a cash transaction. She thought it came
within the definition of repaying borrowing. That means it incurs a fee, and interest. So she
didnt think Tesco had done anything wrong.
Mr B didnt agree. He said Tesco had changed its story about how he was notified of the
change to his terms. He said we hadnt commented on that. He said he didnt get statements
by email, they were available to view online. He thought it was wrong that he should be
expected to chase up a hard copy of this change to his terms, and thought if hed opted for
paperless statements, an electronic document containing details of any changes to his terms
should be sent to him. Mr B said our investigator hadnt been consistent in her use of
language either, referring to things being sent to him, when he was only sent a link.
Mr B said that the current terms and conditions for his account didnt say anything about
cash transactions either. He asked how he would know about this if hed taken his card out
more recently.
And Mr B said he didnt think this transaction shouldve been classed as repaying
borrowing. He said the transaction hed entered into to buy the watch was like a mortgage,
and the deposit was money he paid upfront. He said that we were implying this was money
hed borrowed from the finance company, then immediately repaid. So he said if that was the
case, wed presumably be able to show that the finance company had given him this money
before he repaid it. He said that wasnt consistent with his credit agreement, which he sent to
us.
Our investigator didnt change her mind. She said she agreed Tescos explanation of how it
alerted Mr B to changes couldve been clearer, but she still thought he was told about the
changes. She still thought that if someone doesnt receive a variation of terms, but does get
a warning about such a change, then the customer should ask about this. And she also still
thought that didnt apply here, because Mr B did get the variation information. She said she
couldnt comment on what would happen if Mr B had only taken out a card more recently, as
that was a hypothetical situation. She hadnt changed her mind.
Mr B wanted his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a
final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did not propose to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
Mr B sent us a finance agreement, showing he paid £3,480 as a deposit, and the 
remainder of the purchase price was covered by interest free credit. So he says that 
the 50% deposit he paid was nothing to do with the finance agreement he entered 
into for the remaining amount he owed.
But I dont think thats right. The finance agreement that Mr B sent us covers the full
purchase price of his watch, including the deposit. And the transaction he made on 
his credit card wasnt a payment to a business that sells watches. It was a payment 
to a business that provides finance to retail companies, to allow customers to buy 
expensive products on credit.
Mr B has compared this transaction to a mortgage, where a house buyer pays the 
deposit, then borrows the rest from the bank. But that isnt the sort of transaction he 
entered into here. Here, everything he paid, including the deposit, went through the finance company. Although the first 50% he paid upfront is shown on his finance 
agreement as a deposit its still part of that finance agreement. And thats why 
Tesco has treated this deposit as falling within its definition of cash transactions.
If Mr B had paid half to the business that sold watches, then just borrowed the other 
half, then I wouldve expected Tesco to treat this as an ordinary purchase.
Mr B also said that if we thought that the deposit was part of the finance agreement, 
wed presumably be able to show that the finance company had given him this 
money before he repaid it. But thats not how this transaction works. The finance 
company has paid for a watch for Mr B. Mr B then pays the finance company for it. 
He pays half that money straight away, and the other half later, in instalments.
That finance company never passes any money to him, that he pays back. It passes 
money to the high street watch seller. In return for that, Mr B gets the watch, and Mr 
B then pays the finance company back.
For these reasons, I dont think Tesco made a mistake when it treated this as a cash
transaction. 
Mr B says that he wasnt notified that Tescos definition of cash transactions had 
been widened. And he says it still isnt explained in his terms and conditions now. 
Hes also drawn our attention to the different ways that Tesco has said he was 
alerted to this change. I realise it wouldve been better if Tescos explanations had 
been clearer about how Mr B was notified of the change to his terms and conditions. 
But I think its evidence on this point has been clear and consistent. Ive set out above 
the documents it sent us. I think Mr B was properly notified of this change.
Mr B also wanted to know how he would be made aware of what counted as a cash
transaction, if he had only just taken out this card. I cant be sure how that would be 
done. As our investigator said, thats a hypothetical situation. But I can see that the 
document Mr B sent us doesnt purport to be a complete record of all the terms that 
apply to his account. It says This, together with your credit card agreement, makes 
up your contract with us. So I dont think I can assume from this, that Tesco isnt 
telling new customers about how cash transactions work. And even if it were, I could 
only look at what has happened in Mr Bs case. Ive explained I think he was notified 
of this change.
I know Mr B will be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Tesco said it agreed, and had nothing to add. Mr B sent a detailed reply.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B sent a detailed response, which breaks down into three heads. 
The explanations Tesco gave Mr B about how he was notified of the change to his terms. 
Mr B said, that when Id commented on how he was informed about the change to his terms, 
Id said I think [Tescos] evidence on this point has been clear and consistent (emphasis added). So he thought that I must believe that Tesco, in changing its explanation three times 
about how he was told of this change  was clear and consistent.
Mr B said he found that extraordinary, and it suggested to him that the burden for evidence 
required from Tesco by our service had been set so low as to be non-existent. He said if this 
was acceptable to our service then that cast doubt on whether my assessment of the facts 
was objective and independent.
I certainly dont think that its clear and consistent for Tesco to have changed its mind about 
exactly how it had notified Mr B of the change to his terms and conditions. That wasnt 
helpful, and I do think its regrettable, for example, that Tesco didnt take the time to check 
how Mr B received his statements before writing to tell him how hed been notified of this 
change. 
But what I do think is clear and consistent is the evidence Tesco sent us showing how Mr B 
was notified of the change. I have mentioned above the items it sent us  
- statements that Mr B received in April 2018 and April 2019, both of which mention 
this change. The 2019 statement contained a link to the pdf. The 2018 statement 
didnt. But Tesco sent us the template email it issued then, which did have a link to 
this document
- the pdf documents it issued in 2018 and 2019 giving notification of the change. 
I think thats good evidence that Mr B was notified of this change. 
The definition of a cash transaction. 
Mr B said Tesco includes within its definition of cash-like transactions Finance payments 
such as repaying borrowing (e.g. loans, mortgages and credit cards)  this includes student 
loans, store cards, car finance repayments, Klarna etc. These transactions incur a cash 
transaction fee.
Mr B said Tesco had decided to provide examples as to what it believes are Finance
payments, because the term itself was generic. The example given relates only to repaying 
borrowings. Mr B said this didnt mention paying a deposit on a purchase agreement, which 
was very common. He said because it was so common, people would look at the card 
regulations to decide if this sort of deposit was covered by the ambiguous term Finance 
Payment. And Mr B thought that because Tesco hadnt included a deposit within its 
examples, it would be reasonable for an individual to believe that elements like a deposit 
(which he maintains is clearly not a repayment) are not included in the definition, so wont be 
subject to a fee.
I dont agree with Mr Bs analysis here, for two reasons. Firstly, I think that when Tesco has 
set out examples of what it considers finance payments it has provided a non-exhaustive 
list of examples. So just because something isnt listed in those examples, doesnt mean it 
falls outside of the definition. Secondly, I do think that a deposit like the one Mr B paid is a 
finance payment. Ill deal with this point below, as thats Mr Bs third argument. 
Whether the transaction Mr B entered into was within the definition of a cash transaction
Mr B said that if we look at the credit agreement for this transaction, which hed sent us, that 
would confirm that the amount of credit i.e. borrowings that have to be repaid to the 
finance company, excluded the deposit paid. He said it clearly shows this on the face of the 
agreement.
So Mr B though that Tesco had just accepted the explanation from the finance company 
involved in this transaction about its nature and applied a fee and interest. And he said it was refusing point blank to retract that even when overwhelming evidence as to its nature had 
been provided to the contrary.
I dont think this evidence is quite as strong as Mr B believes it to be. The agreement he 
entered into is for a total of £6,960. There is one upfront payment of half the balance. That 
has to be paid to the lender at the start of the agreement. Although the agreement separates 
out the initial payment (which it terms a deposit, because its paid straight away) and the 
monthly payments (which it terms repayments) I think that all these payments, including the 
first, are finance payments. They are all payments made under a finance agreement, to a 
finance company.
Mr B also said Id missed the point about the deposit payment. He thought Id actually 
confirmed his point when I said That the finance company never passes any money to him, 
that he pays back. He said that would eliminate this transaction being a loan. Id already 
said it wasnt a mortgage, and Tesco wasnt claiming it fell under any of the other examples 
in its list. So Mr B didnt think I could possibly be right to say that Tesco hadnt made a 
mistake, by treating this as a cash transaction. He thought this showed bias.
 
But again, I dont agree. Firstly, Mr B is treating the examples that Tesco gave as an 
exhaustive list. Ive already said it isnt. Tesco doesnt have to show this payment counts as 
one of the examples it gave. So it doesnt have to show that this payment was either a loan, 
mortgage or credit card payment. It only has to show this is a finance payment. 
And I think this was a finance payment. As I explained in my provisional decision, Mr B has 
entered into borrowing, which he has to repay. In this case, the money he has borrowed isnt 
paid to him. Its paid to the high street watch seller. Then Mr B gets the goods he wanted, 
the watch. And because the whole price of the watch is covered by this finance agreement, I 
still think Tesco didnt make a mistake when it treated his payment as a cash transaction.
I realise Mr B is unlikely to be persuaded by my arguments, but I have considered the points 
he made carefully, and reconsidered this case as a whole. I havent changed my mind. I still 
dont think this complaint should be upheld. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 December 2020. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman