DRN-2823753
The complaint
Mrs P complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement
with Oplo CF Ltd, trading as 1st Stop Car Finance (1st Stop). 
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in April 2021. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mrs P, but I dont currently agree with the investigators opinion.
Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs P acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then 1st Stop, who are also the supplier of the car, are
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. It also says we 
should take into account whether a car has proven to be durable when considering if it was 
of satisfactory quality.
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include
things like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mrs P. The car here was
around four years old and had completed about 37,000 miles. So, I think a reasonable
person would expect some wear and tear to be present.
The independent engineer is an expert in these matters. He considered the faults with the
car when he made his report on it in February 2020. He said:
As stated, the engine could not be started. Diagnostic scanning was carried out which found
fault code U029D, loss of communication with NOX sensor. The indicated fault of an
electrical nature with the NOX sensor. This would cause the engine not to start.
He went on to say:
The indicated fault causing the engine not to currently start was an electrical issue with the
NOX exhaust emissions. Electrical faults can occur at any time without warning. I could find
no evidence this fault would have been present or inherent at the point of purchase A
dashboard warning message would have been on at that time if it was then present.
So, Im persuaded the problem with the NOX sensor most probably wasnt present at the
point of supply, when 1st Stop were responsible for the cars quality. And, as the engineer
has explained electrical problems such as this can happen at any time, Im also persuaded
the NOX sensor problem was probably not developing when the car was supplied either.
Ive also considered whether the car could reasonably be considered not to have been of
satisfactory quality on the basis it hadnt proven suitably durable. Im not persuaded that is
the case as I dont think it would be fair to consider that the NOX sensor hadnt lasted as
long as it should have. The independent engineer has explained that electrical items such as
these can fail at any time. So, whilst it would be hoped that this component would perhaps
last the life of the car it could reasonably fail at any point.
And I think the component had at least lasted a reasonable amount of time as the car had
been able to complete in the region of 40,000 miles before it failed.
The independent engineer also noted that a forced regeneration of the diesel particulate
Filter (DPF) was required. Its my understanding that this may, from time to time, be the case
if, for instance, the car has not been driven long distances and engine temperatures have
not reached the required level to regenerate the filter automatically. I dont think this is
evidence of a fault with the car and I can see that the independent engineer didnt think it
was the reason the car had broken down.
So, on balance, Im not currently persuaded to tell 1st Stop to take any further action.
Mrs P has explained that a similar fault has recently occurred on the car. A screen
message reads UREA emissions control fault, starting prevented in 700 miles. That sounds
like the AdBlue reservoir needs topping up and Im not persuaded on the evidence Mrs P
has currently provided that it demonstrates a fault.
If there is a fault the relevant legislation explains that, as Mrs P has had the car for more
than six months, she will need to demonstrate that fault was present at the point the car was
supplied. 
If Mrs P can provide that evidence I may be able to consider it when reaching my final
decision on this matter. But, as 1st Stop havent yet been given an opportunity to consider
that complaint, they may reasonably ask to do so before Mrs P refers it to our service. It may
therefore need to be considered separately.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im not expecting to uphold this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs P didnt provide any further information and neither did 1st stop.So, Ive not been persuaded to change my provisional decision and that now becomes my 
final decision on this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman