DRN-3388447
The complaint
Mr Z complains that Lloyds Bank PLC hasnt provided a definitive list of transactions it treats 
as cash following a change to its credit cards terms and condition. 
What happened
Mr Z has a credit card with Lloyds. Last year, Lloyds sent Mr Z a notice of variation that 
explained it was expanding the list of transactions that would attract cash handling fees. 
Mr Z has asked Lloyds to provide a complete and definitive list of the types of transactions 
Lloyds will now treat as cash. 
Lloyds says its terms changed and cash-like transactions include sending money orders, 
buying currency, paying government fines, trading and share dealing. Lloyds terms and 
conditions  Mr Z complained but Lloyds didnt agree it had acted unfairly. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Zs complaint but thought Lloyds had dealt with it 
fairly and didnt ask it to take further action. Mr Z asked to appeal and said that if Lloyds cant 
provide a definitive list of cash-like transactions it should set his cash limit to £0. As Mr Z 
asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr Z feels Lloyds has failed to provide a final, definitive list of what it considers to 
be cash-like transactions. And I understand its Mr Zs view that Lloyds has unfairly redefined 
what cash is. Im sorry to disappoint Mr Z, but I havent been persuaded that Lloyds has 
treated him unfairly. Ill explain why. 
Lloyds account terms and conditions allow it to vary how its credit card operates. That 
includes how it processes the different sort of transactions its possible to make and whether 
a fee will be applied. Businesses are free to decide how to operate, including what charges it 
applies to customers when using a credit card, in line with its commercial discretion. In this 
case, Lloyds has explained it took the decision to treat certain transactions in the same way 
it does with cash transactions. Im satisfied thats a decision Lloyds was entitled to take by 
giving notice to card holders in line with its terms and conditions. 
Mr Z has asked for a complete list and says the information provided by Lloyds isnt 
definitive and includes words like may and could. I take Mr Zs point, but Lloyds has given a 
detailed list of transactions it says are cash-like. Mr Z told Lloyds he is concerned about the 
risk of incurring a cash transaction fee because it hasnt provided a detailed list. But the 
change in fee structure came into effect in October 2021 and I havent seen any evidence of 
unexpected fees from that point. I think its fair to note that if Mr Z is charged a fee that isnt 
covered by the information provided by Lloyds to date and has been unfairly applied, he has 
the option of raising his concerns with it. I havent been persuaded that Lloyds failed to 
provide clear details of its revised charging structure. 
Mr Z says another option would be for Lloyds to set his cash transaction limit to £0. I 
understand that could have the effect of ensuring cash transaction fees arent incurred. But, 
as Ive said above, Lloyds is free to decide how its products work, including when to charge 
fees for using its credit card. Im satisfied Lloyds clearly communicated upcoming changes to 
its terms and condition and how cash-like transactions would be charged from October 2021. 
As Lloyds has changed its charging structure fairly and in line with its account terms, Im not 
persuaded it has to offer alternatives in terms of limiting cash or cash-like transactions. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr Z but as Im satisfied Lloyds dealt with his complaint fairly Im not 
telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Zs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman