DRN-4088016
The complaint
Mr A complains that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-handled the management of his account details
and personal data. There were several instances of fraud on the account and Mr A blames
Lloyds for it.
Mr A also complains that during the fraud investigation he never felt supported by Lloyds
and hes never been given an answer as to how the third party obtained his personal data
and information.
What happened
Mr A had several accounts with Lloyds including a current account.
In December 2021 and in January 2022 Mr A started to notice that unrecognised
transactions were taking place on his account. He also received a text to confirm hed
registered for Voice ID when he had not. 
And he had a series of Direct Debits go through the account for items hed never set up a 
Direct Debit for.
Lloyds identified them all, put things right and on 20 January 2022. Mr A closed his accounts
and so, the fraud transactions are not affecting him from a banking perspective. He has
explained other troubles to us which I deal with in more detail in the main part of the
decision.
Lloyds responded to his fraud issues and had many telephone conversations with him,
cancelled one debit card and issued him with a new one and made recommendations as to
how best to reduce the chances of fraud happening again. 
That included directing Mr A to advice on its website and a recommendation that he report 
the matter to the police  which Mr A did.
Lloyds also recommended that he did a protective registration with CIFAS (Credit Industry
Fraud Avoidance System).
The final response letter (FRL) from Lloyds upheld his complaint.
Lloyds said in its FRL dated 20 January 2022 as follows:
Thanks for speaking to me about the disappointing service youve had from us.
I agree with your complaint and want to put things right.
Were paying you £99.00
Im sorry we didnt give you better service. To make up for this, Im arranging to pay
you £99.00 into your account. Youll see it within 48 hours, and it may show as more
than one payment.
You raised a fraud claim with us
Im sorry to hear youve been a victim of fraud. I can imagine how upsetting this must
have been.
You contacted us on 29 December 2021 to report debit card payments in pounds as
unauthorised.
Although we refunded you, there were other issues you had following suspected
identity theft we didnt address effectively.
Mr A referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service soon afterwards. I have
seen from records that the £99 compensation payment was made up by £75 for distress and 
inconvenience and £24 for the repayment of the cost of calls Mr A may have made. 
I have seen those two payments credit Mr As account before he closed it in January 2022. 
Mr As complaint form when he referred it to us makes it clear he was not content.
Mr A has said:
I would like, therefore, to file a complaint against Lloyd's bank for loss of personal
information, as they were never able to respond on: a) How people got access to an
account I don't transact with b) How Lloyds bank lost personal details of mine
including date of birth, (previous) home address and full name (not exhaustive). 
This information was used for impersonating me at Lloyds bank (and successfully
compromising my account), as well as to buy financial and other products and
services from other companies utilising my credit score.
Mr A has described that his credit file score took a dip as so many new accounts were being
opened in his name in quick succession but that it recovered. 
Mr A has described how he had to telephone each of the organisations and businesses for 
which accounts had been falsely created to correct them and it took ages.
Mr A described that all these incidents and the time taken to put things right has affected him
in several ways including, loss of time, anxiety, cost of calls, and other points.
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and obtained information from Lloyds
relating to the fraud issues and how it was put right for Mr A in December 2021 and
January 2022. 
Our adjudicator could see that Mr A had suffered loss with the fraudulent transactions but 
those had been refunded by Lloyds.
As for the explanations, our adjudicator had been informed that for the first new card sent to
Mr A, it must have been intercepted in the post as that card never got to Mr As home and it
was used to do some of the transactions. 
The second new bank card did arrive at Mr As home and yet was used to set up a TV 
company account which even Lloyds has not been able to find the answer as to how or why.
The Direct Debit arrangements done by an unknown third person was an additional part thatLloyds was not able to answer. But our adjudicator pointed out to Mr A that Lloyds cant 
explain it all.
Our adjudicator concluded:
Considering all of the details of your complaint, and whilst it is clear Lloyds could
have provided a better service they have accepted this and apologised and I think
the offer of £99 is fair in this instance.
Mr A was not content and wanted an ombudsman to review the matter. So, the unresolved
complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision as I did not consider that £99 was enough to compensate 
Mr A for the distress and inconvenience surrounding the fraudulent matters which it had 
accepted and had said in its FRL  Although we refunded you, there were other issues you 
had following suspected identity theft we didnt address effectively.
I decided to issue a provisional decision on 17 July 2023 in which I give reasons for my plan 
to increase the compensation due to Mr A by an additional £125.
Lloyds has accepted this proposal and so Im issuing this decision to bring the complaint to a 
resolution. 
What follows is a duplicate of the provisional decision. Usually, I would place this in smaller 
type to differentiate it. Mr A has told us of a health issue. Although Mr A has not asked us to 
put in place any special accommodations when writing to him, I do not think that a smaller 
type size for part of this decision would assist. So, I have left it in the normal size type. 
Provisional decision dated 17 July 2023
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds has accepted that the fraudulent matters occurred and has put things right for Mr A
by refunding the lost monies which were transactions from his account. So, I need not say
more about that as Lloyds has done what I think it should have done.
As for the parts about which Lloyds has no answer then I must agree that Lloyds
investigation has identified that an unknown third party has accessed the details about Mr A
and Mr As account and carried out transactions using one card, and potentially with the
other card and has set up Direct Debit arrangements using his account details.
But if Lloyds does not know who that unknown third party was then I do not see how Mr A
can expect Lloyds to discover that unknown third party now. And I would not necessarily
expect it to. 
Sometimes it may be the case that an investigation by Lloyds does lead to an identifiable 
individual responsible. But it seems with Mr As account details it has not been able to 
establish an individual responsible.
The police have been informed and in the last 18 months it may have made progress  I am
unaware of any updates and to resolve this complaint I do not need them.
Mr A has given no specifics about the effect on his credit file and so Ive no evidence of any
financial impact arising out of that.Mr A was asked about any medical costs but none were given.
As for the internal workings of the Lloyds banking system and the data protection systems it
has in place then the better organisation to investigate properly is the Information
Commissioner and I consider that the Information Commissioners Office can assist there
where we are not able.
What I do think is that the £75 and £24 offered to Mr A for an accepted lack of 
communication to Mr A at a very difficult time for him is too low a figure.
I have read all that Mr A has sent to us and all that he has experienced and I think that a
larger sum for the distress and inconvenience is justified and I am planning to award £125.
With the £75 already received that would take it to £200 for the distress and inconvenience
experienced by him.
I have no evidence of any call costs or other costs and so I do not make any other
compensation award. Mr A has received £24 for the costs of calls already.
This is the end of the duplicated provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds wrote to say that it agreed with the additional £125 to be paid to Mr A to reflect the 
distress and inconvenience experienced by him.
Mr A has not responded. The adjudicator has written to Mr A and has tried to telephone him 
to check that the provisional decision has been received and whether he had anything 
further to add. 
I am conscious that the FRL for this complaint was issued by Lloyds in January 2022 and so 
this has been an ongoing matter for both parties for twenty months. 
So, it seems fair and reasonable for me to bring the parties resolution and to issue the final 
determination today. 
As Lloyds has agreed to the additional compensation sum and as Mr A has not sent any 
further comments, evidence or submissions to us following my provisional decision, then 
I see no reason to depart from my earlier findings.
Putting things right
Lloyds needs to pay some additional compensation and so I increase the distress and 
inconvenience compensation award to £200 by awarding a further £125 to be paid to Mr A 
by Lloyds. This £125 is in addition to the sums already paid to Mr A. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint in part in that the award for compensation is 
increased. I direct that Lloyds Bank PLC does as I have outlined above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2023.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman