DRN-4271007
Complaint
Mrs J complains that Advantage Finance Ltd (Advantage Finance) unfairly entered into a 
hire-purchase agreement with her. Shes said she was in financial difficulty when she applied 
for the credit and so shouldnt have been accepted for it. 
Background
In November 2017, Advantage Finance provided Mrs J with finance for a used car. The cash 
price of the vehicle was £4,895.00 and Mrs J applied for a loan to cover the entire amount 
The loan had interest, fees and total charges of £4,575.56 (comprising of interest of 
£4,075.56, an acceptance fee of £325 and an option to purchase fee of £175), and the total 
amount to be repaid of £9,470.56 was due to be repaid in 53 monthly instalments of £172.14 
and one final payment of £347.14. 
In January 2023, Mrs J complained that the payments to this hire purchase agreement were 
unaffordable and so the finance should never have been provided to her. Advantage 
Finance looked at the complaint and didnt uphold the complaint. It said that the checks 
completed before the agreement was entered into confirmed that the finance was affordable 
and so it was reasonable to lend. 
Mrs Js complaint was considered by one of our investigators. He didnt think that Advantage 
Finance had done anything wrong or treated Mrs J unfairly. So he didnt recommend that 
Mrs Js complaint should be upheld. Mrs J disagreed with our investigator and the complaint 
was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mrs Js complaint. 
Advantage Finance needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what 
this means is that Advantage Finance needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to 
understand whether Mrs J could make her payments in a sustainable manner before 
agreeing to lend to her. And if the checks Advantage Finance carried out werent sufficient, I 
then need to consider what reasonable and proportionate checks are likely to have shown.
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low, the 
amount lent was high, or the information the lender had  such as a significantly impaired 
credit history  suggested the lender needed to know more about a prospective borrowers 
ability to repay. 
Having carefully thought about everything Ive been provided with, Im not upholding           
Mrs Js complaint. Id like to explain why in a little more detail.
Advantage Finance says it agreed to this application after it completed an income and 
expenditure assessment on Mrs J. During this assessment, Mrs J provided details of her 
monthly income and payslips to verify what shed declared. 
Advantage Finance says it also carried out credit searches on Mrs J which showed some 
previous adverse credit information and outstanding balances. But when the amount Mrs J 
already owed plus a reasonable amount for Mrs Js living expenses, based on statistical data 
from the Office of National Statistics, were deducted from her monthly income the monthly 
payments were still affordable. On the other hand, Mrs J says she was already struggling at 
the time and that these payments were unaffordable.
Ive thought about what Mrs J and Advantage Finance have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that much like our investigator, I dont think that the checks 
Advantage Finance carried out did go far enough. Advantage Finances searches showed 
that Mrs J had had previous difficulties with credit. In my view, Advantage Finance needed to 
take further steps to verify Mrs Js actual living costs, given what the credit search showed in 
order for its checks to have been proportionate. 
As Advantage Finance didnt carry out sufficient checks, Ive gone on to decide what I think 
Advantage Finance is more likely than not to have seen had it obtained further information 
from Mrs J. Bearing in mind, the length of time of the agreement and the amount of the 
monthly payment, I would have expected Advantage Finance to have had a reasonable 
understanding about Mrs Js regular living expenses as well as her income and existing 
credit commitments. 
Ive considered the information Mrs J has provided us with. And having done so, this 
information does appear to show that when Mrs Js committed regular living expenses and 
existing credit commitments are deducted from her monthly income at the time, she did have 
the funds, at the time at least, to sustainably make the repayments due under this 
agreement. 
I appreciate that Mrs J has said that she was repaying a loan to a family member. This may 
well be the case, but as this wont have shown up on the credit search, I dont think its 
reasonable to include this as an expense for her. Furthermore, I dont think that Mrs Js 
overdraft usage was at a level where it could be reasonably concluded that she was trapped 
in that type of borrowing. 
What Im required to think about here in order to determine whether Advantage Finance 
acted fairly and reasonably towards Mrs J, is whether Mrs J had sufficient disposable income 
to enable her to make the monthly payments to this agreement. And having considered 
everything, Im satisfied that the available information indicates that Mrs J did have sufficient 
funds left over, once her regular living expenses and discernible committed expenditure was 
deducted from her monthly income, to make her monthly payments in a sustainable manner. 
  
So overall and having carefully considered everything, while I dont think that Advantage 
Finances checks before entering into this hire purchase agreement with Mrs J did go far 
enough, Im satisfied that carrying out reasonable and proportionate checks wont have 
prevented Advantage Finance from providing these funds, or entering into this agreement with her. Im therefore satisfied that Advantage Finance didnt act unfairly towards Mrs J 
when it agreed to provide the funds and Im not upholding Mrs Js complaint. 
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mrs J. But I hope shell understand the 
reasons for my decision and that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mrs Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman