DRN-2095653
The complaint
Miss W complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) provided poor service and incorrectly 
debited her account following a failed chargeback. 
What happened
Miss W has a bank account with Monzo and requested a refund of a debit to her bank 
account for a payment she made to a travel company, as this  was made in error as her 
partner had already made this payment. Monzo agreed to make the chargeback and 
credited Miss Ws account immediately, however, a few weeks later Monzo debited her 
account as the travel company refused the chargeback. Miss W says that these actions put 
her account overdrawn and caused financial problems for her. 
Miss W also says because she had no means to telephone Monzo she had to rely on chat 
messages which added to her frustration and caused her unnecessary stress. 
Miss W feels that Monzo had no authority to debit her account as she had cancelled the card 
from which the funds were originally authorised and Monzo should refund her for the 
transaction and provide her with compensation and an apology. 
Monzo have apologised for the misunderstanding over the refund process for chargebacks 
and also for the time Miss W spent trying to deal with the matter via chat messages.
 Monzo says they have compensated Miss W in the sum of £125 for these errors and have 
now raised a dispute with the payment processor and this may take some months to resolve. 
While Monzo have admitted to making errors , they say they have acted correctly when 
dealing with the chargeback process. 
Miss W was unhappy with Monzos response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold Miss Ws complaint 
as he felt that Monzo had dealt with the chargeback correctly. The investigator says that 
Monzo had also adequately compensated Miss W for the service issues she had raised. 
Miss W wasnt happy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to 
an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision.
When looking at this complaint I have considered whether Monzo acted unreasonably when 
debiting Miss Ws bank account following the failed chargeback and if they have adequately 
compensated her following the service issues they have admitted to. 
Its worth pointing out here that chargeback is the process by which settlement disputes are 
resolved between card issuers and merchants under the relevant card scheme. Its important 
to understand that chargeback schemes are voluntary codes the issuers and acquirers sign 
up to, they are not a right - the card issuer doesn't have to do a chargeback. But we think it's 
good practice to try if they have a good reason to. 
What happened here is that Miss W informed Monzo that a payment to a travel company 
had been made in error and her partner had separately made the same payment to the 
travel company. Monzo then credited Miss Ws account and raised a chargeback, but by 
their own admission this was a mistake as they hadnt sufficient information to initiate a 
chargeback at that time. Subsequently the chargeback was disputed by the travel company 
and Miss Ws bank account was debited by Monzo leaving her bank account overdrawn. 
Miss W says that this left her short of funds and she had to ask her partner for financial help 
adding stress to an existing health condition. I can see Monzo did try to help by freezing 
charges on her account and offering temporary credit  if she wished. I am satisfied that in 
this instance Monzo had acted fairly here. 
I can see that Miss W might be upset over this as she was informed by Monzo that while the 
travel company might ask for the money back it would be within a few days not the weeks it 
actually took.  
I have considered this point and I can see that Monzo have paid Miss W a total of £125 in 
compensation for giving misleading information about the process, initiating the chargeback 
in the first place and for the time Miss W spent on chat messages. I feel that Monzo have 
been fair here given the level of compensation provided.  
Having said that, I cant see that Monzo have acted incorrectly when they debited Miss Ws 
account when the travel company disputed the chargeback, as this is in  line with the terms 
of the chargeback scheme. Miss W would have originally authorised the payment from her 
account and the fact she has since cancelled the card used for the transaction, doesnt 
prevent the payment being debited to that account as the chargeback relates to the original 
transaction she authorised. 
Monzo have now taken further steps to assist Miss W recovering the payment debited to her 
account. They have now raised a dispute via the payment processor and while this may take 
some months to resolve, I  am satisfied Monzo  have tried to help Miss W retrieve the 
payment made even when they had no obligation to do so. 
I hope this will come to a satisfactory conclusion for Miss W. 
While Miss W will be disappointed with my decision it follows, I wont be asking any more of 
Monzo here. My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 September 2020.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman