DRN-3025581
The complaint
B, a limited company, through its solicitor has complained about the way Kpti Ltd arranged 
and administered its property owners insurance policy.
What happened
Kpti had authority to issue policies on behalf of an insurer.
In April 2014 B approached Kpti to obtain insurance for a commercial property. The policy 
was taken out on 5 July 2014 and renewed the following year. 
B made a claim to the insurer after a fire caused serious damage to the property.
The insurer declined the claim and voided the policy (treated it as though it had never been 
in existence) because it said B hadnt told it:
one of its directors had previously been a director of a company that had gone into 
voluntary liquidation following administration.
the first floor of the unit wasnt occupied.
it had previously been refused insurance.
the site had been occupied by multiple tenants.

It also said thered been false statements about the directors of B and ownership of the 
property.
B complained to Kpti that it hadnt taken proper care in providing information about it to the 
insurer and hadnt arranged insurance which met Bs needs. Kpti didnt accept liability for the 
fact that Bs policy had been voided and the claim declined. 
B brought its complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold it. She didnt think Kpti 
had done anything wrong.
As B didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I want to explain that the decision to cancel the policy wasnt made by Kpti. That 
was the insurers decision, and I see that B complained separately about that. So in this 
decision, Im only looking at whether Kpti treated B fairly and reasonably. 
In their complaint, Bs solicitor has made some very detailed points. I want to assure them 
that Ive read everything theyve sent us. But I wont address every comment theyve made 
in this decision. I intend to concentrate on what I consider is key to the complaint. As 
mentioned my role is to decide if Kpti has treated B fairly and reasonably.
Insurance policies can be sold on either an advised or a non-advised basis. In this case Kpti 
provided B with advice and guidance and said after assessing what B wanted and needed, it 
would recommend a suitable policy. In order to ensure that a proposed policy is suitable for 
a clients needs, a broker must advise its client of the duty to disclose all material 
circumstances, explain the consequences of failing to do so and must indicate the sort of 
matters which ought to be disclosed as material.
Unfortunately there isnt a recording of the calls Bs company secretary had with Kpti 
before the sale of the policy in 2014 and renewal in 2015. But there is a fact find document 
which KPTIs account handler completed with information given on the calls. This is the 
evidence nearest in time to the phone calls and so I am placing most weight on it. They set 
out the questions asked and the answers given between the account handler and Bs 
company secretary. 
One of the questions asked in the fact finds was:
have you or any named person mentioned and/or any partner(s) or any directors(s) either 
personally or in connection with any business in which you/they have been involved:
Ever been declared bankrupt or are the subject of any bankruptcy proceeding, or any 
voluntary or mandatory insolvency, winding up procedures, or being a director or partner of 
a company that went into liquidation/administration or within 6 months of resigning from 
such a position subsequently went into liquidation/administration?
The answer given was no. The correct answer should have been yes as one of Bs 
directors had previously been the director of a company that had gone into liquidation in 
2006 owing a large amount of money to its creditors.
Bs solicitor says according to the company secretary he was asked the question that 
appears in the statement of fact and which is different from the fact find. The statement of 
fact was sent to B after the policy had been entered into. It said:
Acceptance Criteria
Our acceptance of this cover is subject to the following statements being true.
Have you or any Partners or Directors either personally or in connection with any business in 
which they have been involved: ever been declared bankrupt or are the subject of any 
bankruptcy proceedings or any voluntary or mandatory insolvency?
I appreciate that the question in the fact find makes it slightly clearer that information is 
being sought about whether any director has been a director of a company that went into 
liquidation or administration. I think a clearer question would have been more appropriate 
for a phone call when there is less time for the listener to absorb information. Im satisfied 
that, given the fact finds were completed closest in time to the phone calls in which the 
questions were asked, the questions set out in the fact finds were more likely than not the 
questions actually asked as opposed to the question referred to above set out in the 
statement of fact.
But despite the variation in the questions, I think its still clear from the statement of fact 
that the insurer wanted to know whether any of Bs directors had been involved in a 
business that had become insolvent.
 In the letter sending out the policy documents Kpti warned B:It is your responsibility to provide all material facts and that such Information 
provided verbal, written or electronic is complete and accurate. This applies to when 
you take out an insurance policy, throughout the life of your policy and when you 
renew your insurance. Failure in this respect could invalidate the insurance contract 
and/or mean that part or all of your claim may not be paid. A material fact is one 
which is likely to influence an insurer in the acceptance, continuation, and /or 
assessment of the risk, if in doubt as to whether a fact or detail is material or not, 
should be disclosed to the Insurer (sic).
Bs solicitor says Kpti should have ensured that the question was very clear as Bs 
company secretary wasnt sophisticated. He had no previous experience as a commercial 
landlord and wasnt experienced in business insurance matters. But I note he was 
experienced as a company secretary, having been appointed in 2007. Kpti wasnt to know 
whether the company secretary had the skills and experience to act as an effective 
company secretary  that was a matter for B to satisfy itself on rather than anybody else. If 
the company secretary wasnt aware of the directors previous corporate history, I think he 
should have been, especially as the director in question had only been appointed three 
years before. I think he should also have been aware from taking out other policies in 
previous years on behalf of B that it was something most insurers would want to know.
Bs solicitor has also referred me to a case (Jones v Environcom [2010] EWHC 759 
(Comm) in which it was held that a broker must satisfy itself that the position with regard 
to disclosure was in fact understood by its client and this would usually require a specific 
oral or written exchange on the topic as opposed to standard form explanations or policy 
documents. That case concerned a failure to disclose material information relevant to the 
presentation of the risk to insurers rather than an incorrect answer to a specific question. 
Im satisfied the facts of this complaint are different.
That means Im not persuaded it was Kptis fault that Bs policy was voided and its claim 
declined.
B has complained that other information in the fact find was incorrect. I can see that the 
insurer cited a number of grounds on which it was voiding the policy. One of them was that 
it hadnt been told the property was unoccupied. B has produced evidence that it did tell 
Kpti that part of the property wasnt occupied. It appears this information wasnt passed on 
to the insurer by Kpti. But as Bs policy would have been cancelled anyway on the ground 
mentioned above, I dont think this breach has caused Bs loss.
Lastly Bs solicitor thinks Kpti failed to manage a conflict of interest between B and the 
insurer. Its not in dispute that Kptis terms of business which were provided to B said Kpti 
was acting as agent for both the insurer and the customer. When the claim arose, Ktpi told 
B it couldnt help with the claim. Bs solicitor thinks that shows Kpti wasnt managing the 
conflict of interest fairly.
I can understand Bs disappointment on making a large claim to be told that its broker 
couldnt assist. But since it was clear from an early stage that there would be a dispute 
about what B had told Kpti when it was arranging the policy in its capacity as agent for the 
insurer, I think this was the best way to avoid a serious conflict of interest rather than a 
failure to manage the conflict fairly. In any event I dont think this has contributed to Bs loss.
Im sorry that Bs policy was voided and its claim wasnt paid. But I cant hold Ktpi 
responsible for that. 
My final decisionI do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman