DRN-1823999
Complaint
Mr S has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt manage to get him a refund through 
the chargeback scheme.
What happened
On 31 May 2019, Mr S raised a chargeback against a merchant, who took a £615.25 which 
he said was against his contract with them.
Barclays explained that theyd write to Mr S by letter in the next 30 days. They temporarily 
refunded the £615.25, explaining this was only temporary, pending the investigation.
On 14 June 2019, Barclays wrote to Mr S as the merchant had defended the chargeback. 
They forwarded on what the merchant had said, and asked Mr S to tell them whether hed 
like to carry on the dispute and why. They explained that if they didnt hear from him in the 
next 10 days, theyd take it he didnt want to carry on.
However, Mr S was dealing with health problems at the time, and then on 20 June 2019 he 
went on holiday, so he didnt respond to the letter. So on 8 July 2019, Barclays closed the 
dispute, and then on 22 July 2019 they took the temporary refund back.
In August 2019, Mr S complained to Barclays, but they explained that theyd followed the 
chargeback rules and werent able to reopen his case under those scheme rules.
Mr S came to our service. Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt 
uphold the complaint. While he sympathised with Mr S, he explained that Barclays had 
followed the chargeback rules and werent able to take the case to arbitration because Mr S 
didnt respond in time. He noted that Barclays had told Mr S theyd contact him by letter, and 
Mr S hadnt told them hed be unavailable or out of the country.
Mr S didnt agree. He said hed assumed that the initial refund meant the issue was sorted. 
He said Barclays shouldve taken the case to arbitration anyway. And he thought they 
shouldve done more to try to contact him. So the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done that, Ive come to the same conclusions as our investigator, and for much the 
same reasons.
Firstly, I will clarify that I cant investigate any dispute between Mr S and the merchant  only 
between Mr S and Barclays. And I can only look at whether Barclays acted appropriately 
when putting the chargeback through and whether they followed the schemes rules. Im not 
here to look at the chargeback rules themselves, and I cant tell the chargeback scheme to 
change them.Chargebacks are part of a voluntary scheme, and are just a possible alternative way of 
getting money back from a merchant. Barclays were not obliged to put this chargeback 
through, though I think it was good practice that they tried to help Mr S. Chargebacks are not 
guaranteed to work, and banks have to follow strict rules that the chargeback scheme sets 
down, including strict timescales.
When the merchant disputed the chargeback, the rules said that Barclays had to forward the 
merchants response to Mr S and ask him whether he wanted to carry on the dispute. I can 
see that Barclays did that on 14 June 2019, and they explained the timescales and what 
would happen if they didnt hear from Mr S. There was a narrow window of time for Mr S to 
respond and to give his reasons for wanting to carry on or give new evidence or information. 
But as he didnt reply, Barclays were not able to keep the dispute open. 
In other words, Barclays were not allowed to take the case to arbitration, because they didnt 
get a response from Mr S in time. By the time Mr S contacted Barclays in August 2019, Im 
afraid it was too late.
I understand that Mr S had health problems he was dealing with, and that he went on holiday 
on 20 June 2019. And so he does have my sympathy. But Ive listened to the call where 
Mr S started the chargeback, and Barclays did explain how it worked. They said theyd 
contact him by letter in the next 30 days. They then reiterated this, and asked Mr S to keep a 
close eye out for this letter, and Mr S confirmed back to them that their communication would 
come by post. I cant see that Mr S ever mentioned to Barclays that hed be out of the 
country or otherwise unable to receive post. And Barclays had no other reason to think he 
might not be able to receive a letter. So I think its reasonable that they contacted him by 
post, and I dont think theyd been given a reason to contact Mr S by other methods.
Barclays did explain that the initial refund was only a temporary measure while they carried 
out the chargeback. And they explained that the chargeback was not guaranteed to work.
So while I do understand Mr Ss frustration with the merchant, and understand how 
disappointed he must be that he wasnt able to reply to the letter in time, I have not found 
that Barclays did anything substantially wrong here. It looks like they followed the 
chargeback process as they were supposed to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint about Barclays Bank UK 
PLC.
My decision does not affect any rights Mr S may have to pursue the merchant directly.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman