DRN-4269819
The complaint
Ms C complains about a sum of money MotoNovo Finance Limited (MotoNovo) is trying to 
seek the recovery of from her under a hire purchase agreement (agreement) she entered 
into with it for a used car.
What happened
On 25 June 2020 Ms C entered in an agreement with MotoNovo for a used car costing 
£23,061.00.
Under the terms of the agreement, everything else being equal, Ms C undertook to make a 
payment of £11,333.00 to the supplying dealership (£4,333.00 cash £7,000.00 part 
exchange) and £14,015.80 to MotoNovo (59 monthly payments of £233.58 and 1 monthly 
payment of £234.58) making a total repayable of £25,348.80 at an APR of 7.5%.
On 9 September 2022 MotoNovo sent Ms C, at her request, details of what she needed to 
pay to settle her agreement early (£7,259.11).
On 22 September 2022 Ms C sent MotoNovo a promissory note for the sum of £7,259.11 
dated 15 September 2022, which was received by it.
MotoNovo refused to accept Ms Cs promissory note as (early) repayment of her agreement 
and since its receipt (and later destruction) it has been pursuing her for payment as well as 
reporting her agreement as being in arrears with one or more credit reference agencies.
Ms C complains that:
she has settled her agreement liability with MotoNovo in full
MotoNovo hasnt returned her promissory note, or provided evidence of its 
destruction
MotoNovo has no right to record her agreement (with one or more credit reference 
agencies) as being in arrears as full payment has been made
MotoNovo has no right to record her agreement (with one or more credit reference 
agencies) because permission for the same has been revoked by her
In support of her complaint Ms C has referenced, amongst other things, various case and 
statute law.
MotoNovo accepted at times its service had been poor, for which it paid Ms C £75. But it 
said that it was satisfied that Ms C hadnt settled her agreement with it, her agreement was 
in arrears and these arrears had been accurately and appropriately reported to one or more 
credit reference agencies.
Ms Cs complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that it 
shouldnt be upheld.
Ms C didnt agree and so her complaint was passed to me for review and decision.
I issued a provisional decision on this case in July 2023. In summary I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law. 
However, as an informal alternative to the courts, although I must consider the relevant law 
Im not bound by it. In other words, I can come to a different outcome to what a court might 
come to.
Its clear that Ms C has very strong feelings about this complaint. She has provided 
detailed submissions in support of her view which I can confirm Ive read and considered in 
their entirety. However, I trust that Ms C will not take the fact that my findings focus on 
what I consider to be the central issues, and that they are expressed in considerably less 
detail, as a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every point raised. The 
purpose of my decision is to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them.
Ms C says that she has, for various reasons, settled her agreement liability with MotoNovo in 
full. But I dont agree. A promissory note isnt legal tender. It isnt money at all. Its simply a 
promise to pay a sum at some unspecified future date. MotoNovo already has such a 
promise in the form of the agreement Ms C signed, so another promise doesnt add
anything.
Ms C has referred to case and statute law on promissory notes. But Im afraid they dont say
what she says they do. Where a creditor agrees to accept a promissory note, the debtor is
legally required to pay it. But a creditor isnt obliged to accept it instead of actual payment. A 
creditor is also under no obligation to confirm its acceptance or rejection of a promissory 
note within any set timescale. 
MotoNovo lent Ms C money. She agreed to repay. Its fair and reasonable, in my view, for 
MotoNovo to expect her to do so. Shes already promised to repay the debt on the terms 
agreed. Making a further promise to pay isnt a substitute for actually doing so, and 
MotoNovo isnt required to treat it as such.
Given what I say above, I can confirm that Im satisfied that Ms C hasnt settled her 
agreement with MotoNovo and she still owes it money. Im also satisfied that having made 
no payments under the agreement since before she sent MotoNovo her promissory note 
Ms Cs agreement with MotoNovo is in arrears.
Because Im of the view that Ms Cs agreement is in arrears it follows that what MotoNovo 
has reported to one or more credit reference agencies isnt inaccurate. I would also add that 
Ms C agreed to such reporting when she entered into the agreement with MotoNovo, and 
this cant be subsequently withdrawn or varied. However, Ms C is free to add a note of 
correction to each of her credit reports if she wishes to do so.
Now I accept that Ms C would have liked the promissory note returned to her, but Im not 
persuaded she has been prejudiced by it not having been  particularly given it isnt worth 
any money. But if later transpires that it hasnt been destroyed as MotoNovo submits (a 
submission that I find to be both plausible and persuasive) then Ms C is free to raise a new 
and separate complaint in this respect, first with MotoNovo and then our service.
I appreciate Ms C will be disappointed by my decision. But she is free to reject it and free to 
raise her concerns, issues and arguments legally through the courts. 
Neither party responded to my provisional findings by the date I gave for the same.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party responded to my provisional findings I can confirm I see no reason to depart 
from them and I now confirm them as final.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2023.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman