DRN-2853435
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain because AXA PPP Healthcare Limited hasnt paid a claim under 
their private medical insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs R hold a private medical insurance policy, provided by AXA PPP Healthcare 
Limited. 
The policy was taken out in May 2019 on a moratorium basis. 
In October 2019, Mr R contacted AXA to make a claim on behalf of Mrs R for a problem with 
her left knee. AXA said it would need medical information from Mrs Rs GP before it could 
confirm whether the claim was covered. Mrs R had already been referred to a consultant, 
who AXA said she could go ahead and see at her own risk until it had the medical 
information it had asked for. 
Later the same month, Mr R contacted AXA again to say Mrs R needed a knee operation. 
In November 2019, AXA received a completed medical information form from Mrs Rs GP. 
This said Mrs R was experiencing left knee pain, which shed been aware of since February 
2019. AXA also received a letter from Mrs Rs consultant. Based on the information it had 
been provided with, AXA said Mrs Rs claim wasnt covered under her policy.  
Mr and Mrs R complained to AXA. AXA said Mrs R had experienced knee pain before taking 
out the policy and, because of the moratorium clause, she couldnt make a claim for a pre-
existing medical condition until she had been symptom-free for two years. But AXA said it 
would consider any further medical information which Mr and Mrs R wished to provide. 
Mr and Mrs R subsequently sent AXA another letter from Mrs Rs consultant, but AXA didnt 
change its position. As Mr and Mrs R remained unhappy, they brought their complaint to the 
attention of our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and said he didnt think AXA had acted 
incorrectly by declining Mrs Rs claim. Mr and Mrs R didnt agree with our investigators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say an insurer must 
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into 
account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and 
Mrs Rs complaint. 
When Mr and Mrs R took out their policy, they did so on a moratorium basis. This means 
AXA didnt ask them about details of their medical history. This was on the understanding 
that Mr and Mrs R would have no cover for treatment of pre-existing medical conditions 
which existed at any time during the previous three years. If Mr and/or Mrs R then had a 
consecutive two-year trouble-free period from the pre-existing condition after taking out the 
policy, AXA would consider a claim. 
The policy terms and conditions define a pre-existing medical condition as;
any disease, illness or injury for which
you have received medication, advice or treatment or
you have experienced symptoms;
whether the condition has been diagnosed or not...
The medical information form provided by Mrs Rs GP says she was experiencing left knee 
pain, which shed been aware of since February 2019. The letter from Mrs Rs consultant 
dated 7 October 2019 says:
In February, she had a minor twisting type injury and has felt quite significant medial 
pain since. 
The letter went on to say that the consultant thought Mrs R may have just a degenerate 
medial meniscal tear.
I understand Mr R says the medical information which was initially provided to AXA was 
incorrect and confusing. But I dont think its unreasonable for AXA to rely on written 
evidence provided by qualified medical experts when deciding whether a claim is covered 
under a policy. 
I also understand Mr R says the two knee issues were unrelated and an MRI wasnt 
performed in February 2019, so its not possible to demonstrate this now. However, Ive 
seen no medical evidence which suggests that Mrs R had a sprained ligament in February 
2019. In any event, in the absence of a firm diagnosis at that time, neither I nor AXA can 
know for certain exactly what condition Mrs R was suffering from in February 2019. Id 
therefore expect AXA to consider all the medical evidence which is available to decide what 
was most likely to have happened in the circumstance.  
The medical information which was initially made available to AXA indicates that Mrs R was 
experiencing symptoms of the condition she was claiming for in the three years before the 
policy was taken out. I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for AXA to rely on this 
information to decline her claim. I also dont think there was any obligation on AXA to 
request Mrs Rs GPs records from February 2019 in these circumstances, and I note AXA 
offered to consider further medical information such as GP notes if Mr and Mrs R wanted to 
provide them. 
Mr and Mrs R subsequently provided a further letter to AXA from Mrs Rs consultant dated 
27 January 2020. This letter says although Mrs R had experienced some symptoms in 
February, these had settled to a certain extent. The letter went on to say:
The MRI scan and arthroscopy confirmed a relatively recent medial meniscal tear 
and I suspect that this either occurred or propagated in the summer.I understand Mrs Rs consultant said the tear was relatively recent, but he hasnt said 
whether its likely that the meniscal tear happened in the summer months, or whether its 
likely that the tear happened sooner and subsequently spread. 
Overall, based on the medical evidence provided, I dont think AXA has been unfair in 
concluding that Mrs Rs condition pre-existed the start of her policy. This means I dont think 
AXA has acted unfairly or unreasonably in turning down her claim. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs R and I know theyve spent a considerable amount of 
money on Mrs Rs operation and associated consultations, but I wont be asking AXA to do 
anything further. 
If Mr and Mrs R wish to provide AXA with further medical information for it to consider, such 
as Mrs Rs GPs records from February 2019, its open to them to do so. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 July 2021.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman