DRN-3770726
The complaint
Mr K has complained about the customer service he received from his insurance broker, 
Thistle Insurance Services Limited, when reporting a claim on his bicycle insurance policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again in 
full detail here. But to briefly summarise, Mr K is unhappy he was asked to provide medical 
evidence to support his claim for theft of his bicycle. Hes also unhappy with the customer 
service he received from Thistle.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator. Ill explain why.
The primary matter which remains in dispute is whether it was appropriate for Thistle to 
request medical evidence in support of Mr Ks claim for the theft of his bicycle. 
Mr K says the information requested was irrelevant and that obtaining and sharing it caused 
him embarrassment. Hes also unhappy that the call handler told him his claim may not 
succeed without providing this information.
The policy terms say: 
So that we can ensure you receive as quick a resolution as possible to your claim, it 
is important that you provide as much information and assistance as we may 
reasonably require, substantiating any claim and where requested, providing proof of 
your identity prior to settlement of any claim.
 
Information required may include, but is not limited to, supporting information 
(including damage assessments, local authority, and medical and police reports), 
evidence of value and ownership and proofs which we may reasonably require.
Based on the above, Im satisfied that Thistle was entitled to request medical evidence in 
support of the claim, providing it was reasonably required.
Thistle has explained the reason it felt the medical information was reasonably required. It 
says when Mr K reported the claim, he was asked whether the bicycle was covered by any 
other policies and he mentioned a contents insurance policy had been cancelled some 
months previously. Thistle enquired why Mr K didnt take this policy out with them 
immediately, rather than several months after cancellation of the contents policy. Mr K 
advised hed had an operation which prevented him from riding the bicycle for a period of 
time. Based on this, and the fact the claim was made so soon after this policy was incepted 
(12 days), Thistle considered it reasonable to request evidence to support Mr Ks version of 
events and in order to validate his claim.
I can understand why, in Mr Ks opinion, information regarding an operation several months 
prior to this policy being purchased wasnt relevant to the claim. But considering the 
proximity of the claim to inception of the policy, and the explanations Mr K gave about the 
previous policy, I think it was fair and reasonable of Thistle to request the medical evidence 
in the particular circumstances of this case.
I also dont consider that it was unfair of Thistle to tell Mr K that without the medical evidence 
his claim may not be accepted. At the time this statement was made, the claim hadnt been 
reviewed in its entirety and so it couldnt be known whether the medical evidence would be 
crucial or not. So, I think the call handler was correct to explain that failing to provide the 
evidence may impact the claim outcome.
That said, its not in dispute that the level of customer service Mr K received from Thistle fell 
short. Thistle acknowledged this in its final response letter. Thistle accepts that its call 
handler made an incorrect assumption about Mr Ks financial circumstances, which was 
unprofessional, and that it didnt respond quickly enough to Mr Ks request to have the 
reasons the medical evidence was required sent to him in writing. Thistle apologised to Mr K 
for this and offered its assurance that feedback would be given to the individual. 
Following our investigators assessment, Thistle agreed to pay £100 compensation in 
addition to the apology it offered previously. Taking everything into account I agree the £100, 
in addition to the apology and assurance that feedback will be provided to the call handler, is 
sufficient to recognise the impact of Thistles poor service here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part.
Thistle Insurance Services Limited must pay Mr K £100 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience its poor customer service caused him  if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2022.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman