DRN-4462235
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained about their property insurer esure Insurance Limited (Esure) 
regarding a claim they made when they had excessive ground water at their home and later 
noticed damage to the living room floor.
What happened
In 2020 Mr and Mrs C were having work done at their home. Holes dug by Mr Cs contractor 
kept filling with water. A leak in the road was identified so Esure declined Mr Cs claim 
because there was no cover on the policy. Mr C noted that his living room floor had bulged. 
Esure said it would consider that under the cover for heave and subsidence. Esure said the 
cover for heave excluded damage caused by chemical attack  and it felt the floor had been 
impacted naturally by sulphates, which is a common reaction regardless of actual moisture 
levels. So Esure declined the claim. In March 2021 Mr C provided detail to Esure of leaks in 
the road having been stopped, which had resolved the excessive ground water issue on his 
property. Esure reviewed matters and agreed to accept the claim. It initially priced repairs at 
around £5,000.
Mr C had a contractor on site doing work. He said the insured repairs would cost more than 
that offered by Esure, which he believed to only be related to labour costs. He presented two 
estimates, one for repair of the lounge and one for the kitchen, totalling £16,016. Esure 
agreed to review what was required. In September 2021 Esure said it had costed the work at 
£17,430, plus VAT. So it would pay £17,430 less the policy excess, with VAT to be paid 
upon receipt of VAT receipts. Within a day or so though, Esure noted Mr Cs cost for work 
was less, it said it had made a mistake and would pay him £16,016 less the policy excess 
and £15,641 was sent to Mr C. Esure said if there were other costs, it would consider them.
Mr C wasnt happy about the mistake, nor about the course of the claim to date. And in late 
September 2021 an issue arose with the alternative accommodation the family were staying 
in. Theyd been living away from home since late July 2021. With work still to be finished, 
Esure had agreed to extend the accommodation, but late on a Friday evening, Mr C was told 
he and his family would have to be out the next morning. They moved to stay with family and 
Mr C took time off work, also employing an extra labourer to expedite the outstanding work 
at the home. He complained to Esure. 
Esure said there had been some poor service. It apologised and offered £500 compensation. 
It welcomed Mr C to come back to it if further expenses arose.
In early 2022 Mr C sent Esure some further detail and documentation regarding additional 
costs  he felt about £5,000 was outstanding, including the £500 compensation offered in 
late 2021. Esure agreed to pay some fuel costs for the period the family had been in the 
alternative accommodation, for some parking and eating out costs too and for some of the 
extra labourer costs (based on what it would otherwise have paid for additional 
accommodation costs)  totalling £1,628. This was paid in February 2022. But Esure wasnt 
persuaded to pay costs for the time Mr C had taken off of work and it was concerned about 
the estimate presented to support a request for payment of the cost for digging holes in 2020 
to trace the leak. It decided to investigate the claim further and wasnt minded to pay any 
other costs in the meantime, including the compensation previously offered.   
Esure interviewed Mr C in May 2022. He confirmed he and Mrs C had typed up all the 
estimates submitted in support of the claim because his contractors didnt provide that kind 
of thing. Esure then wrote to Mr C with a view to arranging a further meeting at Mr Cs home 
and to gaining further documentation. The meeting wasnt arranged and Mr C felt Esures 
requests for information were unreasonable and made too late. In June 2022 Esure 
confirmed it would not progress the claim without further detail being provided. On 
23 July 2022 Mr C complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Mr C said he remained unhappy about the claim in general. He said he didnt think Esures 
enquiries in May 2022 were reasonable, or made in a reasonably timely manner. He said 
there were claim costs outstanding, plus his time off work and he wanted the Financial 
Ombudsman Service to decide if Esure also had to pay him for reinstating his driveway and 
kitchen ceiling. He also thought the kitchen floor wasnt accounted for in the previous claim 
settlement. Mr C said he wanted a letter of apology from Esure and for us to punish it.  
Our Investigator felt Esure had acted fairly and reasonably when it asked Mr and Mrs C for 
more detail. She noted it was prepared to resume its claim consideration if the detail 
requested was provided. She didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs C were unhappy. Mr C said that most of the detail Esure had asked for had 
since been provided by him, including bank statements. He said his concerns about the 
claim handling  including Esures decision to investigate at such a late date  hadnt been 
considered. Mr C felt his queries about outstanding repairs/repair costs hadnt been 
considered either. 
Mr and Mrs Cs complaint was referred for to me an Ombudsmans decision. I felt Esure 
should be paying Mr and Mrs C £1,000 compensation. But I wasnt otherwise minded to 
make it pay or do anything more. I issued a provisional decision to explain my views. My 
provisional findings were:
Initial decline in 2020
I think Esure acted unfairly and unreasonably when it declined the claim in December 2020. 
It knew there was excess water in the grounds of the property due to a nearby leak  and in 
March 2021, with no real additional evidence, it accepted the claim on the basis the 
increased moisture levels below the property had likely caused damage. This caused an 
avoidable delay, in my view, of around three months.
Late March 2021  Settlement in September 2021
Once Esure agreed to accept the claim, it was decided a visit was needed by a surveyor. 
That took place in late April. It was early June when a schedule for repairs was determined 
and an initial offer of around £5,000 put to Mr C. Mr C presented two estimates in challenge 
and the surveyor was reviewing them in July 2021. It was felt another visit was required  Mr Cs contractor was unavailable until mid-August and the surveyor was then on leave. 
Following a visit at the end of August, an amended schedule was created and an offer put to 
Mr C on 9 September 2021.
I can see that the claim was delayed by a couple of weeks in May 2021 and August 2021 
because the surveyor was on leave. I dont think that could have been avoided. I think the 
matter was generally progressed as soon as reasonably possible by Esure during this 
period. I appreciate Mr C felt it was an inconvenience to ask him to present estimates  but 
as he was challenging the costs assessed by the surveyor, it was reasonable for him to be 
asked to evidence what the work would cost him. And a second visit to fully assess the 
estimated outlay was also reasonably required and organised. I dont think Esure failed 
Mr and Mrs C during this period in terms of managing and progressing the claim.
September 2021 offer
The surveyor costed work at £17,430, plus VAT. So an offer was put to Mr C on that basis. 
With Esure only noting afterwards that this would mean it was paying more to Mr C than he 
had shown hed been charged/would be charged by his contractor. His estimate being less, 
at £16,016 and not subject to VAT (on labour at least), which was what Esure then based its 
claim settlement on.
I can absolutely understand why Mr C was frustrated by this. Esure should have taken more 
care when making the initial offer to make sure the correct sum was put forward. But Esure 
did correct the matter quickly. And even if an insurer thinks it would cost it more to do the 
work, than what its policyholder will have to pay  it would only reasonably have to cover the 
cost to its policyholder. So I dont think there are grounds on which I can fairly require it to 
pay in line with its additional offer. I also bear in mind that Esure did leave the door open for 
Mr C to go back to it with detail of any additional costs. So I think Esure caused some upset 
by making a mistake but that its final offer was fairly made. 
Alternative accommodation
Mr and Mrs C had initially accepted Esures decline of the claim in December 2020. They 
reverted to it in March 2021 and, by this time, they no longer had use of their kitchen. I think 
Esure likely became aware of that at the end of April 2021 when the surveyor visited. It was 
July 2021 when Mr C first asked for the family to be rehomed. They moved into alternative 
accommodation at the end of July 2021 with Esure having agreed an allowance for extra 
living costs for the period from March 2021 when theyd been without a kitchen. 
I think there was certainly a period in March and April 2021 when Mr and Mrs C were living 
with no kitchen with Esure being unaware of that. I think it would have been aware had it not 
declined the claim unfairly in December 2020. And even once Esure knew they had no 
kitchen, it took Mr C raising the issue of living conditions for Esure to act either in respect of 
paying an allowance for extra living costs or to arrange AA. I think, but for the unfair claim 
decline, Esure would have arranged AA for the family for the kitchen being removed. I think 
they stayed in the uninhabitable home for around five months, most of March 2021 and 
through to the end of July 2021, because of Esures initial decline and poor claim handling.
There was then an issue in late September 2021. The AA was due to end. But Esure had 
agreed to an extension. This had been agreed and authorised, with Esures accommodation 
provider also having checked with the accommodations owner that the extension was in 
place. However, I note the accommodation owner, at the last minute, said thered been a 
mistake. This caused the family to have to move out at short notice and stay with relatives. 
I accept this was very distressing and inconvenient for Mr and Mrs C. But I think this really 
falls under the heading of unavoidable upset. Esure, including its accommodation provider, had done everything to ensure the accommodation was extended. On this occasion, I dont 
think its fair to view the mistake of the third-party owner as a failure by Esure to manage the 
claim which would reasonably require it to pay compensation.
Further requests for payment    
Following Esures settlement in September 2021, Mr C asked it to make further payments. 
He said there was around £5,000 outstanding and owing.
Hotel parking and dinner  £186.41 claimed, £154.90 paid by Esure.
I note theres a difference of around £30. But Esures settlement was based on extra costs it 
felt it was liable for. I think the sum offered is reasonable.
Fuel costs  £317.52 claimed, £141.12 paid by Esure.
The difference is due to the pence per mile used to calculate the settlement, Mr C wanted 
45p per mile, Esure said it thought 20p was reasonable. I suspect Mr Cs value was based 
on HMRC standard rates for business use of cars. I think Esure fairly considered what extra 
cost Mr C had for fuel though, looking at his car it determined that fuel costs were likely less 
than 20p per mile. I think it settled this reasonably.
Extra labour  £1,400 claimed, £1,332 paid by Esure.
Mr C submitted an invoice for an extra labourer, employed to expedite work. Esure wasnt 
convinced he was only employed regarding the insured work. But felt if he had not been 
employed, it wouldve had extra costs for alternative accommodation for the family. So it said 
it would pay what it felt it would have cost for housing  £1,332. I note that equated to most 
of the labour bill. I think that was reasonable in the circumstances.
There were then costs for a skip, digging holes and installing drainage, digger hire and 
unpaid leave for Mr C. Esure wasnt minded to pay these and the estimate sent for digging 
holes and installing drainage, caused it to undertake further investigations.
Esure had offered Mr C £500 compensation in September 2021 for its failings to that point. 
Mr C hadnt accepted the sum, so it hadnt paid it. And, with it noting concerns about the 
hole and drainage estimate, it said it wouldnt pay that sum. Ill look at the investigations 
shortly. But Im not persuaded it was reasonable for Esure to withhold the compensation 
amount. It accepted it had failed Mr C, and it had also agreed to make other payments whilst 
having sight of the hole and drainage estimate. The £500 should have been paid along with 
those sums.
Investigations in 2022
   
I know Mr C has been very upset by this. But I think Esure acted reasonably at this time. It 
had previously accepted Mr Cs estimates for work in good faith. It was only when the later 
estimates were presented that it began to have concerns and Mr C then told Esure he had 
created all of the estimates submitted on the claim. Admittedly he explained that was only to 
assist the contractor, because the contractor didnt write up estimates. But Im sure Mr C can 
see why this would raise concerns for Esure. It had paid the claim so far, based on costs 
Mr C had submitted as being the cost to him for agreed insured work  but now Esure had 
been told those documents did not come from Mr Cs contractor. Esure felt, before it would 
pay anything more, that it wanted to see other evidence of Mr Cs outlay. I think that was 
reasonable. And I note that whilst Esure has said it wont make further payments against the 
claim unless the detail it has asked for is provided, it hasnt sought to decline the claim as a 
whole or ask Mr C to repay its previous settlements. Im satisfied that Mr Cs name has not 
been brought into disrepute as he fears. I understand that Mr C thinks Esure should have made enquiries earlier. But as I said, it had 
no concerns about his documents in the early stages, around the time it had contact with his 
contractor. I think that once its concerns were piqued  seemingly because it noted the 
estimate submitted in 2022 contained detail that made it sound like it had been written by 
Mr C  it asked to interview Mr C. I think that was reasonable. Ive watched a recording of 
the interview. I think the content and tone of that interview was reasonable too. 
I know that around the time Mr C complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service, he sent 
some bank statements to Esure. And confirmed a telephone number for the labourer who 
had provided assistance to expedite work. But I note that still leaves outstanding some of the 
detail that Esure asked for. I know Mr C thinks it asking for mortgage and personal loan 
details (used to pay for work) arent reasonable requests. But Im satisfied that Esure, 
knowing that no detail from Mr Cs contractor has been provided to evidence what work was 
done and paid for at Mr Cs home, has fairly requested additional detail to assist it with its 
deliberations. Im not persuaded it would be reasonable for me to require Esure to forego 
that or otherwise further consider the claim without the detail asked for. So I wont be 
requiring it to pay Mr and Mr C the other outstanding costs theyve asked it for. 
Driveway, ceiling and floor   
Im not commenting on these issues at this time. If Mr C presents further evidence and / or  
Esure is minded to resume its claim considerations, Mr C can ask it to consider its liability for 
these items.
Compensation
Its not our role to punish insurers. Rather I have to think about the failures, the upset they 
caused and what fair and reasonable compensation for that is.
Esure offered £500 compensation in 2021. I dont think it caused any delay of poor service 
after that time. Before then, as Ive set out above there were a few months of delay caused 
by Esures unfair claim decline, with that having a knock-on effect, causing the family to stay 
living in their uninhabitable home for around five months. And there was the upset caused by 
Esures erroneous settlement offer. I think that, particularly the family staying in the home 
March to July caused them sustained, serious disruption to their daily life. I think a total of 
£1,000 compensation is fairly and reasonably due. The £500 compensation previously 
offered by Esure hasnt been paid. It withheld it  unfairly in my view, as I said above. I think 
it should now pay the total sum of £1,000.
Esure didnt reply to my decision. Mr and Mrs C asked that I review it.
Mr C said hed agreed to write the estimates following speaking to one of Esures claim 
technicians. He explained why the ceiling had to be replaced. He said Esure had invited him 
to bring further costs after the initial settlement, if it isnt happy with the costs he presented, it 
could determine a reasonable value. Theyd had to dig holes and dig up parts of the 
driveway in response to the water ingress issue  so theres no reason, Mr C says, why the 
costs for this cant be considered as part of the claim. Images of the holes and the digger 
used have been provided. Remaining parts of the driveway have sunk and it likely needs a 
full rebuild with the water having washed away its foundations. Mr C said he should be paid 
for the leave he took from work to make their home habitable as the family were then unable 
to take a break together because all his leave had been used.Mr C said theyd like me to make a ruling as to whether Esure should accept the 
supplementary work and costs. He said that was important because so far theyd been 
ignored. He came to the Financial Ombudsman Service for just such a ruling so as to avoid 
delays and excuses from Esure.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, along with reviewing Mr and Mrs Cs reply to my provisional decision, with 
regret for any disappointment this causes them, Im not minded to change my findings or 
amend my award.
I realise Esure, having made a claim settlement to them, left things open for Mr and Mrs C to 
come back with further costs. I can understand that they want a ruling requiring Esure to 
accept and settle outstanding issues. But Esure has reasonable outstanding enquiries which 
Mr and Mrs C so far havent fully answered. I accept that Esures technician asked Mr C to 
provide estimates for the work. Im not persuaded she directed him to write those estimates 
himself  he certainly did not say that to Esures interviewer when he was asked about the 
provenance of those documents. I remain of the view that if Mr and Mrs C want Esure to 
make any further claim payments to them, they will first have to cooperate with its enquiries.
I confirm that my provisional view of the complaint has not changed. As such my provisional 
findings, along with my comments here, are now the findings of this my final decision.  
Putting things right
I require Esure to pay Mr and Mrs C £1,000 compensation. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require esure Insurance Limited to provide the redress set out 
above at Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 December 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman