DRN-4439716
The complaint
Mr H complains that Zurich Insurance plc unfairly avoided his commercial vehicle insurance
policy and declined his claim.
What happened
Mr H purchased a motor trade insurance policy with Zurich. Following a third-party claim for
an accident and a claim from Mr H for a stolen car, Zurich asked for evidence to verify the
details provided by Mr H when the policy was purchased.
Zurich didnt think Mr H had given a fair presentation of the risk when taking out the policy
and so avoided it (cancelled from the start as if it never existed) and declined his claim. It
said this was because it thought Mr H was a sole trader with employees, however, it turned
out he actually worked for a limited company and so wasnt a motor trader himself. Zurich
also raised concerns about the details given by the driver of the vehicle insured on Mr Hs
policy, when it was involved in an accident with the third party.
Mr H didnt think this was fair and complained. He said hed told Zurich when the policy was
taken out that he worked at the limited company and didnt think Zurich had acted fairly by
avoiding his policy and retaining the premium. Zurich reviewed the complaint and didnt
uphold it. It remained satisfied that Mr H hadnt given a fair presentation of the risk when the
policy was taken out. Unhappy with Zurichs response, Mr H referred his complaint here.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 20 October 2023 where I said:
The relevant legislation to be considered here is the Insurance Act 2015 (the Act). Under
the Act, Mr H had a duty to make a fair presentation of the risk when buying his policy. And
for Zurich to take any action, it needs to show that Mr H didnt do that and that it made
whats known as a qualifying breach. To demonstrate a qualifying breach, Zurich
would need to show that if Mr H had made a fair presentation of the risk, it would either
have not offered Mr H the policy or would have done so on different terms.
The Act says:
(3) A fair presentation of the risk is one
(a) which makes the disclosure required by subsection (4),
(b) which makes that disclosure in a manner which would be reasonably clear 
and accessible to a prudent insurer, and
(c) in which every material representation as to a matter of fact is substantially 
correct, and every material representation as to a matter of expectation or belief 
is made in good faith.
(4) The disclosure required is as follows, except as provided in subsection (5)
(a)disclosure of every material circumstance which the insured knows or ought 
to know, or
(b) failing that, disclosure which gives the insurer sufficient information to put a 
prudent insurer on notice that it needs to make further enquiries for the purpose 
of revealing those material circumstances.
I therefore need to consider whether Mr H failed to disclose a material circumstance that he
knew or ought to have known.
Zurich said Mr H failed to give a fair presentation of the risk as, during the sales calls, it
appeared as though the company Mr H worked for, which Ill refer to as W, was actually his
company and Mr H said he was a sole trader with six employees. Mr H also gave a trading
name of W, which is listed on the policy documents. Zurich became aware W was a limited
company when it asked Mr H for proof of trading.
Mr H said he is an employee of W, but hasnt provided anything to prove he works for W.
Such as a pay slip or contract of employment. Mr H said this is due to him working as and
when is needed and on a cash in hand basis.
Ive listened to the calls Mr H had when he purchased the policy. And while I agree he does
say Ive been working at this company for some time. He also says he has six people
working for him and says, Ill speak with my business partner.
When considering the requirements under The Act, Im satisfied Zurich has acted fairly and
reasonably by saying Mr H hasnt made a fair presentation of the risk. I say this because
from the conversations, when the policy was bought, it appears as though it is Mr Hs own
business and that he has a business partner. So, Im not persuaded Mr H made the
disclosure in a manner which was reasonably clear.
Zurich has shown that if it knew Mr H worked for W, rather than it being his own business,
then it wouldnt have offered him a policy. Im therefore satisfied that Zurich has shown Mr H
has made what is known as a qualifying breach. The remedies available to Zurich depend on
whether the breach is deliberate or reckless, or neither deliberate nor reckless. Zurich has
avoided the policy, declined the claim and said it would have refunded the premium. So it
appears that Zurich has treated the qualifying breach as neither deliberate nor reckless,
which Im satisfied is fair in the circumstances.
I am aware though that Zurich hasnt refunded the premium as there is an outstanding third-
party claim, which it might be responsible for, and so is offsetting this against what it will
have to pay. While under the Act, Zurich isnt allowed to keep the premium unless the
qualifying breach was deliberate or reckless, given the third party claim though Im not going
to interfere with Zurichs decision to retain the premium. I know this will be a disappointment
to Mr H, but Im not persuaded Zurich has acted unfairly in avoiding his policy, declining the
claim and retaining the premium.
Zurich didnt provide any further comments to my provisional decision. Mr H responded and 
didnt accept it. He said the initial calls should have given Zurich ample opportunity to assess 
the risk associated with his policy. Mr H also said Zurich had asked for further information 
after the policy started, and during this process, he let it know he didnt own the company. 
Following Mr H providing this information Zurich cancelled the policy and then reinstated it 
before the claim. He provided two e-mails from Zurich to support this. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mr Hs comments but Im not going to depart from the findings in my 
provisional decision. I say this because while there is a responsibility on Zurich to consider 
the information provided and, if needed, ask more questions. It doesnt alter that there is also a responsibility on the insured to give a fair presentation of the risk. And, for the reasons 
explained above and in my provisional decision, Im satisfied Zurich has acted fairly by 
saying Mr H didnt give a fair presentation of the risk when taking out the policy. 
Ive also considered Mr Hs points about the validation checks done after the policy started, 
and when Zurich cancelled the policy and re-instated it. I can see that following the incident 
which resulted in the third-party claim, Zurich had some questions about which vehicles 
should be added to the policy and asked to verify information. I understand Mr H has said he 
notified Zurich at this time that he didnt own the business but, in my view, the emails he has 
provided in support of this do not indicate that Zurich was aware he didnt own the company 
when it re-instated the policy. I say this because they refer to customer vehicles being added 
to the policy incorrectly and ask for proof of ownership for the vehicles on the policy along 
with copies of the registration documents. Overall, when taking all of the facts of this case 
into account, Im not persuaded Zurich has acted unfairly by avoiding his policy and declining 
his claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman