DRN-4242440
The complaint
Mr T has complained about the way Telefonica UK Limited trading as O2 administered fixed 
sum loan agreements he has with it. 
What happened
Mr T bought various devices using fixed sum loan agreements with O2. The agreements are 
known as device plans. He also has airtime agreements with O2. Mr T has given us a 
timeline of what happened leading up to his complaint:
Mr T says between April and August 2021 he had issues with the airtime service. He 
tells us he upgraded a device because O2 hadnt told him about the issues with the 
service he was receiving i.e., the coverage. Mr T says he had issues with his new 
device and contacted O2. He tells us O2 reported several masts experiencing issues 
in his locality.
In September 2021 Mr T says O2 agreed to adjust his airtime bill by £117.
In October 2021 Mr T says his bill wasnt adjusted so he complained, and his airtime 
account was placed on hold, but he continued to pay his device plans. 
In March 2022 Mr T says his complaint was upheld and his airtime account was 
placed in special measures and that he could hold off paying from airtime until the 
following month. He says he was also offered incentives for an early upgrade. But he 
was unable to take advantage of this because of the arrears on the account while 
his complaint was looked into. 
Mr T says O2 told him his complaint hadnt been finalised and that his airtime and 
device plans were put on hold. 
Mr T says his complaint wasnt upheld and that he was told his airtime and device 
plans would be placed on hold until a complaint he raised with the Financial 
Ombudsman had been decided. He says he was also told that automated 
communication would continue to be sent and to contact O2 should any service 
restrictions occur. 
In July 2022 Mr T says he contacted O2 after receiving communication and he was 
told to ignore it. 
Mr T says three devices were disconnected despite his accounts being on hold. He 
says one account was reconnected. 
In summary, Mr T says O2 has continually held him off from paying device and 
airtime bills despite him raising his concerns. 
O2 sent a final response to Mr Ts complaint. In summary, it said:
As no payment was made towards the airtime balance since his complaint was 
resolved and a credit was applied, his account fell into arrears, so he was unable to 
upgrade and take advantage of the offers available. 
It was not prepared to cancel all of Mr Ts contracts and that the outstanding 
balances need to be cleared. 
Mr T wants to be freed from his O2 contracts without penalty or charge. And hes unhappy 
his credit file was impacted given O2 was supporting non-payment of his accounts. 
Our investigator said that as the complaint related to an unregulated airtime agreement, she 
didnt think we had the power to investigate the complaint. 
Mr T wasnt happy with the outcome because he says O2 also told him to stop paying his 
device plans.
I issued a provisional decision that set out why I was unable to consider the complaints 
relating to the airtime agreement. Im not going to go over that again here. For the part of the 
complaint I was able to consider, I set out in my provisional decision:
While not the main thrust of Mr Ts complaint, he has mentioned hes unhappy his credit file 
has been impacted because missed payments have been recorded in relation to the credit 
agreements. 
So Ive thought about whether O2 has acted unfairly in relation to its reporting to the credit 
reference agencies. O2 is required to report fair and accurate information. Its not in dispute 
Mr T stopped paying towards the device plan, so I think missed payments will have been 
reported accurately. But is the reporting fair? 
I asked our investigator to contact O2 about the device plans. O2 responded to say it applied 
various credits to Mr Ts airtime account for disputed charges and because of reported 
network issues. It acknowledged things could have gone better. But it also said Mr T was 
offered various payment arrangements, but these werent kept to. It said no payments have 
been made since April 2022. It said Mr T has six device plans with varying balances due. 
The device plans and balances are as follows:
Account ending 735 £32.27
Account ending 307 £374.04
Account ending 821 £178.09
Account ending 345 £931.32
Account ending 704 £385
Account ending 826 £48.87
O2 has said it looked at the credit files for the device plans and that it is reporting several 
query markers along with various late payment markers. But it also said if Mr T makes full 
payment of the outstanding amounts in one go it would look to remove the late payment 
markers. 
Therefore, considering Im not able to decide matters in relation to Mr Ts airtime accounts, 
Ive thought about what O2 has offered in relation to the device plans. 
Its not in dispute that O2 could have handled things better (for the airtime complaint at 
least). And that I think this may have contributed to the difficulties Mr T has faced. But Im 
also mindful that Mr T is required to make payments towards the device plans as per the 
agreements he entered into. 
I think its fair that O2 has offered to remove the late payment markers if Mr T makes full 
payment of the outstanding amount. But, for the avoidance of doubt, I think this amount 
should be the current arrears. So that Mr T can effectively pay off the arrears and then carry on with any of the device plans that still have a balance  under the originally agreed 
contractual terms. 
I think Mr T should be given 28 days to bring the accounts up to date from acceptance of a 
final decision, should he wish to do so. But Id remind Mr T that if he were to miss payments 
in future, O2 may decide to record this on his credit file. 
In summary, it looks like O2 could have handled things better. But I think this is mainly in 
relation to how it dealt with Mr Ts problems he had flowing from the airtime agreement  
which isnt something I can consider. I think the problems hes had with the device plans 
have arisen largely as a by-product of the other complaint. It looks like O2 has sought to help 
Mr T by offering account holds and payment arrangements. But I think the dispute was never 
resolved which is why there was a stalemate. 
Therefore, to resolve things, I think its fair Mr T is given the option to pay off the arrears 
resulting in all negative markers removed from his credit file for the relevant period. Mr T is 
free to pursue his complaint about the airtime issues by other means, such as through 
alternative dispute resolution (ADR) schemes, or ultimately through the courts. 
I think this is a fair and reasonable outcome considering the limited scope of the complaint 
Im able to consider. 
Mr T responded to say O2 held his account every month and that he was advised to stop 
making payments while the ombudsman looked into his complaint. So its not true he didnt 
keep to payment arrangements. He also said O2 incorrectly referred him to the wrong ADR 
scheme. And that hes been penalised which has resulted in three of his devices being 
disconnected. He thinks this is unfair. 
In summary Mr T is unhappy with how long things took to resolve, the loss of service, the 
impact on his credit file, and the distress caused. He requested he be able to clear the 
arrears over six months and that he wants support to say any money owed doesnt include 
devices that have been disconnected. 
I contacted O2 and sent over details of Mr Ts response. With regards to the disconnections, 
it said as devices had been disconnected for over six months it could not reconnect them. 
But I understand the devices still work. However, it has agreed to allow Mr T to clear the 
arrears over a six-month period, from acceptance of a final decision, should Mr T wish to do 
so. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to thank the parties for their responses. I do empathise with the situation Mr T finds 
himself in. Its been a tricky case to unpick. But for the reasons I gave to him previously, I 
only have the power to decide Mr Ts complaint insofar as it relates to his regulated credit 
agreements. 
I cant award compensation for alleged failings in relation to how O2 dealt with the airtime 
issues. O2 has said its unable to reconnect Mr Ts devices that have been disconnected for 
over six months. As I understand it, the devices still work, and presumably can be 
reconnected elsewhere, or under a different contract with O2. I dont have the grounds to 
say O2 cant seek to recover the payment for the credit agreements taken out to purchase 
the devices. I also want to point out I didnt make a finding that Mr T refused to make payment. I said O2 had said payment arrangements werent kept to. 
Mr T has agreed hes required to make payments against his contract (although I appreciate 
he doesnt want to pay for the disconnected devices). I think it would have been prudent of 
him to put the money to one side to cover the payments. But I explained to O2 that 
unexpected expenses could come up from time to time. And I thought it was fair O2 agreed 
to Mr Ts request to extend the time period to bring the arrears up to date from 28 days to six 
months, from acceptance of a final decision, if Mr T wishes to do so. Overall, in the individual 
circumstances of this complaint, I think thats a fair and reasonable outcome for both parties, 
given what Ive set out Im able to consider. I dont find I have the grounds to direct O2 to do 
more. 
If Mr T does accept this final decision, Id recommend he speaks to O2s payment team to 
discuss a suitable way forward. 
Putting things right
Telefonica UK Limited trading as O2 should remove all adverse information from Mr Ts 
credit file from April 2021 onwards if he clears the arrears within six months of accepting a 
final decision (if he wishes to do so). Mr T should then be allowed to carry on paying any 
outstanding agreements on the original terms.
My final decision
My final decision is that Telefonica UK Limited trading as O2 should put things right in the 
way Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2023.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman