DRN-2486401
The complaint
Mr R says Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard mis-sold him payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
What happened
In August 1997 Mr R filled in a dual credit card application during a meeting in a Barclays 
branch and Barclaycard issued him with two credit cards.
Mr R also took out PPI to protect the monthly repayments on his Barclaycards if he couldnt 
work as a result of accident, sickness or unemployment.  
The adjudicator who looked at Mr Rs complaint upheld it. Mainly, she didnt think Mr R 
wouldve taken out the insurance if Barclays had made him aware that the policy wouldnt 
have covered accident and sickness claims for any health problem Mr R had when he 
bought it. 
Barclays disagreed with our adjudicators view and isnt willing to uphold the complaint. 
Barclays mainly said that it believes Mr Rs condition is well managed and controlled by his 
medication and so it was unlikely that the condition wouldve led to him being off work for 
long enough to be able to claim on the policy. Barclays said that Mr R wouldnt have been 
prevented from claiming for any other medical condition. And that he wouldve been sent the 
terms and conditions after the sale when he couldve cancelled the policy if he decided after 
reading this information that it wasnt suitable for his needs. 
So Mr Rs complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Rs complaint. Ill explain why.
Barclays told us that it personally advised Mr R to take out this PPI. So it had to take 
reasonable steps to make sure the cover it recommended to Mr R was suitable for him.
I dont know exactly what was said when the policy was sold to Mr R. But the policy Mr R 
bought didn't cover claims resulting from any sickness, disease, condition or injury that he 
knew about for which hed received advice or treatment from a doctor in the 12 months 
running up to the date he took out this PPI.
Mr R said his condition had been diagnosed around 12 months before he arranged this PPI 
and he told us he relied on prescribed medication and had twice yearly doctors 
appointments. 
So I think its likely that the policy wording wouldve excluded cover for accident and 
sickness claims resulting from Mr Rs medical condition. 
I think the limitation on cover for health conditions is likely to have mattered to Mr R. I say 
this because his condition means hes dependent on prescribed medication. And Mr R told 
us that from time to time the condition flares up and this can lead to him needing to take a 
few days off work when this happens. 
So that suggests to me that he wasnt always able to manage his condition effectively on a 
daily basis. 
In the event it doesnt look like the time he recalls actually taking off work wouldve been long 
enough for him to claim on the policy. But Mr R couldnt have known that this would be the 
case when he signed up for the PPI. 
The fact that he had some time off work supports my view that his condition could be 
unpredictable and not always manageable. 
So I think Mr Rs expectations when he took out the policy would likely and reasonably have 
been that he might well find he needed to claim for absence from work due to his medical 
condition. 
But I cant see how or if Barclays drew this information to his attention, as it shouldve done. 
And, if it had, I think its likely that Mr R wouldnt have bought the policy.  
Ive taken carefully into account what Barclays has said in response to our adjudicators 
opinion. But this doesn't affect my overall view. 
When Mr R agreed to the PPI he was entitled to have the main features brought to his 
attention. But there was nothing on the application Mr R filled in which suggested his health 
might be an important issue. Nor has Barclays shown me that this was something that was 
discussed with Mr R at the time. 
Given his medical condition was ongoing, I think Mr R wouldve wanted to know it would be 
covered by taking out this type of cover. 
And if Barclays had explained the policy limitation in this regard at the point of sale, I dont 
think its likely that Mr R wouldve thought the policy was right for him. So its unlikely he 
wouldve wanted to take it out. 
Being entitled to cancel the policy at no cost after taking it out doesnt mean it wasnt mis-
sold to Mr R.
Based on all the information I've seen, I think Mr R has lost out because of what Barclays did 
wrong and it should put things right. 
Putting things rightBarclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard should put Mr R in the financial position hed 
be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. I understand that the Barclaycard accounts and the 
policy are cancelled already so: 
A. Barclays Bank UK PLC should find out how much Mr R wouldve owed when he 
closed his credit cards if the policy hadnt been added to his card accounts.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
Barclays Bank UK PLC should then refund the difference between what Mr R owed 
when he closed the accounts and what he would have owed if he hadnt had PPI.
If Mr R made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Barclays Bank UK PLC can take 
off what he got for the claim from the amount it owes him.
B. If  when Barclays Bank UK PLC works out what Mr R would have owed each month 
without PPI  Mr R paid more than enough to clear his balances, Barclays Bank UK PLC 
should also pay simple interest on the extra Mr R paid. And it should carry on paying 
interest until the point when Mr R wouldve owed Barclays Bank UK PLC something on 
his credit cards. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
C. Barclays Bank UK PLC should tell Mr R what its done to work out A and B.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays Bank UK PLC to take off tax from this interest. 
Barclays Bank UK PLC must give Mr R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he 
asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr Rs complaint and Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as 
Barclaycard should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2021. 
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman