DRN-3322396
The complaint
Mr M says Lendable Ltd irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about a 36-month instalment loan for £6,500 that Lendable provided to
Mr M on 10 June 2020. The monthly repayments were £232.39 and the total repayable was 
£8,334.39.
Mr M says he was desperate at the time due to family circumstances, and he had to borrow 
again to repay this loan.
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Ms complaint and thought Lendable shouldnt have given the 
loan. Lendable disagreed, saying its checks showed Mr M had sufficient disposable income 
to afford the loan, and so the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr Ms complaint. These two 
questions are:
1. Did Lendable complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr 
M would be able to repay the loan without experiencing significant adverse 
consequences?
If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr M wouldve been able to do so?
2. Did Lendable act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required Lendable to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Ms ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Lendable had to think about whether repaying 
the loan would cause significant adverse consequences for Mr M. In practice this meant that 
business had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt cause Mr M undue 
difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Lendable to simply think about the likelihood of it getting 
its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr M. Checks also 
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
Lendable has provided evidence to show that before lending it asked for some information 
from Mr M. It asked for his monthly income, his employment status and his residential status. 
It completed an income verification check with a third-party and, it seems, made an 
assumption about his living costs. It carried out a credit check to understand his credit 
history and his existing credit commitments.  I cant see it asked about the purpose of the 
loan. Based on these checks Lendable thought it was fair to lend.
Im not wholly persuaded these checks were proportionate  given the term of the loan I 
would have expected Lendable to want to understand Mr Ms actual living costs to ensure he 
would be able to make the repayments sustainably for three years. But I wont comment 
further on this as I dont think the lender made a fair lending decision based on the 
information it had gathered. Ill explain why.
Mr M applied for this loan nine months after he had taken out a previous loan with Lendable. 
At the time this had a balance of £8,766 and the monthly repayments were £400. Between 
that time and this application he had then taken out a further five credit accounts (I note two 
were telecoms). By giving this loan, without settling the first loan, Lendable was increasing 
the proportion of his monthly income that Mr M would need to spend on servicing his debt to 
over 30%. At this level I think it ought to have realised there was a risk Mr M would not be 
able to repay this loan without suffering adverse financial consequences. And to meet its 
regulatory obligations it needed to consider this, not just the pounds and pence affordability. 
Lendable points out that Mr M repaid this loan early and had an excellent repayment history 
on his previous loan, but it cant fairly conclude that means the loan was affordable. It 
doesnt know how he was able to do this. I have also considered the lenders comment that 
Mr M credit check showed no adverse data. But as Ive set out above it was required to think about the likely impact of its lending on Mr M over the term of the loan  not just his current 
position, so this does not change my conclusion.
It follows I think Lendable was wrong to give this loan to Mr M and Lendable needs to put 
things right.
Ive also thought about whether Lendable acted unfairly in some other way and I havent 
seen any evidence that it did.
Putting things right  what Lendable needs to do
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr M to repay the capital amount that he borrowed,
because he had the benefit of that lending. But he has paid extra for lending that should not
have been provided to him so Lendable needs to out that right. 
It should:
refund all interest and charges Mr M paid on the loans;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement; and
remove any negative information about the loan from Mr Ms credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lendable to take off tax from this interest. Lendable must give 
Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Ms complaint. Lendable Ltd must put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman