DRN-3685037
The complaint
Company A complains that PrePay Technologies Limited (PPT) have failed to refund over 
£2,400 it lost as part of a scam involving goods it purchased online.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reason for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
It isnt in dispute that Company A authorised the disputed payments it made to the 
scammer from its Tide business account, which was in response to several fraudulent 
Facebook marketplace advertisements. The payments were transferred by Company A 
using its legitimate security credentials provided by PPT, and the starting position is that 
banks ought to follow the instructions given by their customers in order for legitimate 
payments to be made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether PPT ought to have done more to prevent Company A 
from falling victim to the scam, or if there were any missed opportunities for it to 
intervene in the payments being made as a result of them appearing unusual or out of 
character. But Im not persuaded there was any such failure to intervene in these 
circumstances.
Having reviewed the payments made from Company As account, I dont think the 
amounts were enough in themselves to have warranted any intervention by PPT, as they 
were not so unusual as to amount to a significant deviation in the way the account was 
normally run. I appreciate they may have been made to new payees. But a payment 
service provider would not be expected to intervene in every payment simply because it 
was made to a new payee, particularly where the amount being paid is not of a 
significant amount. So, Im not persuaded there was anything that ought reasonably to 
have triggered an intervention by PPT in these circumstances, or that there was any 
indication that Company A was at risk of falling victim to a scam. I therefore do not 
consider PPT to have acted unfairly or unreasonably when it allowed the disputed 
payments to be made. 
Ive also thought about whether PPT could have done more to recover the funds after 
Company A reported the fraud. However, I can see that they contacted the receiving 
banks to try and recover the stolen funds after the fraud was reported, but unfortunately 
no funds remained. As a result, I dont think PPT could have done anything more to have 
recovered the money.
I note that Company A has mentioned the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) 
Code that a number of banks are signed up to and submits that its money should be 
refunded in line with this Code. However, PPT is not a bank; it is an electronic money 
institute, and it is not signed up to the code in the way that certain banks are. Therefore, 
it has no obligation to refund Company As disputed payments in line with this Code.
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Company A, and Im sorry to hear it had 
been the victim of a scam. However, Im not persuaded that PPT had any obligation to 
intervene or prevent the disputed payments in these circumstances, so I will not be asking it 
to take any further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Company A to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman