DRN-3231787
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy Great Lakes Insurance SE declined a claim on his pet insurance policy.
What happened
Mr N had a pet insurance policy underwritten by Great Lakes. He spoke to his insurer when 
his pet needed treatment for breathing difficulties. And he thought Great Lakes pre-
authorised the treatment. But the insurer then declined Mr Ns claim saying it was a pre-
existing condition. Mr N said the condition wasnt formally diagnosed until four months after 
the policy had started. And he wants Great Lakes to consider his claim.
Great Lakes said Mr N had got in touch in April 2021. He was looking into pet surgery for 
BOAS and was obtaining estimates. Great Lakes said its adviser had mistakenly informed 
Mr N he could register a claim once itd received an estimate for surgery. But the adviser 
shouldve told Mr N it couldnt register a claim until after the surgery had taken place. And itd 
provided feedback to the adviser. 
The insurer explained it hadnt received any emails from Mr Ns vets. Itd confirmed the 
correct address with both Mr N and the vets. And itd provided an alternative email to use in 
case of difficulties. Great Lakes had apologised to Mr N after he hadnt received copies of 
his calls to the insurer. And itd paid £25 compensation for the error.
Great Lakes said itd reviewed the pets medical history. And it felt the pets breathing issue 
was a pre-existing condition that Mr N had received advice about within the 24 months 
before the policy started. So Great Lakes felt itd declined the claim correctly and in line with 
the terms and conditions of the pet insurance policy.
Mr N wasnt satisfied with Great Lakes response. So he contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. Our investigator commented on the other aspects of the 
complaint. But he focused his finding on the decision to decline Mr Ns claim. 
After looking at the policy document in relation to pre-existing conditions our investigator felt 
the pet had received advice for BOAS (which the claim was being made in relation to) before 
the policy started. So he felt Great Lakes had acted fairly in declining the claim. And he 
wouldnt be asking Great Lakes to do anything more.
Mr N didnt agree with our investigator. The x-ray and assessment for his pet hadnt taken 
place until July. That was after the policy had started. So it shouldnt be considered a pre-
existing condition. And Mr N has asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see our investigator has addressed the other issues in Great Lakes response to Mr Ns 
complaint. 
And I understand there are other matters related to what Mr N was told when he took out his 
policy that are being considered separately. So Ill focus this decision on what I think is 
relevant to this complaint. If I havent commented on a specific point its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
It might help to explain that my role when considering a complaint about a declined 
insurance claim is to decide whether I think the insurer has acted fairly and reasonably in 
turning down the claim. To decide this I need to look at the reasons Great Lakes has given 
for declining the claim and then determine whether thats fair under the policy terms Mr N 
agreed to when he took out the policy. 
Mr Ns dispute in this complaint is about whether the conditions noted by Great Lakes before 
the policy was taken out are pre-existing or not. Thats because, like most pet insurance 
policies, cover isnt provided for the costs of any treatment relating to something that existed 
before the policy started. 
In section 5 important things you should be aware of the policy document states pre-
existing conditions (anything your pet has had any treatment, medication or advice for in the 
last 24 months) are a common cause of claims being turned down and the policy further 
states we will not pay for any costs relating to pre-existing conditions. 
The policy definition confirms that a pre-existing condition is anything your pet has had 
treatment, medication or advice for in the last 24 months. And I think the key word here in 
this particular case is advice.
Mr N says his pets condition of BOAS wasnt formally diagnosed until a few months after the 
policy started. So Great Lakes shouldnt decline his claim for a pre-existing condition. And I 
can understand why he feels this way.
But the pet insurance policy doesnt say a formal diagnosis has to be made. Ive looked at 
the pets medical history and I can see breathing problems were noted in February and 
during earlier discussions with the vet. The notes show BOAS surgery was suggested if 
Mr N wished to pursue it. And at the beginning of March Mr N was advised to monitor for 
symptoms of BOAS. 
Although a formal diagnosis of BOAS may have only taken place after the x-rays in July, I 
think its clear Mr N was receiving advice about BOAS concerns before the policy started in 
March. 
I realise Mr N will be disappointed with this outcome. And I do appreciate how upsetting 
Mr N has found this matter. But after taking into account the medical history Im satisfied 
Great Lakes has properly considered the claim and has acted fairly in declining the claim in 
line with the policy conditions. So I wont be asking Great Lakes to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2022.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman