The complaint
Mr S complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc has closed his account without 
providing him with an explanation. He is also unhappy that he received a call from Ulster 
Bank and believes his data has been breached. 
What happened
Mr S had his account with RBS. On 5 July 2019 during a telephone conversation 
RBS explained it felt the relationship between it and Mr S had broken down and so it gave 
him 60 days notice of his account being closed. It followed the telephone conversation with a 
letter confirming notice of his account closure. 
Mr S complained as he wasn't happy with its decision. RBS didn't uphold his complaint and 
explained his account will be closed in accordance with the terms and conditions of the 
account. It also didn't agree it had breached his data. Not happy with that Mr S asked us to 
look into his complaint. He felt the account closure was unlawful particularly as he had an 
ongoing complaint against RBS with this office. 
Our investigator didn't uphold Mr S's complaint. She was satisfied RBS was entitled to give 
60-days notice of account closure as per its terms and conditions. She also didn't find that
RBS had breached his data as Ulster Bank is part of the same company as RBS.
Mr S is very unhappy with the outcome. He has replied at length but I have summarised this 
as:
He thinks it is shocking and immoral for his account to be closed, particularly as he is
in ill health.
He wants to know the reason the account is being closed and doesn't believe this
can be done when there is an ongoing complaint. He says there has been no criminal
activity, no money laundering or abuse of the account.
He considers the terms and conditions are unfair and that RBS is acting contrary to
the constitution in closing the account.
He has referred to the corruption in the banking industry, the scandals and publicised
wrong doing.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr S is extremely unhappy that his account has been closed. Although I have 
only summarised his arguments above, I would like to reassure Mr S and RBS that I have 
DRN-1060238read and considered everything provided in its entirety. My summarising the points isn't 
meant as a discourtesy but as a reflection of our quick and informal service. 
I note Mr S has made a lot of arguments about the banking industry in general. It isn't my 
role to comment on the industry in general but to consider his individual complaint against 
RBS. Therefore my decision will only be in relation to the account closure and Mr S being 
contacted by Ulster Bank. 
RBS's terms and conditions set out, in clause 12.2, when and how it can close an account. 
Contrary to Mr S's arguments, such terms aren't inherently unfair and can be found in most if 
not all banking terms and conditions. A bank can decide to cease providing services to a 
customer, in the same way a customer can choose to bank with a different provider. And if a 
bank does choose to cease providing services it can do so without providing a reason. Yet  
it seems Mr S was actually given a reason - it felt the relationship had broken down.
In certain situations a bank can close an account immediately, but generally it should give 
notice. This is usually 60 days. This is so the customer can find banking arrangements 
elsewhere and continue managing their financial affairs.  RBS gave Mr S 60 days notice of 
his account closure, so I'm satisfied it has acted in accordance with its terms and conditions.  
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr S but I don't find it has acted unfairly, or 
contrary to any laws. 
I turn now to Mr S's concerns over being contacted by Ulster Bank when he doesn't bank 
with them. In the terms and conditions to Mr S's account it explains in section 14 how his 
information will be used. At 14.1 it explains:
We are a member of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group ("RBS"). For 
more information about other RBS companies please visit rbs.com, or contact your 
branch.
Ulster Bank is one fo the RBS companies.  At clause 14.5 the terms and conditions further 
explain:
We may use and share your information with other RBS companies. This information 
is used by and them to:
assess and process applications, provide you with products and services and
manage our (or their) relationship with you and/or as part of a sale,
reorganisation, transfer or other transaction relating to our business.
I'm therefore satisfied that the terms and conditions allow for the sharing of information 
between companies in the RBS group, if that was what RBS was doing. But it seems to me 
the call was intended come from RBS (and that the call handlers make calls on behalf of all 
the RBS companies) and the handler simply referred to the incorrect business. I do 
understand how disconcerting this must have been for him, but it has apologised for this, 
which I think is sufficient in the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2019.
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman