DRN-3178964
The complaint
Mr B complains that Automobile Association Insurance Services (AA) didnt deal with his 
breakdown abroad in line with the terms and conditions of his cover.     
What happened
Mr B held a recovery policy with the AA. 
In February 2016 Mr B contacted the AA while he was abroad as his car was overheating. 
The call handler explained that as it was a weekend, it would be unlikely a garage would be 
open, but they would send a breakdown vehicle to tow Mr Bs car to a depot, and get it 
transferred to a garage on Monday. They also advised that if the garage couldnt fix it they 
may recover the car to the UK. Mr B said there was a garage in another area that might be 
able to provide the parts and he would check and get back to them.
 
The following day, Mr B contacted the AA again to ask further about the recovery process. 
He was advised that the vehicle would need to be checked at a garage, but provided that 
there was a major fault and the value of the car made it economical to repair, it would be 
recovered back to the UK.
Mr B proceeded and a recovery vehicle was sent, and a small hire car was provided to Mr B.    
On Monday the garage looked at the car but advised the AA that they wouldnt have the 
parts for this model of car and advised another garage some miles away would be able to 
deal with it. The AA authorised the further cost of recovery to the second garage and the car 
was moved. 
The second garage notified the AA that the head gasket was burnt out and the engine would 
need to be dismantled to identify the extent of the damage. The AA were asked whether they 
would be willing to cover the cost of dismantling or authorise the repatriation of the car. The 
costs for repatriation were 2134 euros and the market value of the car was 1140 euros. 
The AA contacted Mr B to discuss his options, which included scrapping the car. He was 
advised that if the car couldnt be repaired, the AA would pay, at their discretion:
1. Repatriation of up to 6 passengers and luggage to home in the UK, also recovery of 
the insured vehicle to the home or a repairer of the customers choice.
After a discussion with Mr B, the AA agreed to let Mr B stay for the remainder of his holiday, 
extending the hire car up to the value of £750, and they would pay £100 storage costs for 
the car while it was awaiting repair/recovery or abandonment. The AA confirmed that they 
wouldnt cover the costs to abandon the car, and that Mr B needed to contact his insurer if 
he was going to scrap the car. They also declined to cover any accommodation costs as Mr 
B had opted for recovery as his secondary assistance. 
Later that day Mr Mr B called the AA to advise that his insurer wouldnt cover the cost of 
dismantling the car. A team leader at the AA had looked into the case and advised that they 
werent willing to recover the car back to the UK from an economical point of view. 
The garage advised Mr B that the cost of dismantling the engine was 200 euros plus vat. Mr 
B was unhappy that he was being advised to scrap his car without what he considered to be 
a proper diagnosis that he would get in the UK for free. 
The AA explained that under the cover provided, the garage will only identify the initial 
problem, not complete full diagnostics. They were happy with the garages assessment of 
what was wrong and werent willing to pay for the work to dismantle the car.  The AA advised 
that although in their view, due to the recovery costs and the value of the vehicle, scrappage 
was the best option, it was Mr Bs decision to make, and he could pay for the dismantling 
himself.  The AA agreed to extend the hire car whilst Mr B decided. 
A few days later the AA contacted Mr B again to ask whether he had made a decision about 
what he wanted to do. While discussing the car, Mr B was asked about the history of it, and 
this prompted the call handler to check the DVLA data base. It showed that the car wasnt 
MOTd and was showing as SORN. They mentioned that the policy states that the car needs 
to be maintained and registered in the UK but didnt elaborate. 
 
This issue was referred to a team leader and Mr B was notified later that day that the AA 
would no longer provide cover as the car had no MOT or tax. Mr B was advised that the hire 
car would be provided for another day, but after that any costs would be his. 
Mr B advised the AA that he had missed the MOT due to being in hospital having a major 
operation and asked for the car to be brought back to him. The AA agreed to recover the car 
back to him from the garage but that would be their last assistance. They also advised that 
storage costs were not covered under the policy, but as Mr B had been misadvised, they 
agreed to pay the storage costs as a gesture of goodwill. 
Mr B remained unhappy as he felt the AA had refused him a service that he was entitled to, 
as his interpretation of the terms and conditions was different.     
   
One of our investigators has looked into Mr Bs complaint and decided that AA have acted 
fairly.  
Mr B disagreed with our investigators view, and so the case has come to me to review. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint, and I will explain why below. 
I have looked at the terms and condition of the cover provided by the AA. In the policy 
documents it states:
Section 7  European cover
Roadside assistance and towing
We cover the following
We will arrange and pay for:
1. Labour and call out charges involved in providing roadside assistance after an
insured incident within the geographical limits, if we or our service providers
consider that the insured vehicle can be repaired at the roadside; or2. The insured vehicle to be taken to the nearest suitable local repairer or safe
storage place after an insured incident.
We do not cover the following
Any charges for the storing of the insured vehicle.
Any costs for spare parts, garage labour and materials used by the local repairer
in repairing the insured vehicle.
On the information that has been provided, I consider that the AA have provided assistance 
in line with the terms of the policy. They have recovered Mr Bs car to a garage that was able 
to assess the car and carry out the repairs. Mr B chose not to have that garage carry out the 
repairs or undertake further investigations as he thought it too expensive and would not cost 
him that much in the UK. His preference would have been repatriation to have the car looked 
at in the UK. 
However, The AA were satisfied with the advice received from the garage about what was 
wrong with the car, which they were entitled to do, and that the garage could undertake the 
further investigations and repairs if Mr B wished. I am satisfied that there was therefore no 
obligation on the AA to recover the vehicle back to the UK in this situation. The terms of the 
policy in relation to recovery were made clear to Mr B when he made his initial call to report 
the incident.   
   
In relation to the cancellation of the policy when they discovered that the car was not MOTd 
or taxed, I cant say that the AA have acted unfairly. 
Mr Bs policy documents state at p25 that:
2 Vehicle specifications
You must do all you can to comply with all laws and codes to keep the insured vehicle safe 
and fit to drive.
It further states:
The law which applies to this contract
This contract is governed by English law
Under English law a current MOT certificate and road tax are required for a car to be driven. 
At the time of the incident Mr Bs car had no MOT and had been declared as off the road for 
tax purposes. Therefore, the car didnt meet the English legal requirements, and so Mr B 
was in breach of the terms of his policy. In that situation, the AA is entitled to withdraw cover.
 
I appreciate that Mr B feels strongly about what happened. However, in this case I find that 
AA have acted fairly and reasonably. They have provided roadside recovery and additional 
removal costs for the car to get it to a place where repairs could take place. After they 
discovered that the car was not MOTd or taxed, they provided further recovery to get it back 
to Mr B and allowed the hire car to be extended. Even if they hadnt cancelled Mr Bs cover, I 
think that the AA had already met their obligations under the policy. 
  
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, and Automobile Association Insurance Services do not need to do anything further. 
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2022.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman