DRN-3959857
The complaint
Mr K complains that UK Insurance Ltd trading as Direct Line (UKI) unfairly cancelled his 
motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr K had a motor policy with UKI in 2021 which he cancelled in July 2021 further to a 
declined claim. UKI told Mr K they thought that he had tried to mislead them and that, as a 
result, this would be recorded on the Insurance Fraud Register (IFR).
 
Mr K then took out a new motor insurance policy with UKI in November 2021 and made a 
successful claim under it in December 2021. In February 2022 he received the letter from 
UKI to say the policy would be cancelled later that month. Mr K contacted UKI about this 
cancellation. He was told that it had been flagged to UKI that his details had been placed on 
the IFR and under the terms and conditions of the policy they have the right to cancel it. 
Mr K raised a complaint with UKI that they cancelled the policy three months after his 
application for a new policy had been accepted. He said the cancellation was having a huge 
impact on his home and work life. He added that he had no reason to assume that a fraud 
marker had been recorded against him bearing in mind that hed made a successful claim on 
the policy in December 2021.
UKI investigated Mr Ks concerns and maintained their decision to cancel the policy. They 
explained their Policy Validation department reviewed his policy, and during that process     
Mr K was told that he didnt meet their underwriting requirements as hed been placed on the 
IFR. So, they continued to invoke their right to cancel the policy.
Unhappy with UKIs response, Mr K referred his complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators considered Mr Ks complaint and they didnt find that UKI had unfairly cancelled 
Mr Ks motor policy. They explained that, as soon as UKI became aware of Mr Ks previously 
added fraud marker, UKI informed him that theyd be cancelling his cover. Therefore, the 
investigator thought UKI had acted in line with their policy wording. The investigator also 
explained that, just because the claim Mr K made in December 2021 was accepted, this 
doesnt prove there wasnt a fraud marker registered against Mr K - or that the fraud marker 
should be removed.
Mr K rejected the investigators findings as he didnt accept that UKI wouldnt have 
automatically picked up the fraud marker when he took the new policy. He reiterated 
concerns about the impact the fraud marker was having on his health, work and homelife. 
So, the complaint has been passed to me and I issued a provisional decision.
What I said in my provisional decision dated 10 January 2023
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Fraud marker
The policy terms and conditions of the motor insurance cover Mr K took in December 2021 
say:
What happens if we discover fraud - If we discover fraud, we have the right to:
> Cancel any other products you hold with U K Insurance Limited.
> Cancel this policy, if the fraud happened under any other policy you hold with
U K Insurance Limited
> Share information about your behaviour with other organisations to prevent further 
fraud.
We may also involve the relevant authorities who can bring criminal proceedings.
Mr K made a claim on his UKI motor insurance policy in June 2021 after he said hed driven 
over a boulder while driving his car the month before. He said his car had sustained damage 
as a result. UKI rejected the claim stating:
We are not prepared to cover your claim as it is clear from the above that you have 
attempted to mislead us about your claim and that the damage you allege has been caused 
by a boulder is in fact related to a pre-existing engine problem for which our previous insurer 
had already rejected your claim. This is abundantly clear from the conversations detailed 
above as well as the findings of our engineers which show that the damage is inconsistent 
with a collision with a boulder and instead relates to a mechanical issue.
UKI wrote to Mr K and said that hed called on a few occasions prior to the accident he says 
he had in May 2021, asking if they could add a temporary additional vehicle to his cover as 
his car had broken down due to engine issues. They then said Mr K called to question 
whether his policy would cover him if hed had engine damage due to a collision with a 
boulder. A couple of days later UKI says Mr K contacted them to make a claim for an 
accident he had in May 2021 where he hit a boulder causing damage to his car.
UKIs engineers said the damage wasnt consistent with the accident as described by Mr K 
and said they thought this was down to an oil leak which had been there for some time. And, 
as far as Im aware, Mr K hasnt disputed that this is what happened. On balance, in the 
circumstances I find that UKI acted fair and reasonably in terms of this, and also in deciding 
to cancel the policy  even though Mr K ultimately cancelled it himself.
New motor policy
Mr K took a new motor policy with UKI in November 2021. He then made a claim on the 
policy in December 2021 following an accident resulting from a mechanical failure of his 
vehicle. In February 2022 after the Policy Validation department reviewed Mr Ks insurance 
cover, they wrote to Mr K and said,
We have been made aware that you have had a previous claim repudiated by Direct Line on 
15th July 2021. Because of this repudiation, we are no longer willing to continue to provide 
you with cover under this insurance policy.
Following receipt of the letter, Mr K called UKI and cancelled the policy himself. A letter was 
issued to Mr K in July 2021 advising him it wasnt settling the claim on his previous policy, 
and that his details may be shared with fraud prevention agencies. So, Mr K wouldve been 
aware of the potential issue of having an insurance policy declined or revoked because of 
his details may have been recorded on a fraud database.Even though UKI didnt discover the fraud marker against Mr K until three months after the 
policy was accepted, or when Mr K made a successful claim under the insurance cover, Im 
satisfied that theyve acted in line with the policys terms and conditions. So, I wont be 
asking UKI to reinstate the motor cover.
 
I agree with Mr K that UKI should have noticed the marker against his name on the IFR 
when he applied for the new policy with them, especially as it was applied by UKI 
themselves. However, Mr K has had the benefit of the claim that was paid under the new 
policy in December 2021. So, I wont be upholding Mr Ks complaint on this point.
Policy cancellations
Mr K says he answered no on his application when asked whether hed had an insurance 
policy cancelled by an insurer when taking out the new policy with UKI. This was because  
Mr K cancelled the policy and not the insurer. UKI have confirmed that Mr K cancelled both 
policies before the intended cancellation by UKI. Im satisfied that in the circumstances UKI 
was acting fairly when it allowed Mr K to cancel the policies himself.
Im sorry to hear how this has affected Mr Ks ability to work, and the impact this has had on 
his health and home life. But taking everything into account, UKI have fairly applied the 
policy terms and conditions. So, I dont find that UKI have treated Mr K unfairly, and I wont 
be asking them to remove the information in the IFR.
UKI replied to confirm it had nothing further to add. Mr K didnt respond to my provisional 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party have provided any further comments or evidence to consider, I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusion reached in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, Im not upholding Mr Ks 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2023.
 
Helen Giles
Ombudsman