DRN-2373960
The complaint
Miss B has complained through her representative that Madison CF UK Limited trading as 
118 118 Money lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision about this complaint in October 2020 that I summarise below.
Miss B was given a loan of £3,300 by 118 118 Money in January 2019. The loan was due to
be repaid in 24 monthly instalments of around £327. The total amount payable, including
interest was just over £7,849. I understand the loan is still outstanding.
I explained the basis on which I would decide the complaint, in particular the checks that 118 
118 Money needed to do such as the amount being lent, and the consumers income and 
expenditure. With this in mind, I thought less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate in the early stages of the lending relationship.
I said that 118 118 Money was required to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks in 
order to establish whether Miss B could sustainably repay her loan.
118 118 Money says it carried out some checks before it gave the loan to Miss B. This
included asking for details of her income and expenditure and acquiring a credit report. 
But in the circumstances, I didnt think the checks 118 118 Money carried out were
reasonable or proportionate. 
The information that Miss B provided about her financial position would seem to suggest she 
could have covered the loan repayment each month. But this was an expensive loan, 
repayable over two years and the rules and guidance suggest that the risk of any credit not 
being sustainable directly relates to the amount of credit granted and the total charge for 
credit - relative to the customers financial situation.
118 118 Money had acquired a credit report about Miss B but I thought it had relied heavily 
on information she provided about her expenditure. The rules and regulations say that where 
a lender takes income or expenditure into account, it is not generally sufficient for it to rely 
solely on a statement of those matters made by the customer. Given the amount being lent, 
the repayment amounts and the length of the loan term, I think 118 118 Money should 
reasonably have taken steps to gain a more thorough understanding of Miss Bs financial 
position - in order to satisfy itself that she could sustainably repay the loan, over an extended 
24-months period. 
So as well as asking Miss B about her income and expenditure, I thought 118 118 Money 
should have carried out more detailed and independent checks into Miss Bs financial 
circumstances  for example by asking to see her bank statements.
Miss B provided us with copies of her bank statements leading up to her application to
118 118 Money, so I could determine what better checks might have shown the lender at 
that time. And I considered this information in light of what Ive set out above. Of course,
different checks might show different things. But I thought if 118 118 Money had carried out
what I consider to be proportionate checks, I think its likely it would have discovered more
about Miss Bs financial position.
I thought if 118 118 Money had carried out what I consider to be reasonable and 
proportionate checks, it would most likely have discovered that Miss Bs regular outgoings 
were higher than she had estimated, and in particular that she was frequently transferring 
money to someone who appears to have been regularly borrowing from Miss B.
Miss Bs bank statements show that in the two months prior to taking the loan from 118 118
Money, Miss B made over 40 separate payments to this person totalling over £4,000. He did 
repay some monies to Miss B, but far less than he received. I thought this ought reasonably
have alerted 118 118 Money that at the very least, Miss Bs financial position was not
straightforward. It seemed to me that the lender ought reasonably to have queried the 
frequency and amount of money she was giving to another person, as her bank statements 
suggested she was supporting him financially and therefore did not have the level of 
disposable income that 118 118 Money had calculated was available to repay her loan over 
the extended loan term.
Miss B says she was already a guarantor on two loans for someone else at the time she 
took the loan with 118 118 Money and she thinks the lender ought to have discovered this. 
But it doesnt seem that she disclosed this information to the lender at the time. I didnt think 
that what I consider to be proportionate checks would necessarily have uncovered Miss Bs 
contractual commitments as a loan guarantor at the time. But I did think that the information 
on her bank statements ought reasonably to have suggested to 118 118 Money that Miss B 
was potentially supporting this person financially.
Miss B told us that she was pressured into taking the loan on his behalf because she was 
being coerced into giving large amounts of money to him. She told us about how this has 
impacted on her and I am sorry she has had such a difficult time. But I had to consider 
whether 118 118 Money was aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, that Miss B 
might be acting under some form of coercion or pressure when it accepted her loan 
application. I thought about this very carefully. But taking into account everything Id 
reviewed, I could not fairly say that I thought 118 118 Money ought reasonably to have 
concluded that Miss B was being pressured or coerced into taking the loan.
But I did think that if 118 118 Money had carried out better checks it ought reasonably to 
have realised that Miss Bs finances were over committed and that it was unlikely that she 
would have been able to sustainably repay her loan over the full term. So 118 118 Money 
ought reasonably to have concluded that it was not appropriate to lend to her.
So taking things as a whole, I said I was intending to uphold Miss Bs complaint about her 
loan.
Did 118 118 Money act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Miss Bs representative complained that 118 118 Money acted unreasonably when he
tried to contact the lender on Miss Bs behalf to complain about the loan. 
I have seen the email correspondence and the lenders customer contact records. I 
understood that Miss Bs representative found it a frustrating process and he was unhappy 
about being asked to provide personal information. From what Id seen, 118 118 Money 
explained that it had to follow a particular internal process in order to discuss a borrowers 
account with a third party, and to progress the complaint being raised. 118 118 Money might 
not have explained the process as clearly as it should have done to Miss Bs representative. But I didnt think it was unreasonable to require know your customer type personal 
information from a third party wanting to act on an account holders behalf. Overall, I didnt 
think 118 118 Money acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss B or her representative in 
some other way.
I invited both parties to send me any further comments or evidence. 118 118 Money has said 
it has nothing further to add and it is preparing to put things right as directed in my 
provisional decision.
Miss B, through her representative, has told us she does not accept my provisional decision 
and she has made a number of comments, all of which I have read very carefully. In 
summary Miss B says:
She wants to see the evidence that 118 118 Money has provided. 
She has previously asked for three complaints (involving other lenders as well as 118 
118 Money) to be looked at collectively and not individually. Miss B says this is would 
give a more appropriate perspective on her case. 
In particular Miss B thinks 118 118 Money ought to have been aware that shed 
agreed to be a guarantor on a loan that was taken out around 10 days before she 
applied for her own loan with 118 118 Money. Miss B says that this wasnt taken into 
account by 118 118 Money so she doesnt think the checks it carried were 
proportionate. Miss B says that she had text messages showing that shed been 
turned down for loans by other companies, and that this should have raised further 
questions.
Miss Bs representative doesnt agree with what 118 118 Money says happened 
when he tried to let it know he would be dealing with Miss Bs complaint on her 
behalf. Miss Bs representative says he wanted assurances that his personal 
information which 118 118 Money said it required would be securely stored.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for all the information that has been provided about this matter 
and for responding to my provisional decision. 
Im sorry that Miss B doesnt accept my provisional decision  even though I said I was 
intending to uphold her complaint. 
Miss B has asked to see the evidence that 118 118 Money has provided. But I am upholding 
Miss Bs complaint, and I dont think in the circumstances it would be helpful to prolong the 
matter any further by circulating documents between the parties.
Miss B thinks that all three of her complaints against different lenders should be considered 
as a whole, as this would give a better picture of her overall circumstances. But this Service 
cannot combine complaints in that way. I have to consider whether, at the time, 118 118 
Money did what it was required to do  including carrying out reasonable and proportionate 
checks - before it agreed to lend to Miss B. 
I have already explained that I think 118 118 Money ought to have gone further with its 
checks. But even if better checks had been carried out, I dont think Miss Bs guarantor 
commitments would necessarily have been uncovered at the time. I dont think its likely that 
her contractual commitments as a loan guarantor would have appeared on Miss Bs credit report when 118 118 Money carried out its checks. And as each lender has its own lending 
criteria, I dont think 118 118 Money would reasonably be aware from proportionate checks 
that Miss B had been turned down for other loans, unless she disclosed this to 118 118 
Money at the time. I did however think that with better checks 118 118 Money would most 
likely have gained a better understanding of Miss Bs financial circumstances overall. And I 
think that it ought reasonably to have declined her application for the loan.
As I explained in my provisional decision, I understand why Miss Bs representative might 
have found the process of raising Miss Bs complaint with 118 118 Money to be more difficult 
that he thought it should be. But I dont think 118 118 Money acted unfairly or unreasonably 
when it required him, as a third-party representative, to provide personal information in 
accordance with its own internal processes. If Miss Bs representative has any concerns 
about whether or not 118 118 Money has kept his personal data secure, then he should 
raise this directly with 118 118 Money on his own behalf. He might also wish to refer to the 
Information Commissioners Office website for more information about a companys 
obligation to keep personal data safe.
I am sorry that Miss B does not accept the reasoning behind my decision. I would like to 
reassure her that I have considered all the evidence presented in this matter. But the further 
comments that Miss Bs representative has made have not changed my mind about this 
complaint. 
Of course, Miss B is perfectly entitled to decide not to accept my decision to uphold her 
complaint.  But if she decides not to accept, then under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, 118 118 Money would not be bound by my decision to uphold this 
complaint in her favour. And so 118 118 Money would not have to put things right in the way 
that I set out below. 
Having carefully considered all the evidence, arguments and information Ive seen about this
matter, I confirm the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.  I uphold Miss Bs 
complaint about her loan and 118 118 Money should put things right.
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Miss B to repay the principal amount that she borrowed as 
she has had the benefit of that lending. But she has paid interest and charges on a loan that 
shouldnt have been provided to her. So I think Miss B has lost out and 118 118 Money 
should put things right for her.
118 118 Money should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset, and treat 
any repayments made by Miss B as though they had been repayments of the 
principal on this loan. If this results in Miss B having made overpayments then 118 
118 Money should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on 
the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date 
the complaint is settled.
If there is still an outstanding balance then 118 118 Money should try to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with Miss B bearing in mind its obligation to treat her 
positively and sympathetically in these discussions.118 118 Money should remove any adverse information about the loan from Miss Bs 
credit file. If 118 118 Money has sold the outstanding loan it should ask the debt 
purchaser to do the same. 118 118 Money does not have to remove the outstanding 
loan from Miss Bs credit file until it has been repaid, but it should still remove any 
adverse information recorded about this loan.
*HMRC requires 118 118 Money to take off tax from this interest and provide Miss B with a
certificate showing how much tax its taken off, if she requests one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Madison CF UK Limited 
trading as 118 118 Money to put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 December 2020.
 
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman