DRN-3196635
The complaint
Ms M (through a representative) has complained that S.D. Taylor Limited trading as Loans at
Home provided her with loans she couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
Our adjudicator partially upheld Ms Ms complaint and recommended compensation for loan 
6 only. Ms M did not agree with the adjudicators opinion. The complaint was then passed to 
me. 
I issued my provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was intending to uphold more 
loans than the adjudicator did (loans 4 and 5). This meant, LAH was going to be asked pay 
compensation for the same loans that it offered to Ms M in the final response letter. A copy 
of the background to the complaint and my provisional findings follows in italics and forms 
part of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision:
Ms M took six loans from LAH between December 2017 and March 2019. A summary of her
borrowing, based on the information provided to us from LAH can be found below:
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment date term (weeks)
1 £200.00 07/12/2017 30/05/2018 33
2 £250.00 29/03/2018 31/10/2018 45
3 £500.00 30/05/2018 16/01/2019 45
4 £600.00 31/10/2018 outstanding 45
5 £500.00 16/01/2019 outstanding 46
6 £500.00 27/03/2019 outstanding 46
After the complaint was referred to this Service by Ms Ms representative LAH issued its final
response about Ms Ms complaint. In it, LAH offered redress on the final three loans, but as
there were outstanding balances Ms M wouldnt receive a refund, but the amount she owed,
would be reduced. Ms M told this Service she didnt accept this offer.
One of our adjudicators looked at Ms Ms complaint. He didnt uphold her complaint about
loans 1 to 5. But he did think loan 6 shouldnt have been provided because in his view, the
pattern of lending was now unsustainable for Ms M, so LAH shouldnt have provided this
loan.
LAH agreed with the adjudicator. It explained that because there was an outstanding
balance due it had reduced Ms Ms overall liability by £420 but this still left Ms M with an
overall balance of £1,367.75 to pay. It also agreed to update Ms Ms credit file.
Ms M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. Initially, Ms M queried how she owed over
£1,300 on a £500 loan. The adjudicator clarified this with Ms Ms representatives by saying
that there were outstanding balances due on loans 4 and 5 as well.
However, Ms M still wanted the complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, she went on
to say;
I dont accept the offer regarding the other 2 loans
As its stated in previous inboxes I got offered these loans very regularly and
stopping payment
The adjudicator then checked with LAH whether it would honour the offer it made in its final
response letter, but it declined.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
[Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice
at the time the loan was provided.
LAH needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms M could
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts, and the
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that LAH should fairly and reasonably have done
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Ms M. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become or was becoming
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to say that LAH was required to establish whether Ms M
could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a
strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre
unlikely to be able to do so without borrowing further.Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all mean for Ms Ms complaint.
Looking at the individual circumstances of this case, I agree with the adjudicators outcome
for broadly the same reasons. LAH already accepts that loan 6 shouldnt have been given,
and Ms M hasnt said she disagrees with that loan being upheld. So, I wont make a finding
on that loan in this decision, as I dont think there is any ongoing disagreement and for
completeness, Ive included loan 6, in the putting things right section at the bottom of this
decision.
Loans 1  3
For each of these loans, LAH asked Ms M what her weekly income and expenditure was. 
For these loans, she declared a weekly income of around £288 for loan 1, £247 for loan 2 
and £305 for loan 3.
She also declared outgoings of around £92 for loan 1, £134 for loan 2 and £126 for loan 3.
Looking at what Ms M was committed to paying LAH each week of between £10 and £30
(when loans 2 and 3 overlapped) it wouldve looked to LAH that Ms M would be able to 
afford the repayments she was committed to making.
I appreciate Ms M provided this Service with bank statements that cover this period of
lending. But I dont yet think it had reached the stage where LAH needed to carry out a full
financial review which may have included verifying her income and expenditure, it was
reasonable for LAH to have relied on the information that Ms M provided.
As this was early in the lending relationship, there wasnt at this point, any obvious
repayment problems I think these checks that LAH carried out were proportionate and
showed it that Ms M could afford these loans. Im therefore planning not to uphold her
complaint about these loans.
Loans 4 and 5
When loan 4 was granted, loan 3 was still outstanding. This meant Ms M was committed to
paying LAH £44 per week towards her outstanding loans. Ms M declared a similar sort of
weekly income for loan 4 as she had for loan 3, around £305. And, it looks like that LAH saw 
some evidence of her income  so it seems likely that this sum is broadly correct.
And for loan 5, loan 4 was still outstanding, so the weekly repayment remained the same at
£44 per week. But Ms M was again further extending her indebtedness to LAH for an
additional 45 weeks.
For these loans, while LAH may have had an accurate idea of her income, it doesnt seem to
me that there was any attempt to verify her expenditure or carry out a full financial review, as
I think that is what it needed to do at this time, for both loans 4 and 5. I say this because Ms
Ms loans were generally increasing in value and she was further extending her
indebtedness.
LAH couldve verified her information a number of ways, it couldve asked for copies of her
bank statements or it couldve asked to see copies of bills, rent agreement or any other
documentary evidence that it felt it needed to see.
Im satisfied that LAH didnt do a proportionate check, but that isnt the end of the matter. For
me to be able to uphold Ms Ms complaint about these loans, I would have to be satisfiedthat not only LAH didnt carry out a proportionate check, but had it done so, it wouldve likely
discovered that Ms M couldnt afford the repayments she was committed to repaying.
Ms M has provided this Service with copy of her bank statements that cover the period of
time when loans 4 and 5 were granted. Ive carefully considered the content of these bank
statements, and I think that had LAH verified her information it wouldve likely concluded that
Ms M wasnt in a position to take on these loans.
When loan 4 was granted Ms M already had one outstanding loan with LAH, she also had
two other home credit loans outstanding with another provider. So, she had 4 outstanding
home credit loans with payments totalling nearly £110 per week. On top of this it also looks
like she was making regular weekly repayments towards a rent-to-buy provider of around
£30 per week. So, each week, Ms M was also committing around 50% of her weekly income
to servicing her credit agreements, and this was before any living costs were taken into
account.
So, I think by loan 4, proportionate checks would most likely have shown LAH that Ms M was
having problems managing their money. I think LAH wouldve become aware that Ms M was
already over committed with other home credit providers. In these circumstances, I think
LAH ought to have realised it was unlikely Ms M wouldve been able to sustainably repay
this loan  and any subsequent loans without having to borrow further.
Ms Ms financial position appears to be broadly similar when loan 5 was granted. I can see
the same home credit providers, and Ms M still had two outstanding loans with LAH. In
addition to this, I can also see she has started to make repayments to a third-party debt
collector of £5 per week. Which suggest that Ms M had and was having financial difficulties.
So, like loan 4, I dont think this loan was sustainable.
So, Im intending to uphold Ms Ms complaint about loans 4 and 5 as well.
As Ive said, LAH has already agreed loan 6 shouldnt have been lent, so Ive included that
loan in the proposed compensation Ive outlined below.
Response to the provisional decision 
Both LAH and Ms M were asked to provide any further comments or evidence they wanted 
this Service to consider by 2 December 2021. 
Ms Ms representative contacted this Service to let us know Ms M hadnt made any further 
comments. If she did, the representative was aware of the deadline that these needed to be 
passed to this Service. 
 
LAH responded to the provisional decision, it said it was unhappy with how this case was 
going to be reported in the outcome data and the cost of the case.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
No further comments have been provided by Ms M or her representative.  
LAHs comments are around how this case would be recorded for outcome purposes. LAH 
said the offer wasnt withdrawn. But in any event, I still think the outcome should be the 
same as the offer that LAH originally made and for the same reasons Ive explained in the provisional decision. That being had LAH carried out proportionate checks, for loans 4 and 5 
it wouldve seen that Ms M wasnt in a position to take on these loans.  
LAH had already accepted that loan 6 ought to not have been granted. So, Ive kept this in 
mind when Ive outlined what LAH needs to do to put things right for Ms M. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress LAH should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what
might have happened had it not provided lending from loan 4, as Im satisfied it ought to
have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Ms M may have simply left matters there,
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative 
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Ms M in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Ms M would more likely than not have taken up any one of
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce LAHs liability in this case for what Im
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
LAH shouldnt have given Ms M loans 4  6  which is in line with the offer LAH originally 
made to settle the complaint. 
If LAH have sold the outstanding debts LAH should buy these back if LAH are able to do so
and then take the following steps. If LAH are not able to buy the debts back then LAH should
liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
It is my understanding Ms M still has outstanding balances to pay. 
A. LAH should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Ms M as though they had
been repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Ms M
having made overpayments then LAH should refund these overpayments with 8%
simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments
would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. LAH should then refund the
amounts calculated in A and move to step C.
B. If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in 
a surplus then the surplus should be paid to Ms M. However, if there is still an
outstanding balance then LAH should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with
Ms M and Id remind LAH of its obligation to treat Ms M fairly and forbearance.C. LAH should remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Ms credit file in 
relation to loans 4 and 5. The overall pattern of Ms Ms borrowing for loan 6 means 
any information recorded about it is adverse, so LAH should remove this loan entirely
from Ms Ms credit file. LAH does not have to remove loan 6 from Ms Ms credit file 
until it has been repaid, but LAH should still remove any adverse information 
recorded about this loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires LAH to take off tax from this interest. LAH must give Ms 
M a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Ms M should be paid 
compensation for loans 4  6.
S.D. Taylor Limited trading as Loans at Home should put things right as directed above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman