DRN-3521519
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) incorrectly 
recorded a claim on a central database which led to an increase in his home insurance 
policy premium.
What happened
Mr B bought a home insurance policy with RSA. In 2018 he called to tell it there was water 
leaking into the basement of his home. Mr B asked if his policy covered a claim if he wanted 
to make one. RSA said it would need to open a claim in order to check for Mr B. The agent 
at RSA told Mr B that if the claim wasnt covered it would be closed and it wouldnt affect Mr 
Bs future premium. 
In 2022 Mr B said he discovered that RSA had recorded a claim on a central database when 
he bought insurance with another provider. He said as a result of the recorded claim, his 
premium went up by £50. 
Mr B complained to RSA. He wanted it to compensate him for the difference in premium. 
RSA upheld Mr Bs complaint in part. It agreed the agent told Mr B the recording of the claim 
wouldnt affect the price of future insurance. It agreed this was wrong as RSA cannot 
determine how other insurers decide a premium to charge a customer. 
RSA said it had recorded the claim as declined on a central database  but updated it to 
show as a notification only. RSA said this was correct and in line with the policy terms which 
require RSA to record any incident even if a claim isnt made. 
Mr B remained unhappy and asked us to look at his complaint. Our investigator didnt 
recommend it should be upheld. She thought RSA had acted reasonably. 
Mr B didnt agree and wants an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Many insurers sign up to a central database that exchanges incident and claims information 
about customers. The purpose of the database is to prevent fraud and identify 
misrepresentation. 
Mr Bs policy with RSA explained the following:
CLAIMS HISTORY
Insurers pass information to the Claims and Underwriting Exchange Register (CUE) 
run by Insurance Database Services Ltd (IDS Ltd). Under the conditions of your 
policy, you must tell us about any incident (such as fire, water damage, theft or an 
accident) which may or may not give rise to a claim. When you tell us about an 
incident, we will pass information relating to it to the register.
I think RSA clearly explained that  irrespective of whether a claim was made  it would 
make a record of the incident. So when Mr B called to ask if the escape of water damage 
was covered under the policy, I think it was reasonable for RSA at this stage to make a 
record of the notification on the central database.
The agent at RSA incorrectly told Mr R that there would be no impact on future premiums. 
When things go wrong, we look at what the impact was and if it would have changed the 
outcome. In this case, if the agent had correctly told Mr B it couldnt tell if the incident would 
affect future premiums, RSAs actions would have been the same. It still would have 
recorded the incident as it was obliged to do on the central database. 
So although Mr B was given incorrect information about the potential impact on premium by 
RSA, it didnt make a difference to the outcome. For this reason, I dont think RSA needs to 
do any more as it apologised for its error. I think this was enough to resolve Mr Bs 
complaint. 
RSA says it has updated the record to show the claim as a notification only  which I think 
correctly reflects the circumstances of the incident. How another insurer prices a premium 
can vary and this isnt something within RSAs control. 
I understand Mr B will be disappointed with my decision. But I dont think RSA needs to do 
any more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman