DRN-3506199
The complaint
Ms M complains that she was prevented from executing Contract for Differences (CFD) 
trades on CMC Spreadbet Plcs trading platform and so it wasnt fit for purpose. As a result, 
she suffered financial losses. 
What happened
Ms M held a CFD trading account with CMC. On 26 January 2020, she says she received a 
margin call notice via email from CMC. She says she logged into her account and could see 
up to date prices had been published but she was unable to execute any trades as the 
confirm button had been greyed out and was inactive. She says she was in touch with 
another trader who was able to execute the same trades on a different CFD platform.
As she was in margin deficit, CMC closed out her open positions resulting in losses of more 
than £65,700. She says CMC accepted mispricing the positions in their communications on 
two separate occasions in January 2020 so she doesnt think the trading platform 
functionality was fit for purpose. To resolve her complaint, she would like all her losses 
reimbursed with interest and an apology letter from CMC.
In their final response letter, CMC say Ms M logged in via a mobile device after the margin 
call notice was sent, but no orders were placed. They also confirm there were no reported 
issues with the platform or the mobile application. They say any issues Ms M encountered in 
executing trades was a result of local issues with her device and/or connectivity issues and 
they are not responsible for any failures in this regard.  
CMC say the margin call notice they sent Ms M clearly stated what she needed to do. They 
suggested she (1) add additional funds, (2) close some of her open positions. She did 
neither of these and so all her positions were closed out shortly after the notice was sent. 
They say she then proceeded to continue trading after this and didnt contact them until the 
following day to say she was unable to trade. CMC didnt uphold her complaint, so she 
brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator concluded there was no evidence of wrongdoing on CMCs part. She said 
they had acted in accordance with the terms and conditions of the agreement and couldnt 
hold them responsible for any issues she had encountered. She didnt uphold the complaint.
Ms M didnt agree so this has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am not upholding this complaint and for the same reasons as the 
investigator.
Ms M has provided different screenshots and explained the different scenarios with the 
confirm button being greyed out /ineffective compared with when it is available in white. 
Whilst I appreciate the point she makes, the times which the screenshots have been made is 
23:11 which is outside of the time frame between the margin call notice being sent and the 
positions being closed out between 23:00 and 23:07 so it doesnt conclusively demonstrate 
that there was an issue during this period. 
CMC have pointed to the fact that the screenshots Ms M has provided showed the prices to 
be white and so she should have been able to trade. They accept their internal pricing filters 
did mark a number of prices as bad in the first 15 minutes of trading but these were singular 
ticks which didnt last any more than 50 milliseconds and this wouldnt have resulted in the 
confirm button becoming greyed out/ineffective. I appreciate Ms M feels quite strongly that 
there was a pricing error which impacted her ability to trade on the platform but I havent 
seen any evidence to support any outage/technical issue with pricing that impacted her. 
CMC say the updated price continued to be uploaded to Ms Ms device during the relevant 
period with no reported issues and other clients were also able to trade. They also confirm 
no other similar complaints of this issue have since been raised. They say any issues Ms M 
encountered must have been an isolated issue local to her device and/or connectivity and I 
agree that this is not something they should be held accountable for. I have no reason to 
doubt the information that has been provided to me and on balance, I am persuaded that the 
information was accurate so under the circumstances, I couldnt reasonably conclude that 
CMC did something wrong. 
Ive also thought about what action Ms M took when she received the margin call notice. 
Despite logging into her account soon after receiving the margin call notice, she didnt 
attempt to close any of her positions to allow funds for the remaining positions or fund her 
account as suggested in the notice from CMC. This would have maintained her positions 
and prevented the need for them all to be closed out. There is no evidence to suggest she 
did attempt either, but she herself has mentioned that she attempted to open new positions 
which she was prevented from doing so, which essentially is an element of this complaint. 
However, being able to open new positions wouldnt prevent her original positions from 
being closed out as they were already in margin deficit. 
Ultimately, I am persuaded that closing some of her positions or funding her account would 
have prevented all her positions from being closed out as a result of the margin deficit. Being 
an execution only account, she was responsible for maintaining the margin on her account 
and failed to do this at the correct level. Based on what I have seen, CMC closed her 
positions in accordance with the contractual requirements of the account as soon as her 
positions reached the close out level. Whilst I dont doubt Ms M may have experienced 
technical issues when trying to trade, I am not persuaded that any wrongdoing on CMCs 
part has been established so I will not be asking them to do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint against CMC Spreadbet Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 
Naima Abdul-Rasool
Ombudsman