DRN-1287168
 
The complaint
Mrs G complains about the repairs that Tesco Underwriting Limited made to her car under 
her motor insurance policy. She wants manufacturers parts fitted to her car. Mrs G is 
represented in this matter by her son, Mr G, a named driver on her policy. 
What happened
The exhaust components of Mrs Gs car were stolen and she made a claim on her policy. 
Tesco had these replaced but Mrs G was unhappy as she thought the replacements werent 
manufacturers parts. She was worried that this may be deemed a modification and so 
invalidate future cover. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Tesco 
had fitted a direct replacement part and this was in keeping with the terms and conditions of 
Mrs Gs policy. 
Mr G replied that he wanted evidence that the replacement parts met the same standards as 
manufacturers parts.  He thought the replacements would be classed as modifications. He 
said he hadnt been given the opportunity to pay extra to have manufacturers parts fitted.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
I can see that under Mrs Gs policys terms and conditions, on page 16 of the policy booklet, 
Tesco can replace parts with those that compare in quality with those of the manufacturer. 
Tesco said the replacement parts were direct replacements and not modifications. 
I think the policy wording is clear and Tesco isnt obliged to use manufacturers parts. Our 
investigator provided Mr G with a copy of the invoice for the parts fitted. I think this invoice 
shows that appropriate parts were fitted and I havent seen any evidence to show that they 
arent suitable. So I cant say that Tesco has done anything wrong in using these parts. 
Mr G was worried that the replacements would be considered a modification. But Tesco has 
already explained that this isnt the case as they were a direct replacement, as shown by the 
invoice. 
Mr G said hed not been given the chance to have manufacturers parts fitted. I cant see 
where this is provided by the policy except that Mrs G could have paid any additional costs 
for improvements to her car. I can also see that Mrs G could have arranged estimates for 
repairs at a garage of her choice rather than at Tescos approved repairers. But I cant see 
that she asked to do this. So I cant say that Tesco has done anything wrong in this. 
So, in summary, I think Tesco has repaired Mrs Gs car in keeping with the policy terms and 
conditions, and fairly and reasonably. So I dont require it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman