DRN-3404391
The complaint
Mr G complains about how Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead) has handled his claim 
under his buildings insurance policy.
 
What happened
Mr G had buildings insurance with Fairmead in 2017. He says he had two escape of water 
claims in 2017. 
The second claim was in October 2017 and was in the upstairs toilet. Following the leak 
Fairmead sent a loss adjuster to the property to assess the damage. Mr G says as a result of 
the leak in the toilet the underfloor heating stopped working. 
Mr G says he reported the underfloor heating issue to Fairmead when he noticed it wasnt 
working which was in May 2018. At the time of reporting the flooring he says the focus was 
to deal with the repairs to the kitchen which had also been damaged as a result of the leak.
 
Fairmead told Mr G to obtain a report confirming the cause of the underfloor heating to 
cease working was as a result of the toilet leak in October 2017. He says by this time two 
years had passed. But he obtained a report from an electrician which stated the underfloor 
heating wasnt working and the likely cause. 
Since the report didnt specify the cause of the issue was the leak in October 2017 Mr G 
says Fairmead didnt accept it. He says no one would be able to confirm this given the time 
which has passed since the leak itself. And he doesnt understand why Fairmead didnt ask 
him to obtain the report earlier in the claim. 
Mr G says he isnt happy Fairmead is asking him to prove this element of his claim when it 
hasnt done so for any other part of the claim. He says following the burst pipe in the toilets a 
significant amount of water poured onto the flooring and so its clear it would have caused 
the damage he is claiming for. The house wasnt habitable for a month following the leak. 
Mr G complained to Fairmead. Fairmead said its own surveyor attended the property and 
confirmed that the underfloor heating was more likely to have been damaged by water 
leaking as a result of failed grout and sealant which isnt covered by the policy, rather than 
an escape of water. Fairmead considered the report provided to it by Mr G. It said the report 
doesnt comment on the nature of damage, and why the damage is as a result of an escape 
of water. Since the exact cause of the damage wasnt confirmed in the report Fairmead said 
it wouldnt be able to consider the cost of repairing the underfloor heating. 
Mr G wasnt happy with the response from Fairmead so our investigator looked into things 
for him. She said based on the evidence she had she didnt think she could say the 
underfloor heating had been damaged by the escape of water in 2017. And so she didnt 
think Fairmead needed to take any further action. 
Mr G didnt agree and so the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Gs complaint. Im sorry to disappoint Mr G 
but I will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
Its for the policy holder to demonstrate to their insurer that they have suffered an insured 
loss. If they can do this then, generally speaking, the insurer should pay the cost of the claim 
in line with the policy terms and conditions, unless the insurer can reasonably rely on a 
policy exclusion which shows it doesnt need to. 
Fairmead says Mr Gs claim isnt covered by an insured event. Its referred to the escape of 
water section of the policy. So, Ive reviewed this to see what cover it provided. The policy 
says, the buildings are insured against loss or damage caused by escape of water. Your 
insurer will not pay forloss or damage caused by the failure, or lack of grout and/or 
sealant. 
When considering Mr Gs complaint I have relied on the expert opinions provided by both 
parties. I understand Mr G strongly believes the leak in the upstairs toilet is the cause of the 
failed underfloor heating.
Mr G says the electrician who provided his report said the cause of the damage was water 
leaking. I have copied the relevant excerpt from the electricians report below;
Was told by the client that they had a leak in the w.c from this the water has gone through 
the tiles and on to the element which has crowded and has broken the element, this is why 
the reading are showing the element is down.
I have read the survey Fairmead arranged following the leak from the toilet. The report says, 
We inspected the WC and bathroom on the 1st floor. We noted that the display on the 
underfloor heating control panel was functioning. Mr G said that the floor did not warm up 
and the heating element did not appear to respond to the controls. We inspected the 
bathroom and WC floors for signs of damage and noted a damaged mastic seal in the corner 
of the shower enclosure. There was no other apparent damage.
Mr G didnt accept Fairmeads findings. And Fairmead didnt accept the report obtained by 
Mr G. I have thought about the electricians findings along with that of the surveyor arranged 
by Fairmead. 
The report Fairmead relies on agree that although there was a leak in the upstairs bathroom 
this wasnt the cause of the underfloor heating being damaged. The report says the damage 
was likely to have been caused by failed grout or sealant. 
I have given thought to Mr Gs electricians report but based on the information provided Im 
more persuaded by Fairmeads inspection report. Particularly because Mr Gs report doesnt 
specify the cause of the damage only that the damage exists, which isnt in contention here. 
So having considered the expert opinion provided Im more persuaded by Fairmeads view 
the likely cause of the damaged underfloor heating was due to failed sealant. And that isnt 
covered under the policy terms. 
The crux of the matter is that Fairmead havent seen anything that shows the damage to the 
underfloor heating is as a result of the original leak to the toilet. I know Mr G has said he 
hadnt immediately realised the underfloor heating wasnt working due to the state of the repairs at his home. And that when he noticed the issue he reported it immediately. I dont 
doubt this. But as explained the report he obtained needed to have attributed the leak to the 
damage to the underfloor heating. But it doesnt do that. 
Mr G hasnt shown that the damage was caused by an event covered by the terms of his 
policy. So I think its fair and reasonable for Fairmead to have declined his claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2022.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman