DRN-1745706
 
The complaint
Mr L, is unhappy with his insurers Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead) trading as L & G. 
They have declined his claim under his home contents insurance. 
What happened
In February 2019, Mr L was a victim of a burglary. Entry was affected via the bathroom 
window. Mr L reported the matter to his insurers and made a claim. During the course of the 
claim a telephone interview was conducted with Mr Ls wife, in which she told the 
investigator that the bathroom window was closed but not locked.  
Fairmead declined Mr Ls claim relying on the protection clause and policy exclusion which 
stated that:
 For any claim caused by theft or attempted theft, no cover is provided under
Buildings (Section1) or Contents (Section2) unless all security features listed within
your statement of fact are:
 -maintained in good working order; and,
-In full operation, whenever You are away from the Home.
 Property Security - Lock Requirement
 Accessible windows must have key-operated locks. If these locks are not fitted, cover for 
theft or attempted theft will be EXCLUDED.
The statement of fact that was sent to Mr L when he took out the policy, confirmed that there 
were key-operated locks fitted to all accessible windows.
Mr L was upset that Fairmead declined his claim and referred the matter here. One of our 
investigators reviewed it and didnt uphold the complaint. Our investigator found that 
Fairmead hadnt acted unfairly in declining the claim and could rely on the exclusion in the 
policy.  
 Mr L didnt agree with our investigator and asked for a decision from an ombudsman.  
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. Having done so, I wont be upholding this 
complaint. I will now give my reasons why.
 Like our investigator I have to explore whether Fairmead were unfair or unreasonable when 
they dealt with Mr Ls claim. Having looked at all the evidence, I am satisfied that Fairmead 
wasnt unfair or unreasonable when they dealt with Mr Ls claim.  
 Fairmead have relied upon the policy exclusion which states that when occupants are away 
from the home they must ensure that there is a key operated lock on the windows and that 
the lock was fully engaged at the time. Unfortunately, Mrs L during the course of her 
interview admitted that although the window was closed, the lock wasnt engaged. 
 Mr L states that he was certain the lock was engaged at the time.  I have been provided with 
photographs of the window. What can be seen is that there is a slight bend but the lock 
appears in tact. Mr L admitted that the lock is still fully functional and didnt suffer from any 
damage. It would be reasonable to assume that had the lock been engaged at the time of 
the burglary, then there would be damage to the lock and more significant damage to the 
window. In the absence of these, I think it is reasonable for Fairmead to have declined the 
claim. 
 Finally, there is a policy limit. The amount that Mr L was claiming far exceeded this limit and 
had his claim been successful, it would have only been up to the limit.
 Whilst I sympathise with Mr L and his family in what would have been a horrendous 
experience, I have to be satisfied that the actions of Fairmead in applying the exclusion in 
the policy were unfair. For the reasons given, I cant see how Fairmead acted unreasonably 
or unfairly towards Mr L, by declining his claim.  I am afraid that overall, my view is that I 
cant ask Fairmead to do anymore.   
My final decision
 My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 May 2020.
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman