DRN-4134281
The complaint
Miss N complains about AXA Insurance UK Plcs handling of a claim she made after her 
house was flooded.
What happened
Miss N had a home insurance policy underwritten by AXA which covered her home and its 
contents amongst other things.
She made a claim in mid-June 2020 after the ground floor of her home was flooded.
AXA sent a loss adjuster to inspect the damage and accepted the claim. They also agreed 
that Miss N should move into alternative accommodation until the restoration works were 
completed.
AXA commissioned a contractor to strip out the damaged parts of the property and a 
separate contractor to carry out drying out of the ground floor.
In September 2020, the contractor issued a drying certificate to say that moisture levels on 
the ground floor were now at normal levels.
At that time, it was still unclear whether Miss N wanted to appoint her own contractor to carry 
out repairs.
By this point, Miss N had made a complaint about delays and customer service in the 
handling of the claim. AXA accepted that things hadnt been handled as they would expect. 
They paid Miss N £250 in compensation for her trouble and upset on 12 November 2020.
Miss N didnt bring that complaint to our service, presumably because she was satisfied with 
AXAs response.
In April 2021, Miss N confirmed that she would like AXA to appoint contractors to carry out 
the reinstatement work to the ground floor. But it became apparent that the property was still 
damp.
The drying contractor attended again. They pointed out that the ground floor was dry, but the 
upstairs walls were damp. And they said the upstairs needed to be stripped out before drying 
could take place.
On the face of it, there was no reason why the upstairs floor should have been affected by 
the flood  which had been inches deep on the ground floor.
Miss Ns view is that the same heavy rainfall which had caused the flood also caused a 
gutter on the roof of the property to overflow, leading to water ingress and damage to the 
upstairs floor of the property.
After some discussion with the loss adjuster, AXA agreed to treat the damage on the ground 
floor and the upper floor as one claim.
At that point though  in May 2021  neither AXA nor their loss adjuster properly assessed 
the part of the claim relating to the ingress of water upstairs. Instead of sending a surveyor to 
assess the damage  and its likely cause(s), they simply went ahead and contracted out the 
strip out work.
In July 2021, the contractors issued a drying certificate for the upstairs floor of the property.
Soon after that, in August 2021, the company who had done the strip out  who were also 
planned to do the reinstatement  reported an issue with the timbers in the roof, which had 
been exposed by the strip out works.
They said, in effect, that the timbers appeared to be heavily damaged, in a way probably not 
commensurate with a one-off ingress of water at the time of the flood.
In early September 2021, a company (Ill refer to them as R) attended to quote for damp 
proofing work at the house (installation of a damp roof course).
They reported that all walls were now damp again. They said the bottom part of the staircase 
was now infected by fungi. And they said that - despite outward appearances  the level of 
the floors inside the house was above the level of the ground immediately outside because 
there was a French drain installed around the perimeter of the house. The significance of 
this will become apparent below.
In late October 2021, the company whod carried out the strip out works pulled out of 
carrying out any reinstatement works. They said it had become apparent that the job was in 
fact far bigger than it first appeared and they didnt have the capacity to do it.
New contractors were appointed reasonably quickly by the loss adjuster. After a first visit, 
they reported that the strip out works had been carried out very poorly. They said the 
previous contractors had caused damage to the bathroom suite and hadnt properly 
addressed some issues.
They also said the original contractor has breached the damp proof course when stripping 
out the plaster and/or plasterboard from the walls on the ground floor.
In January 2002, the loss adjuster sent their regional manager (Ill call him Mr H) to the 
property to assess the previous strip out works and the state of the property generally.
He then provided a report which  as well as confirming the damage to the bathroom suite 
caused by the previous contractor - said that the damp proof course had been breached and 
that the damage to the roof timbers  which were in an advanced state of rot  was not 
claim-related.
The loss adjuster also sent surveyors to the property. Their report (dated 11 February 2022) 
said that the damage to the roof timbers was due to long-term water ingress and was not 
covered under the policy terms.
It also said that the damp issues were long-standing and would be on-going because the 
indoor floor level was at or below the level of the ground outside the house. This meant any 
damp proof course would be ineffective because damp was penetrating from the outside 
ground into the walls and was not rising damp (which might be combatted by installation of 
an effective damp proof course).
In the meantime, Miss N had made a further complaint to AXA about the delays, lack of 
communication and poor customer service. And about the fact that AXA had not settled the claim (in its entirety).
AXA issued a final response to that second complaint in March 2022. They said the claim 
had been complex and difficult. But they accepted that there had been a lack of proactive 
management and a lack of communication which increased the level of inconvenience. 
And they offered Miss N a further £750 in compensation for her trouble and upset.
AXA also explained that there were issues with the property  the rotting roof timbers and 
the on-going damp issues  which were not caused by the insured event (the heavy rainfall 
and flood in June 2020) and so would not be covered.
AXA told Miss N there was no point them carrying out the works inside the property which 
were covered until she had dealt with the roof and the damp issues. They subsequently 
offered a cash settlement for the works which they believe are covered.
Miss N commissioned her own contractor to quote for the necessary work at the property. 
Unsurprisingly perhaps, the quote they provided was substantially higher than the cash 
settlement offered by AXA.
This may be partly due to factors like inflation in the cost of building materials but is also 
because Miss Ns contractors have quoted for at least some of the works AXA said werent 
covered.
Miss Ns contractors view  which is shared by Miss N  is that at least some of the damage 
AXA say isnt covered should be covered, because the state of the property now (the damp 
and the rot to the roof timbers) is at least in part due its being left empty and unheated for 
two years or more.
Miss N wasnt happy with AXAs March 2022 response to her complaint and so she brought 
her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into it. He thought there had been significant delays in the claim 
which were unnecessary and that the customer service to Miss N had been poor.
He also noted that Miss N had made it clear to AXAs agents that she had a serious health 
condition which was made significantly worse by stress. And yet, the poor service and lack 
of communication continued.
For those reasons, he said AXA should increase the compensation theyd offered to Miss N 
and add another £1,000 to the £1,000 theyd already paid or offered.
AXA were happy to do that, but Miss N didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an 
ombudsman.
Miss Ns view is that the compensation suggested is still too low. And she was disappointed 
that we hadnt addressed the issues about which elements of the damage to her home  
particularly the roof timbers and the damp proofing  should be covered.
I agreed with Miss N that we should decide which elements of the damage to her home were 
covered, because that was the only way to decide whether the cash settlement offered by 
AXA was fair. And I also thought the suggested compensation might be too low.
For those reasons, I issued a provisional decision. This gave both Miss N and AXA a chance 
to provide more information or evidence and/or to comment on my thinking before I issued 
my final decision in this case. This final decision will be this services last word on the matters considered here.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I come to the substance of the complaint, I need to be clear about exactly 
what Im considering in this decision.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) rules which govern how our service operates 
 the dispute resolution (or DISP) rules  set out what complaints we can and cant 
consider.
They say, amongst other things, that we cant consider a complaint if its brought to 
us more than six months after the financial business in question issues its own final 
response to a complaint from a customer (unless they consent to us doing so or 
there are exceptional circumstances to explain the delay).
Miss N complained to AXA back in 2020 and received a final response on 12 
November 2020. She didnt bring that complaint to us within six months, so we cant 
consider the issues raised in that complaint. So, any delays, poor service or errors in 
handling the claim before that time are beyond the scope of this decision.
The DISP rules also say that we cant consider a complaint unless the business has 
had a chance to consider it  and potentially resolve it  before we get involved 
(again, unless we have their consent to do so).
The complaint Miss N brought to us had a final response dated 29 March 2022. So, I 
cant, in this decision, consider any issues which may have arisen since that date  
because AXA hadnt yet had a chance to consider them and resolve them.
I am aware Miss N wants to complain about further delays - and ultimately the failure 
to conclude the claim satisfactorily (as she sees it)  after March 2022. And I believe 
we already have a further complaint in hand which will cover any issues after March 
2022.
So, in summary, this decision can only deal with events after 12 November 2020 and 
before 29 March 2022. And any compensation I choose to award will be for trouble 
and upset Miss N suffered between those dates only.
Ill turn now to the substance of the complaint about events between November 2020 
and March 2022.
This is a complex case, but I think there are three main issues here that I need to 
consider. Theres the question of whether AXA should now cover the repairs to the 
roof. Theres the question about whether they should cover the work required to 
damp proof the property. And there are the issues around delays and poor customer 
service and communication throughout the claim.
Ill address those issues in that order and Im sure both parties will forgive me if 
theres a degree of cross-referencing between the issues as I set them out below  
this is inevitable given the complexity of the claim and the number of parties whove been involved.
The roof timbers
Miss N made her claim in June 2020. The first mention of a potential issue with the 
roof timbers was in August 2021 (14 months later) when the original contractors 
raised concerns that there may be long-term damage in the roof which would need to 
be fixed before they began the other reinstatement works.
On the face of it, thats a long delay before this significant and major issue was 
brought to light. However, the original claim was for a flood affecting the ground floor. 
Miss N says she didnt think there was a problem upstairs at the time. AXAs loss 
adjusters had no reason to suspect there might be such a problem either.
So, I dont think it would be reasonable to blame AXA or their agents for the delay in 
the issue coming to light, in August 2021.
When it did come to light, however, the loss adjuster and AXA entered into a 
conversation about whether Miss N would need to make a new claim. They resolved 
that issue, essentially in Miss Ns favour, and agreed it could all be treated as one 
claim.
But it appears they took no steps at all at that point to try to identify the cause of the 
damage in the upper floor of the property  and whether the damage was covered by 
the policy or not.
The original contractors appeared to suggest  in August 2021  that the issue with 
the roof timbers was long-standing. Some of the timbers were rotten and on the point 
of collapse.
When new contractors were appointed, they also said (in November 2021) the roof 
was in a state of pretty advanced disrepair. And confirmed there would be no point 
starting much of the reinstatement work without the roof being sorted.
When the loss adjusters regional manager (Mr H) inspected the property  in 
January 2022  he said the damage to the roof timbers was advanced, with rotting 
timbers and the roof sagging. And he said the damage was not claim-related. In other 
words, he felt the damage could not have been related to a single ingress of water in 
mid-2020.
The loss adjusters surveyor  reporting in February 2022  said much the same 
thing. They concluded the damage to the roof timbers could not have been claim 
related and was very long-standing.
Its Miss Ns contention that the roof timbers were in decent condition at the time of 
the flood  and the water ingress  in June 2020. And that theyve become rotten 
now due to the amount of time thats passed with the property unoccupied and 
unheated, and the damage not addressed.
On balance, I cant agree with Miss N on this point. Photographs of the roof timbers 
from mid-2021 onwards appear to show very damp and rotten wood, with fungi 
growing through the timbers.
Several experts  the original contractor, the second contractor, the loss adjusters 
regional manager and the surveyor  all believe the damage to pre-exist the flood event and to be significantly long-standing.
They all say or imply that there must have been water ingress over a sustained 
period before the flood  and that the damage is not compatible with a one-off 
ingress of water on the date of the flood.
Miss N has commissioned her own contractor. When they reported on the damage 
and quoted for the work, in June 2022, they also said the roof needed repairing 
before other reinstatement works could be completed.
Its worth quoting their view on the roof timbers in detail. They said:
During the time of the property been (sic) empty the roof has got significantly 
worse due to the conditions in the property. This is going to excel (sic) any 
rot that was present already.
Its noticeable then that even Miss Ns contractor is not suggesting that the timbers 
were sound before the flood event. They say the timbers may have got worse due to 
the property being unoccupied etc. But they allow that rot was or may have been 
present before that time.
Miss N herself says that after the flood event, it became clear the gutter in question 
was blocked with debris  which was then cleared out. That suggests that the gutter 
wasnt functioning effectively before the flood event and water ingress was likely 
happening prior to that.
On balance then, the evidence we currently have suggests that the roof timbers were 
damp, damaged and/or very likely rotten before the insured event occurred.
That being the case, the damage to the roof timbers is not covered by the policy and 
AXA are right to say that Miss N is responsible for having those repairs carried out. 
They are also right, of course, to suggest that the roof needs fixing before the other 
reinstatement works are completed  all of the contractors and experts agree on that 
point.
The damp issues at the property
I take a different view about the damp proofing of the property. Ill explain why.
Miss N has provided copies of an invoice and guarantee from a company who 
installed a damp proof course just after she moved into the property (some 12 or 13 
years before the flood event, as I understand it). So, it appears the property had an 
effective means of guarding against rising damp.
It was when the damp specialist company (R) visited, in September 2021, that it 
became apparent that the walls downstairs were now damp again (after a drying 
certificate had been issued back in September 2020).
R quoted for the work to install damp proofing (as they were asked to do by the loss 
adjuster). They also said that there was a French drain at the foot of the propertys 
external walls. And they said this meant the floor levels in the property internally were 
in effect above the ground level externally.
This is important because when AXAs loss adjusters explained why they dont 
believe the damp issues are covered, they said thats because the damp is penetrating damp  coming into and through the walls at the height of the ground 
level outside, which is above where the damp proof course would be.
AXAs loss adjusters have taken that line because thats what it says in the February 
2022 report provided by their surveying department.
However, thats contradicted by the report from R  which refers to the French drain 
around the property.
I also note that the second contractors, when  in November 2021  they reported 
the problems with the strip out works, said that the previous contractors had 
breached the damp proof course or membrane when they were stripping out.
That appears to be confirmed by the loss adjusters regional manager. When he 
inspected the property, in January 2022, he said the damp proof course or 
membrane had been breached and would need to be replaced.
He didnt explicitly say that the original contractors had done this, but he was there to 
assess the work theyd done. And he provided photographs of the stripped back 
walls showing where  and how  the breach had occurred. This was presumably as 
a result of the stripping back.
Miss N has said the house tended to get damp if left unoccupied for any period of 
time, so it is possible that there were some (possibly minor) issues that needed 
addressing which dated from before the flood event.
However, theres fairly compelling evidence here that there was damp proofing in 
place at the property - and that the original contractors rendered it ineffective when 
they carried out the strip out works.
The on-going damp issues may not be claim-related as such then, but they do 
appear to have been caused  or at the very least, a significant proportion of them 
appear to have been caused  by the actions of AXAs original contractor.
As a consequence, Im minded to say that AXA should revise their cash settlement 
offer to Miss N, not only to account for inflation in the cost of building materials in the 
meantime, but also to include the installation of an effective damp proof course 
and/or membrane at the property.
I should also stress that Im minded to say AXA should pay for any further repairs or 
replacements which may prove necessary  over and above those originally 
specified in the scope of works - because of the property being left in a damp state 
for such a long period of time.
The delays, poor service and poor communication
This is a complex claim, with new issues arising through the life of the claim and a 
degree of uncertainty about the causes of the damage to the property. However, its 
fair to say that AXAs agents have made things far worse than they need have been.
AXA have, of course, admitted this  which is to their credit  and paid or offered 
£1,000 in compensation to Miss N already. I dont think thats enough. And I dont 
think the £2,000 suggested by our investigator is enough either. Ill explain why and if 
either party disagrees with any of my thinking or my assumptions, they can correct 
me now in response to this provisional decision.Im not going to labour the point, but the claim notes and complaint notes AXA have 
provided show many unnecessary delays, very poor communication with Miss N at 
times, and a failure to get to grips with the essence of the issues in the claim.
At numerous points over the 15 months or so period Im looking at in this decision 
(November 2020 to March 2022), Miss N has had to chase AXAs agents  again and 
again  to get answers to her queries and/or updates on the progress of the claim. 
When she did get explanations, they were sometimes comprehensive and clear, but 
most often neither.
The claim had been five or six months in progress by November 2020. But even 
though strip out and drying were complete by that point, it took another four or five 
months before AXAs loss adjuster agreed with Miss N that she wanted their 
contractor to do the work. Thats a long  and unnecessary  delay.
I understand the original contractor pulled out in October 2021. Thats unfortunate, 
but the fact is, the reinstatement work hadnt even started at that point (more than 15 
months after the claim). And, having chosen the contractor, AXA and/or their agents 
have to accept responsibility for the contractors actions.
Im fully aware that if the reinstatement work had been commissioned, it may not 
have got off the floor immediately because of the issues with damp at the property, 
but that would  and should  have been apparent much earlier if AXAs agents had 
got a grip on the claim. We may have then reached the same impasse were at now, 
but it would have been reached significantly sooner and, all else being equal, 
resolved sooner.
It wasnt until they issued the final response to Miss Ns second complaint  in March 
2022  that AXA or their agents explained in full to Miss N why they werent covering 
the roof timbers and the damp proofing  and why this meant the other repairs 
couldnt be completed. Thats 20 months or more after the flood event.
So, in the absence of any further information or comment in response to this 
provisional decision, Im minded to say AXAs or their agents errors have caused 
sustained distress, upset and worry to Miss N and severe disruption to her daily life. 
And thats taken place over the whole period Im allowed to consider in his complaint 
(November 2020 to March 2022).
This is exacerbated by the fact that AXAs agents knew  pretty much from the outset 
of the claim and certainly by November 2020 - that Miss N suffers from a serious 
health condition that is made significantly worse by stress.
Miss N has repeated to AXAs agents on several occasions through the handling of 
the claim to date that she suffers from this condition. And shes made it clear to 
AXAs agents that her health was being affected by the stress caused by their poor 
communication and customer service.
In light of that information, AXAs agents should have made every possible effort to 
keep Miss N informed about developments and to answer her (reasonable) requests 
for information and updates in a timely manner.
As AXA have admitted, the service Miss N received was not of the standard she 
might have felt entitled to expect  particularly given that shed been so open with 
AXAs agents about her particular health issues.Bearing all of that in mind, Im minded to require AXA to pay Miss N £3,250 in total in 
compensation for her trouble and upset. I know theyve already paid the £250 offered 
in response to her first complaint (in November 2020). Im not including that in the 
£3,250 Im awarding in response to this complaint
Its not entirely clear to me whether theyve also paid the additional £750 they offered 
in response to her second complaint (the one Im considering here). Either Miss N or 
AXA may choose to enlighten me on that point in response to this provisional 
decision.
However, my intent should be clear  the total compensation Im minded to ask AXA 
to pay in response to this complaint is £3,250, including the £750 which may or may 
not have already been paid.
So, in summary, my provisional decision was that AXA should revise their cash offer to 
Miss N to include any inflation in the associated costs, to include the cost of damp-proofing 
the ground floor of the property and to include any loss or damage resulting from the 
property being left damp. And I said they should also pay Miss N £3,250 in total in 
compensation for her trouble and upset between November 2020 and March 2022.
The responses to my provisional decision
AXA responded only to seek some clarity on whether or not I thought they should pay for the 
repair or replacement of the roof timbers (which I didnt). Otherwise, they havent 
commented on my provisional decision.
Miss N has commented on my decision at some length. Im sure shell forgive me if I dont 
repeat her comments in full. I have read and considered all of her comments  and all of the 
accompanying documents. But Ill give only a brief summary here of the main points.
In short, perhaps unsurprisingly, Miss N agrees with the majority of my provisional decision, 
but she maintains that AXA should be responsible for some of the cost of repairing or 
replacing the roof timbers.
Miss N says AXA havent ever properly explained what their evidence is for believing there 
was pre-existing damage to the roof timbers.   
She believes the damage now evident to the roof timbers is a combination of pre-existing 
damage, damage caused by the insured event (the flood and accompanying storm) and 
damage caused by failures to mitigate potential damage after the insured event. 
And its impossible now to untangle what damage happened when and for what reasons. 
She says the first survey of the roof was carried out in February 2022  20 months after the 
flood / storm, and that was too late to show what had caused the damage and whether it was 
pre-existing.
She also thinks the loss adjusters errors about the damp proof course show that they arent 
a reliable expert to comment on the roof either. And there are no independent surveyor 
reports on the cause of the damage to the roof timbers.
Miss N thinks AXA should be held responsible for some of that damage. I assume she 
means the damage caused by the storm and damage caused since the storm. Its not entirely clear why, but Miss N suggests that, on that basis, she should pay for the 
lifting and replacement of the roof covering whilst AXA should pay for the work on the roof 
timbers themselves and the roof felt.
Miss N says she reported the issues upstairs in her property in January 2021. They werent 
discovered by the contractors in June 2021, as my provisional decision suggested.
She says she first noticed the issues (water damage to the upstairs rooms)  in January 
2021  three months after the flood / storm. And she thinks this shows the damage to the 
roof was caused by the storm  and wasnt pre-existing. If it had been, shed have noticed it 
sooner.
And she says the roof timbers are now dry - and crumbling  which shows the dampness in 
them was caused by the one-off event of the storm / flood and not some on-going ingress of 
water.
Miss N also says AXA never suggested  in January 2021 or in June 2021  that the 
damage wasnt covered. Indeed, they went ahead as if it were covered, agreeing to replace 
upstairs contents and repair damage upstairs too. She says that if AXA hadnt thought the 
roof was covered, they wouldnt  and shouldnt  have taken down the ceiling.
And she says that AXAs scope of works which underpins their calculation of the cash 
settlement offer includes some work to the roof  which shows they accept some liability for 
the damage to the roof.
She says AXA are now saying the roof isnt structurally sound, whereas in April 2022 they 
confirmed it was, which shows damage has been accruing during the time the claim has 
been live, due to AXA taking no mitigating actions against further damage.
Finally, she points out that its only part of the roofs timbers that are rotten, the rest of the 
roof is sound. She believes that the fact the timbers are rotten near the site of the ingress of 
water during the flood / storm shows that the flood / storm caused the damage to the 
timbers.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Miss N will be disappointed but nothing shes said has changed my mind about the 
outcome of her complaint.
Fundamentally  and as I said in my provisional decision  every builder, contractor or 
surveyor whos looked at the roof agrees that the timbers were damaged and/or rotten 
before the insured event (the flood / storm). 
Thats not just the loss adjusters surveyor who Miss N believes is an unreliable expert due 
to their errors over the damp proofing downstairs. And that, basically, is AXAs evidence for 
their assertion that they arent liable for the repairs to the roof timbers.
That means there was water ingress before the flood / storm. It may have become worse as 
a result of the heavy rainfall at that time  which is why Miss N didnt notice it before she did 
 but the degree of damage and rot in the timbers cant be explained by the water ingress 
resulting from the flood / storm.And essentially, that means it is pre-existing, long term damage and not the result of an 
insured event. And given that the roof was in a poor state of repair before the flood / storm, 
AXA arent responsible for further damage to the roof timbers which may have happened 
directly as a result of the flood / storm or thereafter  or for mitigating that later damage.
I know AXA (mistakenly perhaps) accepted this part of the claim when it became apparent 
that the upstairs in the house was damp. And I know they then asked the contractor at the 
time to strip out parts of the upstairs  including the ceiling. Thats why I say AXA are 
responsible for the repairs, redecoration etc. of the upstairs. And thats presumably why AXA 
costed those repairs in their scope of works prior to their cash settlement offer.
Strictly, if theyd done what they should have done in June 2021 (assess the new part of the 
claim) - and hadnt accepted that part of the claim - they might not be liable for any of the 
upstairs repairs. But they did accept it and they did carry out strip out works - and so now 
they are now obliged to put that right.
AXA didnt though ever accept responsibility for the repairs / replacement of the roof timbers. 
Indeed, they didnt know about that damage until after the upstairs ceiling had been stripped 
out. Miss N says she reported the issues upstairs in January 2021, but no-one at that point 
was aware of eth damage to the roof timbers. 
The fact that AXA earlier (erroneously perhaps) accepted liability for the contents and 
internal damage upstairs doesnt mean they should now be held liable for the roof timbers. 
AXAs comments about structural soundness, in April 2022, were about the building as a 
whole, not the roof. And Miss Ns point about this is largely irrelevant for my decision in any 
case. The question for me isnt whether the roof is about to collapse, its about what caused 
the damage. 
And whether the roof has further deteriorated since the claim was made isnt really relevant 
either. Of course, it would have deteriorated - however it was left - it was rotting (according 
to all the experts, including Miss Ns own builder), before the flood / storm and before the 
claim was made.
I take Miss Ns point that only part of the roofs timbers are rotting. And thats good because 
it will be less expensive to carry out the replacement or repair. However, the fact that the 
rotting timbers are in the area of the roof where water ingress occurred during the flood / 
storm doesnt imply that it was the flood / storm that started the damage. 
Its equally reasonable to suggest that a pre-existing defect in that area of the roof in 
particular allowed water ingress to those particular timbers before the flood / storm, as well 
as during it.
In summary, all of the expert evidence still suggests the roof timbers have been exposed to 
water - and have been significantly damaged - long before the insured event which led to 
Miss Ns claim. 
That being the case, AXA are entitled to regard that as pre-existing damage, not caused by 
an insured event and outside the scope of the cash settlement theyre now offering to 
Miss N.  
Miss N believes AXAs costings include some parts of the roof. I dont see that they include 
repair to the roof timbers  which is the relevant point here.Putting things right
Nothing has changed my mind, since I made my provisional decision, about what AXA need 
to do now to put things right.
I wont repeat the detailed reasoning set out in my provisional decision, but Im still of the 
view that AXA need to revise their cash settlement offer  taking into account: cost inflation; 
the cost of effectively damp-proofing Miss Ns property downstairs; and any necessary 
repairs resulting from the property being left damp.
And for the reasons set out in my provisional decision, Im going to require AXA to pay 
Miss N £3,250 in compensation for her trouble and upset
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, I uphold Miss Ns complaint. 
AXA Insurance UK Plc must:
revise their cash settlement offer to Miss N to include any inflation in the cost of 
building materials or services and to include the cost of effective damp-proofing to 
the ground floor of her property;
include in their cash settlement offer cover for any loss or damage (if there is any) 
resulting from the property being left damp over the course of their handling of the 
claim; and
pay Miss N £3,250 in total in compensation for her trouble and upset between 
November 2020 and March 2022.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 June 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman