DRN-3604926
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs B complain about the service provided when they redeemed their mortgage 
with Santander UK Plc.
What happened
Mr B and Mrs B took out a mortgage with Santander in 2007. In 2018 they moved their 
mortgage to another product with Santander. In October 2020 Mr B and Mrs B redeemed 
their mortgage and as part of the redemption figure they were charged a £225 mortgage 
administration fee.
They queried this with Santander but say they didnt get a satisfactory response, so they 
complained to Santander in branch. Mr B and Mrs B say no complaint was logged so their 
son complained to the Chief Executive (CEO) of Santander.  
Santander responded to Mr B and Mrs B but didnt uphold the complaint. It said the fees 
added at redemption had been accurately applied as per the tariff of charges. Santander 
also apologised for the complaint not being logged in branch and said it was unable to speak 
to their son because it didnt have formal authority to do so. 
Mr B and Mrs B remained unhappy so referred the complaint to our service. They said 
Santander hadnt considered Mr Bs vulnerability in not communicating with his son.
Our investigator considered the complaint, but they didnt think Santander acted unfairly. 
They said the fees had been applied in line with the charges for the mortgage. They also felt 
Santander wasnt acting unreasonably in not communicating with Mr B and Mrs Bs son 
because it didnt have formal authority to do so. 
Mr B and Mrs B didnt agree. They say there was no evidence provided that the fees were 
explained to them. They also felt because Mr B spoke little or no English not all charges 
could have been explained to him.
So the complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for largely the 
same reasons. Ill explain why. 
Mortgage administration fee
When Mr B and Mrs B redeemed their mortgage, they were charged a mortgage 
administration fee of £225. In the mortgage offer Mr B and Mrs B received in 2007 it included 
terms and conditions Mr B and Mrs B agreed to. It explained the following under Section 8: 
What fees must you pay?: 
A Mortgage Administration fee (current fee) for providing, maintaining and closing 
your mortgage is payable at the end of your mortgage. The amount we charge you 
will not exceed this amount plus the annual increase of RPI calculated to the end of 
your mortgage. 
The amount shown was £225. 
Also, in 2018 Mr B and Mrs B received a mortgage conversion offer and this again included 
terms and conditions they agreed to. Under section 8 it explained:  
What fees must you pay?
The account fee for the provision and general administration of your mortgage. This 
fee can be paid on completion or deferred until the end of your mortgage. 
The amount shown was again £225. 
Therefore, as this was part of the mortgage agreement with Santander, I think its 
reasonable to suggest Mr B and Mrs B were aware of the mortgage administration fee at the 
outset and as such I dont think Santander acted unfairly by charging this fee. Because of 
this, I wont be asking Santander to do anything further.
I note Mr B and Mrs B say Mr B spoke little, or no English so they dont feel he would have 
been told about all the fees and charges on the mortgage. But the complaint Im looking at 
here is if Santander have fairly applied the mortgage administration fee, which I think it did. If 
Mr B and Mrs B now want to complain about how the mortgage was sold and what was 
explained to them at the time, they would need to make this complaint to the business that 
sold the mortgage to them in 2007. 
Poor service 
Due to the time that has passed Santander hasnt been able to identify if a complaint was 
made in branch. Santander say had it been actioned appropriately the outcome would still 
have been the same because the fee was charged in accordance with the charges set out in 
the mortgage. But it has apologised to Mr B and Mrs B if they did make a complaint and it 
was overlooked. I think this is fair and what I would have expected it to do in the 
circumstances. 
Ive also considered if Santander acted fairly in not responding to Mr B and Mrs Bs son 
directly following the complaint he made on their behalf to Santanders CEO. Whilst I can 
appreciate this was frustrating for Mr B and Mrs B, I dont think it was unreasonable. I say 
this because Santander didnt have formal authority to speak to their son when the complaint 
was made to the CEO, so I think it was reasonable to have expected it to contact Mr B and 
Mrs B in the first instance. 
As their son wasnt available when Santander called them, I think it was sensible for 
Santander to put its response to Mr B and Mrs B in writing as it did. I can see that their son 
was acknowledged in the final response, so I dont think Santander overlooked his 
involvement on the issue, but it was more about Santander not having the relevant authority to speak to him directly.
So overall I dont think Santander acted unreasonably in the service they provided to Mr B 
and Mrs B and it follows that I wont be asking it to do anything further here either.      
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Jag Dhuphar
Ombudsman