DRN-1917657
The complaint
Miss H complains that a car she acquired with finance from Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality.
 
What happened
In November 2019 Miss H was supplied with a brand-new car and entered into a hire 
purchase agreement with VWFS.
Miss H experienced issues with condensation and ice inside the car. She reported her 
concerns to the supplying dealer and an appointment was made for it to inspect the car but 
this was cancelled by Miss H because in the meantime she had contacted trading standards 
who advised her that she could reject the car within the first 30 days.
Miss H then booked the car in with a main dealer but they were reluctant to inspect it 
because this would involve dismantling the car and they didnt want to be held responsible 
for any problems this might cause.
Miss H returned the car to the supplying dealer who inspected the car but were unable to 
find a fault.
Miss H contacted VWFS and complained. She asked to reject the car but VWFS refused 
because it said that no fault had been found.
Miss H remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that although Miss H had provided 
photos showing condensation on the inside of the windscreen, there was no evidence of a 
fault and the issue was more likely to be due to an external factor.
Miss H didnt agree. She said the fault occurred during freezing temperatures which is why 
the supplying dealer hadnt been able to replicate it when it inspected the car. She also said 
that when the car was inspected the dealer found a wet carpet, which she felt was evidence 
of a problem with the car.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because VWFS supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, theres an implied term 
that it is of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard that a 
reasonable person would expect, taking into account all of the relevant circumstances 
including, amongst other things, the age and mileage of the car and the price paid.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a  fault occurs within the first 30 days, a 
consumer has an immediate right of rejection. After 30 days, and within the first 6 months, 
theres a  presumption that the fault was present of developing at the point of supply unless 
the business can show otherwise. The business is allowed one opportunity to repair that 
fault. If the repair isnt successful the consumer can reject the car. After 6 months the burden 
of proof is reversed and its up to the consumer to show that the fault was present at the point 
of supply.
Miss H and VWFS disagree about whether the car had a fault. In order to reach a decision, I 
need to look at all the available evidence and determine, on the balance of probabilities, 
whether the car was of satisfactory quality.
Miss H has said that there was condensation and ice on the inside of the windscreen. Ive 
looked at the photo shes provided, and I dont disagree that there is condensation.
Ive also looked at the comments by the dealership who inspected the car. It didnt find any 
evidence of ice or condensation, but it did find some dampness under the drivers side 
carpet. The dealership carried out further investigations by checking the air conditioning, 
removing the seat centre console, carpet and underlay but no leaks or faults were found.
Theres no other information for me to consider. This service suggested to Miss H that she 
obtain an independent inspection of the car. I cant see that this happened, and I understand 
that Miss H has since traded the car in.
Based on what Ive seen, there isnt enough evidence to persuade me that the car had a 
fault. Whilst I can see that there was some condensation in the car, I cant be certain that 
this wasnt caused by an external factors, such as spillage of water onto the carpet. The 
dealership was unable to find a fault despite reasonably extensive investigations and in the 
absence of an independent report which concludes that there was a fault present, I m 
unable to say that the car was of unsatisfactory quality.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 November 2020.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman