DRN-3449334
The complaint
Mr W complains that Zopa Bank Limited irresponsibly granted him credit he couldnt afford to 
repay. 
What happened
Zopa opened a credit card account for Mr W in June 2021. This type of credit was an open-
ended or running account facility and the credit limit was £300. 
Mr W said he had existing debts and defaults and couldnt afford to repay more credit. He 
said that Zopas checks were inadequate because it should have seen this and declined to 
lend to him. 
Zopa didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. It said that it asked him about his income, checked his 
credit file and found that the credit card repayments would be affordable for him. Zopa said 
that although Mr W had some adverse information on his credit file, it wasnt recent enough 
to lead it to decline his application. 
Mr W referred his complaint to us. Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be 
upheld. They found that Zopa didnt act unfairly or unreasonably by approving the credit 
agreement. Mr W didnt agree with this recommendation and asked for his complaint to 
come to an ombudsman to review and resolve. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also had regard to the regulators rules and guidance on responsible lending (set out in 
its consumer credit handbook) which lenders, such as Zopa, need to abide by. Zopa will be 
aware of these, and our approach to this type of lending is set out on our website, so I wont 
refer to the regulations in detail here but will summarise them. 
Before entering into a credit agreement, Zopa needed to check that Mr W could afford to 
meet his repayments out of his usual means, within a reasonable period of time, without 
having to borrow further and without experiencing financial difficulty or other adverse 
consequences. The checks needed to be proportionate to the nature of the credit and to 
Mr Ws circumstances.
Zopa asked Mr W about his salary which he said was £22,000. Ive estimated that his net 
monthly pay was approximately £1,550. Mr W said his rent was £200 a month. Zopa also 
checked Mr Ws credit file and provided a copy of the information it relied on. This shows 
Mr W was repaying a loan at £247 a month and had a combined debt of about £1,260 
across three credit cards and a mail order account. There were five accounts showing as 
defaulted between April 2016 and April 2020 with a total of about £2,450.
The regulations stated that a lender should not use the assumption of the amount necessary 
to make only the minimum payment each month and should consider the customers ability 
to repay the maximum amount of credit available under the agreement within a reasonable 
period of time. Even bearing this in mind, I think it was reasonable to consider that Mr W 
would be able to repay this credit without difficulty within a reasonable period of time, given 
his stated income, his rent and likely debt repayments relative to the credit limit he was 
offered. 
I appreciate that Mr W had some defaulted accounts however, the most recent of these was 
over a year prior to taking out this card. His credit file didnt show any problems with his 
active debt so I dont think Zopa had any reason to think he was experiencing financial 
difficulty at that time. 
Altogether, I dont think there was anything in the information Zopa learnt about Mr Ws 
circumstances that should have prompted it to complete further checks before lending to 
him. And the amount of credit agreed wasnt so large relative to his means that it posed an 
obvious risk to him of not being able to meet his repayments without difficulty. So I think the 
checks Zopa carried out on this occasion were reasonable and proportionate, and it didnt do 
anything wrong by lending to Mr W on the basis of the information it had. 
Mr W says that he had defaulted on other debts at the time. He explained that hes struggled 
to meet his repayments for this card and had difficulties with his mental health. I am sorry to 
hear that things have been so difficult for Mr W. I appreciate that this will be disappointing 
news but, having considered everything carefully, I have concluded that Zopa wasnt 
irresponsible when it opened this credit card facility for him. And so I am not upholding his 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, am not upholding Mr Ws complaint about Zopa Bank Limited 
and dont require it to take any action.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2022.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman