DRN-4204286
The complaint
Mr S complains HSBC Life (UK) Limited unfairly turned down his claim, caused delays and 
made inappropriate references to his medical history. 
What happened
Mr S has an income protection policy with HSBC Life, which was taken out in 2011. 
In February 2022, Mr S was unable to work due to suffering with depression, and later made 
a claim against the policy. 
HSBC Life declined the claim in June 2022, as it said the policy excluded cover for claims 
related to any chronic illness present when the policy was incepted. It said it thought Mr Ss 
medical history of mental health conditions demonstrated that he had a related chronic 
illness in 2011 when he took out the policy. And so it said the claim caused by depression in 
2022, was not covered. 
The policy terms and conditions
Under significant and unusual limitations and exclusions on page 6 of the policy document:
We will not pay claims that are for:
Any Chronic Illness that the life insured already has; 
Under Exclusions 
A claim [] will not be paid if it is caused directly or indirectly from:
Any Chronic Illness from which the Life Insured knowingly suffered on the 
commencement date;
Definition of chronic illness 
A disease, illness or injury which has at least one of the following characteristics: 
It needs long term monitoring, consultations, check ups, examinations or tests; 
It continues indefinitely and has no known cure; 
It comes back or is expected to come back; 
It is permanent; and/or 
The Life Insured needs to be rehabilitated or specially trained to cope with it
The key medical evidence 
HSBC Life said evidence from 1997, 2003 and each year in 2005 to 2010, shows Mr S was 
diagnosed with mental health disorders including mixed anxiety and depressive illness. And 
it said on five occasions Mr S was prescribed anti-depressants and on three occasions he 
was referred to psychology services.  
The medical records supplied by Mr Ss GP reflect the following notes, in summary. 
July 1997 
A referral letter from a doctor to a psychologist stated Mr S had consulted several 
times over the recent years with low self esteem and some associated mild 
depression. The doctor said he had prescribed an anti-depressant. And as a result 
he recommended counselling. 
December 2002
References to drifting into depression following a relationship break-up.
July 2003
Reference to a period of depression after break-up with a partner. 
December 2005 
Anxiety with depression referenced as getting worse since the breakdown of a 
relationship and anti-depressants prescribed. 
November / December 2007 
Reference to depression being diagnosed in the past, low mood and diagnosis of 
mixed anxiety and depressive disorder. CBT was recommended. 
March 2009 
Anxiety with depression diagnosed. References to Mr S facing redundancy at work. 
Anti-depressant medication prescribed. 
February 2010 
Low mood. References to work stress and a relationship break-down. Anti-
depressant medication prescribed. 
March 2022 
Depression referenced as being related to ill health / loss of parents.
A letter from Mr Ss GP in August 2022 summarised the medical history. The GP said they 
had seen HSBC Lifes definition of chronic illness and said Mr S had experienced short-
lived episodes of low mood due to life events and his recollection is that at all times when he 
was struggling with low mood, this soon lifted. This does appear to be confirmed by his 
medical records and certainly his records do not substantiate a definition of chronic 
depression. HSBC Life said it had noted a history of mixed anxiety and depression dating back to 2008 
and after requesting additional medical records, found Mr S had consulted about his mental 
health multiple times since 2003 and had been prescribed anti-depressants and referred to 
psychological services prior to taking out the policy. It said due to the frequency and 
recurring nature of the symptoms, it thought the exclusion for chronic illnesses applied to the 
claim. And it said it had referred the claim to its Chief Medical Officer (CMO) who had said it 
was most likely Mr S had been suffering with chronic or recurrent dysthymic disorder and 
acute episodes of depressive disorder. And considered it to be a condition which comes 
back or is expected to come back as per the policy exclusion. 
Mr S complained to HSBC Life. HSBC Life said it had reviewed its decision, but still thought 
it had been correct to decline the claim on that basis that Mr S had a condition that comes 
back or is expected to come back when the policy was incepted. It didnt uphold the 
complaint points Mr S raised about delays and customer service issues. And it said it was 
not considering Mr S to have made any misrepresentation when he applied for the cover. 
Unhappy with HSBC Lifes response, Mr S brought his complaint to this service. 
An investigator here looked into what had happened. They said they thought HSBC Life had 
unfairly applied an exclusion to Mr Ss claim. And said it should reassess the claim based on 
the remaining terms, and pay £200 in compensation for the distress caused by references 
made in relation to Mr Ss childhood. 
Mr S accepted the investigators view. However HSBC Life disagreed. In summary it said: 
Mr S had frequent, recurrent episodes of psychological ill health spanning across 
several years  he received diagnosis as well as treatment. And when the policy was 
taken in 2011, Mr S had an episode as recently as 2010;
the medical evidence showed a clinical presentation prior to 2011 of a clear 
predisposition and propensity for Mr S to develop future depressive episodes;
it didnt think the policy definition of chronic illness has been unfairly interpreted. It 
sought advice from its CMO who recognised repeated episodes of anxiety and 
depression treated over a period of 12 years before 2011, occurring more frequently 
since 2003; and
the reference to Mr Ss childhood was made as this was included within the medical 
evidence supplied, and communicated to clarify the rationale for the claim being 
declined.  
HSBC Life asked for a decision from an ombudsman, and so the case has been passed to 
me to decide. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision, in which I said the following. 
Delays and claim handlingIve reviewed the time taken for HSBC Life to assess Mr Ss claim. Mr S made his 
claim in April 2022, and HSBC Life made a decision to decline it in June of the same 
year. Im not persuaded this was an unreasonable timeframe, having looked at the 
particular circumstances of this case. An insurer is entitled to seek medical evidence 
when assessing a claim. I think the evidence and additional evidence HSBC Life 
requested here was relevant and necessary, and Ive not noted any unreasonable 
delays.
Mr S raised concerns around HSBC Life making what he believes was an unfair and 
unethical reference to his childhood in one of its letters. Whilst I can appreciate why 
this would have been upsetting for Mr S, this information was provided within his 
medical records, and I dont think HSBC Life was unjustified in assessing and 
referring to the medical evidence it was presented with. So Im not intending to direct 
HSBC Life to pay any compensation. 
The claim decision  
Ive considered whether or not I think it was fair for HSBC Life to apply an exclusion 
to Mr Ss claim, based on its opinion that he was suffering with a chronic illness, 
when the policy was taken out in 2011. 
Ive reviewed the definition of chronic illness within the policy terms, which is as I 
described above. The term is broad and only one of the listed characteristics listed is 
required to meet the definition. HSBC Life has said it thinks Mr S met the policy 
definition of having a chronic illness in 2011, as it said his condition of mental illness 
comes back or is expected to come back as per the policy definition. And Ive 
carefully considered the available medical evidence, to determine whether or not I 
think this was fair. 
Ive reviewed the letter from Mr Ss current treating psychiatrist. The doctor confirms 
Mr S developed depression in January 2022 following the death of a close relative, 
and said there was no clear evidence of a previous psychiatric disorder. However, 
her letter states her opinion is based on medical records dating back to 2014. 
Whereas the policy was incepted in 2011, so I dont find this evidence persuasive. 
And as such I dont think HSBC Life needed to take this into account when deciding 
whether or not Mr S met the exclusion for chronic conditions in 2011.
The medical records prior to 2011, show Mr S presented with symptoms of low 
mood, stress, anxiety or depression during multiple separate periods between 1997 
and 2011. Mr S was at times diagnosed with anxiety and depression, he was 
prescribed anti-depressants on several occasions, and he was also referred for 
further investigations and was recommended counselling and CBT. 
Ive also carefully considered the letter from Mr Ss GP written in August 2022, and 
the statement that Mr Ss episodes of mental illness were triggered by life events. Ive 
also taken into account HSBC Lifes comments about the way the GP referred to Mr 
Ss medical history.  
HSBC Life has listed seven separate occasions with reference to Mr S presenting 
with depression or depressive symptoms in its assessment of Mr Ss medical records 
up to 2011 when the policy was taken out. And Ive taken into account what Mr S and 
his GP have said about the triggers for these episodes mostly being difficult life 
events including the breakdown of a relationship and redundancy. Having carefully thought about the evidence, Im satisfied it was fair for HSBC Life to 
say Mr Ss circumstances met the definition of an illness which comes back or is 
expected to come back as per the policy exclusion. I say this because the medical 
records support that Mr S has suffered with a recurring mental health condition which 
was triggered by negative life events. And I think the volume of instances of this 
illness reflected in his medical records, is sufficient to persuade me that this was a 
condition which comes back, or could reasonably be expected to come back. In 
addition, whilst I note Mr Ss GP has said his condition is not chronic, HSBC Lifes 
CMO has said he thought it was. HSBC Lifes CMO is a psychiatrist, so he has more 
relevant specialist experience in the area of mental health and had been provided 
with Mr Ss medical records for review, so Im persuaded it was fair for the insurer to 
place more weight on his opinion than that of Mr Ss GP.
The events in 2022 which are stated as having caused Mr Ss absence from work 
due to depression, were documented to be the severe ill health and passing of Mr Ss 
close relatives. I appreciate these were of course unexpected and very distressing 
life events. However as Mr S was diagnosed as suffering with depression at that 
time, I think it was fair for HSBC Life to say the cause of the claim was related to the 
chronic illness it deemed Mr S to have suffered with when the policy was incepted. 
And so it follows that I dont think it was unfair for HSBC Life to decline the claim.
The response to my provisional decision 
HSBC Life made no comments on the provisional decision. Mr S made some detailed 
submissions which I have summarised as follows. 
The CMO is employed by HSBC Life and their opinion has been unfairly accepted 
over that of the GP who has assessed him in person;
persistent depressive disorder has never been used to describe him in his medical 
notes;
he made attempts to get further reports / letters from NHS doctors, but they had not 
had the time to assist; 
he did not know at the time of taking the policy that his previous difficulties could 
come back or be expected to come back and thinks the insurer could try to apply the 
same logic to an illness like flu;
his illness has been dramatised by the insurer and a more accurate summary is that 
he had 7 instances over 13 years; and
HSBC Life should withdraw its references to his childhood from the case and its 
records.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered again my provisional findings in light of the response to it.
Mr S has questioned whether or not Ive read all of the evidence he has provided, and I 
have. If I havent commented on a particular point in my decision, this doesnt mean I havent 
considered it. Im not required to comment on each and every point, but instead Im concentrating on the main issues in the complaint. And this reflects the informal nature of the 
ombudsman service. 
In addition, Mr S has made a separate complaint about a mis-sale of the policy. I cant 
consider the merits of that complaint in this decision, so although Mr S has made several 
points about the sale of the policy in his submissions, I will not be commenting on those.  
Mr S has recently presented some new information around depression and complex grief. 
And in short, has said he thinks this means the illness which triggered his claim may not be 
linked to his previous medical history. I cant consider this as part of this decision, as it was 
not previously available to HSBC Life and it has not yet had the opportunity to consider it. If 
Mr S would like HSBC Life to consider this evidence and to assess whether it makes a 
difference to the outcome of his claim, he should present it to the insurer directly. 
Mr S has asked for clarity on whether his claim has been turned down because he didnt 
declare his medical history, or because it existed. HSBC Life hasnt alleged any 
misrepresentation in this case, so the issue is not about what information Mr S disclosed. 
The policy excludes pre-existing chronic conditions (based on the policy definition), so this is 
a risk HSBC Life didnt want to provide cover for. And the policy wasnt intended to pay a 
claim related to a pre-existing chronic condition. 
Ive carefully considered Mr Ss points related to HSBC Lifes CMO. HSBC Life provided me 
with some details of the CMOs qualifications and experience. And this has satisfied me that 
they are more qualified in the field of mental health than a GP. 
Although a CMO is employed by the insurer, in this case Ive found their opinion more 
persuasive due to the level of expertise. Nothing Ive seen here gives me cause for concern 
that the CMOs opinion cannot be relied upon in this case.  
The CMO stated what they believe to be the diagnosis of Mr Ss ongoing mental health 
difficulties as Persistent depressive disorder and I note Mr S has said this was never 
mentioned by his treating doctors or in his medical notes. I accept this. But even if the CMO 
hadnt mentioned this specific diagnosis, this wouldnt change my conclusions. This is 
because the policy wording requires no specific condition or diagnosis in its definition of a 
chronic illness. The exclusion HSBC Life relied on when declining the claim is an illness 
which comes back or is expected to come back. And Im persuaded by the medical 
evidence Ive seen, that this was the case for Mr S. I appreciate his symptoms and illness 
may not ordinarily be considered chronic within the NHS, as other conditions might be. But 
that is not the test I have to apply here. The test is whether or not Mr S met the policy 
definition of a chronic condition, and Im still persuaded by his medical history that he did. 
Mr S has said that his mental illness prior to taking out the policy comprised of 7 instances 
over 13 years. I considered each of these very carefully and all of the details of them when 
originally reviewing the medical evidence. However, Ive not been persuaded that those 
instances do not meet the definition of an illness which comes back or is expected to come 
back. And thats the fundamental reason that I think the claim has not been declined 
unfairly. 
Mr S has suggested the insurer could apply this exclusion to an illness such as flu. Whilst it 
isnt for me to speculate on what might have happened had the circumstances been 
different, I think its unlikely a contractable virus would meet the policy exclusion for chronic 
illness. As I said in my provisional decision, I dont think HSBC Life was unjustified in referring to the 
medical evidence it was presented with in relation to Mr Ss childhood. I understand Mr S is 
very upset by this and would like HSBC Life to remove this information from its records. This 
isnt something that I can direct HSBC Life to do as part of this complaint. However, Mr S 
may wish to consider submitting this request directly to the insurer for it to consider. 
The points Mr S raised havent changed my mind, so I see no reason to depart from the 
conclusions set out in my provisional decision and summarised above.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. And I 
make no award against HSBC Life (UK) Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman