DRN-1805169
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T are unhappy with their bank TSB Bank PLC (TSB) disclosing personal 
financial information to their son, breaching their personal data.  
What happened
In December 2019, a letter from TSB addressed to Mr T was opened by his son. Mr Ts son 
has the same initial and surname and lives at the same address, but he has the title of Dr. 
Not recognising what the letter was connected to Mr and Mrs Ts son called the bank, 
passed security and was told what the letter related to.
Mr and Mrs T complained to TSB about this breach of data and it upheld their complaint. 
TSB offered them £100 compensation for the distress and upset caused. Mr and Mrs T 
werent happy with this as they said the breach had caused them stress and resulted in them 
having to pay their son a large sum of money because he had become aware of their 
financial circumstances. So they brought their complaint to the service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. 
She said that the £100 offered for the limited information given to their son during the short 
phone call, was fair and reasonable.
Mr and Mrs T didnt agree with our investigator and asked for a decision from an 
ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be asking TSB to do anything more to resolve the complaint. 
I realise this is likely to come as a disappointment to them, but I hope my findings go some 
way in explaining why Ive reached this decision.
I note that Mr and Mrs T have made a number of detailed points, which I have read and 
considered. I hope the fact that I dont respond in similar detail here wont be taken as a 
discourtesy. As an informal dispute resolution service, we are tasked with reaching a fair and 
reasonable conclusion with the minimum of formality. In doing so, it isnt necessary for me to 
respond to every point made, but to concentrate on the crux of the issue.
I have to assess what steps TSB took when dealing with Mr and Mrs T and whether it acted 
unfairly or unreasonably towards them. In doing so I have looked at a template of the letter 
sent from TSB to Mr T. As well as listened to the call recording between Mr and Mrs Ts son 
and the bank. Finally, I have considered the level of compensation offered. 
Letter
It has been accepted by TSB and Mr and Mrs T that the letter was addressed to Mr rather 
than Dr. TSB has said that their standard business practice is to address correspondence 
to customers using the format of title, initial and surname. This is what it did here. 
TSB has said that there are no plans to change this but given the confusion that arose here, 
it has made a suggestion to potentially include the full first name in correspondence. I accept 
that this is too late for Mr and Mrs T, but it may be a possibility that could be adopted in the 
future. 
We as a service cant dictate to businesses how they run their business but I am satisfied 
that TSB followed the correct procedure in addressing the letter. I think it was unfortunate 
that Mr and Mrs Ts son opened the letter but I dont think that TSB are to blame for this.
Call
Where the mistake arose was during the phone call, which I have listened to a recording of. 
The sort code and account number were provided by the caller, as well as some other 
security details. The call lasted a total of 9 mins and 53 seconds. Towards the end of the 
call, Dr T reads directly from the letter and it seems that the call was ended when he and the 
call handler realised that Dr T wasnt the account holder.
Having listened to the recording, while TSB did divulge what the letter was about, it didnt at 
any point mention any account balances or details of any other accounts that Mr and Mrs T 
held with TSB. Our investigator told Mr and Mrs T this. But Mr and Mrs T have said that 
because of this breach of data they are concerned that their son could get financial 
information about them from the bank in the future. I can understand why this would be a 
worry for them, but my role is to look at what actually happened as a result of a mistake  its 
not to speculate on a future event that may or may not happen. Of course, should anything 
like this happen again, Mr and Mrs T would be entitled to raise a complaint about that at the 
time.
  
Also, if Mr and Mrs T feel they have lost confidence as a result of what happened, they do 
have the option of ending their banking relationship with TSB. But this is a matter for them to 
consider.
Compensation
I have next considered the level of compensation of £100 TSB offered for the error in 
revealing the information it did. I understand that Mr and Mrs T are seeking a greater amount 
of compensation. But as stated above, the agent didnt reveal any details about any 
accounts that Mr and Mrs T held with TSB. Their son did provide the sort code, account 
number and security details, which the agent confirmed.  Nonetheless, I am satisfied that 
this was a breach of their confidentiality. 
TSB has offered compensation as it recognised that a breach had occurred. Our role isnt to 
fine or to punish the businesses we cover. Rather, we look at the effect on the customer 
including their upset. I can understand why Mr and Mrs T were upset to learn what had 
happened. They said that they were stressed as they believed that the agent had revealed 
information about their accounts to their son. And because of this, they sought more 
compensation. But Im satisfied that no such information was revealed. 
So, taking all of this into consideration, I think that the £100 offered, for the trouble and upset 
caused, is fair and reasonable.  So, I wont be asking TSB to do anything more to resolve the 
complaint.My final decision
TSB Bank PLC has already made an offer to pay £100 to settle the complaint and I think this 
offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that TSB Bank PLC should pay £100 (If it hasnt already done so).
TSB must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr and Mrs T 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 August 2020.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman