DRN-2875791
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as C, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc declined its 
application for a new account  which meant it couldnt apply to the bank for a Bounce Back 
Loan.
Mr M is Cs director and brings the complaint on its behalf. 
What happened
C wanted to apply to HSBC for a loan under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme. 
HSBC required customers to hold an account with the bank before it would offer them a 
Bounce Back Loan. So Mr M applied on Cs behalf for a feeder account in June 2020. This 
type of account was to be used solely to draw down any funds borrowed under the Loan 
Scheme and transfer them onward. But HSBC declined Cs application and confirmed this to 
Mr M on 10 July 2020.
Mr M challenged HSBCs decision, but it didnt change. The bank said the application had 
been processed in accordance with its account-opening criteria and decided in line with its 
policy. And it explained that while the Bounce Back Loan wasnt subject to credit 
assessment, its account-opening process was.
So Mr M referred the matter to us. He thought his business was eligible for the Bounce Back 
Loan and that the bank had acted unfairly in declining the account application  leaving C 
unable to access the support it needed and suffering financial hardship.
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint but didnt think HSBC had done anything 
wrong. He said that the bank was expected to carry out certain checks on applications and 
having looked at the information that HSBC reviewed when assessing Cs application, he 
thought its decision was reasonable. 
Mr M didnt accept our investigators view. He didnt think it was right for HSBC to have credit 
checked the application, reiterating that the Bounce Back Loan wasnt subject to these 
requirements and that the feeder account wasnt operational. And he said hed approached 
other lenders for a loan, but they had all declined him  which he thought was a 
consequence of HSBCs decision.
So with no resolution, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As C wasnt an existing customer of HSBC, the bank required it to open a new account  
either a business current account or a feeder account  before it could apply for a 
Bounce Back Loan. That was in line with its standard process, which I think was reasonable. 
I say this because there was no obligation on HSBC to offer loans under the Scheme to new 
customers at all, and it had the discretion to decide the basis on which it would do so. And 
HSBC has explained that the account-opening process enables it to complete the various 
checks expected of it  under its legal and regulatory obligations, and as required by the 
Scheme rules.
Ive checked that HSBC didnt increase the criteria it used when considering applications for 
an account from new customers seeking a Bounce Back Loan compared with its practice 
previously. And Ive confirmed that it assessed Cs application against those criteria. So I 
think it treated C fairly. Having reviewed the basis of the banks decision, I dont think it did 
anything wrong in declining to offer C an account.
HSBCs account-opening criteria include certain credit score requirements. I can appreciate 
why Mr M doesnt think this is fair for the feeder account. Hes right to say that applications 
for the Bounce Back Loan werent subject to credit scoring in this way. But the feeder 
account is a separate product to the Bounce Back Loan and is, therefore, legitimately 
subject to different rules and requirements. And while the purpose of the feeder account is to 
facilitate the drawdown of a Bounce Back Loan, as Ive explained above HSBC had the 
discretion to decide the basis on which it would accept applications from new customers  so 
it could decide the eligibility criteria for the accounts it offered them, including its credit-
scoring requirements.
I also understand from what Mr M said in response to our investigators view that hes 
concerned HSBC hasnt properly evidenced its decision. He highlights that C has no CIFAS 
markers or County Court Judgments registered against it, as well as his own favourable 
credit score  so he doesnt think the bank had grounds to reach the decision it did. I 
appreciate that not knowing the finer detail of HSBCs decision will be frustrating and give 
him cause for concern. But as Ive referred to above, we have received the banks internal 
records, so I have reviewed how it reached its decision. And Im satisfied that the decision 
was reasonable. 
I can also appreciate why Mr M would want to know more about HSBCs decision. But we 
cant provide any more detail about the reasons for this than has already been shared  
particularly as information about how banks reach such decisions are subject to some 
legitimate confidentiality.
Mr M also says that C was unable to obtain an account or access the Loan Scheme 
elsewhere as a result of HSBCs decision. But theres nothing to show that this was a factor 
in the outcome of any other applications that C made. And I think HSBC communicated its 
decision within a reasonable timeframe in the circumstances, which left C plenty of time to 
approach other lenders  the bank informed Mr M of its decision on 10 July 2020 and the 
Loan Scheme ran until 31 March 2021. In any event, as Ive not found that HSBC made an 
error in reaching its decision, it follows that I dont think it is responsible for any adverse 
effect this might have had on C.
I appreciate the banks decision left C in a difficult position and I understand Mr Ms strength 
of feeling over the issue. And Im sorry to hear of the difficult time that his business has 
endured. But taking all of the above into consideration, I dont think HSBC did anything 
wrong in how it handled Cs application for a new account  so Im not requiring it to take any 
further action.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2021.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman