DRN-4061573
The complaint
Mr M complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited delayed the transfer of five pension 
plans to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP). He says hes lost out on investment 
growth as a result.
What happened
In early 2021 Mr M undertook to transfer his five existing pensions with Aviva to a SIPP as 
he was approaching age 75 and didnt wish to take his pension funds yet. Aviva received the 
transfer instructions on 13 January 2021. There were delays in completing the transfers such 
that they took place on the following dates:
Policy A - PM42135884 on 21 January 2021
Policy B - PW56073943 on 27 January 2021
Policy C - 89821884 on 15 February 2021
Policy D - 89985399 on 1 April 2021
Policy E - 89837169 on 1 April 2021
Mr M complained about the time taken to complete the transfers, saying hed lost the 
opportunity to invest his funds in his SIPP sooner and as such, had lost out on investment 
growth.
In May 2021 Aviva wrote to Mr M, accepting it had caused delays and agreeing that the 
transfers of policies C, D and E ought to have completed by 25 January 2021. So, it added 
late payment interest to the transferred sums and also said it would complete a loss 
assessment to check he hadnt suffered any financial detriment. Aviva explained it would 
contact his SIPP provider to establish how hed invested his funds once the transferred 
funds had been received. It also offered Mr M £200 for the inconvenience and upset caused.
Mr M acknowledged this and asked for a breakdown of the transferred funds, which he said 
he needed before he could make any investment decisions in his SIPP.
In June 2021 Aviva also sent Mr M a cheque for £125 after it found it had made a mistake in 
respect of policies A and B. But it noted that the transfer of both policies had been completed 
within its service level agreements, so no loss calculation would be carried out. Aviva also 
sent a breakdown of the funds transferred for policies C, D and E.
In November 2021 Aviva wrote to Mr M again to explain it had completed the loss 
assessment and determined hed suffered a loss of £12,811.52 (after deducting the late 
payment interest). It said it noted Mr M hadnt actually made any investments until 
June 2021, but taking account of the delay it thought he wouldve most likely invested the 
funds on 14 April 2021.
Aviva sent the funds representing the lost investment growth to Mr Ms SIPP on 
17 December 2021. Mr M received further compensation of £200, offered in respect of the 
time taken to complete the loss calculation.
Mr M ultimately didnt accept what Aviva had offered in response to his complaint. So, he 
referred the matter to our Service. He thought Aviva had offered to carry out a loss 
assessment based on all five policies having been transferred on 25 January 2021. Instead, 
it had only considered policies C, D and E. Mr M said he had wanted to invest all of his 
monies in a lump sum and not in a piecemeal way. He also didnt think it was fair to deduct 
the late interest as he considered this was compensation for the delay, whereas the loss 
calculation was based on the loss of investment growth. Mr M also thought the 
compensation of £525 that hed received so far should be increased significantly given the 
time taken to sort everything out.
Our Investigator didnt think she could fairly hold Aviva responsible for the delay in Mr M 
waiting to receive all of the funds and the breakdown of them before making his investment 
decisions. She noted that Mr M had in fact made his investment decisions before he 
received the breakdown of the funds. The Investigator thought Aviva had used the correct 
dates to work out the investment loss on policies C, D and E. And she thought the £525 
offered was reasonable compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. However, 
she noted that the transfer of policy B had taken place on 27 January 2021, and ought to 
have been transferred on 25 January 2021 instead. So, she thought Aviva should carry out 
the same loss assessment in respect of policy B, deducting the late payment interest it had 
added.
Aviva accepted the Investigators view. While Mr M agreed that Aviva should be required to 
include policy B in the loss calculation, he still thought Aviva should not be allowed to deduct 
the late payment interest from the settlement. He also thought that Aviva should be required 
to use unit prices from January 2021 when the market conditions were more favourable. 
Mr M added that he was able to invest his funds on 24 June 2021 as he had been able to get 
the details he required from Aviva over the phone and hed requested those details on 
22 February 2021 so shouldve had them far sooner. He still though the compensation 
should be increased.
The Investigator considered Mr Ms points. She thought the compensation offered (£525 in 
total) was reasonable. But she agreed with Mr M that Aviva had delayed sending him the 
fund details and he ought reasonably to have had this by 1 March 2021. She noted that 
Mr M had made his investment decisions 22 days after receiving the fund details from Aviva, 
so thought this timeframe should be applied to the loss calculation instead. Meaning that she 
thought Aviva should carry out a loss calculation, for all five policies, based on him having 
invested the funds on 23 March 2021. She maintained that it was reasonable for Aviva to 
deduct the late payment interest from its calculations.
Although Mr M was happy with the new basis for the calculation he maintained his earlier 
view in respect of the compensation and the late interest  referring to a decision from the 
Pensions Ombudsman in support of his position. Aviva accepted the Investigators view. 
After carrying out the loss assessment, Aviva calculated the redress to be £38,924.11. It also 
offered an extra £200 in recognition of the time taken to reach a final settlement figure in 
respect of the investment loss. Mr M accepted the extra compensation payment but still felt it 
wasnt fair for Aviva to deduct the late payment interest from the loss calculation. He 
suggested an overall compensation figure which he believed to be fair. However, Aviva 
thought it had already paid sufficient compensation.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint was referred to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for largely the same reasons given by the 
Investigator.
Aviva ultimately accepted the Investigators view on the matter and overall, I think the 
compensation provided, including the settlement offered for the investment loss Mr M 
experienced, is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. This means that Im not making 
any further award here, which I acknowledge will come as a disappointment to Mr M, but Ill 
explain why.
For the sake of clarity I should say theres no dispute here that Aviva caused delays and that 
these delays had an impact on the investments Mr M made through his SIPP. Both Mr M 
and Aviva agree with the Investigators view that had the delays not occurred, Mr M wouldve 
been able to invest his funds in the SIPP on 23 March 2021. And an investment loss 
calculation carried out on this basis shows a loss of £38,924.11 (after deducting the late 
payment interest previously sent to Mr M).
Mr M accepted that this figure was correct  however, he still thought deducting the late 
payment interest was unfair. And he feels Aviva has muddied the waters on this issue given 
it paid him late payment interest of £331.95  which represented 8% from the date of the 
calculation on 30 November 2022 to the date of settlement on 26 January 2023. He thinks 
that means Aviva shouldve also added late payment interest to the sum it paid him on 
17 December 2021, given it was calculated in November 2021. This is Mr Ms remaining 
main concern, so Ive considered whether it was fair and reasonable for Aviva to deduct the 
late payment interest when it carried out the loss calculation in November 2022.
It is important to note that Avivas method for calculating investment loss looks to put Mr M in 
the position he would have been in if not for its delays. That is why it has compared the 
value of Mr Ms SIPP based on his investments having been purchased on 23 March 2021 
with the actual value. And I think that is a fair way of putting things right here.
An alternative method of putting things right would be to provide late payment interest at 8% 
on the sum transferred from the date it ought to have been transferred to the date of 
settlement. But that would only usually be appropriate if it wasnt known what Mr M wouldve 
done with his funds, or if it was simply being paid to him as cash. However, in this case we 
know that Mr Ms funds were sent to his SIPP, where he invested them. So, I dont think it 
was unfair for Aviva to deduct the late payment interest it sent to Mr M when it carried out 
the loss calculation in November 2021. Thats because it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for 
Mr M to receive both compensation for investment loss and late payment interest as they are 
both methods of compensating for the same loss.
Mr M says that this isnt consistent with the Pensions Ombudsmans approach following the 
High Courts ruling in Tenconi v James Hay Partnership [2019] 6 WLUK 162. In that case the 
Pensions Ombudsman awarded the complainant investment loss and required the business 
to add interest to this amount at 8%. He feels he should benefit from the same.
I should explain that I am not bound to follow the ruling of a court or another Ombudsman 
service, although it is something I can take into account when determining what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of Mr Ms complaint. However, having considered the 
Pensions Ombudsmans decision in that case I dont think that Avivas approach to Mr Ms 
complaint is inconsistent with it. Thats because the reason the Pensions Ombudsman 
added interest at 8% to the complainants investment loss in that case was because it only 
determined the complainants investment loss up to August 2016. Interest at 8% was added 
thereafter to compensate the complainant for the loss of use of that money to the date of the decision in August 2020. The compensation Aviva has offered to Mr M compensates him for 
his loss to date  so it is evident Mr M has been compensated for the full extent of his loss.
I appreciate that Mr M feels Avivas award of late payment interest in January 2023 is 
inconsistent with its previous approach. However, this interest was added to take account of 
the fact that the loss calculation was only done to take account of Mr Ms loss up to 
30 November 2022 but wasnt settled until 26 January 2023. This essentially ensured Mr M 
was compensated for the entire time that he was waiting for the investment loss to be added 
to his SIPP. I dont think that means Aviva should have added late payment interest to the 
sum it paid him in December 2021. Thats because when Aviva calculated the loss in 
November 2022, this took account of the entire period during which his funds shouldve been 
invested and it simply deducted the sum it paid Mr M in December 2021. So, overall, Im 
satisfied Aviva has compensated Mr M fairly for his investment loss.
Aviva also paid Mr M a total of £725 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience 
the matter had caused him. Mr M has accepted this. But for completeness, I think this sum is 
fair compensation overall for the impact of the delays on Mr M, particularly given hes been 
compensated for the financial impact of the delay on his investments in his SIPP.
In summary, I think the compensation Aviva has offered and paid to Mr M in settlement of his 
complaint is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Mr M has confirmed receipt of the full 
amount of compensation awarded. So, Im not making any additional award here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding this complaint. But as Aviva Life & Pensions 
UK Limited has already paid Mr M fair compensation in settlement of this complaint, it does 
not need to do any more to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2023.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman