DRN-3005096
Complaint
Mr and Mrs B have complained that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) unfairly 
continued applying charges to their overdrafts when they were in financial difficulty. Theyve 
said that the charges left them in financial hardship.
  
Background
One of our adjudicators then looked at Mr and Mrs Bs complaint and thought that 
Nationwide should have realised that Mr and Mrs B were experiencing financial difficulty by 
May 2004 and so should have stopped providing overdrafts on two of their accounts from 
this point onwards. He said that Nationwide needed to refund the interest added from this 
point onwards to put things right.
Nationwide disagreed. So the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice (in 
particular, The Banking Code  Guidance for subscribers in place at the time Im looking at) 
we consider when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when 
applying overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this 
decision.
I want to start by saying that Ive seen what Nationwide has said about its expectations on 
how an overdraft complaint may have been addressed in 2008. But it isnt for me to 
speculate how another consumers complaint might have been assessed in 2008. My role 
here is to assess whether Nationwide treated Mr and Mrs B fairly and bearing in mind the 
relevant rules and standards of practice in place at the time. And thats what Ive done. 
Having carefully considered everything provided, I decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs 
complaint. I done so as I think Nationwide acted unfairly when it continued charging 
overdraft interest and associated fees on accounts ending in 663 and 562 after it renewed 
Mr and Mrs Bs overdrafts in May 2004. 
By this point, it ought to have been evident to Nationwide that Mr and Mrs B may have been 
in financial difficulty because their account statements show that items were repeatedly 
being returned unpaid due to a lack of available funds. Mr and Mrs B also regularly 
exceeded their limit. In my view, it had become evident Mr and Mrs Bs use of their 
overdrafts had been unsustainable. In these circumstances, it ought to have been apparent 
Mr and Mrs B were unlikely to repay what they owed within a reasonable period of time with 
overdraft interest, fees and associated charges being added. 
In reaching this conclusion, Ive considered what Nationwide has said about the overdraft 
limits on their account being reduced. But that doesnt alter the fact that Mr and Mrs B were 
still displaying a lot of the hallmarks of being in financial difficulty regardless of any 
reductions in limit and one of their overdrafts having been cleared in January 2004. Id also 
add that there wasnt anything in the guidance at the time which required a lender to default 
an account before freezing interest. 
In any event, even if this was a course of action Nationwide had to take, it should have done 
have taken it instead of adding further charges which Mr and Mr and B would struggle with. I 
dont think consider it fair and reasonable to charge a consumer large amounts of fees and 
interest in order to delay dealing with the consequences of an unsustainable debt. So Im 
satisfied that Nationwide should have stopped providing the overdrafts on the same terms 
and treated Mr and Mrs B with forbearance rather than renewing the facility and adding even 
more fees and charges on the overdraft.
All of this means that Nationwide should have realised that Mr and Mrs B were experiencing 
financial difficulty, werent using their overdrafts as intended and shouldnt have continued 
offering them on the same terms in May 2004. As Nationwide didnt react to Mr and Mrs Bs 
overdraft usage and instead continued charging in the same way, I think it failed to act fairly 
and reasonably. 
Mr and Mrs B ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on their overdrafts at a 
time when they were already experiencing difficulty. So I find that Mr and Mrs B lost out 
because of what Nationwide did wrong and that it should put things right.
  
Fair compensation  what Nationwide needs to do to put things right for Mr and Mrs B
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr and Mrs Bs complaint for Nationwide to put things right by:
Reworking Mr and Mrs Bs closing overdraft balances on accounts ending in 663 
and 562 so that all interest, fees and charges applied to them from May 2004 are 
removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance (or balances) remain on the overdrafts once these 
adjustments have been made Nationwide should contact Mr and Mrs B to 
arrange a suitable repayment plan for this. If it considers it appropriate to record 
negative information on Mr and Mrs Bs credit file, it should backdate this to May 
2004.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr and Mrs B along with 8% simple interest on the 
overpayments from the date they were made (if they were) until the date of 
settlement. If no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been 
made, Nationwide should remove any adverse information from Mr and Mrs Bs 
credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest. Nationwide 
must give Mr and Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask for 
one.
  My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. and tell Nationwide 
Building Society should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 September 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman