DRN-2513262
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1996. Mr and Mrs O say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them the PPI.
Background
Mr and Mrs O paid for the PPI with a regular monthly premium, which did not attract interest. 
It covered Mrs O in case she was off work sick or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs O disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold, for the following reasons:
Mr and Mrs Os mortgage application had a section for PPI, which only recommended it was 
something they considered. There was a place they could sign if they wanted PPI, or which 
could be left blank if they didnt want it. Mrs O signed for PPI, and Mr and Mrs O signed the 
form as a whole to confirm their choices. Mrs O also signed and submitted an optional 
separate form specifically for PPI. The policys cost was set out separately to the cost of the 
mortgage itself  the PPI was not part and parcel of the lending. And Ive not seen any wider 
problems with Halifaxs sales process from the time, nor anything which shows that Mr or 
Mrs O were misled or unfairly pressured here. As far as I can see, the policy was displayed 
as an optional extra. So I think its most likely that Halifax made it clear Mr and Mrs O didnt 
have to take out PPI and that they chose to take it at the time.
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs O, so it had to check that the policy was right 
for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
For example, it looks like Mrs O was eligible for the cover, and wasnt affected by any of the 
main exclusions or limitations. The policy wouldve paid out on top of her work benefits and 
offered her more comprehensive cover, especially for when her benefits reduced to just a 
fraction of her normal pay. Mrs O was the sole earner at the time, and if Mr and Mrs O had 
fallen behind on their mortgage they couldve lost their home. So it seems very reasonable 
that they insured Mrs O, to protect their home and provide some peace of mind. I think the 
policy could have really been useful for them, as it was when they successfully claimed on it 
in 2002.
The policys cost and benefit were set out clearly. So I think Mr and Mrs O wouldve 
understood how much it would cost and how much it could pay out if they chose it. And the 
policy was competitively priced given how much it would pay out in a claim.
It is possible that Halifax couldve given Mr and Mrs O clearer information about the policys 
main exclusions. But as I said above, Mrs O doesnt appear to have been affected by any of 
those things anyway.
This means Halifax doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs O.
But Halifax has offered to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs O because: 
Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs O about that. Because Halifax didnt tell 
them, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Halifax has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
What the business needs to do
Halifax has to pay back to Mr and Mrs O any commission and profit share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
That means Halifax should pay back to Mr and Mrs O the extra they paid each month 
because the commission and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. 
Halifax should also pay Mr and Mrs O 8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs O can claim back the tax if they dont pay 
tax.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland plc doesnt have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs O.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs O any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. If it has already done this, then 
I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 March 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman