DRN-3604138
The complaint
Mr C complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) didnt provide him with a courtesy car when 
he made a claim on his motor insurance policy. He wants UKI to reimburse him £756 for his 
travel costs. 
What happened
Mr C had Guaranteed Hire Car cover on his policy with UKI. Mrs C was the cars main driver. 
After an accident, the car was taken for repairs but UKIs hire car provider couldnt deliver a 
hire car to his address. Another company could do so, but only after the car had been 
repaired. So Mrs C was without a car for 14 days and Mr C had to drive her to and from 
work. UKI apologised and paid Mr C £100 compensation. It said he was entitled to claim up 
to £500 for his travel costs, but he needed to provide proof of these. Mr C said he would 
accept £600, but UKI disagreed. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She thought UKI hadnt 
done enough to contact other hire companies that could have provided Mrs C with a 
courtesy car. And she thought Mr C had spent 2/3 hours a day and driven more than 1,000 
miles over 14 days taking Mrs C to and from work. Mr C hadnt been warned that he should 
keep fuel receipts, so she thought it was unfair for UKI to request these. So she thought UKI 
should increase its compensation offer to £250 for this inconvenience. And she thought UKI 
should reimburse Mr C for his fuel costs without receipts. 
UKI disagreed with the Investigator as it thought it had met the policy requirements in trying 
to provide a courtesy car and then offering to reimburse travel costs. But it offered to 
reimburse travel costs up to the policy limit of £500 without receipts. It thought £100 
compensation was fair and reasonable. But Mr C replied that this didnt take into account his 
time spent driving his wife. He wanted £756 for his travel costs. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
I can see that theres no doubt that Mr C was entitled to a courtesy car under his policy. 
UKIs supplier said it didnt have one available to deliver until five days after Mr Cs car had 
been taken for repair. Mr C told it this was unacceptable, and it wasnt delivered. Another 
provider then delivered a car after Mr Cs car had been returned repaired.
I can understand that Mr C felt frustrated by this. This supplier said it could have delivered a 
car at the start of the claim if it had been instructed. And so I agree with the Investigator that 
UKI could have done more to try and deliver a car to Mr C sooner. And UKI upheld Mr Cs 
complaint, and it offered him compensation for his inconvenience and to refund his travel 
costs if he provided proof that these had been incurred. 
When a business makes a mistake, as UKI accepts it has done here, we expect it to restore 
the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact the 
error had on the consumer. 
In making its offer, UKI relied on page 15 of the policy terms and conditions which state: 
If we cannot provide you with a hire car because any of the following applies, well repay 
your travel costs up to £50 per day, up to a total of £500 per claim if:
> There are no hire cars available, and no alternative cars are available for hire.
You can use this benefit any time in the 21 days following your claim. Youll need to pay the 
costs up front, and then send us your receipts or proof of travel. We can only pay you back 
once we receive these.
Mr C thought the policy term and condition didnt apply in his circumstances as hire cars 
were available from other providers. But I think the intention of the term is to cover times 
when UKI isnt able to provide hire cars, as was the case here. It cant spell out every 
eventuality. So I think it was reasonable for UKI to rely on it. 
UKI later said that this term meant that Mr C should provide petrol receipts, which he didnt 
have. And I dont think UKI warned Mr C of this. The policy asks, alternatively, for proof of 
travel. Mr C provided details of his journey dates and destination details. So I think he met 
the policy terms and conditions and UKI should reimburse him for his travel costs up to the 
policy limit, which was £500, which it has now agreed to do. 
Mr C calculated his travel costs as being £756. But the policy doesnt require UKI to pay 
more than the policy limit. In any case, except for the accident, Mrs C would have been 
incurring some travel costs travelling to work. The excess costs incurred were the return 
journeys Mr C made. So I think £500 is fair and reasonable reimbursement. 
Mr C has been put to inconvenience by having to ferry Mrs C to and from work for 14 days. 
He said this took about two hours a day. UKI paid him £100 compensation for this. But I 
dont think this is sufficient for the impact on Mr C. Our Investigator recommended that UKI 
should increase its offer to £250 in total. I think thats fair and reasonable as its in keeping 
with our published guidance for this level of impact.
Putting things right
I require U K Insurance Limited to do the following:
1. Reimburse Mr C £500 for his travel costs, without requiring receipts, as it has already 
agreed to do.
2. Pay Mr C a further £150 (£250 in total) compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by its handling of his claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require U K 
Insurance Limited to carry out the redress set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 September 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman