DRN-3222522
The complaint
Mr R complains that Scottish Widows Limited has given him wrong information about the 
value of his pension fund  he believes hes lost some of his fund value.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint was set out clearly and in 
detail by our investigator in their assessment of the complaint  so I wont include all of this 
detail again here.
Mr R complained to Scottish Widows in 2019 because he believed one of the funds his 
pension monies was invested in had more than halved in value  from around £32,000 to 
around £16,000. Mr R wanted to understand why.
Scottish Widows replied and it said the figures Mr R had quoted didnt correlate with its 
system. But after Mr R contacted them again, it said that its historical system data appeared 
to be incorrect and that the information Mr R had provided  and as shown on his annual 
pension benefit statements  was correct. Scottish Widows offered Mr R £75 compensation 
to reflect the distress caused by its error in its first response to his complaint.
After further correspondence from Mr R, Scottish Widows increased its offer of 
compensation to £150 after acknowledging the difficult circumstances hed faced while 
bringing the complaint.
Mr R said he wanted £750 to reflect the stress, time spent and inconvenience caused by 
having to make his complaint.
Our investigator looked at all of this and in conclusion they didnt uphold the complaint. They 
explained to Mr R that while Scottish Widows system showed inaccurate historical data 
about how his pension funds were split, hes not lost any money. They went to explain that 
the drop in the value of one of Mr Rs funds was because Scottish Widows had switched 
some of the money from the fund  a higher risk fund - into lower risk funds based on the 
investment strategy applicable to his plan. They explained that this was a common feature.
The investigator also explained that the evidence showed Scottish Widows sent Mr R annual 
pension statements, but that they wouldnt expect it to have informed Mr R about when the 
fund switches as part of the investment strategy would take place  this was something 
which should have been explained by Mr Rs employer and / or by a financial adviser when 
the plan was taken out.
Finally the investigator concluded that the £150 Scottish Widows had offered Mr R was a fair 
way to resolve things  they said what Mr R had asked for was too high and didnt fairly 
reflect the impact the matter had, had on him.
Because Mr R remains dissatisfied hes asked for a decision. In doing so Mr R has provided 
some pension fund valuation printouts from a third-party and repeated much of what hes 
said before, including wanting an explanation about why his fund value decreased.
The complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to not uphold Mr Rs complaint  I think Scottish Widows offer 
of compensation to settle the matter is fair in all the circumstances. My reasons are set out 
below.
Id firstly like to explain to Mr R that I think the investigator has set out the position on his 
complaint clearly and in great detail - theres not much I feel I can usefully add to what hes 
already been told. But I will endeavour to clarify things further for him.
I think its important to reiterate that some of what Mr R has complained about and which he 
is seeking compensation for, relates to complaint handling by Scottish Widows. But 
complaint handling is not a regulated activity as defined in our rules  so I cant consider 
these points here.
Turning to what I consider Mr Rs key complaint is and the apparent loss in value of one his 
pension funds  Id like to echo what our investigator said and reassure Mr R that Ive not 
seen anything to show that hes lost money or that Scottish Widows has made an error in 
valuing his pension fund.
Mr Rs complaint stems from the fact that when he looks at a series of pension statements 
and valuations, the value of one of his funds  the Scottish Widows SSgA 50:50 Global 
Equity Fund  appears to have halved in value. One valuation shows the value at around 
£32,000, while shortly after it dropped to around £16,000.
As the investigator explained to Mr R, the reason for the drop in value was not because the 
funds disappeared or that Scottish Widows made an error in the valuation of this fund - but 
because part of the value of this fund was automatically transferred to a number of other 
investment funds as part of Mr Rs pension planning or investment strategy. And this 
strategy was something that was decided at the outset of Mr Rs pension plan  either by his 
employer or as part of any advice he might have received when he took out his pension. 
Scottish Widows were simply acting in accordance with the strategy.
The investment strategy  commonly referred to Lifestyling  is designed to gradually move 
more of the value of an investors pension fund from more high risk investment funds 
(typically those funds which invest in company shares or equities) to lower risk funds 
(typically bonds, government gilts and/or cash) the closer they get to retirement. This is 
designed to protect the value of the pension fund and to prevent significant drops in value, 
which might not be able to be recovered prior to retirement. And this is exactly what 
happened in Mr Rs case.
I can see from looking at Mr Rs annual pension benefit statements that as at 27 January 
2017 (this is the time period Mr R is concerned about) the value of Mr Rs holding in the 
Scottish Widows SSgA 50:50 Global Equity Fund was in excess of £32,500. But Mr R also 
held three other funds  the lower risk funds I referred to earlier. And their combined value 
was a little under £12,000.
Now looking at the 27 January 2018 statement, I can see the value of the Scottish Widows SSgA 50:50 Global Equity Fund changed to around £14,000. But at the same time the value 
of the other three funds increased to over £33,500. And this accounts for the difference Mr R 
is querying. The amount of Mr Rs pension money invested in the higher risk equity fund was 
reduced by automatically switching it or moving it into the three lower risk funds (selling units 
in the equity fund to buy units in the other funds.) And this was clearly carried out at some 
point after Scottish Widows issued the 27 January 2017 statement (the precise timing of the 
switch isnt available - but its not important to the overall outcome of the complaint.)
So while Scottish Widows has accepted that the historical system data it used when it first 
answered Mr Rs complaint incorrectly showed the split of the units held across Mr Rs four 
funds, for the reasons above Im satisfied that Mr Rs pension monies have not been lost and 
Ive seen no evidence that Scottish Widows has made any errors in valuing his pension 
funds.
I can see that Mr R has provided some third-party printouts of the value of his pension funds 
based on dates in 2016 and 2017. Its not clear to me what Mr R is attempting to show here 
 but in any event this information is from a third-party and not Scottish Widows, which is the 
business this complaint is about. Because of this I dont think its appropriate for me to 
comment on these. As our investigator said to Mr R, if he has concerns about the accuracy 
of this information then hell need to take things up with the appropriate company. All I will 
say is the value of Mr Rs various funds will have fluctuated in value at any given point due to 
market conditions and movements  it doesnt surprise me for example that his pension 
funds would have showed different values in 2016 versus 2017. So while Ive considered the 
information Mr R has provided, it doesnt change my decision.
It appears from Mr Rs response to our investigators assessment, that he is no longer 
complaining about his annual pension statements. But for the sake of completeness, Ive not 
seen anything to indicate that Scottish Widows didnt issue these to Mr R. Ive seen copies 
provided by Scottish Widows and they show they were addressed correctly  so I think they 
were likely received. I dont expect Scottish Widows to have provided Mr R with any other 
regular information beyond these.
Finally, turning to the £150 offer of compensation Scottish Widows has made to resolve 
matters - I can see that Mr R wants more and hes explained the impact this whole matter 
has had on him. But taking everything into account, including my point earlier that some of 
what Mr R has complained about and wants compensation for relates to Scottish Widows 
complaint handling, which I cant consider, I think the offer is fair. I think it fairly compensates 
Mr R for the impact Scottish Widows initial errors had on him.
In closing I hope my explanation reassures Mr R that his pension funds have not been lost. 
The difference in valuation of Mr Rs fund from 2017 he is concerned about can be explained 
by the investment strategy set up at the outset of his pension plan being executed by 
Scottish Widows, which I have described above - not because of any error made by Scottish 
Widows.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, Ive decided to not uphold Mr Rs complaint  I think 
Scottish Widows Limiteds offer of £150 compensation is a fair way to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2022. 
Paul FeatherstoneOmbudsman