DRN-3003393
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B have complained about the service Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) provided 
during an escape of water claim made under their home insurance policy. 
What happened
In March 2020 Mr and Mrs B reported an escape of water claim to Ageas after water came 
through their ceiling from the loft causing damage. Due to Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances at 
the time, they didnt want to proceed with the claim until a later date. Ageas understood 
Mr and Mrs Bs situation and asked them to call back when they were ready to proceed. 
In June 2020 Mr and Mrs B contacted Ageas to move forward with the claim. Ageas 
appointed their contractors to carry out an assessment of the damage and a scope of works 
was completed. The damaged contents part of the claim was also settled.
During the course of the claim and repairs, there were a number of issues that arose which 
Mr and Mrs B raised with Ageas. Ultimately Ageas offered £100 compensation.
Mr and Mrs B remained unhappy with the service theyd received during the claim and the 
compensation Ageas had offered  and paid into their account without their agreement. They 
were also unhappy they hadnt been provided with certificates following works and that the 
cost of works theyd completed themselves had been reflected in the repair scope and claim 
value. So, they approached the Financial Ombudsman Service to investigate.
Our investigator looked into things and upheld the complaint. He recognised that Ageas had 
accepted the service had been poor and paid £100 compensation. But he didnt think that 
was enough. He said Ageas should increase the compensation to £200 in total. He also said 
Ageas should adjust the recorded scope of works and claim value, to take into account 
works Mr and Mrs B had carried out separately. And he said that there wasnt a plumbing 
certificate required, but sent copies of the electrical certificate to Mr and Mrs B.
Ageas accepted the investigators recommendations and increased compensation amount, 
but Mr and Mrs B didnt. They said £200 wasnt sufficient compensation for the service 
theyd received.
As an agreement couldnt be reached the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute the service provided wasnt in line with Mr and Mrs Bs reasonable 
expectations. Ageas offered Mr and Mrs B £100 compensation. Our investigator said £200 
was fairer in the circumstances, but Mr and Mrs B feel a higher amount is warranted. Im 
deciding here what is fair and reasonable compensation in all the circumstances of the case. 
Im also commenting on some of the more specific points and issues raised.
But as both parties are aware of what has happened, and each and every event which has 
occurred throughout, and neither party dispute this, I dont intend to revisit or comment on 
everything that happened individually.
 
Ill instead focus on what I believe is important in reaching my decision on what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. I dont mean this as a discourtesy to 
either party, rather this reflects the informal nature of our service. But Id like to reassure 
both parties that Ive considered all the information theyve provided when reaching my final 
decision. 
Overall service
Mr and Mrs B first reported the claim in March 2020, but due to their circumstances at the 
time they couldnt continue with it until a later date. Ageas understood this, and asked 
Mr and Mrs B to let them know when they were ready to proceed, which they then did in 
June 2020. The contents part of the claim was also settled at this time.
An assessment of the damage was carried out and a scope of works completed. Following 
this, there were a number of concerns raised by Mr and Mrs B. As Ive mentioned, I dont 
intend to revisit each and every issue or event, as thats not disputed, but Ive taken 
everything into account when deciding the appropriate amount of compensation in the 
circumstances.
The main issues that arose included a valve being left open by the contractor, which resulted 
in the heating system being left on and very hot, despite being turned off. Mr and Mrs B say 
they were very distressed when they discovered this and worried that another leak could 
occur, and this was compounded when they were then unable to reach anyone for 
assistance due to the time of day. Alongside being unhappy that this happened in the first 
place and the distress it caused, Mr and Mrs B are also unhappy an emergency number 
wasnt provided for use during the repair works.
Its accepted by Ageas and their contractor that leaving the valve open was an error which 
shouldnt have happened, and fortunately no damage was caused as a result. And this was 
resolved the following day when Mr and Mrs B were able to make contact. But I can 
understand why Mr and Mrs B would be very worried about this at the time, especially when 
taking into account the original claim and damage was due to an escape of water. 
But whilst I do appreciate Mr and Mrs B found the situation distressing, and Mr and Mrs B 
think Ageas (or their agents) should provide an emergency contact number during works 
more generally, its not my role to decide how Ageas should operate more widely or any 
additional services they should provide to their customers. That said, this doesnt take away 
from the fact this was a very distressing situation for Mr and Mrs B to be in, caused by the 
error of leaving the valve open, and Ive taken that into account when deciding the 
appropriate compensation amount.Following the decorating being completed, Mr and Mrs B initially thought the repairs were 
satisfactorily completed. But shortly after they discovered some wallpaper wasnt attached 
properly. And they noticed there were additional holes made in the wallpaper for the 
handrail, but these werent actually required. And when Mr and Mrs B then raised this with 
Ageas contractor, they were unhappy with the communication and the tone of an email they 
received in response to trying to arrange the rectification works.
Ive seen the email and can understand why Mr and Mrs B were unhappy with the tone of it. 
Ageas also agreed the tone of the email wasnt appropriate and apologised and paid £100 
compensation. And they also asked the contractor to rectify the snagging works to the wall 
paper, both where it wasnt attached correctly in the first place, and where there were 
additional holes. Snagging works arent unusual more generally when repairs have been 
completed, but in trying to accommodate these, Mr and Mrs B were also inconvenienced in 
then needing to rearrange other appointments.
A radiator was originally planned to be rehung by a decorator, but Ageas agent later agreed 
for a plumber to carry out the works when Mr and Mrs B raised concerns about who was 
proposed to complete this. But after this was completed, the radiators and heating system 
werent functioning correctly and had areas of cold spots which Mr and Mrs B say werent 
present before. When reported by Mr and Mrs B, Ageas contractor said they thought it was 
normal and likely historic debris in the system was causing it.
Mr and Mrs B then used a service contract they have with another provider who cleaned a 
filter and bled the radiators which then restored the system to functioning correctly. A filter 
was cleaned, so this could indicate there was a wider maintenance issue. But equally the 
bleeding of the radiators was also required. So this couldve been done at the time by the 
plumber when reattaching the radiator, which may have, on balance, at least partly resolved 
things at that time if theyd bled the system.
Mr and Mrs B are also unhappy that Ageas paid the £100 compensation into their account 
when they werent satisfied with that amount. However, Ageas also made it clear that this 
wouldnt stop Mr and Mrs B from approaching this service if they remained unhappy. So I 
dont think Ageas acted unreasonably here. And I also note that following this, Mr and Mrs B 
were provided with details in order to return the compensation if they wanted to - which they 
then did.
Whilst Ive only summarised some key things that happened above, and not commented on 
everything that occurred individually, Ive taken everything into account when reaching my 
decision. I do acknowledge Ageas has offered £100 compensation, and this was following 
the email sent to Mr and Mrs B that Ageas agreed wasnt acceptable. But I dont think this 
amount is sufficient to compensate Mr and Mrs B for the service they received overall, and 
the additional inconvenience, and distress, which was caused by Ageas and/or their agents. 
Like our investigator, Im also of the view that a total of £200 would be a fair and reasonable 
amount of compensation in the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs B have asked if Ageas, or their agents, will be fined or reprimanded. However, 
we arent the regulator of financial businesses and the role of this service isnt to punish or 
fine businesses. Rather our role is to look at the individual merits of a complaint. And where 
appropriate, we can amongst other things, award compensation for the impact the error or 
poor service caused. 
The scope of works
Mr and Mrs B were under the impression that they were required to remove and refix fixtures 
and fittings to enable the repair works to be completed by Ageas contractors, so they did so. However, they later discovered this had been reflected in the scope of works completed by 
Ageas contractors, and they shouldve actually carried out these works instead. 
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy with this, and dont think the works they undertook themselves 
should be reflected in any claim costs.
Ageas needs to record an accurate cost of the actual works that were carried out during the 
claim. If those works and tasks werent carried out by Ageas or their contractors, then its not 
fair or reasonable to include potential costs associated with this in any recorded claims costs 
if they didnt actually take place and costs werent incurred. Here its accepted by both 
parties that Mr and Mrs B carried out the removal and refitting of fixtures and fittings, rather 
than Ageas contractors. Therefore, Ageas needs to adjust the claim value to take into 
account works Mr and Mrs B carried out, rather than their contractor.
Plumbing and electrical certificates
Mr and Mrs B are also unhappy they werent provided with plumbing or electrical certificates 
at the time of works. Ageas (and our investigator) have sent copies of the electrical 
certificates to Mr and Mrs B. Theyve also explained that plumbing certificates werent 
required as Gas Safe registered works werent completed, so there was no certificate to 
accompany this.
As the electrical certificate has been provided, and there wasnt one applicable for the 
plumbing works, I dont need to determine anything further on this point.
  
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold the complaint and direct Ageas Insurance Limited to:
Pay Mr and Mrs B a total of £200 compensation
Adjust the claim value to take into account any works that Mr and Mrs B, rather than 
Ageas (or its agents), carried out
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 October 2021.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman