DRN-4310116
The complaint
Miss S has complained about the amount Advantage Insurance Company Limited 
(Advantage) paid in settlement of a claim she made under her motor insurance policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again in 
full detail here. But to briefly summarise, Miss S is unhappy with the valuation placed on her 
vehicle following a total loss claim under her policy.
Our investigator thought Miss Ss complaint should be upheld. She said Advantage based its 
valuation on two of the industry guides our service typically relies on. But given Miss Ss 
concerns about the valuation, and the adverts she provided, our investigator said Advantage 
should have checked the additional guides this service also considers. Our investigator 
checked the additional guides herself, and based on this, suggested Advantage should 
increase the valuation placed on Miss Ss vehicle from £5,519 to £6,447. She also said it 
should pay 8% simple interest on any unpaid amount.
Our investigator also agreed that the level of service Miss S received from Advantage fell 
short of her reasonable expectations. However, she said the £50 compensation already 
offered by Advantage was enough to fairly compensate her for this.
Miss S accepted our investigators assessment, but Advantage didnt. It said a fair valuation 
should be the average of all four guides our investigator obtained, rather than just the 
highest two.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Miss Ss policy covers her for the market value of her vehicle, at the time of loss  
which is fairly standard within the motor insurance industry.
Market value is defined in the policy as:
The cost of replacing your Car in the United Kingdom at the time the loss or damage 
occurred with one of the same make, model, age and condition. This may not 
necessarily be the value you declared when the insurance was taken out. Your 
Insurer may use publications such as Glass's Guide to assess the Market Value and 
will make any necessary allowances for the mileage and condition of your Car and 
the circumstances in which you bought it.
Advantage based its valuation on the higher of two valuations it obtained from some of the 
recognised motor industry trade guides our service typically relies on when considering this 
type of complaint. It used the correct mileage and date of loss when obtaining these 
valuations, which were:
Glasss: £5,360
CAP: £5,519
Miss S complains that the valuation placed on her vehicle by Advantage is too low. She 
says she is unable to replace her vehicle with one of a similar make and model for that 
amount. Shes provided several adverts for similar cars being offered for sale at higher 
amounts than hers.
Taking into account the difference between Advantages valuations and the adverts, our 
investigator obtained her own valuations from two additional trade guides our service 
typically uses when assessing complaints about motor valuations. She used the same 
mileage date of loss when obtaining these valuations, which provided the following market 
value figures:
Autotrader: £6,254
Percayso (formerly Cazana and Cazoo): £6,640
Our services normal approach, in these types of complaints, usually considers that a 
valuation within the range of figures returned by the motor trade guides is typically fair. This 
is unless theres other evidence, such as sales adverts, which suggest a valuation at the 
higher or lower end might be fairer.
In this case, most of the adverts Miss S provided are for suitably comparable vehicles with 
broadly similar mileage, all advertised at significantly higher amounts than the valuation 
arrived at by Advantage. Our service does typically find the trade guides more persuasive 
than adverts, in isolation. But because of recent changes in the market, were now 
increasingly hearing of vehicles selling for, or close to, their advertised prices. So, taking all 
of that into account, Im persuaded that the adverts provided by Miss S support a valuation 
at the higher end of the range would be fairer.
In the circumstances, I consider a fair valuation for Miss Ss car would be the average of the 
two highest guides  Percayso and Autotrader. This amounts to £6,447. So, in order to fairly 
put things right, Advantage should increase the total settlement paid to Miss S to £6,447. It 
should also pay 8% simple interest on the amount which remains unpaid, from the date it 
paid the initial settlement of £5,519 to the date Miss S is reimbursed. This is to compensate 
Miss S for being deprived of funds I believe she was reasonably entitled to under her policy.
Miss S also complained about poor service and a lack of contact from Advantages case 
handler. Advantage accepted that the service it provided fell short and offered £50 
compensation. And taking everything into account, I think that offer is sufficient to fairly 
compensate Miss S for the impact of Advantages failings here.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold Miss Ss complaint.
Advantage Insurance Company Limited must:
Increase the valuation placed on Miss Ss car to £6,447 and pay her any amount 
which remains outstanding.
On the additional amount due to Miss S, pay 8% simple interest from the date it paid 
the initial settlement of £5,519 to the date Miss S is reimbursed.
Pay Miss S £50 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it has caused her  
if it hasnt done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 November 2023.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman