DRN-2224397
The complaint
Mr H says MBNA Limited mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 1995. The policy was added to 
Mr Hs credit card account when he applied for the card by post.
The policy would have helped with Mr Hs monthly credit card payments for up to 24 months 
per successful claim for accident or sickness, and for up to 12 months per successful claim 
for unemployment.
Our adjudicator didn't uphold the complaint. Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Hs case.
Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive, I need to decide what I thinks most likely 
to have happened, based on the information I have.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
The credit card application, which Mr H completed and signed, included a section about 
PPI. There was a brief description of the cover, and there were equally prominent 
options to accept or decline it. The Yes box is ticked, indicating that Mr H wished to 
take PPI.
I acknowledge that Mr H has suggested that the tick is different from the others on the 
form. Im not an expert in handwriting analysis, but Mr Hs assertion that the tick may 
have been inserted by MBNA after he returned the form is a serious allegation, and Id 
need very strong evidence to persuade me that this is likely.
As it is, Mr H completed the form thoroughly. I think its unlikely that he wouldn't have 
ticked either the yes or the no option for PPI. And theres no mark in the no box. 
I think it would have been clear from the form that PPI was optional. And on balance, 
I think Mr H chose to take it  although I can understand how he may no longer 
remember this, as he filled in the form such a long time ago.
Mr H has told us that MBNA advised him to take out the PPI. But he applied for the credit 
card and PPI by post, so I think its unlikely hed have had any direct contact with 
MBNAs staff when he completed the application. And Im satisfied, on balance, that 
MBNA didn't personally recommend the PPI to Mr H. This means it didn't have to check if 
it was suitable for him. But it did need to give him clear enough information to enable him 
to decide for himself whether he wanted the cover.
Mr H says hed have been entitled to full pay from his employer if hed been off sick. Hes 
provided confirmation from his employer at the time that there was no set time period for 
this, but it would have been subject to on-going review on a monthly basis. The policy 
would have potentially paid out for up to 24 months per successful claim for accident or 
sickness. Thats longer than it sounds as if Mr H could have been sure hed receive sick 
pay for. And it would have paid out for up to 12 months per successful claim for 
unemployment. Whats more, it would have paid out in addition to any payments Mr H 
received from his employer. So he could have used those to meet other expenses.
Ive borne in mind that Mr H has told us he had endowment polices worth a substantial 
sum which he could have used to make his monthly credit card payments if necessary. 
But the value of those policies wouldnt have been guaranteed, and its likely there would 
have been costs for cashing them in. Overall, I think it would have been a significant 
decision to cash in investments like that. Having the PPI would have meant that Mr H 
didnt need to do so. And he could have used any savings he had to meet other 
expenses. So overall, I think the PPI policy could have provided Mr H with a useful 
benefit.
It may be that the information MBNA gave Mr H about the PPI was as clear as it should 
have been. But from what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, he wasn't affected 
by any of the main things the policy didn't cover.
Ive borne in mind that I dont think MBNA explained the cost of the PPI properly. It 
mentioned on the application form that it would cost 65p per £100 of the credit card 
balance. But it didn't explain that the premium would be added to Mr Hs credit card 
balance and could attract interest. It also failed to explain the level of benefit (3% of the 
statement balance) or the fact that Mr H would have to continue paying the premium if he 
made a claim. 
But Ive explained that Im satisfied, on balance, that Mr H chose to take out the policy. 
So he appears to have wanted this type of cover, even if hes understandably forgotten 
that now, so many years later. I think the policy could have been useful to Mr H. And on 
balance, taking everything into account, I think it unlikely that Mr H would have made a 
different decision about whether to take the PPI, even if better information had been 
provided. On balance, I think hed still have taken out the policy.
Ive taken account of all Mr Hs comments, including what hes said about having contacted 
MBNA to ask what charges on his statements were for. He says he cant remember what the 
charges related to, but he was told they werent optional, so he cancelled the card. We 
asked MBNA about this, but its told us it has no record of such a conversation. And while 
I dont doubt that Mr H has given us his honest recollection, I cant fairly conclude, without 
stronger evidence, that he was told that the PPI wasnt optional.This means MBNA doesn't have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H. But MBNA 
has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because:
MBNA got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr H about that. Because MBNA didn't tell Mr H, that 
was unfair.
To put that right, MBNA has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasn't mis-sold  so MBNA Limited doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of 
the PPI to Mr H.
But MBNA Limited does have to pay back to Mr H any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium done this, so I dont award any further 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2021. 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman