DRN-2824159
The complaint
Miss O complains that HDI Global Specialty SE (HDI) carried out unsatisfactory repairs to 
her roof - and that this caused more damage. 
Its clear that a number of different agents were involved in the administration of Miss Os 
insurance policy and claim, so for clarity, any references to HDI include its agents.
What happened
In February 2017, Miss O contacted HDI to make a claim on her home insurance policy for 
storm damage to her roof, which was leaking. 
HDI sent a loss adjuster to inspect the damage. Miss O says they accepted her claim and 
sent a roofing contractor to carry out a repair. She says they applied what they described as 
magic paint and asked her to sign a form to confirm theyd completed the job. Miss O says 
the weather was dry at the time, so she had no reason to think there was anything wrong.
 
Miss O continued to have problems with leaks through her roof when it rained. On 15 August 
2017, after several visits by HDIs roofing contractor, an independent contractor inspected 
her roof. Miss O says their report confirmed the repair had failed. 
On 7 September 2017 Miss O complained to HDI. They issued a response the following 
month. They acknowledged that their initial repair hadnt made the roof watertight  they said 
repairing the leak had involved a process of elimination to identify exactly where the water 
was coming in.
 
Miss O says her roof leaked again in the same place in 2018. She continued to chase HDIs 
contractor for a solution to the problem  but they stopped responding to her. In February 
2019 Miss O made a complaint via her insurance broker. She obtained two independent 
reports stating the repairs had been ineffective. In July 2019 HDI responded to Miss Os 
complaint. They said the leaks were due to poor maintenance of the roof  and not due to 
the repairs theyd carried out.
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss Os complaint. She said HDI had provided a report from a 
previous claim Miss O made in 2015, which concluded that damage to the flat roof was age-
related wear and tear and not storm damage. She said HDI had explained that the 2017 
claim related to vertical slate cladding which had been dislodged by high winds  and this 
was what theyd repaired. The investigator was satisfied HDI had applied a waterproof 
coating to the roof as a goodwill gesture. She thought the reports provided by Miss O and 
HDI confirmed the roof was leaking because it needed to be replaced, and not as a result of 
the repairs HDI had carried out. She said the policy doesnt provide cover for loss or damage 
caused by things that happen gradually, wear and tear, or due to lack of maintenance.
Miss O disagreed. She said general maintenance work was carried out to the roof in 2013/14 
 and that the claim she made in 2017 was completely separate to any previous claim. She 
said HDIs loss assessor had accepted the leak was due to storm damage  and that they 
shouldnt have agreed to the work if they had concerns about wear and tear of the roof. Miss 
O didnt agree that HDIs contractor had fixed the leak and then coated the roof. She told us 
shed had no option but to borrow money to fix the problem because the stress of this 
dispute, whilst working from home with a leaking roof, had affected her mental health. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The first section of Miss Os policy booklet explains that insurance doesnt cover the property 
against everything that can happen  its the policy holders responsibility to maintain the 
property in a good state of repair. It goes on to state that the policy doesnt cover wear and 
tear damage which happens gradually over a period of time. It says flat roofs should be 
checked on a regular basis because theyre prone to wear and tear.
 
The policy does cover loss or damage caused by insured events  including storm 
damage. Its not disputed that HDI accepted Miss Os claim for storm damage in February 
2017 and carried out repair work on her roof. And I think its reasonable for Miss O to expect 
repairs carried out under her insurance policy to be effective and lasting. So, the question for 
me to consider is whether it was fair for HDI to say the ongoing leaks were due to age-
related wear and tear of the roof, and not due to the repair theyd carried out.
 
Miss O and HDI have both provided reports from roofing specialists. Ive reviewed these in 
detail, as they give a useful indication of the condition of Miss Os roof before and after her 
2017 claim. Before going into the detail of these reports, I think its important to note that the 
roof at the rear of Miss Os property has a number of different sections. The single-storey 
extension is covered by two areas of flat roof  a lower and a higher section. The vertical 
wall at the rear of the second storey is covered with slates. The area between the vertical 
wall and the flat roof is sloping and covered with slates. 
HDI have told us that Miss O had previously made a claim for damage to the roof at the back 
of her house after a storm in November 2014. Theyve provided a copy of their loss 
assessors report, detailing his appraisal of the condition of the roof at that time. Ill refer to 
this as the first report. It says there was water coming in through the ceiling of the rear lobby 
at the junction of two sections of flat roof  but that there was no evidence of storm related 
damage to the roof covering. The assessor concluded the roof was suffering from age-
related issues. As there was no sign of storm damage, Miss Os claim for external damage 
to the roof was declined. 
Miss O has told us that she spent a total of £820 on general maintenance to her roof in 
2013-14, and that a family friend fixed the leak that happened in 2015. But the evidence 
indicates that she contacted a roofing contractor again in November 2016 - and that he gave 
her a report and quote for roofing work. Ill refer to this as the second report. Although I 
havent seen a copy of this document, Ive seen evidence that this second report included a 
quote for repair work. I think it most likely that this contractor was called because there was 
a problem with the roof, and Ive seen no evidence of the recommended work having been 
carried out.
In response to Miss Os claim in February 2017, HDIs roofing contractor visited her property 
to carry out their initial assessment of the job. Ive seen the report of that visit, dated 6 April 
2017. Ill refer to this as the third report. It says high winds had dislodged vertical slating, 
allowing water to penetrate. Ive also seen a copy of the contractors invoice for the repairs 
carried out, which confirms they reset the vertical slating and applied a waterproofing 
treatment to the roof. In August 2017, in response to Miss Os reports of continued leaks, HDIs contractor called 
in another independent contractor to look at the roof. Ill refer to this as the fourth report. This 
states the roof was by no means new and hadnt been well maintained. It notes that the flat 
roof and pitch roof had been coated in a liquid rubber solution in an attempt to rectify a leak. 
It said this had failed, due to movement in the roof caused by varying temperatures and the 
different substrates expanding and contracting at different rates. It said the result of this was 
to allow further ingress of water, which had caused the fibreglass to separate from the timber 
underneath it. 
In January 2019 Miss O arranged for another contractor to look at her roof - he provided a 
quote to put things right. Ill refer to this as the fifth report. This contractor provided a brief 
report saying hed seen a number of problems caused by poor repairs using cheap 
temporary materials  and that water ingress had caused the timber deck of the flat roof to 
rot.
In May 2019 Miss O re-contacted the contractor whod provided the second report in 
November 2016.  Ill refer to his report dated 16 May 2019 as the sixth report. It notes that 
some works had been carried out since his last visit. Ill summarise the works he noted to 
have taken place:
The high-level flat roof had a grp fibreglass trim fitted to the front edge drip. This had 
been sealed on to the felt roof with a coating that had failed.
The slate cladding around the window had been replaced with a hollow white plastic 
cladding, with a lead flashing at the base that didnt fully cover the lower roof.
The sloping roof below had a flash-band patch and some liquid coating applied, 
which was cracking and allowing water in.
The low-level flat roof had flash band, patches and liquid coating applied that were 
failing, delaminating and allowing further water in.
The sixth report concludes that whoever had carried out repairs had not fully addressed the 
issues with the roof. It said patch repairs had been applied using the wrong products, but 
theyd failed to locate the original problem  allowing leaks affecting the lower roofs to 
continue. The report concluded the rear sections of roof required complete replacement.
In May 2019 Miss O also called in a chartered building surveyor to look at her roof. Ill refer 
to this as the seventh report. It notes that the storm damage Miss O had reported was no 
longer visible. It said the use of flash-band and waterproof paints that had been applied were 
only suitable as temporary solutions. The report said water penetrating the flat roof over the 
winter had caused the fibreglass to delaminate  but that this may have delaminated 
previously. 
Having reviewed all of this evidence in detail, Im satisfied that the sections of roof at the rear 
of Miss Os property hadnt been in good condition and had required remedial work for some 
time before her claim for storm damage in February 2017. The evidence indicates the storm 
had caused slates to be dislodged on the vertical rear wall of the property  and that this 
damage was accepted by HDI as being covered by her home insurance policy. Ive seen no 
evidence to suggest the replacement of this slate tiling was unsatisfactory. So, I consider it 
reasonable for HDI to conclude that any ongoing water ingress was due to problems with the 
flat and/or sloping sections of the roof. Ive gone on to consider the effect of the waterproof 
treatment theyd applied here.
HDI say the waterproof treatment was applied as a goodwill gesture, to help Miss O out until 
she managed to arrange for more permanent repairs to be made. Ive seen no written record 
to confirm what Miss O was told, so Ive considered whats most likely to have happened. 
Ive seen evidence showing HDI had made Miss O aware in November 2014 that a leak coming in through the adjoining sections of flat roof was not covered by her insurance policy, 
because it was due to age-related wear and tear. And that she contacted a roofing 
contractor in November 2016, who made recommendations about repairs to her roof. Ive 
seen no evidence to show the problems that had been identified were resolved. And so, on 
balance, Im satisfied Miss O was aware her roof was in need of repair - and that this 
wouldnt be covered under her insurance policy.
Miss O says HDI accepted the leak was due to storm damage in February 2017  and that 
the later leaks consistently appeared in the same place, at the junction of the two sections of 
flat roof. Ive considered this point carefully.
The evidence indicates it was difficult to locate the precise point(s) at which water was 
entering, because it was tracking within the structure of the property before coming through 
at a weak point. The reports say more than one area of the roof needed work. I think it likely 
that the 2017 storm damage to the vertical slate cladding added an extra point at which 
water was able to enter. Ive seen no evidence to suggest the repair to the slate cladding 
was unsatisfactory. And Im satisfied that HDI were under no obligation to deal with any 
other problems with the flat roof sections, because the age-related wear and tear to these 
roof coverings wasnt covered by the policy. So, I dont consider HDI to have treated Miss O 
unfairly here.
Miss O feels strongly that the work HDI carried out made things worse  and that this means 
they should pay for the replacement of her flat roof. Ive considered this point carefully. Ive 
seen evidence that the waterproof coating cracked and that there were other unsatisfactory 
repairs using flash-band patches. The reports confirm water ingress caused the fibreglass 
roof coating to delaminate and the timber underneath to rot. 
HDI have told us they werent responsible for all the repairs detailed in the reports Miss O 
provided. They say they didnt apply the flash-band. The evidence indicates the roof had 
been poorly maintained prior to the 2017 claim, so Im unable to conclude that HDI were 
responsible for all the problems highlighted in the more recent reports. The seventh report, 
obtained by Miss O from the chartered building surveyor, acknowledges that the 
delamination of the roof couldve happened previously.  For these reasons, Im not 
persuaded that the waterproof coating applied by HDIs contractor was the cause of the 
delamination and rotting of the timber in the flat roof.
Miss O says HDI paid a large amount of money for work that didnt fully rectify the leak  and 
that her contractor wouldve charged less to replace the entire flat roof. Whilst I can 
understand her frustration, Im unable to comment on the value of works carried out by HDI. 
And I dont consider the relative cost of replacement of the flat roof to be relevant here, 
because Im satisfied that HDI werent liable for that.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained here, I dont uphold this complaint. I realise Miss O will be 
disappointed with this decision.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 July 2021.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman