DRN-2653256
The complaint
Mr G complains that the car he acquired through a hire purchase agreement (HPA) with 
Oodle Financial Services Limited (Oodle) wasnt of satisfactory quality. He wants the costs 
he has paid for repairs reimbursed.
What happened
Mr G entered into a HPA with Oodle in October 2019. Shortly after acquisition he 
experienced issues with the car. He says that as soon as it was delivered the oil level 
warning light came on and the oil needed topping up. He thought this showed the car wasnt 
checked before delivery. He then needed to replace the battery and there was damage to 
the underside of the car which needed to be repaired. He says he was advised to have a full 
service carried out which he did. However, after this the car broke down and the recovery 
company identified the issue as a gearbox failure.
Mr G also says it was agreed that the car would have a three month warranty, but only a one 
month warranty was provided.
Oodle says that Mr G raised his complaint in December 2019 about the issues he had 
experienced with his car including the gear box failure. It contacted the supplying dealer 
which said Mr G should return to it as the car was running fine before the service in 
November 2019. Mr G provided a copy of the service report which showed no faults with the 
gearbox. The dealer said this meant there were no faults present at the point of supply.
Oodle says Mr G contacted it on 6 January with a quote for the gearbox repair. It says Mr G 
then contacted it again on 22 January 2020 to say repairs had been carried out. At this time, 
he was told these would be considered unauthorised repairs. An independent inspection 
took place on 31 January 2020 which concluded the issue raised would have been present 
at the point of supply. Based on this the supplying dealer offered to contribute £750 towards 
the repair cost. Oodle said as Mr G had carried out unauthorised repairs it wouldnt cover the 
cost of the repair.
Our investigator upheld this complaint. He wasnt persuaded that the car was of satisfactory 
quality at the point it was supplied to Mr G noting that the gearbox failed after Mr G had only 
driven the car 1,505 miles. Given Mr Gs need for the car he didnt think Mr G acted 
unreasonably by having the repair carried out and he thought it fair the cost of this was 
reimbursed.
Oodle didnt accept our investigators view. It said that Mr G had unauthorised repairs carried 
out and that had this not happened it would have been able to liaise with the dealer and 
arrange for repairs at a lower cost. It said it could have assisted Mr G with transportation 
while the repairs were being undertaken. It said it was Mr Gs choice to go ahead with the 
repairs and that it wasnt fair it had to accept this and refund the costs.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G acquired a used car through a HPA with Oodle. Under the regulations, specifically the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA 2015), Oodle can be held liable if the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply. Satisfactory quality takes into account factors such 
as the age and mileage of the car and what a reasonable person would expect taking into 
account all the circumstances. 
At acquisition the car was around three years old and had been driven over 107,000 miles. 
Given this it is reasonable to accept that it would have suffered some wear and tear. It is 
also possible that issues could arise shortly after acquisition even if they werent there at the 
point of supply.
In this case, Mr G experienced issues shortly after acquisition. He has noted issues with the 
tyres and battery, paintwork and the undertrays. While I appreciate it is upsetting that issues 
occurred shortly after acquisition, tyres and the battery are wear and tear items and given 
the mileage of the car I do not find I can say that these issues meant the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality. I also dont think it fair to say that any paint work damage is the liability of 
Oodle.
I note Mr Gs comment about him believing a service would be undertaken before delivery 
and this not happening and the comment about the warranty. Oodle can be held liable if 
there was a misrepresentation that induced Mr G into entering the agreement but in this 
case I do not find I have enough evidence to show this happened.
The main issue is that the car suffered a gearbox failure in December 2019. I have looked at 
the AA inspection report and can see the failure is noted. I appreciate the comment made 
about the full service being undertaken and not showing a fault, but I also accept that while 
the fault may not have been noted at that time it could have been developing.
An independent inspection was carried out on 31 January 2020. It recorded the failure 
mileage as 109,145. This meant that Mr G had driven the car less than 2,000 miles before 
the gearbox failed. Given the timing of the failure and the limited mileage Mr G had driven I 
find it reasonable to accept that the issue that caused the gearbox to fail was developing at 
acquisition. This was confirmed by the inspection report. 
Oodle has accepted that based on the conclusion of the inspection report it would be liable 
for the repair cost but has said that as Mr G carried out an unauthorised repair it wasnt fair 
for it to now be required to reimburse the costs.
While I note the comment Oodle has made, I have considered what is fair and reasonable 
given the circumstances of this complaint. Based on the evidence provided, including the 
independent inspection I think it more likely than not that the issue causing the gearbox to 
fail was developing at the point of supply and the car wasnt sufficiently durable. Therefore, I 
dont think the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. Because of this I find that 
Oodle should be liable for the costs of the repair. 
Mr G provided a quote to Oodle on 6 January 2020 which was then confirmed. I appreciate 
he then chose to have the repair carried out but given his circumstances and the need for a 
reliable car I do not find I can say he acted unreasonably. I appreciate the comment made 
about Oodle not being able to discuss the repair with dealer and perhaps have it undertaken 
for a cheaper cost. But in this case as I find the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point 
of supply, I do not find it fair that Mr G is responsible for the costs of the gearbox repair. He 
has provided evidence of the cost he paid, and this is in line with the quote he provided in January 2020. In this case I find the fair resolution to his complaint is that he is reimbursed 
this amount.
Putting things right
Oodle Financial Services Limited should refunded Mr G the full repair cost of the 
replacement gearbox and associated parts (receipt for £3,002.09 has been provided) along 
with 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Oodle Financial Services Limited should 
take the actions set out above in settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman