DRN-3428473
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund him money hes lost as a result of a 
fraud.
What happened
In April 2021, Mr S was looking for the services of a tradesman to carry out work at his 
property. He used third-party websites to carry out research and found a suitable tradesman 
that had numerous positive reviews so, he hired them.
The tradesman attended Mr Ss property as hed expected and, over the course of four days, 
he paid him £1,700 by bank transfers from his Lloyds account. However, once the final 
payment was made, the tradesman packed up his things and left the property having only 
completed a small percentage of the works paid for. 
Mr S contacted the tradesman on several occasions and was told that theyd return, but they 
didnt. Eventually, response to contact ceased.
Mr S, believing hed been defrauded, contacted Lloyds to make a claim on the funds lost. 
Lloyds looked into Mr Ss claim but didnt think it could do anything to help him. It said that as 
the funds were willingly transferred by Mr S and hed received some services as a result of 
the payments, the matter couldnt be treated as a fraud. It advised him to contact Trading 
Standards and agreed to pay him £20 in compensation for the calls hed made to it and £10 
for any distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr S was unhappy with this, so he referred his complaint to our service. An Investigator 
looked into the evidence provided by both parties but concluded that Lloyds hadnt made an 
error. In summary, the Investigator thought that the matter was a civil dispute rather than a 
fraud and therefore Lloyds couldnt be held accountable for the loss.
Mr S disagreed. He remained of the opinion that hed been defrauded and felt that Lloyds 
could have done more to help him.
As Mr S has disagreed with the Investigators assessment, the matter has now been passed 
to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in contested here that Mr S authorised the payments in dispute. He knowingly 
transferred the funds out of his account believing that he was to receive services for these 
payments. 
Broadly speaking, the Payment Services Regulations sets out that a firm is expected to 
process payments that its customer authorises. But there are times where a bank ought to 
be on the lookout for signs its customer is at risk from financial harm, such as being the 
victim of fraud. This can include, but is not limited to, identifying and intervening in payments 
that are unusual or out of character for a customers account. 
Additionally, Lloyds are also a signatory of the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM)a 
voluntary codewhere its expected to refund money lost as a result of an Authorised Push 
Payment (APP) fraud unless certain conditions apply. 
For either of these to be considered, it must first be established that an APP fraud has 
actually taken place.
While the works were not completed, there is no dispute that some work was done. Mr S has 
acknowledged that he was visited and shown a catalogue of work. The tradesman 
additionally created a design for the garden and provided a quote. 
On a separate day, three workers attended the property, materials were purchased, and 
some work was carried out before what Mr S describes as an argument occurred as he 
was unhappy with some of the materials that were being used.
I do understand Mr Ss concern that he then sent additional money to the tradesman who 
failed to complete the work carried out. But it cant be ignored that:
1. Works had already been carried out by three labourers.
2. Materials were purchased and left at the property.
3. Mr S had not paid the tradesman the full value of the quote given for the entirety of 
the works.
Further, none of the typical indicators of fraud were identified with the account where Mr S 
transferred the funds. The beneficiary bank also noted that payments were made from the 
account to building merchants: in line with what would be expected.
I also find it compelling that only a few negative reviews can be found against the 
tradesperson post Mr Ss dealing with them  and I cant verify the circumstances of these 
incidents and what they entailed.
Overall, Im not persuaded that Mr S has been defrauded here. While I understand his 
frustrations with the tradesman and his reasons for believing hes had his money stolen, 
having weighed up the evidence I find that this is more likely a civil dispute rather than a 
fraud. And so it follows that Lloyds cant be held liable for the payments hed made.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2022.
 
Stephen Westlake
Ombudsman