DRN-2981814
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy with the amount of interest she incurred on her buy-to-let mortgage with 
The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc (TMW). She doesnt think it is fair that she was charged 
interest at the managed variable rate (MVR) for the period after her fixed rate ended and 
before her remortgage to another lender completed. She says it wasnt her fault that things 
were delayed because of Covid.
What happened
Mrs S had a buy-to-let mortgage with TMW that shed taken out in March 2018. She was 
remortgaging a property she already owned and borrowed £220,000 (plus fees) on an 
interest-only basis over a 20-year term. The product was explained in the mortgage offer to 
be a fixed rate of 2.34% until 31 March 2020, after which it would move to TMWs MVR 
which was 4.49% at the time of the offer.
On 9 March 2020 Mrs S spoke to TMW about the mortgage product and the options for 
taking a new one. It was confirmed that an application could be done online.
Mrs S started an online application on 10 March but didnt go ahead with it. Mrs S has said 
that the rates were too high.
On 18 March Mrs S spoke to TMW to say that it had her residential address incorrect as it 
had the wrong house number. That was corrected on 28 March and a letter was sent 
confirming the change, and duplicate mortgage statements from inception to date were sent 
out on 30 March.
At the start of April Mrs S requested a three-month payment holiday, and then on 26 May a 
redemption statement was issued following a request for one to be produced.
On 1 June Mrs S asked that interest be waived due to Covid, but TMW said it would 
continue to still be charged.
Mrs S complained by letter dated 7 June 2020. In that she said shed started to look for new 
rates a month before her fixed rate product was due to end and she was dissatisfied with the 
rates TMW had available. She said the remortgage application was delayed due to Covid, 
which meant it didnt complete until 5 June. Ms W asked that TMW remove or reduce the 
interest charges after 31 March.
TMW didnt uphold the complaint. It said Ms W could have taken a new rate with it online but 
chose not to, and it wasnt to blame for any delays in the application with the new lender.
Unhappy with that, Mrs S referred her complaint to us. Our investigator looked into it and 
didnt think TMW had done anything wrong. She said the mortgage offer set out the terms of 
the contract, and that was that after 13 March 2020 the mortgage would move to TMWs 
MVR. She didnt feel TMW was to blame for the delay and said it had charged interest in line 
with the contract Mrs S had entered into in 2018.
Mrs S didnt agree. She felt it was unfair that she had the full financial burden of the delay, 
when the delay wasnt her fault.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst I understand Mrs S frustration at being charged a higher rate of interest between April 
and June 2020, I can only tell TMW to put things right if Im satisfied it did something wrong 
that caused that two-month delay.
Mrs S has said that TMW delayed things by not responding to her, but theres nothing to 
show that in TMWs contact notes. In any event, TMW had done all it could on 9 March when 
it told Mrs S how she could apply online for a new rate. As Mrs S didnt want to take one of 
the new rates TMW had available then there were no other options available with it that 
could be discussed.
The mortgage contract Mrs S entered into was for a fixed interest rate until 31 March 2020, 
and thereafter the interest would be charged at the MVR. If Mrs S didnt want to be charged 
at the MVR then her options were to take either a new rate with TMW, or to remortgage to 
another lender, in plenty of time so that would be in place to take effect from 1 April 2020. As 
that didnt happen the mortgage automatically moved to the MVR in line with the 2018 
mortgage contract.
TMW had no control over how long the remortgage took. It did all it could when it discussed 
with Mrs S about how to apply for a new rate on 9 March. It simply didnt have to offer any 
other options, or to reduce / waive the interest charges.
Ive a great deal of sympathy for the situation Mrs S found herself in but I cant hold TMW 
liable for that. As Ive explained above, I can only order TMW to do something to put things 
right if I think it did something wrong. Im satisfied there wasnt an error by TMW that caused 
Mrs S to go on to  and remain on - the MVR, so for that reason I cant uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman