DRN-4220822
The complaint
Mr M complains about the delays by Santander UK Plc in opening a savings account. 
What happened
In October 2022 Mr M applied to Santander to open an e-Saver account. Santander said this 
should take about three days but later said that, due to high demand, it could take longer. 
Mr M then complained to Santander about the time it was taking to open his account. In 
December 2022 Santander accepted that the delays were caused by an error on its part. It 
said his account should be opened soon and offered to pay Mr M £175 for the poor service 
hed received. 
Mr Ms account wasnt opened until the middle of January 2023, just over three months after 
he applied. He complained that the delay had caused a lot of inconvenience, including an 
unnecessary journey to a branch of Santander. He also complained that hed had to pay 
excess fees on the account he was going to transfer the funds from. Santander said it 
couldnt help him any further and Mr M approached this service.
Our investigator thought Santander should pay Mr M an additional £75. While it had 
acknowledged the impact of its poor service, he didnt think Santander had addressed the 
inconvenience caused after it had offered £175. So, he thought a total payment of £250 
would be more suitable. 
Santander agreed with the investigators view, but Mr M did not. He thought Santander 
should pay him more compensation. As Mr M didnt agree, his complaint has been passed to 
me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with our investigators view that a total of £250 is an appropriate 
amount of compensation for the inconvenience caused by Santanders poor service. Let me 
explain why.
Santander has acknowledged that it was at fault for the delay in opening Mr Ms account. It 
first told him the delays were due to high demand but later said it might be due to an address 
issue or because he had a duplicate profile. It said he would need to go into one of its 
branches to have the second profile removed. But when Mr M travelled about 26 miles to a 
branch of Santander he was told the second profile had already been removed.
Mr M said he had to pay excess fees (of about £8) on the account he wanted to transfer the 
funds from that he wouldnt have had to pay had Santander opened his account within a few 
days. Santander said it had taken those fees into account when paying Mr M £175. It also 
took account of the inconvenience hed experienced in having to call Santander on a number 
of occasions. But it hadnt taken account of the further inconvenience he experienced after it 
made that offer.
I can understand Mr Ms frustration with the poor service hes received. He had to make a 
number of telephone calls to Santander and make an unnecessary journey to and from one 
of its branches. Mr M thinks Santander should pay him mileage at about 40p per mile, plus 
the cost of parking and a morning of his time. I can understand why hes said that. But our 
approach in these cases is to look at things in the round and then decide on a figure that 
seems fairest to both parties based on the impact thats been caused. 
Putting things right
In this instance, and taking all of this together, I agree that Santander should do more to put 
things right. I think an amount of £175 would have been fair for the inconvenience Mr M was 
caused before Santander issued its final response to his complaint. But it didnt then take 
account of the further inconvenience it caused afterwards, including the further calls he had 
to make and the needless journey to one of its branches. I recognise Mr M doesnt agree but 
I think a total amount of £250 is a fair and reasonable amount of compensation for the 
impact of that poor service on him. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Ms complaint and direct Santander UK Plc to pay 
him a further £75 in addition to the £175 it has already offered for the trouble and upset 
caused by its poor service.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2023.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman