DRN-3694547
The complaint
Mr R complains HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as First Direct wont refund him a payment he 
made on his credit card.
What happened
By March 2020, Mr R had paid £2,950 for a self-catering accommodation, with a supplier 
C, which was booked for May 2020. Mr R was due to travel to the accommodation in a 
group.
Due to Covid-19, Mr R says he and his group were unable to travel to the accommodation, 
so the booking was rescheduled twice, and a final date of 23 April 2021 was agreed. Mr R 
says the Covid-19 rules in place in April 2021 prevented more than one household travelling 
together, so Mr R asked to reschedule the booking for a third time. C said they were only 
able to allow Mr R to reschedule again to a midweek day, rather than a weekend  C said Mr 
R needed to pay more for the weekend. But Mr R said a weekday wouldnt have been 
possible due to other commitments, so instead said hed prefer a refund of the payment that 
had been made. Mr R says he feels he was prevented from being able to use to 
accommodation because of the Covid-19 rules in place at the time  he said him and his 
group werent able to legally stay in the accommodation.
Mr R says hed like a refund of the £2,950 as he feels C is in breach of the Competition and 
Markets Authority (CMA). Mr R says he came to an impasse with C, so he asked First Direct 
to refund him the £2,950 he paid under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.  
First Direct asked Mr R for his contract with C so they could review what goods and services 
were to be provided and at what cost. But as Mr R wasnt able to provide this, First Direct 
said they werent able to properly assess his Section 75 claim. First Direct also explained 
they didnt think the necessary debtor-creditor-supplier arrangement was in place for a valid 
Section 75 claim. So First Direct didnt refund Mr R the amount.
Our Investigator looked into Mr Rs concerns. In summary, he didnt think there had been a 
breach of contract as C didnt cancel the original booking and was instead rearranged for Mr 
R. Additionally, our Investigator said Mr Rs contract with C didnt set anything out about the 
accommodation being used by one or multiple households, so while he understood Mr Rs 
reasons for not going ahead with the booking, there hadnt been a breach of contract caused 
by C. Our Investigator explained chargeback and Section 75 dont provide an unlimited 
protection for customers. So, he didnt recommend First Direct refund Mr R the £2,950 he 
paid.
Mr R disagreed. He explained it was illegal for people from more than one household to 
travel together and C knew they were a group. Mr R also said C told him theyd only be able 
to rearrange the booking for a third time if Mr R sent an email cancelling the booking and 
rebook for an additional £100 or so fee. Mr R didnt want to do this as he said it would have 
released him from his original contract with C. So, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I fully understand Mr Rs concerns  he clearly feels very strongly that he and his group 
shouldnt be out of pocket and that he was complying with government restrictions and 
guidelines at the time. That said, I cant say that this makes it fair for First Direct to refund 
him, or that they should be able to recover the money on the basis hes lost out. It would only 
be fair to do so if First Direct were in some way responsible for Mr Rs loss.
Section 75
Mr R used his credit card to pay the deposit and the final amount of the booking. So, if Mr R 
has a claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation against C, he has the same claim 
against First Direct. The transaction meets the financial limits of Section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974. However, its not entirely clear to me whether the necessary debtor-creditor-
supplier relationship is in place for a valid Section 75 claim as First Direct have suggested. In 
any case, I dont think there has been a breach of contract here, so I dont think I need to 
conclude whether there is the necessary relationship in this transaction. Ill go on to explain 
my findings.
Mr R rearranged the booking on two occasions, with the last rearranged date being 23 April 
2021. The accommodation was available and open at this point. However, the government 
guidelines in place at the time explained self-catering holidays in England would only be 
allowed for one household. Mr R says the group he was travelling with were from different 
households, and not just one. It doesnt seem to be in dispute that C were aware Mr R made 
this booking as a group. Whats in dispute here is whether Mr R should get a refund of the 
amount he paid for the booking.
Mr R says he didnt receive a contract from C at the time of the booking. But Mr R has 
provided us with emails which shows what was booked and so, Ive been able to see what 
was agreed between Mr R and C. Next, Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the 
booking that Mr R has given us. And these confirm the booking was for an accommodation 
with a standard occupancy of 14 guests. The document C provided to Mr R about Covid-19 
and the cancellation policy further explains the standard booking was for the whole property, 
which provided accommodation for up to 14 guests. The booking wasnt split out for a 
specific number of people and was for the accommodation as a whole. So, with this in mind, 
even though I havent seen a copy of the booking contract as Mr R says he wasnt given 
one, Im persuaded from the information I have seen that the booking Mr R agreed to with C 
was for the supply of the accommodation.
The evidence provided shows C were prepared to still provide the accommodation in April 
2021  they confirmed via email on 5 March 2021 and again on 23 March 2021 that they 
reopened from 12 April 2021 and Mr Rs booking was for 23 April 2021. Ultimately, the 
booking didnt go ahead because Mr R and his group didnt show as Mr R says he came to 
an impasse with C. Mr R says he was following government guidelines in place at the time 
which didnt permit people from more than one household staying in self-catering 
accommodation. While I fully recognise Mr R was adhering to government guidelines at the 
time, that didnt oblige C to cancel Mr Rs booking nor provide him with a refund. The goods 
i.e. the accommodation was still available for the weekend of 23 April 2021 - so Im not 
persuaded C breached the contract. 
Mr R has provided a copy of an email from C where they said they reopened on 12 April 
2021 as per the government road map out of lockdown which Mr R has referred to as C saying Mr R and his group couldnt travel unless they were one household. I can understand 
why Mr R draws this conclusion, but I dont think this is necessarily the case  I think C have 
simply let Mr R know theyve reopened in line with the government road map at the time. Id 
only be able to hold C responsible if they breached the contract by not being able to provide 
the accommodation, but I dont think this is the case. I say this because the information 
provided shows C confirmed they were reopening and were able to still provide the 
accommodation. 
I understand Mr R says there were telephone conversations with C around the final booking 
date and several options were discussed about changing the booking of 23 April 2021 and 
how this could be done (such as cancelling the existing booking, which Mr R didnt want to 
do). While I appreciate this may have been the case, I dont think that by C discussing 
different options with Mr R evidences they werent able to fulfil the booking for the weekend 
of the 23 April 2021  especially when the evidence available does show they were open for 
that weekend. 
The booking Mr R made was non-refundable. Despite the pandemic, the government 
guidelines made no provision for customers to be entitled to a refund in such circumstances. 
I note Mr R has made reference to the CMA advice and hes explained that for most 
consumer contracts, the CMA would expect a consumer to be offered a full refund if a 
consumer is prevented from receiving any goods or services because, for example, 
lockdown laws as a result of Covid-19 in the UK have made it illegal to receive or use the 
goods or services. Mr R believes his booking falls under this term. I appreciate Mr Rs point 
but because of the way Section 75 operates, First Direct wouldnt be liable to Mr R for a 
frustrated contract. This is because a frustrated contract isnt something that falls under 
Section 75 and isnt the same as a contract being breached. 
Mr R has also raised some concerns about C amending their terms and conditions to include 
Covid-19 related cancellation policies. Mr R feels the original terms and conditions should 
count for his booking. Ive had a look at the document C provided Mr R which sets out their 
Covid-19 cancellation policy and Im not persuaded this is necessarily new terms and 
conditions. The top of the document explains the booking is non-refundable under original 
bookings the terms and conditions. So, I think its fair to suggest the original terms and 
conditions were still in place.
The document goes on to explain C were doing what they could to accommodate all guests 
who may have been affected by the government restrictions by taking certain measures. 
One of the measures explains that from January 2021, lockdown and tier policies continue to 
apply and if restrictions are in place which adhere to social distancing policies for the 
booking dates, C would offer complimentary midweek dates to be taken up to March 2023. I 
understand C offered Mr R an alternative midweek date when Mr R asked to rearrange the 
23 April 2021 date. But C made clear they were still able to open from 12 April 2021 and 
were accepting guests. It seems the midweek date was offered as an alternative, rather than 
because C werent able to fulfil the booking on the 23 April 2021. Mr R didnt accept the 
midweek dates as it wasnt suitable for all members of the group.
Overall, for reasons explained above, Ive no grounds on which I can ask First Direct to 
refund Mr R under Section 75.
Chargeback 
I have next considered whether there was any other route for Mr R to get his money back, 
for example, via the chargeback process as mentioned by our Investigator. Chargeback is 
the process by which settlement disputes are resolved between card issuers and merchants, 
under the relevant card scheme. For Mr Rs credit card, the relevant card scheme is Visa.There is no right to a chargeback. But where grounds for one to be raised are evident and 
importantly the chargeback has a reasonable prospect of success, it is good practice for one 
to be raised by the card issuer. First Direct looked into a chargeback claim and said Mr Rs 
circumstances werent covered, but dont explain further, so its not entirely clear to me why 
they said Mr Rs circumstances werent covered. In any case, it doesnt look like chargeback 
would have been successful for broadly the same reasons as why Section 75 wouldnt have 
helped Mr R either  C were still able to provide the accommodation.
In addition to these reasons, in May 2020, Visa issued updated guidance to help consumers 
and businesses with dispute resolution management during the Covid-19 pandemic. This 
guidance included some common scenarios they were seeing and whether a chargeback 
right existed in those scenarios. One of those scenarios covered Mr Rs experience  the 
cardholder was notified that due to government restrictions, theyre now unable to use the 
goods or services but the merchant, in this case C, are still able to provide the goods or 
services. The Visa guidance says theres no dispute right as the merchant is willing and able 
to provide the goods or services. So, in Mr Rs case, C were willing to make the 
accommodation available, but Mr R didnt use it because of the government guidelines in 
place at the time.
I understand the position Mr R finds himself in is a difficult one  he paid for something that 
couldnt go ahead as planned. However, I dont think a claim under chargeback would have 
been successful and I dont think there has been a breach of contract by C for reasons Ive 
already explained. So, I cant fairly require First Direct to refund Mr R the £2,950.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out here, my decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2022.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman