DRN-3362893
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain about the decision of Arch Insurance (UK) Limited to limit the 
settlement of their rental income insurance claim, which was made as a result of the 
COVID-19 pandemic. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs P operate as property owners, renting out premises to third party tenants. They 
held a Property Investors insurance policy, underwritten in the main by Arch. The policy was 
purchased by a third-party insurance broker, who I will refer to as B. The policy provided 
cover for a number of areas of risk, including for rental losses. 
In April 2020, Mr and Mrs P began to suffer a loss, as their tenants paid them less than the 
rent owed. They contacted Arch to make a claim for these losses. Ultimately, Arch accepted 
the claim, but limited the amount payable to three months worth of losses. Arch said that the 
extension to the Rental Income section of Mr and Mrs Ps policy, under which their claim was 
being met, included the following wording:
The Insurance by this Extension shall only apply for the period beginning with the 
occurrence of the loss and ending not later than three months thereafter during which 
the results of the Business shall be affected in consequence of the Damage
Mr and Mrs P complained. They said that they had not been provided with the policy 
wording. And that the policy schedule, which they had been provided, said that the Rental 
Income cover they had was for £240,000 and had an indemnity period of 24 months. 
Arch responded, explaining that the policy was made up of a number of documents including 
both the policy wording and the schedule, and that these documents had been provided to B 
at the time of the sale. So, Arch considered it was entitled to apply the limits set out in the 
policy wording. 
Mr and Mrs P were unhappy and brought their complaint to this service. However, our 
Investigator considered that Arch had not acted inappropriately by applying the policy 
wording to the claim. She agreed that the contract of insurance was made up of a number of 
documents, including the policy wording. And that this had been made clear in the policy 
schedule. Our Investigator also did not consider Arch was responsible for the provision of 
these documents to Mr and Mrs P. And that any issue with this would need to be taken up 
with B. Mr and Mrs P remained unsatisfied, so their complaint has been passed to me.
I understand that Mr and Mrs P have raised a separate complaint about the actions of B. 
This will be looked at separately, and my decision is limited to considering the actions of 
Arch.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact COVID-19 
has had on Mr and Mrs P, I wont be upholding their complaint. My reasons are substantially 
the same as the Investigators.
Both the policy schedule, which Mr and Mrs P confirm they received at the time they 
renewed their policy in March 2020, and the policy wording clearly state that the contract of 
insurance is made up of a number of documents. And that all of these documents need to be 
read together. 
I appreciate the policy schedule Mr and Mrs P received says that the cover provided under 
the Rental Income section is for £240,000 and has a 24-month indemnity period. But when 
considering the claim, it is necessary to consider what the policy wording says as well. This 
wording forms part of the contract of insurance, and it is the whole contract, not just one part 
of it, that determines what is covered and to what extent. 
So, I consider Arch acted appropriately by applying the terms of the policy wording, as well 
as the policy schedule. I also consider the text set out above from the policy wording is clear 
that the extension under which the claim has been met has a particular indemnity period. 
I have considered whether there is any other extension, or section, of the policy that might 
provide cover in the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ps claim, and which does not have this 
limited indemnity period. But there is not. 
So, I think Arch were correct in considering the claim under the extension they did and in 
applying the limited indemnity period to the settlement of this claim. 
I do note Mr and Mrs P say they did not receive a copy of the policy wording. And they feel 
Arch was responsible for providing this to them. However, Mr and Mrs P purchased the 
policy through B. B then contacted Arch, who provided a copy of the policy wording to B. 
Whether or not B then provided this to Mr and Mrs P is not the subject of this complaint. But I 
consider that Arch fulfilled its own responsibility here by providing the wording to B. And I do 
not consider it was responsible for ensuring this was then passed onto Mr and Mrs P. 
I appreciate this decision will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs P. But I consider Arch dealt 
with their claim in line with the terms of the contract of insurance they entered, and their 
decision was in all the circumstances of this case fair and reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman