DRN-4149270
The complaint
Mr L has complained about Bastion Insurance Company Limited. He isnt happy about the 
way it dealt with a claim under his breakdown insurance policy. 
For ease of reading any reference to Bastion includes its agents.
What happened
Mr L was on holiday with his family and was driving on a country road when his car suddenly 
broke down, so he made a claim under his breakdown policy. When he called Bastion, it 
looked into the claim for him and arranged recovery to a local garage. Mr L arranged for a 
friend to pick his family up and take them back to their holiday let while Mr L travelled with 
the car to the garage. As it was late in the day when Mr L called Bastion for help the garage 
was closed when he was dropped off. 
After Mr L had returned to his home address having had to hire a car to get home it was 
established that it would cost more than his car was worth to repair it. And as Mr L lived 
more than seven hours away from his holiday destination he decided to sell the car to the 
garage that it had been transported to and use the money it would have cost him to fix his 
car to buy a new one. It also was expensive to get his car transported and he lived a long 
way from where his car was recovered to or he would have looked to repair the car himself. 
As Mr L wasnt happy he was just taken to a local garage, as opposed to getting the car 
recovered to his home address, he complained to Bastion about this. It said he was only 
entitled to £100 as a contribution towards hire car costs in line with the Onward Travel part 
of the policy. Unhappy with Bastions response to his complaint Mr L approached this 
Service. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr L and partly upheld his complaint. She thought 
Bastion didnt clearly explain the options that were available to Mr L under his policy when 
he first called for help. Had Bastion explained to Mr L about the possibility of National 
Recovery  and provided detail about the Onward Travel part of the policy she thought Mr L 
was likely to have acted differently and either got his car transported to his home address or 
stayed in a hotel under the policy and see if he could get his car repaired before travelling 
home. So, she thought Bastion should pay Mr Ls full hire car costs, petrol costs, contribution 
towards items Mr L had to leave behind and £250 compensation for the clear stress and 
inconvenience all this had caused him. 
As both sides didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with our investigator that the matter should be partly upheld. I know 
this will come as a disappointment to both sides, but Ill explain why.
I know Bastion feels it has acted fairly here and that it was only obliged to pay £100 as a 
contribution towards the costs Mr L incurred in hiring a car as outlined in the policy. It says 
the The Onward Travel benefit states instead of National Recovery We may instead 
organise one of the following. highlighting that this is instead of, not as well as recovering 
nationally. And points to one of the follow-on points in relation to Car Hire Benefit which 
says Where available, this may be an equivalent Vehicle at Group A up to a maximum of 
£50 per day for up to 2 days in total. You must be able to satisfy any requirements of the 
Vehicle hire company, and You may be responsible for any standard charges such as 
excess and fuel. A hire Vehicle may only be used under this policy section where we have 
arranged for Local Recovery of Your Vehicle to a Suitable Garage where repairs are being 
undertaken.
However, Mr L called for assistance after 4.00pm and the likelihood of getting his car 
repaired the same day was highly unlikely and by the time he was recovered to a local 
garage it was closed. So, I think Bastion should have clearly discussed his options with him 
at that point in time which would have allowed Mr L to make an informed choice about what 
to do next. The policy does allow for (under National Recovery) If Local Recovery is not 
possible at the time of the Breakdown, or Your Vehicle cannot be repaired same day, We 
may arrange for You, Your Vehicle and up to 4 passengers to be transported to Your 
home. And it also allows for Overnight hotel or bed and breakfast accommodation, up to 
£75 (including VAT) per person. 
At the time of breaking down Mr L didnt have his policy documentation or details with him 
which the call taker was clearly aware of. And I wouldve expected Mr L to be given a clear 
outline of the options available to him (including the full details of both the Onward Travel  
and the National Recovery parts of the policy). Had this have happened Im satisfied, on 
balance, that Mr L would have taken different action given the condition of his car at the time 
of the breakdown and the fact it was very late in the day. 
I know Mr L feels he should be paid the cost of his car but I cant be sure he would have 
been able to fix the car or that he wouldnt have cut his losses and buy another car as he 
ultimately decided to do. However, I do agree he should be paid his full additional hire car 
costs and his petrol money as I dont think he would have incurred these additional costs (on 
balance) had he been properly informed of the options available to him when he first called. I 
understand that Mr L had to leave items behind because he hired a smaller car than his 
(which was understandable as he was looking to keep costs down) and so I agree that he 
should also be reimbursed for these. Mr L has explained he will struggle to evidence his 
losses here as some items were old but it is only fair that Bastion is provided with proof here 
so I will leave him to advance this with Bastion. 
Finally, it is clear Bastions failure to clearly communicate the options available to Mr L and 
reluctance to engage with him after the initial call in a meaningful way has caused a fair 
degree of stress, frustration, and inconvenience. It must have been very worrying for Mr L to 
have had to leave his car and some belongings behind when he could have had other 
options available to him. So I agree that £250 compensation feels fair in the circumstances. 
Given all of this, I agree that the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular 
circumstances of this case, is for Bastion to pay Mr Ls full hire car and petrol costs (subject 
to reasonable proof), the cost of the items he left behind (subject to Mr L being able to 
provide receipts) and £250 by way of compensation.  My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that Im partly upholding this complaint. I require 
Bastion Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr Ls full hire car costs plus petrol back to his 
home address (subject to reasonable proof), the cost of the belongings he had to leave 
behind (subject to receipts) and £250 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman