DRN-3562859
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) damaged their boiler when 
carrying out a repair under their home emergency insurance policy. Theyd like it to be 
replaced. Theyd also like compensation for the additional costs they incurred to heat their 
home whilst their boiler was out of action.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W contacted IPA on 3 October 2021 as five of the radiators in their home werent 
heating up. They said that the boiler itself was working, but the pump wasnt working. They 
said there were no error lights or other issues with the boiler. IPA attended the following day 
and installed a new pump. The engineer noted that the water in the heating system was 
orange and his notes record that he told Mr and Mrs W that the boiler would need washing 
out soon. 
Mr and Mrs W said that they didnt use the heating much after this until November 2021. So 
it wasnt until then that they noticed the new pump was running hot and frequently cutting 
out. They said a warning light had appeared on 21 November 2021. And that the boiler had 
failed completely, with no heating or hot water, from then.
Mr and Mrs W contacted IPA again on 22 November 2021. A second engineer attended their 
home and replaced the pump again, as he found it to be faulty. The engineer also noted a 
split in the heat exchanger. He said this was causing water to leak into the boiler.
Mr and Mrs W said that the second engineer asked who had fitted the pump, and then made 
some unfavourable comments about the first engineer.
Mr and Mrs W said that IPAs second engineer told them that the first engineer had set the 
pump to its highest level. They felt this had caused a build-up of pressure which dragged silt 
and sludge through the system. And had led to the boiler no longer working. They said this 
left them with no central heating or hot water. And that they now needed to completely 
replace the boiler. 
IPA said that the second engineer hadnt completed a paper report due to coronavirus 
restrictions. So instead they shared the notes the engineer had provided electronically. This 
included photos and the following note:
Pump shot , cold feed/vent blocked, Main heat x on [boiler name] 15/19 Split Wants quote 
for replacement boiler or heat x System flush Conventional flue Has no ch
Further notes dated 24 November 2021 stated:
We wouldn't consider the boiler to be BER, a new boiler could cost around £5,000.
Mr and Mrs W complained to IPA on 24 November 2021. They felt that the actions of the first 
engineer had led to the boiler failure. They were unhappy that IPA hadnt told them that there 
was an urgent need to wash out the boiler. They said the first engineer had told them that 
the system would need to be flushed out soon, but that he hadnt told them not to use the 
boiler or the heating system until that had been done. And he hadnt told them how soon 
they should get that done. They also felt that the engineer shouldnt have set the pump to 
the highest level, especially given hed told them to get the system flushed out soon. 
IPA issued their final response to the complaint on 19 January 2022. They didnt agree 
theyd caused the damage to the boiler. But they did offer a distress and inconvenience 
payment of £150 as Mr and Mrs W had been left without heating and hot water. IPA said 
theyd told Mr and Mrs W that the boiler needed a powerflush, which hadnt been carried out 
between the two engineers visits. They acknowledged that Mr and Mrs W were unhappy 
that the first engineer hadnt told them when the powerflush would be required. But said that 
due to the lack of maintenance they felt had been evidenced by the build-up of silt within the 
system, they felt it was clear that the powerflush was required urgently. 
IPA didnt agree that the replacement pump having been put on the highest setting had 
caused the damage to the boiler. And said that if the powerflush had been carried out when 
itd first been recommended, the faults might not have occurred at that point, but wouldve 
happened eventually due to the age of the heating system. They said that the second 
engineer had identified the root cause of the problem, which they said was that the pump 
was unable to circulate efficiently due to a build-up of silt and sludge. They also noted that 
the first engineer had reported that the water within the heating system had turned orange in 
colour. 
IPA said that they would contribute up to £500 towards the cost of a new boiler if Mr and Mrs 
W provided sufficient evidence that their boiler was beyond economical repair in 
accordance with the policy wording.
Mr and Mrs W were unhappy with this response. They queried what evidence IPA had since 
in relation to the silt and sludge. They said the first engineer hadnt mentioned the build-up 
of silt and sludge during his visit, or on his job sheet. And that hed only mentioned the water 
being orange. They said the boiler was working perfectly when the first engineer attended. 
They said it was switched on, with no warning lights, and was producing hot water. They 
queried why the first engineer wouldve replaced the pump if hed felt the problem had been 
caused by silt and sludge in the full knowledge that the issue would reoccur. They also didnt 
think he should have left the boiler set at the highest setting given that situation. Mr and Mrs 
W felt that if the first engineer had considered that the build-up of silt and sludge in the 
system was so serious, that he had the professional responsibility and duty of care to advise 
them of that. But he hadnt mentioned it at all. They said he shouldve said he could 
complete the repair, but the heating system shouldnt be switched on until the system had 
been flushed. They said that if the first engineer had believed that the required system flush 
was urgent, his subsequent actions were negligent and irresponsible. 
Mr and Mrs W said that IPA had mentioned the lack of maintenance of their boiler in their 
final response. But didnt feel that they had any evidence of that. They said that their boiler 
was serviced regularly, with the most recent service being October 2019. 
Mr and Mrs W also said that IPA had sent them a cheque for £150 before theyd received 
IPAs written response. And that as they didnt agree with the response, they didnt accept 
the cheque. They felt that IPA must consider that their boiler was economical to repair, even 
though the second engineer had said it wasn't, given theyd asked for evidence that their 
boiler was beyond economical repair before theyd provide the £500 contribution towards a 
replacement. They said theyd had three companies attend to assess the damage and 
provide quotes. And that all had told them that the boiler wasnt repairable. 
Mr and Mrs W said that IPA didnt provide a written response to their queries. But that on 2 February 2022, after they initiated a call, they said that IPA told them theyd based their final 
response on the opinions of a senior engineer at the same firm that the first engineer had 
worked for. They said that the first engineer had never asked them about their boilers 
maintenance history. And that the senior engineer IPA had spoken to had never made 
contact with them either. They didnt think it was fair that a senior engineer who had no 
knowledge of the boilers maintenance history had stated that the faults were due to a lack of 
maintenance. 
Mr and Mrs W brought their complaint to this service. They said that it had been difficult to 
get quotes for a new boiler. And that they hadnt been able to find anyone to undertake any 
work quickly. This had led to them spending Christmas and New Year without any central 
heating. They said this had led to significant personal expense including £4,920 to install a 
new boiler, the purchase of a freestanding radiator, an increase in solid fuel costs for their 
only source of heating in one room over a three month period, and increased electricity costs 
to heat water via the immersion and due to the use of fan heaters. 
Our investigator consider the complaint, but didnt feel that it should be upheld. Based on the 
evidence presented, he felt that silt and sludge was already present within the heating 
system before the first engineers visit. And he didnt consider that the repairs carried out by 
IPA, including the faulty pump and it being set to the highest level was the main cause of the 
damage to the heating system. He felt that it was likely that the damage wouldve happened 
whether the new pump had been fitted or not. He felt that the compensation for distress and 
inconvenience that IPA had offered was fair. And that if Mr and Mrs W wanted IPA to pay the 
£500 contribution towards their new boiler, they should share any evidence that their old 
boiler had been deemed beyond economical repair with IPA so that they could consider this 
aspect further.  
Mr and Mrs W didnt agree with our investigator. They made the following points:
- IPA hadnt provided any evidence that the first engineer hadnt caused the damage. 
They felt it was pure supposition that their boiler was likely to stop working, 
irrespective of the first repair, due to its age. And felt that it couldve continued to 
work perfectly well for another five to ten years, given it was regularly maintained.
- They couldnt provide any further evidence. They said this was because:
The first engineer had taken the defective pump with him
The second engineer had told them to dispose of the defective new 
pump, which they had
Their boiler had been replaced and disposed of by the company which 
had undertaken the work
- They said that it was clear that a build-up of silt and sludge, which they hadnt been 
advised of, was a potential threat to the boiler. But that theyd only been told that the 
water was discoloured. They felt this would be the case in a very high percentage of 
household heating systems. They said there was no mention of silt and sludge on the 
first engineers job sheet.
- They said the second engineer had told them the pump shouldnt have been set to 
the highest level. And that their boiler was working perfectly well before the first 
engineers visit. They said there was no split in the heat exchanger or leaking of 
water into the boiler before the first repair was carried out.As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I know this will be disappointing to Mr and Mrs W. 
Ill explain the reasons for my decision.
As our investigator said, when we look into this sort of complaint, our role is to look at all the 
available evidence. We then have to make a decision about what the most likely reason for 
the damage was.
In this complaint, Mr and Mrs W believe that the first engineer caused the damage to their 
boiler. Theyve told this service that their boiler was regularly maintained and couldve 
worked perfectly well for several more years but for the first engineers actions. IPA feel that 
the damage was already done to the boiler before their engineers visit. 
Mr and Mrs W said that their boiler was working perfectly well before the engineers visit. 
And that they simply had problems with five of their radiators. 
IPA said that the fact that five radiators werent working showed that there was already poor 
circulation within the boiler. They felt that this showed there was silt in the system before 
their engineer had first replaced the pump.
Mr and Mrs W dont consider that IPA have provided any evidence that the first engineer 
didnt cause the damage. Theyve also explained why they arent in a position to provide any 
further evidence themselves.
Ive carefully considered what both parties have said, and the evidence theyve provided. On 
balance, Im more persuaded that the boiler damage was already there before the first 
engineers visit. Although the job sheet didnt explain that the reason the radiators werent 
heating up was due to silt and sludge build up, I think its reasonable to consider that such a 
build-up wouldve affected the overall circulation in the system. And the first engineer did 
also make Mr and Mrs W aware that the water in the boiler was orange and that it would 
therefore need washing out soon. 
I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs W dont agree with me here. They consider its pure 
supposition that the boiler was failing anyway, before the first engineers visit. I agree that we 
cant be completely certain. But Ive based my decision on everything Ive been provided 
with. 
I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs W feel they shouldve been told why their radiators werent 
heating up. And why they the first engineer recommended the boiler be washed out. I agree 
that theres no mention of silt and sludge on the first engineers job sheet. But Im satisfied 
that the fact the five of the radiators werent working before the first visit is a strong indication 
that the circulation within the boiler wasnt perfect. And Im persuaded in any event, the first 
engineer did tell Mr and Mrs W that they would need to have the boiler washed out. 
Therefore, even though Ive seen no evidence that he told them their boiler had silt issues, 
he advised them that they would need to take action to clean their boiler. 
Mr and Mrs W said that the first engineer gave them no indication of when they should have 
their boiler washed out. They felt that they shouldve been told this was an urgent 
requirement. I can see that it wouldve been frustrating that the first engineer wasnt clearer. But I dont consider that he was required to give them a deadline. Washing out boilers isnt 
covered under Mr and Mrs Ws policy. And Mr and Mrs W couldve asked for clarification if 
theyd needed it. Ive also seen no evidence that there was an immediate risk of damage to 
the boiler caused by any silt inside it. And the boiler did in fact continue to work until late 
November.
Mr and Mrs W also said that the second engineer had told them that their pump had been 
set too high. 
IPA said that Mr and Mrs W have a large house. So the pump needed to be set at the 
highest level to circulate water throughout the system. They said their senior engineer had 
reviewed the notes and confirmed that the first engineer hadnt set the pump too high for the 
property.
Ive not seen any evidence to confirm that the level the pump was set at caused the damage 
to the boiler. While I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs W said the second engineer told them the 
pump was set too high, his notes from the job dont reference this. And Im satisfied that 
there was a valid reason for setting the pump at the highest level. So it wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable for me to conclude that this had caused the damage. 
Mr and Mrs W said theyd had three companies attend to assess the boiler damage. They 
said all had concluded that their boiler wasnt repairable. After IPAs second engineers visit, 
further notes record that IPA didnt consider the boiler to be beyond economical repair. 
As IPA drew a different conclusion from Mr and Mrs W about the boiler, I consider that its 
fair, and in line with the policys terms and conditions, for IPA to require evidence that the old 
boiler had been deemed beyond economical repair before they would pay the £500 
contribution towards a new boiler. If Mr and Mrs W wish to pursue this contribution they 
should share their evidence with IPA so that they can consider it. I also consider that the 
compensation for distress and inconvenience that IPA offered - £150 - was fair under the 
circumstances of the complaint. If Mr and Mrs W would now like to accept this offer, if its still 
available, they should contact IPA.
Im sorry that Mr and Mrs W were left without heating and hot water. But overall, Ive seen no 
evidence that IPA are responsible for the damage to Mr and Mrs Ws boiler. I say this in 
respect of IPAs failure to explain the reason the boiler needed to be washed out, the 
installation of the faulty pump, and the setting of the pump to the highest level. And while I 
know this will disappoint Mr and Mrs W, Im unable to uphold their complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 25 August 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman