DRN-3623585
The complaint
Mr M complains about the advice he received from Portal Financial Services LLP (Portal) to 
transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme (OPS) to 
a self-invested personal pension plan (SIPP). He says the advice was unsuitable for him 
and believes this has caused a financial loss.
Mr M is being represented by a third party but for ease Ill refer to all their comments as 
those of Mr M.
What happened
Mr M engaged with Portal in 2016 to discuss his pension and retirement needs.
Portal completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Ms circumstances and 
objectives. At the time the advice was given by Portal, Mr M was 63 years old (almost 64), 
married and living in property he owned worth approximately £100,000 with an outstanding 
mortgage of £46,000 with six years left. He was self-employed but unable to work at the time 
of advice due to injury; he was expecting to return to work after an operation. Mr M was 
receiving a £60 monthly annuity payment and benefits of £475 every two weeks. He had 
savings of around £5,000 and a life assurance policy of £1,700 which he intended for funeral 
expenses. His monthly outgoings were exceeding his income by nearly £300 a month and 
he was using his savings to service his outgoings.
Mr Ms desired retirement age was recorded as 70 in the fact-find. His attitude to risk (ATR) 
was recorded as adventurous.
Mr M held retained benefits in an OPS, which had offered a Cash Equivalent Transfer Value 
of £31,886 at the time of advice. This was projected to provide an annual pension of £1,591 
from the age of 65. It also provided a 50% spouses pension to Mr Ms wife in the event of 
his death. No funds were accessible from this scheme until the age of 65.
Portals suitability report noted that Mr Ms primary aim was to release tax free cash (TFC) 
to reduce his mortgage. It also noted that because he had a final salary pension scheme the 
following objectives were also important:
Have greater flexibility about how you access your pension in the future;
Maximising TFC verses your current scheme;
Greater choice and flexibility when it comes to death benefits;
Have ownership and control of your pension fund; and
Willing to take an investment risk.
Portal recommended that Mr M transfer his OPS benefits into a new SIPP enabling him to 
take £7,971.50 TFC. It advised the remaining portfolio should include the following assets:
Fixed interest: Dimensional Global Short Dated Bond Fund 5.28%
Equity: Dimensional World Equity Fund 89.72%
Cash 5%
Mr M accepted the recommendation and the transfer was made in line with Portals advice in 
January 2017. Mr M then took a cash lump sum.
In October 2019 Mr M complained to Portal about the suitability of the transfer advice. 
He said that hed lost out as a result of the transfer and that Portal ought to have known the 
recommended investments wouldnt match or improve on the return from the existing DB 
pension. Mr M also stressed that he was not adventurous with financial decisions and that 
his ATR was very conservative  that he was reserved and cautious.
Mr M didnt receive a response to his complaint and brought the matter to our Service. 
He told us Portal had recommended investments which had the characteristics of 
unregulated collective investment schemes (UCIS). He argued such investments were 
unsuitable as he was not a sophisticated investor or a high net worth individual.
Portal later provided a formal response to the complaint. It noted Mr M wanted to release 
funds earlier than the scheme retirement age and was unable to do this otherwise. 
It highlighted that the use of his savings to support his monthly outgoings was not 
sustainable in the long-term. It said Mr M required an immediate solution as he didnt want to 
deplete his savings in case these were needed for emergencies. Portal also noted that Mr M 
wanted to pay off his mortgage to reduce his monthly outgoings.
In addition, Mr M had indicated he wished to remain in drawdown rather than purchasing an 
annuity and so Portal had relied on the lifetime hurdle rate (LHR) when assessing whether 
Mr M was likely to match the DB scheme benefits. It felt the LHR of 1.9% was achievable 
with the plan it recommended. In support of this it noted the proposed portfolio had an 
average annualised return over the previous ten years of 9.62%.
Mr M remained unhappy and so our Investigator looked into things. They didnt uphold the 
complaint. They said the transfer didnt offer value for money but said the advice was still 
suitable given Mr M wanted to reduce his mortgage to bring down his monthly outgoings, 
which were not sustainable. They were satisfied there were no other suitable options and felt 
it was likely Mr M would have gone ahead with the transfer even if Portal had recommended 
otherwise. They noted that Mr M had continued to drawdown lump sums to pay off his 
mortgage in the years following the transfer, reducing the outstanding amount to £13,000 in 
2021. Our Investigator acknowledged Mr Ms concerns about UCIS, but was satisfied the 
recommended investments were mainstream, regulated funds. They felt these were in line 
with Mr Ms ATR.
Mr M didnt agree and argued that if the advice to transfer was unsuitable then it shouldnt 
matter whether he would have proceeded with the transfer in any event. Mr M still felt Portal 
failed to ensure he fully understood the risks of proceeding with the transfer.
As the parties couldnt agree, this complaint was passed to me to decide.
After reviewing the evidence, I was thinking about partially upholding the complaint. So, I 
shared my provisional findings with both parties, so they had the opportunity to make any 
comments or provide further evidence. In brief, my provisional findings were that the transfer 
out of the DB scheme was appropriate in the circumstances and that a SIPP was a suitable 
product. However, I felt the recommended investment portfolio wasnt suitable for Mr M and 
he should have been invested into funds in line with a low ATR.
Mr M accepted my provisional findings and Portal didnt make any further comments in 
response. Given this, I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings and Im now in a 
position to issue a final decision on this complaint.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint in part.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in its Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it 
is unsuitable. So, Portal should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly 
demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ms best interests (COBS 19.1.6).
Financial viability
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case.
The critical yield required to match Mr Ms benefits at age 65 was quoted as 9.2% if he took 
a full pension.
The relevant discount rate was 2.5% per year for one year to retirement. For further 
comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection 
rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2% per year.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Ms 
reported adventurous ATR and also the term to retirement. There would be little point in 
Mr M giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to achieve, at 
best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, given the critical yield was 
9.2%, I think Mr M was likely to receive benefits of a substantially lower overall value than 
the DB scheme at retirement, as a result of investing in line with that ATR.
I note Mr M has said his ATR was lower and I have considered this further below. Here Im 
satisfied that isnt relevant to my assessment of whether Mr M was likely to receive 
comparable benefits, as investments in line with a lower ATR would have further decreased 
the likelihood of his investments achieving the critical yield.
If I consider this factor alone, then I dont think a transfer out of the DB scheme was in 
Mr Ms best interests. Of course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving 
transfer advice; there might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, 
despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered these below.
Flexibility and Enhanced TFC
Mr M had a significantly reduced income because he was out of work. This was causing 
financial difficulty as he was not able to meet his monthly outgoings  there was a monthly 
shortfall of around £300 which he was supplementing with savings. Mr M had £5,000 worth 
of savings left at the time of advice, which would have lasted approximately 16 months if Mr M continued to serve only his essential monthly commitments and remained out of work. 
The fact find noted Mr M intended to return to work following treatment on his shoulder, but it 
was not stated when this would occur. Mr M has since told us the operation didnt happen 
until 2019 and he was still unable to return to work thereafter.
The suitability report also noted Mr M wanted to keep his savings for emergencies so it 
would seem he wasnt prepared to further deplete these funds and was seeking an 
immediate alternative solution to his financial difficulties. I note Mr M was the sole earner 
and was entirely responsible for meeting his and his wifes monthly commitments. He had no 
other savings or assets he couldve used to ease the financial pressure he was under at that 
time and was not in a position to take on more debt given he couldnt service his existing 
financial commitments.
If Mr M had continued to use his savings to subsidise his income, these would have likely 
lasted until Mr Ms DB scheme retirement age, but he would still have had a substantial 
amount remaining on his mortgage. I note his wife started to receive her state pension of 
£511 a month in August 2017 (something Portal doesnt seem to have explored with Mr M at 
the time). And Ive thought about how this changed their financial position. Its clear this 
would have covered their overspend from this point onwards, leaving them some of their 
savings for emergencies. That being said, given the projected DB pension Mr M would be 
set to receive was £1,591 before tax, it seems Mr M and his wife still wouldnt have been 
able to continue to meet their monthly commitments at retirement if Mr M remained unable to 
work. I say this taking into account both their state pensions and the fact there is no 
suggestion Mr M had any other pension provision in place at that time aside from his £60 
monthly annuity. It seems Mr M was conscious of this shortfall which is why his primary 
stated objective in the pension advice was to release TFC to reduce his mortgage. 
This would serve to reduce his monthly expenses, easing the immediate financial pressure 
he was under as well as reducing his liabilities into retirement.
Im aware that Mr M said he intended not to retire from work until the age of 70 and so he 
was unlikely to have had a shortfall in his income if he returned to work. However, the 
evidence indicates this return to work wasnt guaranteed and in the end wasnt possible. 
Reducing his mortgage was Mr Ms primary stated aim. The fact find showed Mr M wished to 
drawdown on his pension annually as he could repay an extra 10% on his mortgage each 
year without incurring penalties. Mr M couldnt have achieved this by staying in the DB 
scheme. This is because he wasnt entitled to drawdown his pension in this way and he 
didnt have any other savings or pensions he couldve used to meet this need. So, I think 
transferring out of the DB scheme met this objective.
For these reasons, I think Mr M had a genuine need to access TFC earlier than the normal 
scheme retirement age. By accessing his TFC, and later drawing down on his pension in a 
flexible way, Mr M wouldve been able to pay off some of his mortgage. I note that this is 
exactly what Mr M told our Investigator he had since done, reducing the outstanding amount 
to 13,000 by 2021. And in response to our Investigators view, Mr M didnt dispute that he 
would have made the transfer or provide any further information about how else he might 
have been able to meet these pressing objectives.
Although this transfer meant Mr M wouldnt be able to take as much income from his pension 
at 65 as he wouldve been entitled to through the DB scheme, Im satisfied this was 
necessary in the circumstances.
Investment strategy
Having established that it was most likely suitable for Mr M to transfer from his OPS, Ive 
looked at the recommendation about where and how the funds were to be invested.I dont think a SIPP on its own was an unsuitable product as it allowed Mr M to access his 
TFC and gave him the ability to invest the remainder until such time as it was needed. 
He could also access a wide range of investments within a SIPP plan.
I have then thought about what would have been a suitable investment strategy for Mr M. 
As part of his complaint, Mr M has stated that he was a low risk investor, whereas the 
riskprofiling tool which Portal used classed him as having an adventurous ATR, which is a 
higher risk profile. So, there is a conflict about what level of risk was suitable for him.
Portals suitability report states that adventurous investors focus exclusively on growth and 
are prepared to take significant risks, feeling they can afford to ride out declines in value in 
the expectation of recovery.
Mr Ms answers to the risk profile questionnaire he completed with Portal support this 
assessment. The responses that showed a higher risk appetite towards investment were 
listed as follows:
People who know me would describe me as a cautious person  disagree
Usually it takes me a long time to make up my mind on investment matters  
disagree
I associate the word risk with the idea of opportunity  agree
I generally prefer bank deposits to riskier investments  disagree
I find investment matters easy to understand  strongly agree
I am willing to take substantial financial risk to earn substantial returns - agree
Ive little experience of investing in stocks and shares - disagree
I tend to be anxious about the investment decisions Ive made  disagree
Id rather take my chances with high risk investments than increase the amount Im 
saving  agree
Whilst the only answers which showed a potentially lower risk appetite were:
I generally look for safer investments, even if that means lower returns  agree
Im concerned by the volatility of stockmarket investments  agree
I feel comfortable investing in the stockmarket  no strong opinion
The risk profile questionnaire itself also considered that his answers amounted to an 
adventurous ATR.
That being said, the FCA has made numerous comments over the years, including in 
guidance issued in March 2011 about assessing suitability, about how firms shouldnt rely 
solely on risk profiling tools to establish their clients ATR. The FCA said that firms should 
have a robust process for assessing the risk a customer is willing and able to take, which 
includes assessing their capacity for loss; appropriately interpreting customer responses to 
questions and not attributing inappropriate weight to certain answers; and ensuring that tools 
are fit for purpose with any limitations recognised and mitigated. For these reasons, I dont 
think simply relying on the questionnaire result would be in line with the FCAs guidance.
Portal said its assessment of Mr Ms ATR was based on the outcome of this tool and Mr Ms 
intended retirement age. Mr M did still have another six years before he intended to retire, so 
he may have had some time to tolerate some fluxes and recoup any losses. But while Mr M 
was hopeful that he would continue to work to age 70, Im mindful that he wasnt working at 
the time of the advice due to an injury. And he also had other health conditions that might 
have forced him to retire earlier than planned. So, in reality, he may not have had any time to 
recoup investment losses. Overall, Im not persuaded this was sufficient time to tolerate the 
sorts of losses potentially associated with a more adventurous investment portfolio.Looking at the other available evidence to help assess Mr Ms ATR, it seems to me that 
based on his financial circumstances Mr M had virtually no capacity for loss. He had limited 
assets and income relative to his spending need, and could not further reduce his outgoings. 
He was supporting his spouse and so didnt have the same scope to cope with investment 
losses. His other pension provision was the £60 monthly annuity and his state pension, 
which means this pension served as one of his most valuable assets. There also isnt any 
evidence to suggest that Mr M had any investment experience, which sheds considerable 
doubt on the answers he gave in the risk profiling questionnaire.
Taking everything into account, I therefore think an appropriate assessment of Mr Ms ATR 
would have been low. I say this despite his questionnaire answers, as the evidence 
indicates he had no capacity for loss and limited time until his retirement. This isnt in line 
with the assessment reached by Portal. But Portals suitability report doesnt explicitly 
comment on Mr Ms capacity for loss, simply stating we believe you have a suitable level of 
capacity for loss for the recommendation we have made. Portal seems to have considered 
Mr Ms ATR to risk as separate from his capacity for loss which isnt in line with the FCA 
guidance.
Id note the suitability report indicates that having considered the capacity for loss and ATR, 
Portal still felt its suggested investments were suited to Mr Ms needs. But having looked at 
the funds Mr M was invested into, I disagree.
Before I comment on the relative risk of the funds, Id like to confirm that having looked into 
both of the funds, Im satisfied they were regulated, mainstream funds. So I dont think Mr M 
was invested into UCIS type funds as hes suggested.
The funds themselves are categorised in terms of risk on a scale of 1-7, with one being a low 
risk option. Portal has explained the Dimensional Global Short Dated Bond Fund was a 
category two fund. And having looked into the fund and the nature of the investments, Im 
satisfied this was a lower risk fund which was suitable for Mr Ms low ATR.
However, the Dimensional World Equity Fund was where Portal recommended the majority 
of Mr Ms funds, 89.72%, be invested. Portal said this was category five mainstream fund, so 
it carried a high amount of risk. Having looked at the nature of this fund, Id agree it was a 
higher risk fund which I dont think was appropriate for Mr M in the circumstances for the 
reasons Ive explained above.
This means I dont think Portals recommendation was suitable. It seems to me that Mr M 
was an inexperienced investor who trusted in and relied on the investment advice he 
received. So had Portal given investment advice more in line with Mr Ms ATR and needs at 
that time, Im of the view that Mr M would have accepted this. Given what I know of Mr Ms 
intentions and circumstances, I think a lower risk portfolio in line with his cautious ATR 
should have been recommended.
In summary, my decision is that whilst the transfer itself was not financially viable, Mr Ms 
need to access his TFC was sufficient to conclude that it was necessary. But I dont think 
Portals assessment of Mr Ms ATR was appropriate and didnt take full account of Mr Ms 
circumstances. As Ive set out above, I dont think it was suitable for Portal to recommend a 
portfolio which carried such a high level of risk. In my view, mainstream regulated investment 
funds in line with a low ATR wouldve met his needs. I think Portal failed in its duty to ensure 
its recommendations were appropriate and I think these failings may have led to Mr M 
experiencing a loss.
Fair compensationMy aim is that Mr M should be put as closely as possible into the position he would 
probably now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr M would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Mr M's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Portal do?
To compensate Mr M fairly, Portal must:
Compare the performance of Mr M's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and compensation is 
payable.
Portal should add interest as set out below.
If there is a loss, Portal should pay into Mr M's pension plan to increase its value by 
the total amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should 
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not 
be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance.
If Portal is unable to pay the total amount into Mr M's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would 
have provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr M wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr M's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Mr M is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so the 
reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr M would have 
been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of 
the compensation.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Portal deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr M how much has been taken off. Portal should give Mr M a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr M asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
SIPP Still exists 
and liquidFor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private Date of 
investmentDate of my 
final 
decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if Investors 
Income Total 
Return 
Index; for the 
other half: 
average rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsnot settled 
within 28 days 
of the business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a 
return using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Portal 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the 
Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous 
month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded 
basis.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the SIPP should be deducted from the fair value calculation at the 
point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point 
on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept 
if Portal totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair 
value instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr M wanted Income with some growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its 
a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher 
return.
I consider that Mr M's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr M into that position. It does not mean that 
Mr M would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some 
kind of index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise 
that broadly reflects the sort of return Mr M could have obtained from investments suited to his objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
I partially uphold the complaint. My final decision is that Portal Financial Services LLP should 
pay the amount calculated as set out above.
Portal Financial Services LLP should provide details of its calculation to Mr M in a clear, 
simple format. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2022.
 
Jade Cunningham
Ombudsman