DRN-1486172
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs N are unhappy with the way St Andrews Insurance plc (St Andrews) has 
handled their claims for damage caused by two incidents of escape of water. The insurance 
policy is for buildings and contents, with accidental damage cover for buildings only. The 
policy is in joint names but, for ease, I will refer only to Mr N.
What happened
Three years ago, Mr N made two claims under his insurance for significant damage to both 
building and contents caused by escape of water. St Andrews accepted the claims and 
agreed to settle with cash so that Mr N could arrange the work. The emergency work was 
completed, leaving the contents and building repairs to be agreed upon. 
Mr N sent the builders quote and receipts for the contents he had replaced to his main 
contact at St Andrews. The building work would cost over £50,000 and take four months to 
complete, during which time Mr N and his family would need to live elsewhere. The main 
contact at St Andrews said the costs were more than he expected and he would need to 
review them. 
Two months later a new contact from St Andrews arranged a site visit with Mr N to review 
the quote. The first main contact had left the business and this was the first time St Andrews 
contacted Mr N since he sent the builders quote. Following the site visit, St Andrews 
confirmed the quote was acceptable but needed more detail to split the work across the two 
separate claims. At this point it became clear that the information Mr N had provided to his 
first contact  including quotes, receipts and details of agreements  wasnt available, and 
Mr N wasnt able to reproduce everything St Andrews asked for.
As several months had passed, the builders quotes had expired and St Andrews asked Mr 
N to obtain a new quote. It also said it wouldnt sign off on the work unless the quote 
separated the work for each of the claims. From here followed a series of contacts between 
Mr N and St Andrews, often with several weeks or months between them. During that time 
the builders quotes expired on several occasions and Mr N had to ask for a renewed quote.
Mr N complained to St Andrews about the delays and customer service issues caused by 
the incomplete handover of his claim from the original contact to the new contact. 
St Andrews investigated and accepted responsibility for the delay caused by the change of 
main contact. It offered Mr N £575 by way of apology and confirmed the claim would carry 
on from that point. Mr N said that didnt resolve his complaint because he still didnt know 
what costs St Andrews had agreed, which was preventing him from starting the work.
Our investigator upheld Mr Ns complaint. He thought that the lack of progress was due to 
the first main contact failing to record information correctly. Given the lack of evidence 
relating to those earlier agreements, our investigator felt that St Andrews should make 
allowances regarding the information it would accept as proof to progress the claim.There was no dispute that St Andrews contributed to the lack of progress and our 
investigator felt that its offer of £575 was fair. To move the claim on, and to address Mr Ns 
concern that he still didnt know what costs had been agreed, he recommended that St 
Andrews should:
agree to work off the price given for the most recent, or next supplied, quote and split 
out the cost across two claims at a later stage, should it wish to do so, without 
holding up the work, and
accept proof of payment in lieu of invoices for items already purchased and likely 
agreed with the first main contact.
 
Mr N didnt agree. He clarified some of the issues of complaint and broadly speaking he was 
satisfied with the outcome. However, he felt that the proposed compensation didnt go far 
enough to recognise the inconvenience caused and the number of hours he had spent 
dealing with this matter as a result of St Andrews failure to manage the staff changeover. He 
listed days taken off work for site visits; time spent waiting for replies to contacts; repeated 
contact with builders asking for updated quotes; repeat visits to stores to get reproduced 
documentation for materials, and time spent finding copies of previously supplied 
information.
Our investigator considered the points Mr N raised about the time he had spent on this 
matter. He thought there was merit in what Mr N said and asked St Andrews to think about 
the comments. In response, it provided its own timeline of events showing where the delays 
had happened and what caused them. St Andrews felt it was responsible for four months 
delay, with Mr N responsible for a similar amount, and maintained its view that the 
compensation was fair.
Our investigator considered the additional information provided by both Mr N and St 
Andrews and sent a second view. He identified delays of almost eight months caused 
directly and indirectly by St Andrews and he felt that warranted an increase from £575 to 
£750 by way of apology. St Andrews agreed that the increased offer was reasonable but Mr 
N remained of the opinion that the compensation was insufficient, even after the uplift.
The complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ns complaint, but I wont be asking St Andrews to pay more than 
£750 in compensation. Ill explain why.
Firstly, because this is an ongoing claim, its important for me to set out which elements of 
the complaint I am deciding on here. I will decide on the issues in dispute up to the point at 
which Mr N brought his complaint to us. This is because St Andrews must have the 
opportunity to resolve any further issues of complaint which arise after its final response and 
offer of compensation. I will comment on any issues which have already been resolved 
during the complaint process for context.
It seems to me that the issues for both buildings and contents insurance stem from the 
departure of Mr Ns main point of contact from the business. For that reason I will address 
this issue first. Its unfortunate for Mr N that his main contact at St Andrews left the business before his 
claim was fully settled and I can sympathise with his frustration at having to provide 
information again. There will inevitably be staff changes within the business but 
policyholders shouldnt be affected by them. In this instance, its clear that St Andrews was 
at fault for not having a complete set of records to pass to the new contact, resulting in 
significant inconvenience to Mr N. For ease, I will list the key points here:
Original documentation, including receipts, wasnt available to the new contact.
St Andrews asked Mr N for replacement documentation on numerous occasions, 
despite him saying he was no longer able to provide them, causing him to spend 
more time on the claim.
There were long delays in contact with St Andrews and Mr N.
Mr N had to provide numerous updated builders quotes because they expired as a 
result of the delays.
 
There is no dispute that St Andrews contributed to the delays and the above examples give 
an indication of the extent to which Mr N experienced inconvenience and upset, as well as 
time commitments. Given the extent of damage to his home, I can understand that he 
wouldve wanted to get started on the repairs as soon as possible but the delays prevented 
him from doing so. So the compensation should address not just the length of delay but also 
the inability to move forward with the work to restore his home. 
While St Andrews says some of the delays were because it was waiting for information from 
Mr N, it was the second time he was providing it. If the new main contact at St Andrews had 
been given a complete file, Mr N wouldnt have needed to provide information again or have 
further site visits. However, I acknowledge that St Andrews had asked for more information 
even before the change of contact, so its unlikely the claim would have progressed much 
sooner anyway. This claim has already taken three years - Mr Ns home needed extensive 
work  which puts the delay of eight months which can be attributed to St Andrews into 
context. I sympathise with Mr Ns position and I can understand that the compensation 
offered doesnt seem, to him, to go far enough. But, having considered the circumstances of 
the claim as a whole, I am satisfied that the offer of £750 is fair.
Since our investigator issued his view, Mr Ns claim has moved on. St Andrews had asked 
Mr N to provide further evidence of the cost he incurred replacing items covered under his 
contents insurance. He said he had provided the information for the first main contact and he 
was unable to reproduce it. We proposed that St Andrews accept the claim for those costs 
without further proof. Im pleased to say that the contents claim was settled. I dont think St 
Andrews needs to do any more here.
We also proposed that St Andrews should accept the builders quote for work without 
requiring it to show the split of work needed to repair damage caused by each of the two 
claims. While there was further discussion about the costs quoted, which could reasonably 
be expected with a claim of this size, St Andrews has not asked for the quote to show works 
for each claim separately. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that the complaint is upheld. St Andrews 
Insurance plc should pay Mr and Mrs N £750 by way of apology for the inconvenience 
caused due to the avoidable delays in progressing their claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 May 2020.Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman