DRN-2593531
The complaint
Mr O has complained about the decision by AIG Europe S.A. to decline a claim under his 
personal accident insurance policy after his wife suffered injuries in a road traffic accident.
What happened
Mr O held a personal accident insurance policy with AIG. The policy also covered Mr Os 
wife, who Ill call Ms I. The policy would pay benefit if someone covered by the policy were 
to suffer an accidental bodily injury which resulted in permanent disability.
In August 2015, Ms I was unfortunately involved in a road traffic accident which left her with 
certain injuries, including a sternum fracture and lacerations to her left leg. She was taken to 
hospital and discharged later that day.
Ms I continued to experience pain following the accident which affected her ability to 
function. She eventually made a claim under her husbands policy.
After obtaining Ms Is medical records, AIG arranged for Ms I in August 2018 to undergo an 
Independent Medical Examination (IME) by Dr Q, a consultant spinal surgeon. After 
receiving Dr Qs report, AIG arranged for Ms I to undergo further IMEs in April 2019 by Dr R, 
a consultant rheumatologist, and in May 2019 by Dr L, a consultant cardiothoracic surgeon.
After receiving the various reports, AIG declined the claim. It said that Ms I had not suffered 
a permanent disability solely as a result of the accident.
Mr O, on behalf of Ms I, complained to AIG about its decision but it would not change this. 
Mr O therefore referred the complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. He thought it had 
been fair for AIG to decline the claim based on the available evidence.
Mr O, on behalf of Ms I, didnt accept the investigators findings. Ms I submitted further 
medical evidence, including a report on an IME she had commissioned in October 2020 from 
Dr P, a consultant orthopaedic spinal surgeon.
The investigator sent the further information to AIG but it wasnt persuaded that this showed 
her claim was eligible for benefit. The investigator continued to think that AIG had acted 
fairly.
Ms I considered she hadnt been treated fairly. She said that she had been fit and healthy 
before the accident and she was now suffering pain which limited her functioning and 
adversely affected her quality of life. She attributed this change to the accident which she 
said had caused permanent damage to her chest and spine. She thought that, at the least, 
AIG should be paying her a proportion of the policys benefit to reflect the accidents role in 
limiting her functional ability.
In view of the continued disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy states:
If an Insured Person has an Accident after the Commencement Date and suffers Bodily 
Injury which alone and within 24 months of the date of the Accident, causes death, 
disabilities (specifically mentioned in the Table of Benefits) or requires Hospital in-patient 
treatment, we will pay the amount shown in the Table of Benefits.
The policys Table of Benefits lists certain specified permanent disabilities, such as loss of a 
limb and loss of sight. I cant see that Ms I had any of these specified permanent disabilities. 
However, the Table of Benefits also offers a lump sum benefit of up to £100,000 for non-
specified injuries. The policy explains that these are permanent disabilities which are not 
specifically listed. I therefore consider that Ms Is claim should be considered under this 
heading of non-specified injuries.
I dont have a copy of Ms Is claim form but it appears that she was reporting that chronic 
pain from her lower back and legs, along with pain in her chest, was restricting her ability to 
function. After obtaining her medical records, AIG arranged for her to be examined by Dr Q. 
I consider this was an appropriate course of action.
Dr Q concluded that in the accident Ms I had exacerbated a pre-existing degenerative lower 
back condition. He considered it unlikely that the accident was responsible for any ongoing 
problems of chest pain but recommended that a view be sought from a thoracic specialist.
AIG then arranged for Ms I to be seen by Dr R. He noted that, although she had intermittent 
pain in her chest and also in her upper back and shoulders, her dominant ongoing symptoms 
related to her lower back. However, he noted that the first time following the accident she 
mentioned problems in her lower back to her GP was in March 2016. He said that if Ms Is 
lower back had been significantly injured in the accident, he would have expected her 
symptoms to be immediately apparent and recorded in her medical records. He considered 
that Ms Is disability was due to a pre-existing degenerative back condition and would have 
occurred regardless of the accident, though he said he would defer to neurological or 
orthopaedic opinion as to whether she sustained an injury in the accident that may have 
accelerated this process.
Dr R further considered that the chest injury she suffered in the accident had likely led to her 
developing costochondritis and that this was likely responsible for the ongoing intermittent 
chest pain from which she suffered. However, he didnt consider that this caused her any 
permanent disability.
AIG then arranged for Ms I to be seen by Dr L. Ms I told Dr L that her chest pain was 
persistent. Dr L said that pain from the sternal fracture which Ms I suffered in the accident 
should normally have disappeared within 18 months. He considered it unlikely that any chest 
symptoms she was still experiencing were related to the accident, though he suggested that 
she have a CT scan of her sternum to confirm the union of the bone.
Following Dr Rs report, AIG went back to Dr Q and asked him for any further comments. 
Dr Q said he thought that Dr Rs opinion was generally in line with his own. He thought the 
accident had exacerbated Ms Is lower back condition for a period of not much more than six 
months.Ms I later arranged her own IME by Dr P. He concluded that her ongoing chest pain was 
likely to be attributable to the accident but he conceded that this was outside his area of 
expertise and recommended review by a thoracic surgeon. He considered that the accident 
was unlikely to have caused any permanent disability to her neck. In respect of her lower 
back pain, Dr P considered the accident had likely exacerbated her pre-existing 
degenerative condition for a period of 12-24 months.
Ms I has provided other medical opinion, including from her GP and her acupuncturist. 
However, I consider that this other evidence does not outweigh the opinions I have 
described above. This is because Dr Q, Dr R, Dr L and Dr P are specialists in the relevant 
fields.
I consider that the opinions of the four specialists are fairly consistent with one another. 
There is no dispute that Ms I suffered an accident in which she suffered various injuries. 
However, the main cause of her disability now is her lower back pain. There is no other area 
of the body in which Ms I could be said to be suffering a permanent disability which could be 
attributed to the accident. The lower back pain is due to a pre-existing degenerative 
condition which had manifested itself before the accident occurred. 
In respect of the back pain, Dr Q, Dr R and Dr P all seem to acknowledge that this would 
have inevitably occurred in due course, regardless of whether Ms I had been involved in the 
accident. However, Dr Q and Dr P say that the accident exacerbated her symptoms. In 
Dr Qs case, he thinks the exacerbation period was not much more than six months and in 
Dr Ps case he thinks it was between 12 and 24 months.
As I understand it, Ms I did not make her claim until over two years after the accident. By this 
time, even going by Dr Ps opinion, the accident could no longer be said to be playing any 
part in the back pain she was suffering.
I sympathise with Ms I who clearly is suffering from chronic pain. I understand that she 
believes her pain is somehow connected with the accident she suffered in 2015. However, 
the medical evidence indicates this is not the case. In view of this, I consider it was fair for 
AIG to decline her claim.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2021. 
David Poley
Ombudsman