DRN-2323889
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited has unfairly declined 
a claim she made under her per insurance policy.
 
What happened
Mrs B has insured her cat, which Ill call T, through Red Sands for a number of years. The 
policy was renewed in April 2019. In October 2019, Mrs B noticed T had chipped a tooth and 
so visited the vet. She was told the tooth would need to be removed. She contacted Red 
Sands for pre-authorisation for the procedure. Red Sands informed her was she wasnt 
covered as it didnt appear the damage to the tooth was as a result of accident or injury.
 
Mrs B went ahead with Ts tooth extraction. The vet noted no indication of inflammation, very 
little tartar and no gingivitis. Therefore Mrs B concluded T must have chipped his tooth as a 
result of accident or injury and so cover should be provided under the policy. She submitted 
a claim for the cost of the extraction which was declined by Red Sands for the same reason.
 
Mrs B contacted us as she was unhappy with outcome. As she hadnt complained we 
notified Red Sands of the complaint. It issued a final response standing by its decision to 
decline the claim. So we investigated further. 
We noted that the exclusion clause relied on when declining the claim didnt actually feature 
in the policy document  but that cover wasnt actually provided at all for any dental or gum 
related issues, whether or not related to an accident or injury.  We queried this with Red 
Sands but received no response and so proceeded without explanation. As cover wasnt 
provided under the policy, although it had referred to incorrect wording, the investigator 
found Red Sands hadnt acted unfairly in declining the claim. But she did find it had confused 
matters for Mrs B, which had caused additional trouble and so asked it to pay £75 
compensation. 
Mrs B asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. Initially she referred to the 
accident or injury part of the clause relied on and the requirement for a dental examination in 
the proceeding 12 months. She also feels Red Sands have been afforded the benefit of the 
doubt despite being uncooperative with us and providing her with conflicting information 
documents. She has argued we have chosen to disregard a document that could potentially 
run in her favour; no balance of probability has been applied and she feels unfairly dealt 
with. No response was received from Red Sands. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting position with any complaint about a declined insurance claim is the agreement 
between the parties  the terms and conditions of the insurance being provided, as this 
forms the basis of cover. This is found in the policy document and accompanying policy 
schedule. 
The schedule shows Mrs B renewed her pet insurance for T in April 2019. The cover she 
had taken out was Prestige level cover and an excess of £99 is applicable. When sending 
in her complaint, Mrs B provided an Insurance Product Information Document and her copy 
of the policy terms and conditions for Prestige cover. 
When T needed a tooth extraction Mrs B contacted Red Sands for authorisation but was told 
cover wasnt provided:
We refer you to the Vet Fees section of your policy wording:
1.3 Exclusions  the following are excluded from cover:
1.3.10 Any dental or gum treatment unless as a direct result of an accident or injury 
and providing your pet had a dental examination by a vet within 12 months of the 
injury;
This is also what Red Sands relied on when declining Mrs Bs subsequent claim and 
responding to her complaint. 
But not only is that clause not evident in Mrs Bs Insurance Product Information Document, it 
also doesnt appear in Mrs Bs policy document. The Insurance Product Information 
Document Mrs B was sent says, under what is not insured:
Any dental or gum treatment unless it was as a direct result of an accident or injury  
As can been seen it is missing any reference to a dental examination within 12 months of the 
injury. But more important is Mrs Bs policy document.  On page five is a summary of cover 
which sets out significant exclusions or limitations, that excludes:
Any dental or gum treatment including root canal treatment.
And section 1 Vet Fees, sets out the exclusions at 1.3. Specifically 1.3.10 says:
Any dental or gum treatment, including root canal treatment, and any investigation 
costs leading up to dental diagnosis. 
We asked Red Sands to provide an explanation for the difference between what it relied on 
to decline the claim, the policy document and the Insurance Product Information Document. 
It is very disappointing that Red Sands has not seen fit to provide any explanation to us. And 
this has meant Mrs B has been put to some trouble to provide arguments as to why she 
believes Ts tooth must have been chipped as a result of accident or injury. I have therefore 
relied on the documentation Mrs B has sent in to decide this complaint.
 
Having done so, a lack of explanation from Red Sands for the differences doesnt mean Mrs 
B should receive cover she isnt entitled to under the terms of the policy. It isnt the 
Insurance Product Information Document that sets out the basis of cover, its the policy 
document and the terms and conditions contained therein. And the policy document Mrs B 
has provided doesnt support her arguments about cover  the policy clearly sets out any 
dental or gum treatment is excluded from cover, as set out above.  So whilst it is very 
unsatisfactory that Red Sands hasnt quoted the correct wording in its communications with 
Mrs B, and on more than one occasion, Mrs Bs position is no different to what it would have 
been had it quoted the correct clause  cover still wouldnt have been provided under the 
terms of the policy.Indeed, it would seem it never has. In its file submissions Red Sands has provided earlier 
policy documents for Mrs B for T from 2013, which also excluded any dental or gum 
treatment. Although this isnt what has formed the basis of my decision here, as its the 
policy in place at the time of event claimed for that is relevant, I thought this information 
might be useful for Mrs B to know.
Overall, having considered the matter carefully, I dont think it has declined the claim unfairly 
as the policy doesnt provide any cover for dental and gum treatment. However, I do think its 
communication with Mrs B has been poor, particularly as it hasnt quoted the terms of cover 
provided by Mrs Bs policy, and nor has provided any explanation when asked for the 
differences. This has caused confusion for Mrs B and, as mentioned above, put her to the 
trouble of providing arguments as to how Ts chipped tooth was a result of accident or injury.  
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont find the claim has been unfairly declined. However, I do find 
that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited handled it poorly as so I require it to 
pay Mrs B £75. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2020. 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman