DRN-2070360
The complaint
Mr H complains that Barclays Bank Plc wont refund him for a cash withdrawal where he 
says the money wasnt dispensed.
What happened
On 11 September 2019, Mr H tried to withdraw £250 from a cash machine. He says he could 
hear the machine running to dispense the money, but it then stopped and showed an error 
message saying the funds couldnt be dispensed and had been returned to his account. He 
says he then called the owner of the cash machine and was told they could see the fault but 
an automatic reversal wouldnt happen so he should contact his bank to get the money back.
Barclays investigated but said the evidence from the owner of the cash machine suggested 
the cash was dispensed correctly. And so it refused to refund the amount to Mr H. Mr H 
wasnt satisfied with Barclays response so he brought his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint and felt it should be upheld as Mr H had 
been consistent about what he said happened and Barclays hadnt done enough to show it 
was likely the cash was dispensed.
Barclays disagreed as it felt it had provided all the evidence it could. So the complaint has 
been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Barclays should refund the amount of the withdrawal to Mr H. Ill 
explain why below.
Where there is a dispute over whether money was dispensed from a cash machine, there is 
certain documentary evidence we usually expect to see, such as the journal roll, purge bin 
report and balance history of the machine.
I appreciate that Barclays isnt the owner of the cash machine in question here. But the 
relevant regulations say it is still its responsibility to show that the cash was dispensed 
correctly and not affected by a technical breakdown or some other deficiency with the 
machine. And so it is for Barclays to speak to the owner of the cash machine to get any 
relevant evidence.
Barclays has sent us copies of the journal roll and the balancing certificate for the cash 
machine covering the day of Mr Hs attempted withdrawal.
The journal roll shows Mr Hs request for £250 and that £250 was received. Theres also no 
entry in the error description column, which Barclays says means there was no error with 
the transaction. But Im not satisfied this necessarily means there was no error as Ive not 
seen anything to show what could or couldnt be recorded in that column or that it means 
there was no technical problem with the cash machine. And as we havent been sent a copy 
of the purge bin report, we cant see whether the cash went in there instead either.
The balancing certificate also shows the cash machine in question didnt balance during the 
period of Mr Hs withdrawal, but was £230 over. This suggests there was some issue with 
the machine around the time of Mr Hs withdrawal. The extra amount in the machine was 
close to the amount Mr H says wasnt dispensed to him. And, as the balance certificate 
covers a period of more than 10 days, I think its possible there could also have been some 
other error during this time to explain this difference of £20.
Barclays has said that, as the owner of the cash machine didnt refund the transaction, it 
must be satisfied there was no error. But Im not satisfied by that reasoning. And based on 
the documentary evidence Ive seen, particularly that the cash machine didnt balance and 
was over by an amount close to the amount Mr H is disputing, I dont think Barclays has 
shown that the cash was dispensed correctly.
Mr H has been consistent throughout his complaint in explaining what happened and has 
given plausible explanations of what the withdrawal was for and what he did as a result of 
not receiving the cash. So I find him credible and see no other reason to doubt what he has 
said.
So, based on the evidence I have in this case, I think its more likely than not that the cash 
wasnt dispensed correctly. And so I think Barclays should refund the amount of the 
attempted withdrawal to Mr H.
Putting things right
Barclays Bank Plc should
Refund the £250 withdrawal in dispute, and
Pay interest to Mr H on the amount of the withdrawal, at the rate of 8% simple per 
year, from the date of the withdrawal until the date of settlement*
* If Barclays considers its required by HM Revenue & Customers to deduct income tax from that interest, it 
should tell Mr H how much its taken off. It should also give Mr H a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Barclays Bank Plc to put things right by doing what Ive 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2020. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman