DRN-2792283
The complaint
Mr S complains about how MCE Insurance Company Limited settled claim he made on his 
commercial vehicle insurance policy after his van was stolen. Reference to MCE includes its 
agents
What happened
Mr S held a commercial vehicle insurance policy with MCE. Mr S paid for the policy on a 
monthly basis.
After his van was stolen, Mr S reported the theft to the police and made a claim to MCE for 
the loss. MCE said after deducting the excess shown in the policy, and the remaining 
amount Mr S had left to pay toward the premium, there was nothing it needed to pay out to 
Mr S on his claim.
Mr S wasnt happy with this and complained. He didnt see how it was fair that he was 
paying for a policy that didnt pay out after his van was stolen. He also thought MCE 
contributed to the police being unable to recover his van as they left it insured for a period 
after he reported it stolen. He also said he wasnt provided with a hire car, nor was he paid 
for his loss of earnings while he didnt have of use of the van.
MCE didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. It said the fact it kept the van insured didnt contribute 
to the police not being able to locate his van. And it said it settled his claim in line with the 
policy. It said the policy didnt provide Mr S with a courtesy vehicle, nor did it cover him for 
loss of use of his van.
Mr S remained unhappy and brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators didnt 
recommend it be upheld. He thought MCE had settled the claim in line with the policy, and 
that the settlement was ultimately fair. He said Mr Ss policy didnt provide use of a courtesy 
vehicle, nor did it cover Mr S for loss of use of his van. And he thought MCE keeping the van 
insured was unlikely to have contributed to it not being found by the police.
Mr S remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I can understand why Mr S is unhappy with the outcome of his claim. I can see why 
he feels its unfair that through no fault of his own, his van has been stolen and his insurer 
have effectively paid him nothing after making a claim. But key to this is that its a legal 
requirement to be insured to drive in the UK. And Mr Ss policy covers him for more than just 
the damage or loss to his own van, it covers him for his liability to other people too. So, its 
not entirely uncommon that it costs more to insure a vehicle than the vehicle is worth.
In this case, MCE have settled the claim by offering Mr S the market value of the van. There 
isnt too much dispute about that value, but nonetheless Ive checked to see if that value is 
fair and in line with what wed expect. And it is. MCE used the relevant trade guides and 
offered Mr S a settlement figure within the range of those guides. Ive looked at three of 
these guides myself and Im satisfied MCEs valuation of £3,715 for Mr Ss van is fair based 
on those guides.
Wed generally say that offering a figure within the range of the trade guides is a fair 
representation of a vehicles market value. And this too meets MCEs definition of market 
value in Mr Ss policy. However, as mentioned above, the market value given by the guides 
isnt really whats in dispute here.
Whats in dispute is the overall settlement of the claim. That starts with the market value 
offered by the guides, but theres more to it. In settling the claim, MCE found that Mr Ss van 
was previously written off. It said this reduced its market value by 15%. And I think thats fair. 
Previously written off vehicles are generally less attractive to perspective buyers, and as a 
result that reduces their value. I think a 15% reduction is fair. I appreciate Mr S doesnt think 
this is fair as no one will be buying his van as it was stolen. But thats not the point. The 
market value is the cost of him replacing it with one of a similar make, model, age mileage 
and condition. Its not the cost he would get for selling his van. So, the fact his van was 
stolen, makes no difference to its market value.
Mr Ss policy also has an excess, like most other insurance policies. The excess is the part 
of the claim that Mr S has to pay for himself. Mr Ss excess was £1,925 and Im satisfied this 
is clearly set out. So after deducting this and the 15% from the market value given by the 
guides, MCE needed to pay Mr S £1,232.75 to settle Mr Ss claim.
However, as mentioned at the start of this decision, Mr S chose to pay for the policy on a 
monthly basis as opposed to paying for it all up front. Mr Ss policy says if he chose to pay 
for the premium by instalments  which he did  then any outstanding premium will be 
deducted from his settlement. Unfortunately for Mr S, his van was stolen just over two 
months after the policy started. This meant that at the point his van was stolen, Mr S had 
more still left to pay than the £1,232.75 MCE owed him for settling the claim, meaning 
ultimately there was nothing to pay out on his claim.
Often after a total loss claim, another vehicle can be added on the policy to replace the 
vehicle lost damaged or stolen. Mr S said he requested this option, but said MCE declined it. 
But Ive not seen any evidence to support this.
I understand Mr S has said his losses include more than just his van. And he thinks MCE 
should pay for these losses. But thats not what his policy provides him cover for. Its true it 
says if his van is stolen that MCE will pay him an amount equal to the loss or damage  and 
I can see why Mr S thinks his loss is the loss of earnings while he was without the van and 
the cost of hiring a van to keep working. But Mr S has insured his van, not his work. I cant 
see the policy says it will cover his loss of earnings, and in any case the most the policy will 
pay out is the market value of Mr Ss van. And as explained above Im satisfied MCE has 
done that.
I understand Mr Ss unhappiness with not being provided with a courtesy vehicle, but this too 
isnt something his policy provides. Some policies do provide courtesy vehicles, and indeed 
some do provide cover for loss of earnings. But Mr Ss didnt. And I cant fairly ask MCE to 
provide Mr S a benefit not listed in the policy.
Im also aware Mr S is unhappy that MCE left the van showing as insured after he reported it 
stolen. He thinks this may have contributed to his van never being found by the police or any other authority. But I think this is highly unlikely. The police will likely have their own 
databases for showing what vehicles are reported stolen, and this is unlikely to be affected 
by whether the vehicle remained insured or not. Equally, I think it was a reasonable decision 
to keep the van insured for a short period of time to see if the van could be recovered and 
repaired.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2021.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman