DRN-3906435
The complaint
Mr Y complains about the standard of service he received from Esure Services Limited 
(esure) when he called to cancel the renewal of his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Y says he called esure in mid-September 2022. He was unhappy with the automated call 
handling system, particularly the time this took. Mr Y says he then gave his policy number to 
esures agent, who repeated his full name back to him. Mr Y says this is a breach of his 
data. He says he asked for a complaint to be raised during this call, which didnt happen. 
Mr Y says he gave instructions for his policy renewal to be cancelled. This wasnt actioned, 
which meant he had to call back the next day. Subsequent to this he received a default 
notice. This is because the policy renewal still hadnt been cancelled. This meant his 
insurers systems thought hed failed to pay his monthly premium payment. Mr Y says he 
works in finance and a default notice puts his job at risk. 
In its complaint response esure says its listened to the calls with Mr Y. It says its agent 
hasnt breached Data Protection. After its agent stated Mr Ys name, it says a further four 
security questions were asked before any information relating to his policy was discussed. 
esure says its agent didnt raise a complaint and didnt cancel Mr Ys renewal as instructed. 
This meant he had to call back to raise these issues again. It acknowledges this was poor 
service. This was made worse when its agent again failed to cancel the renewal after Mr Ys 
second call. esure offered Mr Y £150 compensation in response to his complaint. 
Mr Y didnt think the compensation offered was enough. He contacted our service and asked 
that we consider the matter. Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. She thought the 
business had caused Mr Y inconvenience, but its offer of £150 compensation was fair.
Mr Y disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding Mr Ys complaint. Let me explain. 
There is no dispute that esures agent said Mr Ys name in full having been provided with his 
policy number. I understand Mr Ys concern around this point. However, he was asked four 
security questions after his name was mentioned - before any policy discussion took place, 
which he doesnt dispute.  
As our investigator explained, its not the role of our service to determine whether esure has 
breached the Data Protection Act. The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) deals with 
these matters. But I can consider whether esures actions negatively impacted on Mr Y. 
Based on what Ive seen, there was no impact other than the frustration this caused him. No 
personal information was communicated to anyone other than Mr Y.  
esure doesnt dispute that its agent failed to act on Mr Ys instruction to cancel his policy 
renewal. It must have been frustrating when he had to call back to repeat his instruction. 
This was exacerbated when esure again failed to cancel the renewal resulting in its letters 
warning of a default notice. 
Its clear that mistakes were made by esures agents. I can understand why this caused Mr Y 
frustration as well as being inconvenient. Given his concern about his job and the impact a 
default notice could have, it must have come as a shock when he received esures 
correspondence informing him hed breached his credit agreement. 
Ive thought about the impact this had on Mr Y. He contacted esure after receiving its letters 
and it cancelled the renewal. This means no adverse information was recorded in relation to 
Mr Ys payment history. However, Mr Y did make several contacts with esure, which 
shouldnt have been necessary. Because of the distress, frustration, and inconvenience he 
was caused I think its reasonable for esure to pay Mr Y compensation. But I think £150 is 
fair. 
I note Mr Ys comments about his complaint not being registered initially. However, 
complaint handling isnt a regulated service in itself. This means I cant consider this point. 
In summary I dont think esure treated Mr Y fairly given the poor standard of service he 
received, which included its failure to cancel his policy renewal. But Im satisfied it offered a 
reasonable compensation payment to acknowledge its failings. So, I cant reasonably ask it 
to do anymore.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman