DRN-3284034
The complaint
Ms L complains (through a representative) that Morses Club PLC (Morses) provided her with 
loans she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
Ms L took five home collected loans between November 2014 and December 2015. Ive 
included some of the information weve received about these loans in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
dateloan 
repayment 
dateterm 
(weeks) weekly 
repayment
1 £200.00 28/11/2014 19/05/2015 34 £10.00
2 £200.00 24/02/2015 09/09/2015 34 £10.00
3 £200.00 19/05/2015 04/12/2015 34 £10.00
4 £200.00 09/09/2015 balance sold 34 £10.00
5 £500.00 04/12/2015 balance sold 52 £17.50
The weekly repayment column is the cost per week per loan, so where loans overlapped 
Ms Ls commitment to Morses was greater. For example, when loans 1 and 2 were running 
her commitment was £20 per week. 
Morses considered Ms Ls complaint and issued a final response letter on 9 September 
2021. In it, Morses concluded that the checks it made before granting the above loans were 
proportionate and the checks showed Ms L could afford these loans. It didnt uphold her 
complaint. 
Unhappy with this response, Ms Ls representative referred the complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. 
The case was then considered by an adjudicator. 
Our adjudicator didnt think it was wrong for Morses to have granted loans 1 - 4. He said, 
there wasnt anything in Ms Ls circumstances or the lending history which wouldve 
prompted Morses to have carried out further checks such as verifying the information she 
provided. 
But the adjudicator thought that for loan five Morsess checks didnt go far enough and it 
shouldve at this point, tried to verify the information Ms L had provided. But at the time, he 
didnt have a copy of Ms Ls bank statement, so he wasnt able to conclude whether Morses 
shouldve granted the loan. 
Ms Ls representative responded and asked for some further time to allow Ms L to provide 
the bank statements for the period when loan five was granted. 
After Ms L provided her bank statements the adjudicator reconsidered his findings. The 
adjudicator still felt it was reasonable for Morses to have provided loans 1  4. But now he 
had Ms Ls bank statements he considered these, to decide whether had Morses carried out 
further checks, it wouldve still advanced the loan.
The adjudicator reviewed Ms Ls bank statements from October 2015, and he said there 
wasnt anything in them that may have stopped Morses lending to her. So, he concluded that 
while Morses hadnt done proportionate checks, had it made further checks it wouldnt have 
changed its lending decision. 
Ms Ls representative didnt agree with the outcome, in response it provided the following 
comments from Ms L;
 she is unhappy with the outcome and still feel that the business should not have 
provided the loans due to her financial situation at the time.
Morses didnt respond to either of the adjudicators assessment. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me to resolve.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Ms L could afford to pay back the amounts 
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Morsess checks couldve taken into account a number 
of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Ms Ls 
income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Ms L. These factors include:
Ms L having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Ms L having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Ms L coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Ms L.
Morses was required to establish whether Ms L could sustainably repay the loans  not just 
whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Ms L was able to repay her 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Ms Ls complaint.
Loans 1  4
It looks like that, for all of these loans, Morses carried out the same sort of checks. It is likely 
that Ms L provided details of her weekly income and weekly expenditure. However, Morses 
has only been able to provide us with details of the expenditure and income it collected when 
loans three and four were approved. 
Although, I dont have the income and expenditure information for loans one and two, what I 
have seen for loans three and four show that Ms L had between £140 - £340 of weekly 
disposable income. And given the proximity of loans one and two I think its more likely than 
not that Ms L wouldve provided similar information to Morses. 
Its also worth noting that Ms Ls capital borrowing didnt increase, all loans were for £200 to 
be repaid with a weekly commitment of £10. So based on the declared weekly disposable 
income, Ms L had enough to afford the largest weekly commitment of £20 (when two loans 
were running concurrently).
Morses has also told us it wouldve carried out a credit search before these loans were 
approved. But it has told us the credit search results are no longer available for these loans. 
So, it isnt able to show the Financial Ombudsman what it saw at the time. 
Ms L has provided the Financial Ombudsman with her full credit report, but having looked at 
that, there isnt anything that I can see from around the time these loans were approved that 
may have prompted Morses to either have declined the loan applications or have made it to 
carry out further, more in-depth checks. 
For these loans loan I think Morses carried out proportionate checks which showed Ms L 
was likely to be able to afford the repayments she was committing to making. I also havent 
seen any further information that shows its likely Morses was made aware of any financial 
problems Ms L mightve been having. Or anything that wouldve prompted it to investigate 
her circumstances further. So, I think it was reasonable for Morses to rely on the information 
it obtained and approve these loans. 
Im therefore not upholding Ms Ls complaint about these loans. 
Loan 5
I do agree with the adjudicator that by this point in time Morsess checks needed to go 
further It was no longer reasonable for it to have solely relied on the information that Ms L 
provided or from the credit check that it likely carried out. Although, as Ive said above, the 
results of this credit search (indeed if one was carried out) are no longer available. 
For this loan, Ms L declared she had weekly income of £400 and weekly outgoings of £120, 
at this point the outgoings didnt include the repayments that Ms L was due to make for loan 
4  that was running at the same time. So Morses was aware she had £280 per week to pay 
the total weekly commitment to it if of £27.50. Morses may have reasonable believed that based on the information that Ms L declared she 
had more than enough disposable income to afford her repayments. 
But Ms L had been borrowing form Morses for just over a year and this was now her largest 
capital loan, and this led to her largest weekly repayment. So I do think by now Morsess 
checks needed to go further than just relying on the information Ms L declared to it about her 
circumstances because I think it ought to have been concerned that Ms L was continually 
coming back for new lending. 
I think it needed to gain a full understanding of Ms Ls actual financial position to ensure the 
loan was affordable. This couldve been done in several ways, such as asking for evidence 
of her outgoings, or looking at bank statements and/or Ms Ls full credit report. This mightve 
helped verify information provided and revealed whether there was any other information 
that Morses mightve needed to consider about Ms Ls general financial position. 
However, that isnt the end of the matter. For me to be able to uphold this loan, I must be 
satisfied that had Morses carried out a proportionate check it wouldve likely discovered that 
Ms L couldnt afford the repayments. 
Ms L has provided the Financial Ombudsman with bank statements that cover the period 
leading up to the loan being granted and Ive considered these in detail. However, having 
done so I think that even if Morses had viewed the bank statements it still wouldve 
advanced the loan. 
Looking at the bank statements there is very little in the way of obvious living costs, it seems 
to be that Ms L received her benefit payments into the account and then withdrew the funds 
in cash. In between those periods where payments arent being received there are a few low 
value transitions using a well-known online payment method. 
But the account doesnt go overdrawn and there are no signs that Ms L had other forms of 
high cost credit, or any other credit for that matter apart from a payment towards either a 
mobile phone or an internet service provider. And there was in my view, no other information 
that may have led Morses to conclude that Ms L was having wider financial difficulties. It is 
likely, that had Morses seen the bank statements that Ive seen it wouldve concluded the 
loan was affordable. 
In conclusion, had Morses carried out what I consider to be a proportionate check I think it 
wouldve likely concluded that Ms L was in a position to afford the repayments she was 
committed to making towards loan five. 
Overall, Im not upholding Ms Ls complaint about her loans. I appreciate Ms L will likely be 
disappointed by the outcome of this complaint, but I hope my explanation has been useful in 
explaining why Ive reached the outcome that I have.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Ms Ls complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman