DRN-3753582
The complaint
Mr T complains about the time it took Financial Administration Services Limited (Fidelity) to 
transfer the proceeds of his in-house Additional Voluntary Contribution (AVC) arrangement 
which it managed, into a new self invested personal pension (SIPP). He wants to be 
compensated for the financial loss he says he suffered because of a delay in the transfer.
What happened
Mr T had taken out an in-house AVC arrangement alongside his occupational pension 
scheme benefits which had been managed by Fidelity since 2017. He stopped the AVCs 
when he left his employment in 2002 and took his main scheme benefits  but the AVCs 
remained invested. In September 2019 Mr T received a pre 75th birthday letter advising him 
of his options regarding the AVCs. The value of the plan at that time was £30,262.84.
However, because the benefits couldnt be taken under Mr Ts preferred drawdown type 
arrangement, he decided to transfer them into a new SIPP with Fidelity. 
On 19 February 2020, having contacted Fidelity to discuss the situation and the options 
available to him, Mr Ts transfer request was entered onto the electronic transfer system 
(Origo). But the system notes confirmed that Fidelity subsequently considered the transfer 
out of scope as it believed it could only accept the transfer request from the scheme 
trustees. So, on 27 February 2020 Fidelity passed Mr Ts transfer request to the scheme 
administrator. 
Mr T says he was provided with a copy of that request asking the AVC scheme administrator 
to please deal with it accordingly, so he contacted Fidelity to discuss the problem. As a 
result, Mr T said he didnt think Fidelitys managed transfer process could be followed, so 
on 6 March 2020 Mr T sent a paper transfer agreement form  provided by the administrator 
and partially completed by him, to Fidelity. A covering letter requested that the form should 
be forwarded to the scheme administrator so that the disinvestment and transfer could 
progress. But the form wasnt forwarded until 18 March 2020 and then it wasnt completed 
properly by Fidelity  so it was returned. 
 
On 1 April 2020 Fidelity was contacted by the administrator and the outstanding information 
that was required was then provided in order to progress the transfer. Fidelity received the 
cash from the plan on 22 April and the funds valued at £24,754.29 were transferred on 
5 May 2020. Mr T invested two tranches of £10,000 to different funds on 
29 May and 2 June 2020, with the rest remaining in cash.
In April 2021 Mr T complained about the length of time it took to complete the transfer of his 
AVC funds.  
On 9 July and 4 August 2021 Fidelity apologised that it hadnt responded to 
Mr Ts complaint and said it would include a total of £50, as a goodwill gesture for the 
ongoing delays, within its final response.  
In its final response Fidelity said its file notes showed that it should have contacted Mr T on 
25 February 2020 to find out the scheme trustee details. It said this hadnt been done and it 
also didnt obtain that information when Mr T contacted Fidelity in early March 2020. In 
addition it apologised for the issues Mr T had with logging into his account in May 2020. It 
increased the compensation to a total of £225 for the delays and poor service it had provided 
during this time. 
In respect of the delay to the actual transfer Fidelity accepted it had caused a delay of 21 
working days to the process and thought it should, without the delay, have sold the assets 
within the plan on 11 March 2020. So it said it would apply the additional units that Mr T 
would have received from disinvesting on this date to his new pension plan  which 
amounted to a difference of £1,298.55. It also awarded him simple interest  calculated at 
1.75%, for the deprivation of the additional units. The interest was added to the £225 
compensation for the inconvenience caused by the delays and poor service  so a total of 
£258.92 was paid to Mr Ts bank account as compensation. 
Mr T didnt accept that outcome as he thought the delays in disinvesting were greater than 
Fidelity had established, and it hadnt considered the investment loss hed suffered from the 
delay either. So he brought his complaint to us where one of our investigators looked into the 
matter. He thought Mr Ts transfer had been delayed and was satisfied with Fidelitys 
position that it had caused a delay of 21 working days. He considered other potential delays 
in the process but was satisfied they wouldnt have made any material difference to Mr Ts 
investment of his funds. So he thought Fidelity should backdate the allocation of the transfer 
value on 11 March 2020 as if it Mr Ts investments had been made 21 working days earlier. 
He also thought that the amount Fidelity had paid Mr T in lost interest and as compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience caused was fair and reasonable  so it didnt need to do 
anything further in that respect.  
  
Fidelity explained that, as it hadnt been apparent that Mr T had an investment objective 
during the transfer process  and that hed waited for at least 24 days before investing the 
funds, it didnt seem reasonable to use the backdating of the investments as a method of 
redress. It thought its resolution of adding interest onto the late payment was appropriate in 
the circumstances.
The investigator remained of the view that it was reasonable to conclude that Mr T would 
have taken the same (investment) actions 21 working days earlier, had the delay not 
occurred. He also confirmed that, even if he accepted Fidelitys resolution of an interest 
payment instead of backdating the purchase price of the investments, he thought it should 
be applied at the rate of 8% simple and ought not to be subjected to tax  as the loss had 
occurred from a pension fund. 
Fidelity didnt agree. Whilst it accepted that delays may have been caused it said that Mr T 
would still have waited until the same dates to invest his money  so it didnt think he had 
suffered any financial loss. It asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. 
Mr T largely accepted the view, but he did make a number of references to the fact that had 
the transfer not been delayed he would have invested into funds similar to the original AVC 
arrangement investment strategy. 
The investigator didnt think it was fair to assume, as Fidelity had suggested, that Mr T would 
have invested on the same dates (29 May and 2 June 2020). He said Mr T had confirmed he 
simply wanted to reflect on his options and would have invested after the same period of 
deliberation but just 21 working days earlier if Fidelity hadnt caused a delay. He also 
considered whether there was another period of eight working days that could be included 
within the overall delay timeframe. But as no further points were raised or discussed, and the matter remained unresolved  the 
complaint has been passed to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so I agree with the conclusion the investigator reached. So Ill explain my 
reasons.
The AVC brochure issued by the trustees at inception set out Mr Ts options at retirement. 
These included drawing taxed and tax free cash from the plan, purchasing an annuity with 
the proceeds, or income drawdown. Also it explained that you may need to transfer your 
AVCs out of the fund to access all options.
But when he received a letter from the AVC administrator in 2019  just before his 75th 
birthday, Mr T was made aware that if he wanted to either purchase an annuity or drawdown 
plan his benefits would need to be transferred to a different provider/arrangement. As he 
wanted to access his benefits through drawdown, I think it was reasonable for Mr T to find 
out what his options were and establish the process for transferring them to a vehicle which 
allowed him access in the way he desired.
So Ive looked into what happened after Mr T had considered his options and requested the 
transfer  and whether any delays occurred during this process.
The first period of delay
Mr T said he first made his transfer request on 19 February 2020 after Fidelity had told him 
that it could manage the application itself using the online electronic transfer system. But he 
says he discovered on 3 March 2020 that the transfer request had been sent to the AVC 
scheme administrator when Fidelity realised it was outside of its scope to manage the 
process itself. In reality Fidelity, when it began to process the application, had become 
aware that the AVC scheme trustees required any transfer to be instigated by them. So it 
sent Mr Ts request to the trustees at that point. 
This would seem to be at odds with what Fidelity had told Mr T, and Mr T has been 
consistent in telling us that Fidelity told him it could handle the transfer so Ive no reason to 
dispute his version of events. But Ive also been provided with a transcript of the calls he had 
with Fidelity, and Ive seen that from the notes of his conversation on 19 February 2020, 
when Mr T said he wanted to transfer his funds across, he was told, may not be possible as 
fund may not be supported at Fil. Client asks if he needs to speak to OPM, agent said 
shouldnt need to though they may require a form, if thats the case we will be in touch with 
client. 
So while I think Fidelity could have been clearer and more decisive about the possibility it 
couldnt manage his transfer, and I can understand why Mr T may have assumed Fidelity 
would manage the process itself, I think Fidelity did just enough to show there was the 
possibility of needing to contact and involve the scheme trustees in order to complete the 
process.
 
Ive considered whether Fidelity was at fault for the delay in the process from 19 to 26 February 2020 and whether it raised Mr Ts expectations of its ability to conduct the 
transfer process. But I think it did raise the possibility of not being able to solely conduct the 
transfer, and I think it wasnt unreasonable for it not to be entirely sure of how the transfer 
would be managed until it started to process the application and became aware of all the 
requirements of the parties involved. And even if Fidelity raised Mr Ts expectations about 
the way the transfer could be progressed  for which compensation has been offered and 
which Ill cover later in the decision, I think the process Fidelity did ultimately have to follow 
was the correct one and so it would still have had to send the request to the administrator in 
any case and would have needed to make Mr T aware of such an action.
 
So overall I dont think Fidelity should be held responsible for the initial one weeks delay  
but after it discovered that it needed to request permission from the AVC scheme trustees to 
transfer I think it ought to have made Mr T aware of that straight away. So Ive looked 
carefully at that part of the process. 
Fidelity itself has accepted that it didnt make Mr T aware of the fact it had passed his 
request on to the administrator. It also accepted that it missed the opportunity to make him 
aware when he contacted it on 3 March 2020 after hed received a copy of the request from 
the administrator. At that point Mr T realised that Fidelity wasnt going to be able to manage 
the transfer itself and he filled out the necessary part of a paper transfer request form 
provided by the administrator and sent it to Fidelity.  But there was period from 
28 February to 6 March 2020 when his transfer wasnt being processed and he hadnt been 
made aware of that fact. 
Ive considered that period of delay but concluded that, as Fidelity has accepted 
responsibility for the delay after 3 March until 1 April 2020  and from 
28 February to 3 March 2020 was only three working days, I dont think its an unreasonable 
delay in the circumstances. If, in the normal course of events when it discovered it needed to 
contact the scheme trustees Fidelity had taken three working days to contact Mr T  and I 
accept that it was only Mr Ts efforts that meant he found about the situation here, I dont 
think I would suggest that was an unreasonable delay in making contact and progressing 
matters. 
The second period of delay
Fidelity has accepted responsibility for a delay between 3 March 2020, when Mr T was made 
aware that Fidelity had rejected the transfer and forwarded the request to the AVC 
administrator for it to progress things, and 1 April 2020  which is when Fidelity spoke with 
the administrator and was given the outstanding information required. Fidelity said this was a 
delay of 21 working days and, to compensate, it has increased Mr Ts pension plan by the 
additional transfer value he would have received if the disinvestment had taken place on 
11 March 2020. 
The investigator considered this to be a fair and reasonable period for which Fidelity 
accepted responsibility  so Ive carefully considered the timeline involved.  Using the day 
after 3 March 2020 as the date the process could have begun, Ive calculated that Fidelity 
has allowed a period of five working days in which to disinvest the funds within the AVC 
plan.
I dont think thats unreasonable, and it seems a fair time frame in which to complete the 
disinvestment. So I dont think Fidelity has added further delay by using those dates as its 
benchmark.
But even if I am wrong in my assumption about the disinvestment date, Ive taken into 
account that Mr T didnt return the transfer form until 6 March 2020  which could be seen as 
the date from which the last outstanding requirements were returned and therefore that the transfer process could begin. So I think because Fidelity could have considered using the 
later date of 6 March 2020 in its calculation, which would have meant a period of two to three 
days for reinvestment to have taken place, its fair to accept the earlier date but not to 
conclude that Fidelity caused a delay over the disinvestment. 
So I think its fair and reasonable to use a period of 21 working days as the overall delay up 
to the point the process should have begun, and I think its reasonable to therefore use 
11 March 2020 as the date of the transfer value that should have been used.
Looking at the period after 1 April 2020, I can see that when Fidelity received the funds on 
22 April they werent transferred until 5 May 2020 (4 May 2020 was a bank holiday)  which 
was around eight working days. And Fidelity hasnt given any explanation for why the funds 
werent transferred for that length of time. But this delay only affects the possible investment 
loss Mr T may have suffered because the transfer value that should have been used has 
now been locked in on 11 March 2020. But Ive taken into account Mr Ts cautious nature 
and inexperience regarding investment and that he has been consistent in telling us that the 
delay was unlikely to have made any difference to the time he took to make his investments. 
Ive also considered that a period of eight working days to transfer the money wasnt entirely 
unreasonable given the difficulties experienced due to the national lockdown that was in 
place at the time as a result of the pandemic.
    
The loss of investment growth
So, while theres broad agreement between the parties that a delay did occur to the transfer 
process for most of March 2020, investment of the funds wasnt made immediately after the 
transfer. In fact investment took place some weeks later. Fidelity says that the lack of 
immediate investment suggested that Mr T didnt have an investment strategy  so it isnt fair 
to ask it to calculate whether Mr T had suffered any investment loss because of the delay, 
and it thinks its offer of interest on the additional units it gave Mr T is sufficient. 
Whereas Mr T has been clear in that, as an inexperienced investor, he needed time to 
decide how to invest but would simply have gone ahead earlier had the delay not occurred. 
Although he has suggested that he may have invested in a broadly similar way to the 
composition of his original AVC funds had he invested earlier, because the subsequent fall in 
the market meant he had to invest differently when he did. 
But I agree with the investigator, and I think Mr Ts investment should simply have happened 
21 working days earlier  had the delay not occurred. Mr T did ultimately invest, and I think 
its reasonable to assume that he would have behaved in the same way if hed had the funds 
at his disposal earlier. I think its entirely reasonable that Mr T took some weeks to invest 
initially because he was inexperienced in such matters, and I think he would have exercised 
caution in the beginning.  
Ive also considered whether as he suggested  if the transfer had completed earlier, Mr T 
might have put in place an investment strategy similar to the existing AVC. Although I 
appreciate Mr T might have been in a different investment position three weeks earlier, I 
dont think its fair to decide now what would have happened in such circumstances. 
It would require considerable hindsight to work out what investment would have occurred 
without a delay. 
 
So I think its more appropriate to consider what did actually happen regarding Mr Ts 
investment strategy and to apply that outcome to the redress formula. Ive set out what I 
think needs to happen to put things right below.
The offer of the difference in transfer values and the compensation paymentMr T has suggested that his financial loss runs to around £7,000 and I can understand how 
he would consider that figure appropriate when comparing the plan values of the AVC 
around 19 February and 11 March 2020  although Mr T himself accepts this is unrealistic 
and would have had to involve instantaneous transfers (in-specie) which werent 
appropriate here.
 
But as Ive set out above, I think the transfer value that was applied on 11 March 2020 is fair 
and reasonable in this situation and I think that should be used to calculate any investment 
loss from that point. Fidelity has already paid Mr T the additional units to the value of the 
difference between the plan values as compensation
Fidelity has also paid Mr T £258.92 in compensation which comprised £50 for the delay in 
resolving the complaint in a timely manner and £33.92 in interest for the deprivation of the 
additional funds from using 11 March 2020 as the disinvestment date. The rest of the 
compensation was a goodwill gesture for the distress and inconvenience the delay had 
caused Mr T. In the circumstances Im satisfied thats within the range of what Id expect to 
see for such delays and, although a small amount was paid as additional interest, I think that 
should remain included as appropriate within the overall compensation figure.    
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr T should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if there hadnt been any unreasonable delays to the transfer and Fidelity had 
disinvested the AVC arrangement on 11 March 2020. 
What must Fidelity do?
To compensate Mr T fairly, Fidelity must:
Compare the performance of Mr T's SIPP with that of the benchmark shown below, had Mr T 
invested his (same) funds 21 working days before he did actually invest. The transfer value 
as of 11 March 2020 needs to be used to make the comparisons.
If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and compensation is payable.
Fidelity should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
Fidelity should pay into Mr T's pension plan to increase its value by the total amount of the 
compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of charges and 
any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Fidelity is unable to pay the total amount into Mr T's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a 
taxable income. 
Therefore the total amount should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that 
would otherwise have been paid. This is an adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair 
amount  it isnt a payment of tax to HMRC, so Mr T wont be able to reclaim any of the 
reduction after compensation is paid.The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr T's actual or expected marginal rate of 
tax at his selected retirement age.
For example, if Mr T is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the 
reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr T would have been able 
to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Fidelity deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr T how much has been taken off. Fidelity should give Mr T a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr T asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio name Status Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end date) Additional 
interest
SIPP Still exists and 
liquidThe invested 
fundsDate the 
investments 
should have 
been made (21 
working days 
before each 
investment was 
made) Date of my final 
decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
The redress method set out above covers any investment loss suffered by Mr T as a result 
of the delay. But I need to take into account that the cash part of the plan was also delayed 
by 21 working days. So the same calculation needs to be completed for the cash element of 
the SIPP that was transferred. Im satisfied that any loss attached to the additional units 
Fidelity allocated Mr T was compensated by the interest it paid.
Ive also noted that Mr T did subsequently invest further funds in July 2022  after the 
additional units were applied to the plan. But Mr T has explained that some funds were held 
in cash in order to cover future fees that might be applicable, and, in any case, that 
investment was made long enough after the initial investments not be part of that strategy. 
 
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the SIPP should be deducted from the fair value calculation at the point 
it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If 
there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if 
Fidelity totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair 
value instead of deducting periodically.My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given I uphold Mr Ts complaint against Financial Administration 
Services Limited.
My decision is that Financial Administration Services Limited should pay the amount 
calculated as set out above. It should provide details of its calculation to Mr T in a clear, 
simple format. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2023.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman