DRN-3047634
The complaint
Mr D complains that Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited (Omni) wont allow him to settle a 
finance agreement on the terms he agreed to.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a fixed sum 
loan, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as 
against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I dont have to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr D made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
When the original supplier of the course went into administration Omni, as the provider of 
credit, had a responsibility to resolve matters for Mr D. The relevant legislation says that the 
consumer has a right to a repeat performance in those circumstances. And thats what 
Omni provided as they sourced an alternative supplier at no additional cost.
Mr D accepted that alternative arrangement and I therefore think Omni did what it needed to. 
Mr D has provided copies of communication he had with the original supplier in which he 
was discussing cancellation. But Ive not seen that he asked to do so.
I dont think Omni needed to offer a 60% discount, as was suggested in the suppliers terms 
if a contract was cancelled and certain conditions applied, as I think Mr D accepted their 
alternative arrangement and I dont think it would be fair to ask them to comply with the 
suppliers terms. They were not Omnis terms and Omni have provided the full funding to the 
supplier who are no longer trading and unable to provide any refund of that money to them.
Mr D is upset that adverse information has been reported to his credit file but as hes not 
made payments to Omni and I think they were fair to demand payment of the whole 
agreement, it wouldnt be reasonable for me to suggest Omni have done anything wrong 
with that reporting. Im not therefore asking them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman