DRN-2068993
The complaint
Mr J has complained that Canada Square Operations Limited mis-sold him a credit card 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr J took out the card and PPI in August 2004 via an internet application.
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Js complaint. Canada Square disagrees with the adjudicators 
opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
I wrote a provisional decision in July 2020 in which I explained why I was thinking of not 
upholding the complaint. I invited the parties to provide any further submissions they may 
wish to make before I reached a final decision. Neither party provided any further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Js complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr J says he cant remember how he took out the policy. However, we know from the 
information provided by Canada Square that the application was done online. Weve seen 
copies of the web pages that Mr J would have seen during the application process. There 
was a page for PPI and Mr J would have needed to select either a yes or no option to 
request or decline the policy. These options have equal prominence and neither has been 
pre-selected. Therefore I consider that Mr J would have understood from the wording and 
layout of the page that the PPI was optional. There was also a link to the terms and 
conditions. The application process couldnt be progressed until an applicant had selected 
either yes or no. From the information provided by Canada Square, I am satisfied that Mr J 
chose the yes option for PPI.
The sale was a long time ago and so it makes sense that Mr J says he cant remember 
anything about the sale. Looking at the available evidence, it seems to me that he decided to 
take out the policy, knowing that he didnt have to, even if he no longer remembers doing so.
Canada Square didnt advise Mr J to buy the policy, so it didnt need to ensure that it met his 
needs. But it did need to provide him with enough information to make an informed decision 
about whether or not it was right for him.
The relevant web page did provide a brief description of the policy benefits. And I think that 
Mr J must have known something about the PPI  that it would cover his credit card 
repayments against accident, sickness or unemployment  because I dont think hed have 
decided to buy the policy without knowing anything at all about it.
When Mr J first made his complaint to Canada Square, he said he couldnt remember how 
much sick pay, if any, his employer would have given him. Although he didnt know the date 
of sale at that point, Mr J had correctly named his employer from 2004. In the questionnaire 
that Mr J sent to this service, he said he had between 6  12 months sick pay. 
Mr J also originally told Canada Square that he didnt have any savings. I accept that he 
didnt know the date of sale at that point. But Im wondering why Mr J would have assumed it 
was at a time when he had no savings. Because when Mr J completed the questionnaire for 
this service, he said that he had savings worth at least six months of his income in 2004. 
We asked Mr J to explain this apparent discrepancy and to clarify what his circumstances 
were in 2004, but we havent received a response. Based on the available evidence, Im not 
persuaded that I can rely on what Mr J has said about his sick pay entitlement and level of 
savings. Regardless of this, the policy would have paid out in addition to any sick pay and 
potentially for longer than Mr J would have received full pay for. Also, having the policy 
would have allowed him to retain any savings or use them to cover other outgoings at what 
would have been a difficult time. Overall, I consider that Mr J had a need for the policy and 
could have benefitted from it.
Its possible that Canada Square didnt provide as much information about the policy as it 
should have, particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr J wasnt affected by any 
of those things. As I consider that he had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I 
dont think that further information would have caused him to change his mind. So he is no 
worse off as a result of anything Canada Square did wrong, so theres nothing that Canada 
Square needs to do to put things right. It follows that I do not uphold the complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2020. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman