DRN-1183862
The complaint
Miss H is unhappy that when she opened an account with the Post Office her address 
details weren't recorded correctly by Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc.
What happened
Miss H applied for a savings account with the Post Office in March 2019. But when the 
account was set up her address details weren't updated correctly, with some details 
appearing in incorrect parts of the address. This meant when her card and PIN were sent out 
they were sent to the wrong place.
Miss H complained. Bank of Ireland agreed it had made a mistake; there had been human 
error when setting up the account. It apologised and offered Miss H £100 for the distress and 
inconvenience this matter caused. 
Not happy with that Miss H asked our office to consider her complaint. Our investigator 
concluded Bank of Ireland had already fairly resolved the complaint. Although Miss H 
accepts she has had a comprehensive response, she would like to take matters as far as 
she can and remains concerned about possible future consequences.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I do understand this must have been very worrying for Miss H, particularly as this involved 
her finances and a card and PIN for her account. But I find there is little that I can add to the 
investigators findings. 
I can only make awards for what has gone wrong, not what might go wrong in the future. 
Miss H hasnt provided any evidence to show she has suffered a financial loss as a result of 
Bank of Irelands error. Although of little comfort to Miss H, should anything happen in the 
future as a result of this mistake, then I would expect the bank to consider that accordingly 
and take appropriate steps. 
Once it was notified, the bank acted quickly to cancel the existing card and PIN and arrange 
new ones to be sent. It also updated Miss Hs address details to the correct address. Whilst 
it is unfortunate this error occurred, mistakes can and do happen. Indeed, I note the bill 
information provided in support of her savings account application, also contains Miss H's 
address in an incorrect format. This might go some way to explain why Bank of Ireland got it 
wrong. 
Its right that Miss H is compensated for the error, and the distress this matter has caused. 
Taking into account the bank took steps to rectify this quickly, I find the offer of £100 to be a 
fair reflection of the impact this mistake had. I understand this offer is still open for 
acceptance, and if Miss H would now like to accept that, she should contact Bank of Ireland 
directly. My final decision
For the reasons given, I don't uphold this complaint as Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc has already 
fairly resolved it.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 December 2019.
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman