The complaint
Mr F complains that Nationwide Building Society withdrew a mortgage offer without 
explanation.
What happened
Mr F applied, via a broker, for a mortgage with Nationwide. Nationwide considered the 
application and made an offer, which Mr F accepted. He moved ahead with his property 
purchase, including instructing solicitors.
The day after the mortgage offer was issued, Nationwides systems record that it decided to 
ask the broker to get six months of payslips and bank statements for Mr F. Just over a month 
later, those documents hadnt been received. Nationwide had carried out its own 
underwriting checks in the meantime and wasnt able to verify the information it had been 
given.
Nationwide therefore decided to withdraw the mortgage offer. The next day, the broker 
called to ask why. Nationwide accepted that the request for bank statements and payslips 
hadnt been passed to him to pass on to Mr F. Nevertheless, it wouldnt agree to re-consider 
the mortgage application. And when Mr F complained, it wouldnt tell him why the offer had 
been withdrawn. But it said it wasnt because of the missing documents, and offered £200 
compensation for the delay in communicating with him and the broker.
Our investigator didnt think Nationwide had acted fairly in withdrawing the offer. He said the 
compensation should be increased to £400, Nationwide should refund costs Mr F incurred in 
making the application, and should remove records of the application from Mr Fs credit files. 
Neither party accepted that, so the case comes to me for a decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lenders are entitled, of course, to carry out their own underwriting checks and make their 
own commercial decisions about whether or not to lend money on a mortgage. And where 
an application is declined, theres no obligation to give reasons.
However, all that is subject to the obligation to act fairly. One of the factors to be considered 
in deciding whether a lender has acted fairly is the regulators rules. 
The rules say that a lender is bound by a mortgage offer, once a prospective borrower has 
accepted it. An offer cant be withdrawn once accepted except for one of the reasons 
allowed in the rules, or because of a condition explicitly set out in the offer. And the guidance 
DRN-1879409to the rules says that a proper affordability assessment should be done before an offer is 
issued, and conditions shouldnt be used to withdraw the offer if not.
Nationwide has explained that it withdrew the offer, in accordance with the conditions, 
because it had concerns about the accuracy of information it had been given. There was a 
discrepancy between two of Mr Fs payslips and his bank statements, and it hadnt been 
able to verify the information it had been given.
However, the regulators rules give as examples of acceptable conditions that the borrower 
has knowingly provided incomplete or inaccurate information, or knowingly falsified or 
withheld information. The terms of the mortgage offer itself say it can be withdrawn if 
Nationwide has reason to believe it has been given false information.
In both cases, I think theres an obligation, in fairness, for Nationwide to investigate further. It 
didnt discuss anything with Mr F or his broker or seek an explanation from him.
Mr F told our investigator that the reason for the discrepancy between his bank statements 
and his payslips was that his employer made a mistake on one months pay and corrected it 
the next month  and then issued Mr F with corrected payslips. So his payslips showed what 
he should have been paid, and his bank statements showed what he was actually paid; the 
two figures match over the two months in total, but are broken down differently between 
them.
Nationwide didnt ask about this or give Mr F the opportunity to provide an explanation. Nor 
did it make any further checks or ask any further questions when it wasnt able to verify what 
it had been told through its underwriting checks.
The terms of the offer talk about giving false information. The regulators rules talk about 
knowingly providing inaccurate information, or falsifying or withholding it. 
I accept Nationwide couldnt verify what it was told. But it took no further steps to check it, or 
to satisfy itself that Mr F had knowingly provided inaccurate or falsified information. 
On balance, Im not persuaded that in the absence of those further steps Nationwide acted 
fairly in withdrawing the mortgage offer and reporting that it had done so.
Putting things right
This caused Mr F significant worry and upset. He was concerned he would lose the property 
he wanted to buy  and, having given notice on his rental property, be left with nowhere to 
live. Fortunately he was able to get a mortgage with another lender. But he was caused 
significant inconvenience in having to find another mortgage at the last minute. I agree that 
£400 is fair compensation. And because he had to pay fees to the new lender as well as 
Nationwide, Nationwide should also refund any fees Mr F paid to it. And it should remove 
any external records it has made of the application.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I  direct Nationwide Building Society to:
Pay Mr F £400 compensation (including the £200 previously offered);
Refund the valuation and any other fees Mr F paid, adding simple annual interest of 
8%* running from date of payment to date of refund;
Remove any information about this mortgage application and its withdrawal from 
external databases.* Nationwide may deduct income tax from the 8% interest element of my award. But it should
give Mr F the necessary paperwork, if he asks for it, so that he can reclaim the tax from
HMRC if hes entitled to.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2020.
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman