DRN-3384833
The complaint
Mrs W complains about Canada Life Limiteds decision to turn down her income protection 
claim.
What happened
Mrs W is covered under her employers group income protection scheme, the aim of which is 
to pay an income in the event she cant work because of illness or injury. The scheme has a 
52-week deferred period.
In 2016, Mrs W was involved in a road traffic accident. This led to her stopping work in her 
sedentary role for a few months. She then returned to her role, and her employer made 
some reasonable adjustments to allow her to do so. 
Mrs W continued to experience symptoms and in January 2020, she stopped work. A claim 
was made under the scheme. Canada Life assessed the claim but concluded that Mrs W 
didnt meet the scheme definition of incapacity. Unhappy with Canada Lifes decision, Mrs W 
brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Canada Lifes 
claims decision had been reasonable, based on the available medical evidence. 
Mrs W didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for 
a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The scheme defines incapacity as:
...if, throughout the deferred period and beyond, the members illness or injury prevents 
them from, and makes them incapable of, performing the material and substantial duties of 
their normal occupation.
In making the claim, the onus is on Mrs W to show that she met the above definition of 
incapacity throughout the entire 52-week deferred period (January 2020 to January 2021).
Our investigator has gone into some detail about the medical evidence previously, so I dont 
intend to do the same. Though Id like to reassure Mrs W that Ive carefully considered all the 
medical evidence thats been provided. Having done so, on balance, I think Canada Lifes 
claims decision was reasonable. Ill explain why.
Its apparent that Mrs W experienced symptoms after her road traffic accident, including 
neck and shoulder pain, headaches, and fatigue. She had various investigations into her 
symptoms, and attempted a number of different treatments.
Given that Mrs W had been able to work since 2016 with her symptoms, I think it was 
reasonable for Canada Life to expect to see evidence that Mrs Ws symptoms had 
deteriorated in the lead up to her stopping work. 
Mrs W was reviewed in March 2019 by a consultant neurologist. Despite her ongoing 
symptoms at the time (including fatigue, ongoing left sided pain, and daily headaches), it 
was thought that so long as she remained in her existing sector of work, the accident was 
unlikely to cause her any disadvantage. Though it was accepted that she wouldnt be able to 
work in a heavy manual role.
Mrs W attended a pain management course between August and October 2019 (with a 
review in November 2019). The discharge letter said her shoulder/neck/arm pain and 
mobility and headaches were worsening. However, during this period I understand Mrs W 
was reviewed in hospital in respect of her problems with the left side of her neck. It was 
thought she should complete the pain management programme and then continue physio. 
But it was also thought she was doing better than she had been (which Mrs W apparently 
agreed with), but that she hadnt fully got over the problem.
In December 2019, Mrs W described her most intrusive symptom as being headaches. She 
received a nerve block on 18 December 2019 for this. Later evidence supports that the 
nerve block helped reduce her headaches until shortly before March 2020.
Mrs W saw an occupational health physician in January 2020. He concluded she wasnt fit to 
work, and said that work was aggravating her symptoms. This was based on Mrs Ws 
explanation that her symptoms had become worse in 2019. However, I think it was 
reasonable for Canada Life to say that the clinical evidence doesnt support that Mrs Ws 
symptoms had become worse in 2019. 
In 2020, Mrs W continued to receive nerve blocks. In March 2020, it was noted that she was 
finding her painkiller medication helpful. A nerve block she was given in March 2020 was 
described as having given her significant benefit, and was repeated in August 2020. 
Ive read a report written by Dr M (consultant clinical neuropsychologist) in January 2021. He 
had assessed Mrs W on two occasions in 2020. Dr M thought that Mrs W likely suffered from 
mild traumatic brain injury as a result of the road traffic accident, and suffered from ongoing 
and chronic post-concussion syndrome. Dr M noted that Mrs W had failed in her attempt to 
return to employment, which he understood was related to her fatigue, cognitive difficulties, 
reduced abilities due to pain, and difficulty driving. He said that from a clinical 
neuropsychological perspective, Mrs W was compromised in her ability to effectively conduct 
her employment. 
Ive taken into account Dr Ms opinion. However, the symptoms he described in his report 
were symptoms that Mrs W had experienced since her accident. Dr M didnt offer an opinion 
as to why Mrs W was able to work for over three years with those symptoms, but couldnt do 
so from January 2020.
I recognise this is a balanced case, because there are medical opinions which say that 
Mrs W couldnt work. However, I dont think the evidence supports that there was a 
deterioration of Mrs Ws symptoms before January 2020, which prevented her from carrying 
out her occupation when shed previously been able to do so.
Mrs W has made the point that her role with her employer involved driving, and she has 
found it difficult to drive for long periods of time with her symptoms. I understand her 
employer had made adjustments for her in respect of driving distances after she went back to work, though her employer has confirmed that driving is normally intrinsic to the role with 
them. 
As our investigator has said, the evidence doesnt support that Mrs W couldnt drive at all. 
Also, the definition of incapacity is based on her generic occupation. Whilst I appreciate 
Mrs Ws particular employer requires face-to-face interactions in the role which can involve 
extensive travel, I think its reasonable to say that other employers may not require this. 
Whist I recognise that Mrs W will be disappointed with my decision, I think it was reasonable 
for Canada Life to turn down the claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman