DRN-4203159
The complaint
Ms H complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) delayed her further borrowing 
application, causing her financial losses and considerable distress and inconvenience.
What happened
Ms H took out a lifetime mortgage with Nationwide in 2021 to pay for remedial work on her 
listed property. She says she was advised not to borrow all of the necessary funds in 2021 
as Nationwide would require the funds to be spent within 12 months of completion. As Ms H 
was not due to carry out the re-thatching of her roof until the summer of 2022, she agreed to 
apply for further borrowing closer to the time. 
In early 2022, Ms H requested additional borrowing for approximately £40,000. However, 
this sum was increased to take account of architect fees estimated to sit around £10,000  
increasing the application to £X. 
Ms H says she was led to believe the application could not be submitted until she received 
and could evidence an architects quote. However, after approximately 11 weeks had 
passed within which she was unable to obtain such a quote, she reconfirmed her estimate of 
£10,000 to Nationwide and the application was submitted on 27 June 2022. 
On 6 July 2022, an internal query was raised to Ms Hs mortgage adviser regarding the 
change in the borrowing amount and a query about the nature of the works being carried 
out. Ms Hs mortgage advisor replied to the query on the same day, but this was missed by 
the relevant department within Nationwide until 4 August 2022. 
Nationwide instructed a valuation on Ms Hs property on 4 August 2022 and wrote to Ms H 
the following day requesting a breakdown of the works being carried out, their estimated cost 
and seeking evidence of Ms Hs savings in the form of screenshots. 
Ms H replied on 10 August 2022 and the savings evidence was supplied on 30 August 2022. 
In the meantime, the valuation was initially declined on 11 August 2022 due to a leak in the 
thatched roof  Nationwide sought to appeal this and received the new valuation report on 6 
September 2022 downgrading the value of Ms Hs property.
After further internal delays, Nationwide issued Ms H a mortgage offer on 7 October 2022. 
Ms H complains that due to Nationwides delays, she is on a higher interest rate than what 
she would have been had the application completed in March 2022 and she experienced 
health issues attributable to the stress caused by Nationwides processes and the length of 
time this has taken.  Ms H has also explained that her roof started leaking in August as the 
repairs could not go ahead without the additional funding and this caused water ingress and 
a concern that she would be heading into winter with a leaking roof. 
In response to the complaint Nationwide ultimately offered £500 in distress and 
inconvenience  accepting that it caused approximately two months of delays (one July  
August and then again September to October). But it did not agree that it was responsible for 
all of the delays that had transpired so did not offer any further compensation. 
Unhappy with Nationwides response, Ms H referred her complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and thought it should be upheld in part. 
She thought Nationwides offer of £500 to acknowledge the distress and inconvenience 
caused was fair. But she thought it needed to go further as it was clear that had the two 
month delay not occurred, Ms Hs interest rate would have been lower. So she 
recommended that Nationwide re-work Ms Hs account to reflect that the borrowing could 
have been lent at 4.35% rather than the 5.21% offered in the October mortgage offer. 
Nationwide agreed to the recommendations. 
Ms H did not agree with the investigators assessment. She believes Nationwide is 
responsible for more delays than it has already accepted and as a result, thinks the 
application ought to have completed in March 2022  she would like account to be re-worked 
by applying the interest rate available in March 2022 and further compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience she has experienced. 
As the complaint could not be resolved informally, it has now been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should first say that it is clear Ms H did not have an easy experience with her further 
borrowing application and given the nature of the works she needed completing and the 
timescales involved, this has naturally caused her undue distress and inconvenience. I do 
not doubt the strength of her feeling or the impact she says this situation has had on her. 
Nationwide has already accepted it caused avoidable delays between 6 July 2022 and 4 
August 2022 and once again between 6 September 2022 and 7 October 2022. So, I do not 
need to make a finding on whether it delayed the application during these two periods. 
Instead, I need to decide whether this is the extent of the delays caused by Nationwide or if 
they extend further. 
I have reviewed the full timeline of events and having done so, I am not persuaded 
Nationwides actions caused an unreasonable delay outside of the two periods identified 
above. 
I am aware that in addition to smaller periods of delay, Ms H feels strongly that there were 
two additional periods of significant delay in the application which are attributable to 
Nationwide. I will deal with each in turn. 
Ms H considers Nationwide to have caused an 11-week delay by implying she should get a 
quote from the architect that would need to be instructed to oversee the works. However, 
from the information available to me, I cant see that Nationwide actually told Ms H that this 
was a pre-requisite to applying. And without such evidence, I do not think it would be 
reasonable to hold Nationwide responsible for this delay in the application proceeding. 
I do not doubt Ms Hs recollections that she interpreted the information from her mortgage 
advisor as meaning she needed to obtain this quote and that her efforts to do so spanned a 
notable period. But without anything to show Nationwide incorrectly stipulated that the application could not proceed without such a document, I am not going to make an award for 
this period of Ms Hs dealings with Nationwide. 
In addition, Ms H considers Nationwides questions surrounding the detail of the remedial 
works being carried out and the need to evidence her savings to have been unnecessary 
and as such, to have delayed the application further. She also considers Nationwides 
request for the evidence to be sent in screenshots to put her at a disadvantage as she does 
not find such requests easy to comply with unless she has the help of family. 
While Ms H may feel Nationwides questions and need for evidence were unnecessary, it is 
entitled to ask for reasonable information and evidence to support a lending application. 
Having reviewed the information and evidence requested by Nationwide, I am satisfied it 
was within the realms of what I would typically expect for such an application and does not 
appear excessive. And while I acknowledge Ms H struggled to provide the evidence in the 
requested format, Nationwide was attempting to provide a more efficient method of 
evidencing her savings rather than asking Ms H to provide postal copies of her assets.
In summary, having reviewed the full timeline of events I find that Nationwide did cause two 
periods of unreasonable and avoidable delays  amounting to approximately two months. It 
is reasonable to conclude that had it not caused such delays, Ms Hs application would have 
completed two months earlier than it did. As Nationwide has confirmed the interest rate 
would have been lower had Ms Hs application completed two months earlier, it ought to re-
work Ms Hs account to ensure she is afforded the lower rate. 
I also find these delays caused Ms H avoidable distress and inconvenience and given the 
nature of the application and the impact it was having on Ms H, I agree that an award to 
recognise said impact is warranted. Having considered the submissions of Ms H and thought 
about our usual approach to such awards, I think Nationwides offer of £500 is fair and I am 
not going to direct that it increases this. 
I do not consider Nationwide is responsible for any further delays in the application and as 
such, I am not going to extend the compensation further. 
Putting things right
I understand Nationwide has already transferred Ms H the £500 payment for distress and 
inconvenience, but if I am wrong about that, it should now arrange for the payment to be 
made to Ms H. 
It should also re-work Ms Hs mortgage account to reflect that the application should have 
gone ahead on a rate of 4.35% rather than 5.21%. It should set out in writing to Ms H how it 
has applied this change to her account. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint in part and direct Nationwide Building 
Society to compensate Ms H in line with my instructions above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Lucy Wilson
Ombudsman