DRN-2044234
 
The complaint
Mr M complains that Aviva Insurance Limited never provided the policy documents for his 
legal expenses insurance to him, and that it unfairly declined a claim on the policy.
What happened
Mr M made a claim on his policy to cover the costs of pursuing legal action. Aviva referred 
the claim to a solicitor, who advised that Mr M wasn't likely to succeed in his claim. When Mr 
M challenged this and provided further comments, the solicitor reviewed the matter but said 
the further information didn't lead them to change their assessment of the case. On the basis 
of this advice, Aviva said it wouldn't cover the claim.
Mr M complained but Aviva didnt change its decision, so Mr M brought the complaint to our 
service.
Aviva didn't agree that we could look at a complaint about Mr Ms legal expenses claim, 
because hed referred the complaint to us too late - Aviva said he had raised the same 
issues in a previous complaint in 2017, it had addressed these points in its response to that 
complaint, and a complaint should be brought to this service within six months of a final 
response.
Our investigator didnt think we could help with Mr Ms complaint. Mr M disagreed, so the 
complaint was passed to me for a decision.
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint. In the provisional decision, I said I didnt 
think the complaint that Aviva didn't provide policy documents to Mr M was one we could 
consider as it was made too late. 
I explained that the rules which govern our service (the "DISP Rules) say that, where a 
business doesnt consent, we cant consider a complaint which is referred to us more than 
six months after the date the business sends its final response letter. We can only 
investigate complaints referred outside of this time limit if satisfied the delay was due to 
exceptional circumstances.
Aviva sent its final response to that complaint on 9 September 2017. So Mr M had until 9 
March 2018 to refer the matter to this service. But he didnt do so until February 2020. I 
considered Mr Ms comments about the delay but did not think the circumstances amounted 
to exceptional circumstances that would allow this service to consider his complaint now.
For these reasons, my view was that I had no power to look at this part of the complaint.
However, the complaint about the claim on the policy is different. My provisional view was 
that I could consider this complaint. I set out my reason for this, and went on to consider the 
merits of this complaint, as follows:
The complaint made in 2017 concerned a claim Mr M had made then. This current complaint 
is about a claim he made in 2019. And Aviva provided a final response to this complaint in 
December 2019. Aviva did refer back to the response provided in 2017 and said the same 
principle applies  if a solicitor has assessed a claim as not having reasonable prospects of 
success, then it won't be covered. I appreciate it concerns the same principle as the earlier 
complaint. But this is a different claim.
Each claim is considered on its own merits and a fresh decision made. The decision on this 
claim is not related to the decision made on the claim in 2017. Each time a decision is made 
on a new claim, Mr M is entitled to complain about that decision. And if the complaint is 
brought to this service, we would look at how this claim was dealt with, taking into account 
what legal advice Aviva obtained on this claim and whether its decision, based on that 
advice, is reasonable. What Aviva said about a previous claim in 2017 is not relevant to how 
it dealt with the claim in 2019.
For these reasons, I'm satisfied the complaint about the claim Mr M made in 2019 is one we 
can consider.
And having reached that conclusion, I have gone on to consider this aspect of the complaint 
as I think there is enough information for me to reach a view.
Aviva rejected this claim on the basis of the legal advice about prospects of success. The 
policy terms say a claim must have prospects of success, which means it must be more 
likely than not that the policyholder will win their case. The policy also says Aviva may refuse 
to provide cover if it would not be reasonable to incur further costs. These terms are 
common in legal expenses policies. They mean insurers dont have to meet costs for claims 
that are unlikely to be successful, or where the costs are too high compared to the value of 
the claim.
I would expect an insurer to get legal advice before deciding whether a claim has reasonable 
prospects. And the insurer is entitled to rely on that advice, unless its obviously wrong. 
Aviva did get legal advice. And that advice didn't support Mr M's claim. I haven't seen the 
initial advice provided by the solicitor. But I have seen the further advice they gave after 
reviewing the claim following further submissions by Mr M. This is a reasoned piece of 
advice from a suitably qualified lawyer, explaining why the further information didn't change 
their opinion.
On this basis, my view is that Aviva's decision not to provide cover for the claim in 2019 was 
in line with the policy terms and was fair.
Replies to the provisional decision
Aviva has replied to say it accepts the provisional decision and has no further comments to 
add.
Mr M did have some further comments. He says he and his wife are paying for cover but 
whenever they have a legal problem, Aviva declines the claim. He also says their solicitor 
said he does have a good case. He says hes been let down by Aviva, and had to pay legal 
costs himself. He asks if he can claim compensation for this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mr Ms further comments but I havent changed my view on the complaint. 
He hasnt made any further comments about those aspects of the complaint that were made 
out of time. As Ive had no further comments to contradict my view on this, theres no need 
for me to consider this further. The only aspect of the complaint that I can consider is the recent claim. As I explained in the 
provisional decision, Aviva had taken legal advice. The advice was set out in writing by a 
qualified lawyer and it was reasonable for Aviva to rely on that. If Mr M can now provide a 
fresh opinion from his own solicitor contradicting that advice, then Id expect Aviva to review 
that and reconsider the claim if appropriate. But on the basis of the legal advice it had at the 
time, Avivas decision was fair and in line with the policy conditions, for the reasons set out in 
the provisional decision. 
I appreciate that Mr M has legal expenses cover and its very disappointing if a claim is 
rejected. But the fact he has an insurance policy doesnt necessarily mean every claim will 
be covered. As with all insurance, there will be terms and conditions that apply and every 
claim will be considered against those conditions to see whether it is covered. I cant 
comment on any other claims  Im only considering this particular claim. And for the 
reasons given I dont think Aviva was at fault in the way it considered this claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2020. 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman