DRN-1394787
The complaint
Mr M complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco) have rejected a claim he made 
to them under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the investigators opinion. I know that will come as a 
disappointment to Mr M so please let me explain.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I dont have to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr M made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as 
against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
The invoice was for the carpet and accessories but the invoice excluded fitting which was 
listed separately. So fitting was not part of the contract that Mr M paid for. Tesco are only 
responsible for issues with the quality of the carpet as thats what was being financed 
through the use of the credit card they issued to Mr M.
I think its likely that the problems Mr M has reported with frayed edges; a poorly cut section 
where joins can be seen and the existence of rippling and bumps, are related to the fitting 
process. And, as that wasnt paid, or partly paid, using the credit card supplied by Tesco, it 
would not be reasonable to suggest they had responsibility for those issues.
And, even if Im wrong about that I can see that the merchant has offered to replace the 
carpet as a goodwill gesture, and I think that is a fair resolution to the matter.
Mr M complained about pulls in the carpet and some flattening of the pile. He also 
complained about a grey colour on the stair carpet. So, Ive thought about whether those 
issues are present and whether they could be considered faults with the carpet. 
The independent report does identify some flattening of the carpet in areas of high traffic. 
The inspector suggests that is normal reaction to foot traffic and that it is not a 
manufacturing fault. He says the grey colour is likely to have been transferred from a shoe 
and is definitely not manufacturing related. Im persuaded by the inspectors expertise in 
these matters that thats likely to be the case and Im therefore not persuaded theres 
sufficient evidence provided that the flattened pile suggests the carpet is defective or that 
there was a grey colour on the supplied carpet.
The tuft retention test suggests that fibres are sufficiently secure so I think that loose fibres 
are likely to have been created during the fitting process and I therefore dont think it would 
be fair to suggest that they are evidence of the quality of the carpet being unsatisfactory.
And, even if Im wrong about that, I think the offer to provide a replacement carpet is a fair 
one as it was only the carpet that was covered under the finance agreement and Tesco 
would never have had to recompense Mr M for the fitting cost as this was a separate 
transaction.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman