DRN-3445516
The complaint
Mr W complains about the failure of a transaction he tried to make using his credit card 
issued by American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL).
What happened
On 3 December 2021, Mr W attempted to purchase fuel from a merchant Ill call S. He tried 
three times to authorise the purchase and each time the transaction was declined. Mr W 
used an alternative card to complete the purchase instead and contacted AESEL for an 
explanation.
AESEL told Mr W that S had been unable to accept AESEL cards since December 2016 as 
S had not updated its retailer code. This meant any transactions attempted by AESEL card 
holders would be declined. AESEL issued a summary resolution communication (SRC) on 
9 December 2021 advising Mr W it had closed his complaint, but that he had the right to 
refer his complaint to our service within six months of that letter. Mr W did refer his complaint 
to us and also commented that he believed AESEL had broken complaint handling rules.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ws complaint but he didnt uphold it. He said the 
terms and conditions of the credit card allow AESEL to refuse to authorise any transaction 
and if S had been able to accept the card, there would have been no problem with it. Our 
investigator said he didnt think AESEL had broken the complaint handling rules.
Mr W didnt agree. He said, in summary that he didnt believe S was unable to accept 
AESEL cards and went into some detail about why he felt the complaint handling rules had 
been broken. 
As there was no agreement, Mr Ws complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W has provided a great deal of evidence to this service including information hes 
obtained from S. Ive carefully read all that hes provided and appreciate the work hes put in 
to present his case. If I dont comment on all hes said, that is not to be discourteous, rather I 
need to focus my decision on the crux of his complaint.
In my view, the crux of Mr Ws complaint is that he was unable to use his AESEL card to buy 
fuel as hed wished. When he queried this with AESEL he wasnt satisfied with the answer 
he was given and feels that AESEL should have done more under the complaint handling 
rules.
Our role as an alternative dispute resolution service, is to try to ensure consumers arent 
financially disadvantaged or suffer undue inconvenience as a result of a mistake by a 
financial business. We dont have the power to compel a business to change or update 
processes or procedures  that would be a matter for the regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). We consider individual cases and how the circumstances have affected the 
individual involved. So in this instance, I can only look at what happened to Mr W, not what 
may or may not have happened to other AESEL customers.
Furthermore, I cant comment on the action or inaction of S as it isnt regulated for the 
purpose of this complaint, and the complaint is not against it.
In this case, Mr W was disappointed he couldnt use his AESEL card to buy fuel from S. But 
he did have another payment method and he used that to complete his purchase. While I 
understand his frustration at not being able to pay for his fuel as hed wished, he was able to 
obtain fuel and go about his business. I dont think I can say he was unduly inconvenienced 
by this.
When Mr W asked AESEL why his payment was declined, he was told S was unable to 
accept its cards. AESEL said that had been the case since 2016, but Mr W has 
demonstrated he had made at least a couple of purchases from the same place since then. 
So I understand his confusion with the answer given.
Mr W has continued to investigate the reasons why his transaction was declined and has 
since discovered both AESEL and S became aware of a configuration issue between them 
which theyve now been able to resolve. Mr W says AESEL customers are now able to use 
their cards at S. The relationship between AESEL and S is not something this service can 
comment on or interfere with.
I appreciate Mr W is unhappy with the response received from the complaint handler who 
dealt with his concern when he contacted AESEL. He says the answer he was given was 
incorrect and led to AESEL issuing an SRC rather than a final response, in breach of 
complaint handling rules.
The complaint handling rules are set out in the Handbook of the FCA  specifically the 
Dispute Resolution section (DISP). When a respondent business resolves a complaint with a 
complainant within three business days, DISP 1.5 allows it to issue a SRC  a shorter, less 
detailed letter than a final response. DISP 1.5.2 says a complaint is resolved when the 
complainant has indicated acceptance of a response from the respondent. 
In this case, Mr W has said he accepted that a failure by the retailer to update retailer codes 
could lead to a decline. But he didnt accept the explanation in full as he believed hed 
bought fuel from S since December 2016. But it seems AESEL took Mr Ws acceptance of 
the first point as acceptance (at that stage) of the explanation and issued an SRC. Mr W 
says AESEL should instead have continued with its investigation and, ultimately issued a 
final response as required by DISP 1.6, and failure to do so is a breach of the rules. 
I understand Mr Ws unhappiness at not receiving an explanation he was satisfied with. But 
my role is not to police businesss complaint handling, but, as Ive mentioned already, look 
at the crux of the complaint to see if an individual consumer has been disadvantaged by a 
mistake made by the respondent. 
The purpose of the SRC and the final response are to provide an answer to the complainant 
and give referral rights to this service. Mr W was unhappy with the answer he was given, and 
he referred his complaint to us, so he hasnt been disadvantaged by not receiving a final 
response. I wouldnt expect  nor do the rules suggest  that a final response should be 
issued after a SRC has been sent.
I do appreciate Mr Ws strength of feeling about his complaint; this is evidenced by the amount of time hes spent researching the issue. But having considered everything against 
the backdrop of our role as an alternative dispute resolution service, I cant reasonably 
uphold his complaint and ask AESEL to do anything further for the reasons set out above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2023. 
Richard Hale
Ombudsman