The complaint
Mrs C complains that the type of account she opened for her child at Lloyds Bank PLC wont 
allow her to take money back out. She says the account was mis-sold.
What happened
Mrs C said shed opened two accounts for her child at Lloyds. Shed put money into one of 
these, a Junior ISA, then discovered she couldnt take this money back out again. She said 
she wanted it to pay for school expenses for her child. Mrs C said Lloyds had explained her 
child couldnt access this money, but it never told her she couldnt take the money out either. 
Mrs C wanted the money moved to a different account, so it could be taken out. 
Lloyds said Mrs C had opened a Young Saver account, which allows instant access, and a 
Junior ISA, which doesnt allow any withdrawals until the child is 18. Lloyds said that Mrs C 
had watched its video about the Junior ISA, which explains that. And it had given her the 
terms of the Junior ISA account, which also explain that. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. Shed seen the notes Lloyds 
made of the conversation, and she thought it was likely that Lloyds had explained to Mrs C 
that she couldnt access money paid into this sort of account. And her child cant access it 
until they reach 18. Because our investigator thought that had been explained to Mrs C, she 
didnt think Lloyds had to do any more. 
Mrs C didnt agree. She thought the account had been mis-sold. And she said that Lloyds 
staff had agreed with her that the video doesnt say parents cant take money out of the 
account. But our investigator said all the information shed seen confirmed that Mrs C was 
told withdrawals cant be made until the child turns 18. She didnt think Lloyds had to specify 
separately that the child cant take out money, and the parent cant do this either. She noted 
that Mrs C had also opened a Young Savers account at the same time, which gave her 
instant access to her money. 
Mrs C wrote again, to say she thought Lloyds should expressly state that parents cant take 
money out of the junior ISA. And she didnt think her requirements had been met when she 
opened the two accounts. Our investigator still thought that once Lloyds had said no 
withdrawals could be made, it didnt need to add anything to say that this included 
withdrawals made by parents. She also said that Mrs C had opened two accounts, one for 
long term savings for her child and another with instant access. It wasnt clear why she 
would open both these accounts if she only wanted an account with instant access.
Mrs C still thought that Lloyds should change its terms. She wanted her case to be 
considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a final decision.
DRN-1864836What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive reached the same overall conclusion 
as our investigator, and for broadly the same reasons. 
Lloyds has provided us with a list of the documents that Mrs C was given when she opened 
the accounts for her child. And its sent us those documents. Mrs C hasnt suggested she 
wasnt given these, and indeed, shes sent us some of the same documents. 
Those documents make clear that no withdrawals are permitted from a Junior ISA until the 
child is 18, unless the child is terminally ill or dies. Thats what Id expect the documents to 
say, as this is one of the rules that apply to all Junior ISAs, regardless of which bank offers 
them.
I dont think that this, and any supplementary video Lloyds uses to support its explanation of 
this ISA, needs to say that parents cant withdraw money either. I think that what Lloyds and 
Mrs C have already shown us, is clear. So I dont think this account was mis-sold to Mrs C. 
And I dont think that Lloyds needs to amend the terms of its account. 
I know Mrs C will be disappointed, but I dont think her complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 July 2020.
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman