DRN-1984374
 
The complaint
Mrs K complains that National Westminster Bank Plc wont refund transactions she disputes 
making from her account.
What happened
Mrs K was shopping and realised her bag had been taken which contained her NatWest 
bank card, cash and other items. She contacted NatWest and was told that £1,000 had 
already been taken out in cash using her card and that there were two payments of £50 
made to retailers. She wants her money back.
NatWest said it wouldnt be refunding this money. It said that the transactions had been 
made when the chip on the card was read and the correct PIN entered first time. There was 
no clear way in which an unknown third party could have obtained the PIN. So, it held Mrs K 
responsible for the transactions.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that the cash had 
been taken out in withdrawals of £500, £100 and then £400 all within a couple of minutes of 
each other. But there had been declined attempts due to the daily withdrawal limit on the 
account. Balance enquiries were made and there was also a declined payment for an item 
after Mrs K had cancelled the card. So, he didnt think she had authorised the payments. 
But he considered how her PIN had been discovered. Mrs K hadnt entered the PIN on the 
card for a genuine transaction for a month before that day. And she said she hadnt kept it in 
her bag or told it to anyone. The PIN hadnt been changed since issue in 2005. He thought 
that the most likely way it was discovered was because it was written down. And that as a 
result Mrs K had failed with gross negligence to keep her security information safe. He didnt 
think NatWest could reasonably have done anything to prevent these payments.
Mrs K didnt agree and wanted her complaint to be reviewed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I find I come to the same conclusions as our investigator for broadly the 
same reasons.
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with a card and PIN. And if these payments 
werent authorised Mrs K wouldnt generally be responsible for them. 
There are exceptions to that and the relevant one here is whether Mrs K acted with gross 
negligence in not keeping his details safe. Negligence is often referred to as a failure to 
exercise reasonable care. So, I think it fair and reasonable to conclude, the use of gross 
negligence, rather than mere negligence, suggests a lack of care, that goes significantly 
beyond ordinary negligence
So, I will be thinking about the following areas in looking at this complaint:
- What is the most likely explanation of what happened to the card and PIN used for these 
payments?
- Did the way Mrs K keep her security information amount to gross negligence?
- Is it fair and reasonable for NatWest to hold Mrs K responsible for these payments?
I wont be able to say exactly what happened here and I am considering what is most likely. 
Im satisfied based on the available evidence that Mrs K didnt authorise these transactions 
having taken into account what she said happened. These transactions are consistent with 
someone having taken her card and quickly using it to take out money up to the daily 
withdrawal limit. And that person didnt know what that limit was and made unsuccessful 
attempts to take out more cash trying different cash machines and making balance enquires. 
Although only limited purchases were made using the card and PIN an attempt was made 
after the card was cancelled. So, I think an unknown third party was using Mrs Ks card 
without her consent.
Having made that finding I also need to think about how that person discovered the PIN. 
NatWest has shown it had been randomly generated when issued and I dont see how it 
could have been guessed first time. There is no evidence to support it being possible that 
the existing PIN could be bypassed or changed by a sophisticated fraudster as Mrs K said 
thought could have happened. And that PIN was never changed since issue.  Mrs K hadnt 
input her PIN anywhere for just over a month. So, I think its unlikely someone could have 
observed her entering it then and been able to obtain her card that afternoon. Shes also 
said the PIN isnt the same as that used by her husband - just in case he was observed with 
her making a payment at around that time. 
The difficulty is that this only leaves the explanation that Mrs K had somehow recorded her 
PIN in her bag as the most likely one. I fully appreciate what Mrs K says about that and that 
she wouldnt have needed to record a PIN shed used and remembered for 15 years. But as 
I say in the absence of any other explanation, Im afraid I dont see any other likely 
alternative.
I need to consider whether she is fairly responsible for the payments she didnt authorise. 
Mrs K was reasonably required under the terms and conditions of her account with NatWest 
to keep her personal security information safe. I think a reasonable person would consider 
that it was careless of Mrs K to leave her security details in a way accessible in her bag with 
her card so that someone could take out money in this way. And I think that goes beyond 
ordinary negligence and was gross negligence on her part.
I dont think NatWest could have done anything to prevent these disputed payments and it 
stopped Mrs Ks card when she told it what had happened. So, I know Im going to 
disappoint her when I say that Im unable to reach any reasonable conclusion here other 
than to say that I think she is responsible for these payments.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2020.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman