DRN-3677810
The complaint
Mr H complains Headley Financial Services Limited trading as Ethos Financial Management 
(Headley) didnt advise him as it should have when transferring the benefits from his 
defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a personal pension. He says this was 
unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
Mr H is a financial services professional of many years experience. He was also an existing 
customer of Headley - in 2009 it had transferred his defined contribution (DC) pension 
worth about £22,000 to a personal pension on an execution only basis because of Mr Hs 
professional experience. Headley charged Mr H an ongoing fee. 
Mr H says that in early 2015, he started a transfer of his DB scheme benefits to his personal 
pension in order to benefit from its increased cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) at that 
time, because his professional experience meant he knew others were transferring out of 
their DB schemes to take advantage of what Mr H says was seen as an opportunity that was 
too good to miss.
On 10 March 2015 Mr Hs DB scheme provider sent him an acknowledgment of his transfer 
enquiry. And on 20 March 2015, Mr H signed the DB transfer application forms.
But the transfer application forms also needed to be signed by a financial adviser to show 
that Mr H had received advice about this transfer, as per the regulators requirements. It 
seems the personal pension provider contacted Headley about this. Headley emailed Mr H 
on 27 March 2015 to say it was happy to sign the form as I am quite sure you know what 
you are doing, so this will be recorded by us as an execution only transaction for a retail 
client. Mr H replied to say hed obtained the CETV for his DB scheme benefits and it had 
increased significantly due to the change in gilt yields. And that this plus the greater flexibility 
offered by a personal pension meant hed decided to transfer his DB scheme benefits to his 
personal pension.  
Neither Mr H or Headley dispute that Headley didnt prepare any documents or advise Mr H 
about this transfer. Instead they agree that on 8 April 2015, Headley simply signed the 
transfer form to declare that I confirm that I have advised the above-named Investor in 
relation to this transfer in accordance with the relevant FCA Rules. Following this, 
£164,669.06 was transferred from Mr Hs DB scheme to his personal pension.
Through our Service, Mr H complained to Headley in 2021 about its part in the transfer. He 
thought it hadnt checked that he understood the guaranteed benefits hed be giving up. 
Headley and Mr H had some communication. After about eight weeks, Headley was still 
investigating Mr Hs complaint, so it gave Mr H the right to refer his complaint to our Service. 
Mr H asked us to investigate his complaint against Headley. 
Headley sent us its file, saying Mr H hadnt given it the information it had asked him for in 
order to investigate and respond to his complaint. Headley told us it rejected Mr Hs 
complaint. It said it hadnt advised Mr H because he was a financial services professional 
with the knowledge and experience to understand what hed give up in a transfer, and Mr H 
hadnt wanted to receive advice or pay for it. To support this, Headley provided a statement 
from the adviser whod signed Mr Hs 2015 DB transfer application form. The advisers 
statement said hed known Mr H personally and professionally for some years, so hed 
signed the form as a favour because he was confident Mr Hs professional knowledge meant 
he was aware of the implications of transferring and didnt need advice.
For his part, Mr H told us hed become aware of a problem with the transfer in 2019 when, in 
his professional capacity, hed hosted an investment seminar covering DB transfers - this 
made him aware that transferring out of a DB scheme was rarely in a customers best 
interest. So while hed not paid Headley for advice about the 2015 DB transfer, he was still a 
paying customer and it shouldnt have let the transfer go ahead without following the proper 
advice process. Mr H said that if Headley had even briefly told him about the benefits hed 
be losing, he would have reconsidered going ahead with this transfer.
But our Investigator didnt think Headley needed to take any action here. He said it wasnt 
disputed that no advice had been given, so Headley shouldnt have declared it had given 
Mr H advice. It should instead have carried out a proper advice process for Mr H, in line with 
the regulators requirements. But our Investigator thought that even if Headley had done 
that, Mr H would have gone ahead with the DB transfer anyway. Thats because hed driven 
the 2015 transfer and his professional experience meant hed have been aware of the 
regulatory rules and the potential consequences of transferring. 
Mr H disagreed. He said Headley had made assumptions about his professional knowledge 
and didnt test those assumptions. That his knowledge didnt extend to the complexities, 
assessment of suitability, or regulatory rules for DB transfers. And he clarified his DBs 
scheme normal retirement age and his time to retirement in 2015. Mr H said Headley hadnt 
told him the regulators starting assumption for a DB transfer was that it was unsuitable, or 
that it was circumventing the proper advice process. Mr H accepted hed initiated the 
transfer, but explained hed simply repeated what hed done in the 2009 DC transfer. And his 
wish to transfer was driven by the enthusiasm of ex-colleagues doing similar, and talk of 
pension flexibility in the media  it wasnt because Mr H had assessed the facts or the risks 
of a DB transfer. And simply being aware of a particularly high CETV didnt mean he knew 
about the transfer risks. Mr H said hed paid Headley an ongoing fee, so it had a duty of care 
towards him.
Our Investigator shared Mr Hs comments with Headley. Headley suggested Mr Hs 
complaint was opportunistic and disputed Mr Hs argument that he didnt have the relevant 
professional knowledge to understand the DB transfer. It acknowledged there were errors in 
its procedures, but highlighted Mr H had signed a declaration to say hed received advice. 
Our Investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so this complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Headleys actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive reached the same 
conclusions as our Investigator, and for largely the same reasons.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Headley 
should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in 
Mr Hs best interests. 
However, its not disputed here that Headley didnt carry out the advice process the regulator 
required it to. Headley didnt gather information about Mr Hs circumstances, objectives and 
attitude to risk. Headley didnt consider the financial viability of transferring Mr Hs DB 
scheme benefits, or whether there were any other considerations which meant transferring 
was suitable even if it provided him with overall lower benefits. And Headley didnt set out 
any advice or recommendations to Mr H about a transfer. Instead, Headley simply signed a 
declaration to say it had given advice in line with the regulators relevant rules, when this 
wasnt in fact the case. 
This was a significant failing on Headleys behalf, because it was treating Mr H as a retail 
customer and not a professional customer. Therefore, Headleys role here was to discern 
what Mr Hs wants and needs were and why Mr H wanted to transfer his pension. Its role 
wasnt simply to facilitate what Mr H wanted. And it had to act in his best interests.
Headleys failing means theres no advice documentation from the time of the 2015 transfer 
that I can consider. I know the Investigator who previously considered this complaint 
nonetheless thought about whether the 2015 transfer was suitable for Mr H. But I dont think 
I need to consider that in this case. Because even if Headley had done everything it should 
have in 2015, the key point for me to consider is whether Mr H would still have gone ahead 
with the DB transfer anyway, regardless of what Headley advised him to do. And Im 
satisfied Mr H would still have gone ahead with the transfer and made the subsequent 
investments. Ill explain why.
Mr H says that in starting the 2015 DB transfer process, he was simply doing what hed 
previously done with his 2009 DC transfer. But its still the case that it was Mr H that initiated 
the 2015 DB transfer. In the weeks before Headley became involved, Mr H had already contacted his DB scheme provider to say he wanted to transfer, obtained the CETV, and 
completed the DB transfer application forms.
And its clear that Mr H was very keen to transfer his DB scheme benefits, because hes told 
our Service that at the time of the transfer, he knew that there was a degree of euphoria 
amongst DB pension scheme members on the value of their benefits. There was a feeling at 
the time that it was too good an opportunity to miss. I was very aware, as I have a good 
understanding of investment markets, that with gilt yields at a very low level the CETV value 
had gone up significantly. At this time various ex colleagues of mine from [business] were 
doing transfers of their benefits and it was highlighted as a great opportunity to do so.
And I think Mr H had already decided to transfer his DB scheme benefits before Headley 
became involved. Because on 27 March 2015 Mr H told Headley I obtained a transfer value 
for my accrued [DB scheme] benefits. This, in line with actuarial valuation criteria, has gone 
up considerably due to the incredibly low gilt yield that will be used in their assumptions. 
This, combined with the new pension freedom rules, gives me greater options later in life. 
Consequently I have decided to move them to my [personal pension].
I acknowledge Mr H says he didnt have specific DB product knowledge and so only became 
aware in 2019 that there might be a problem with his 2015 DB transfer. But Headley has 
provided me with evidence about Mr Hs educational and professional background. This 
evidence doesnt show that Mr H had specific product knowledge about DB scheme 
pensions in 2015. But Im satisfied it shows that in 2015 Mr H had almost 20 years 
experience as a financial services professional, had reached a relatively senior level, and 
that his product knowledge included investments and some pension products. So Im 
satisfied that Mr H had significant professional knowledge about pensions and investments 
in 2015. 
Mr H says that simply being aware of a particularly high CETV didnt mean he knew what 
hed lose if he transferred, and Headley didnt alert him to this as it should have. As I say, 
Headley failed to carry out a proper advice process here. But I think some of the transfer 
documentation Mr H saw, before Headley became involved, contained enough information to 
make Mr H reasonably aware his DB scheme might have had protections and guaranteed 
benefits. Because the letter Mr Hs DB scheme provider wrote to him on 10 March 2015 said 
he should be aware that if he had a right to enhanced or fixed protection, he might lose this if 
he transferred. And the DB transfer application form declaration that Mr H signed on 20 
March 2015 stated, I wish to transfer the value of all my benefits to [personal pension 
provider] as an alternative to leaving those benefits, including any statutory right I may have 
to a guaranteed cash equivalent in the pension scheme.
So, I think that this ought to have alerted Mr H to the possibility that his DB scheme might 
have had protections and guaranteed benefits. And on balance, I think its more likely than 
not that Mr H was aware of how a DB scheme differed to a DC scheme and the guarantees 
it provided. If Mr H thought this was outside his professional knowledge and experience, or 
had concerns about this, then its reasonable to think he would have asked Headley about 
this. But Ive not seen anything to make me think Mr H asked anyone about the possibility he 
might lose protections and guaranteed benefits if he transferred his DB scheme benefits to a 
personal pension. 
Instead, I think its more likely than not that Mr Hs professional knowledge and experience 
meant he felt confident in relying on his own judgement. And I think that professional 
knowledge and experience meant Mr H would have been aware of what was involved in the 
advice process and the broad regulatory framework around it. Yet despite this, Mr H signed 
the transfer application form declaration that stated, I confirm that I have received financial 
advice from my financial adviser (named below) regarding this transfer and understand that if I have not received financial advice, the pension scheme administrator will not accept the 
transfer when that was not in fact the case. And Mr H signed this before Headleys 
involvement in this transfer.
Im mindful that Mr H has explained that his wish to transfer his DB scheme benefits in 2015 
was being driven by knowing that other financial services professionals were doing this and 
that they thought it was a great opportunity. So even if Headley had told Mr H not to transfer 
his DB scheme benefits and that hed lose guaranteed benefits if he did so, I think its more 
likely than not that this advice would have been outweighed by Mr Hs confidence in his own 
professional knowledge and experience, and by what Mr H was hearing from many other 
financial professionals about the benefits of transferring out DB benefits. This is supported 
by Mr H signing the declaration to say hed received financial advice about the transfer, 
when he knew this wasnt the case, simply so the transfer could go ahead. 
In summary, I think Headley made a significant error by not carrying out a proper advice 
process for Mr H as it should have done. But overall, I dont think that would have changed 
the outcome in Mr Hs particular case. I say that because on balance, I think even if Headley 
had carried out a proper advice process for Mr H, Mr H would still have pursued the transfer 
and insisted on Headley transferring his pension. Thats because hed initiated the transfer 
and was driving it. He also knew that the regulator required him to take advice to achieve 
this, but he knowingly proceeded with the transfer without taking that advice. And Mr Hs 
own professional knowledge and experience, as well as that of other financial services 
professionals he knew of, had led Mr H to think that transferring his DB scheme benefits was 
an opportunity that was too good to miss in 2015. So, I think he would proceeded regardless 
of any advice not to transfer. For this reason, Im not asking Headley to take any action to 
put things right here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not asking Headley Financial Services Limited trading as 
Ethos Financial Management to do anything here.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2023.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman