DRN-3012791
The complaint
Mr S, on behalf of his business E, complains that QIC Europe Ltd has unfairly declined Es 
claim for storm damage to two of its properties under its Residential Property Owners Policy. 
QICs claims are handled by a separate business but I have referred to QIC throughout.
What happened
Mr S made a claim under Es policy for two properties at the end of January 2020, which I 
refer to as property 1 and 2. Mr S said he discovered water damage to the roof and side of 
the properties due to strong wind and rain on 10 December 2019. 
QIC sent a field surveyor to inspect property 1. It declined the claim saying the surveyor 
reported that the works had been completed before inspection and there was no evidence to 
validate any storm damage. The surveyor reported:
The customer advises that there was a long-standing issue to the bedroom ceiling which 
was covered in mould once this was uncovered it was eventually found that the rafter below 
the roof valley was very wet and had to be partially replaced due to the leaking valley from 
above which we are advised has been replaced In Its entirety.'
 
QIC concluded that this indicated an ongoing problem with the roof causing damage to the 
bedroom gradually over a period of time and isnt the result of storm damage and so isnt 
covered by the policy.
QICs surveyor also assessed property 2. It declined the claim saying there are multiple pre-
existing issues/damages to the property that are not attributed to storm conditions and said 
photos from Mr S, highlight rotting/deteriorating windows which are clearly not as a result of 
a one-off incident and have deteriorated as a result of age and lack of regular maintenance.
The surveyor said that photos of cavities and separation in the brickwork are evidence of 
poor workmanship and age-related wear and tear, which are exclusions within the policy. 
QIC said the claims hadnt been reported within 30 days of the incident as required by the 
policy and had prejudiced its ability to assess the damage by Mr S carrying out the repairs. 
Mr S had the repairs to the property carried out and complained about the outcome of the 
claim, as well as the service hed received. In response QIC said the damage was clearly 
due to gradual deterioration and so not covered by the policy. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He thought that QIC had fairly 
declined the claim because the storm wasnt the main cause of damage to the properties. 
Mr S didnt accept that damage wasnt partly due to winter storms, or that there wasnt 
significant rainfall after the dry storms the investigator had referred to. He said QIC should 
cover at least 60% of the repairs and requested an ombudsman review Es complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
QIC has pointed out that Es policy requires policyholders to tell it immediately and no later 
than 30 days of Your becoming aware of the event of occurrence. And said that Mr S didnt 
do this. Its not clear to me why Mr S waited from 10 December 2019 to 31 January 2020 to 
report the claim, or why he had some repairs completed before QIC had the opportunity to 
inspect Es properties. I think this prejudiced QICs ability to assess the cause of the claim 
and manage the process, but nevertheless I have considered Es claim on its merits.
outcome of the claim
The first thing I look at in this type of complaint is whether or not there was a storm at the 
relevant time. This is important because if there was no storm there cant have been any 
damage caused by storm.
The policy doesnt define the word storm. This isnt unusual. This service takes the view 
that a storm generally involves violent winds, usually accompanied by rain, hail or snow. Ive 
looked at the weather records for Es local area for a period of when Mr S said the storm 
took place. There was a dry storm recorded with winds up to 60 mph, but no rain.
The next thing we consider is whether or not the damage claimed was typical for this type of 
storm. And I think it possible for rooves and brickwork to be disturbed by such strong winds. 
But in the absence of rain there wouldnt be internal water damage as claimed for property 1. 
Finally, we consider whether or not the storm was the dominant or main cause of the 
damage. From the expert reports and the photos, and Mr Ss comments it appears to be 
clear that the external damage to both properties hasnt arisen as a consequence of a one-
off storm event as required by the policy. The window frames appear to be rotting, there is 
movement of bricks and missing mortar and breakdown of the filling in the cavity wall. All of 
this damage appears to me to have occurred gradually over time.
Es policy carries an industry-standard exclusion clause for damage occurring over time.
'What IS not covered
Damage caused by:
b) inherent vice latent defect gradual deterioration wear and tear:'
As I think that the damage to Es properties happened gradually over a period of time, I think 
it was fair and reasonable for QIC to have applied the exclusion in the decline of its claim. 
Es policy also includes accidental damage cover. For cover to apply, the damage must be 
unexpected, unintended and caused by sudden and external means. I think the same 
exclusion to gradual damage would apply here. In any event, damage from the other insured 
perils, including storm is excluded under the accidental damage part of the policy.
conclusion
I think QICs decision to decline the claim was fair because it hasnt been shown that the 
damage was mainly due to a storm that occurred at the time the damage was first noticed. I 
think it was reasonable for QIC to decline the claim for this reason and apply the exclusion 
clause within Es policy for gradual deterioration.
My final decisionFor the reasons I have given it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S on behalf of 
E to accept or reject my decision before 29 November 2021.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman