DRN-3315480
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with RCI 
Financial Services Limited (RCI) was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
On 1 July 2019, Mr M was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement with 
RCI. He paid a deposit of £6,860 and the agreement was for £5,537 over 24 months; with 23 
monthly repayments of £248 and a final payment of £249. At the time the car was just over 
five months old and had done 7,450 miles.
Mr M said he had problems with the cars air conditioning system. Hes also reported a 
number of other faults since raising the complaint with our service. These faults have been 
investigated and parts have been replaced by main dealers. But Mr M remains unhappy that 
the fault with the air conditioning has not been repaired. 
RCI didnt uphold his complaint. They said the dealer and the manufacturer had inspected 
the car and couldnt find the fault.
Mr M wasnt happy with RCIs response and referred his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator felt the noise from the air conditioning system didnt mean the car was of 
unsatisfactory quality. They said that RCI had fulfilled its obligations and they didnt think RCI 
needed to do anything more.
Mr M disagreed and supplied further information from a garage hed asked to inspect the air 
conditioning unit. Our investigator considered this information, but it didnt change their view, 
as the dealer said they couldnt find a fault.
Mr M didnt agree with the investigator and hes asked for an ombudsman to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr M was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to look into complaints about it. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, RCI 
are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such as what a reasonable 
person would consider satisfactory given the price, description, and other relevant 
circumstances. 
Mr M has complained of ongoing issues with the car, but this complaint is about the air 
conditioning system. Mr M says it emits a grumbling or howling noise he says this means 
its faulty.
The issue I have to consider here is whether or not there was a fault, and if there was, did it 
make the car of an unsatisfactory quality.
The car has been inspected by a manufacturer main dealer on at least four occasions. On 
three of those four occasions they either didnt hear the noise, or it was intermittent. On one 
occasion, in January 2020, they confirmed a noise, and replaced the parts.
Mr M said this repair didnt work, and he took it back to the dealer in October 2020. They 
confirmed a slight noise when cold, but said it was intermittent and not long enough to 
identify cause.
Mr M had the car inspected by another garage in October 2021. Ive seen the invoice and it 
shows they tested the fan and found no faults. And they confirmed this in a call with our 
investigator. They said they changed parts as a gesture of goodwill, but said they didnt hear 
the noise and were unable to identify a fault.
Ive also listened to a video Mr M supplied. In his covering email, he says its hard to hear 
the noise. The recording is seven minutes long  Ive listened to it several times, and I cant 
hear an excessive noise from the air conditioning system. 
A number of inspections have been carried out on Mr Ms car, and only one has found an 
issue. The others, including the two most recent reports have failed to identify a problem. 
And none of the inspections have reported the grumbling or howling noise Mr M complains 
of. Im persuaded by the findings of the experienced motor technicians that there isnt a fault 
that makes the car of an unsatisfactory quality.
Id also add that if a slight noise had been identified by the technician, I wouldnt say this 
made the car of an unsatisfactory quality. Ive assumed that the air condition system works, 
as nothing has been said about this. The fact that it makes a slight noise doesnt mean it 
requires repairing. And the dealer and RCI have carried out thorough investigations  and 
thats what Id expect them to do.
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr M, hes been frustrated by this noise for 
most of the time hes had the car. But for the reasons Ive explained Im satisfied the car was 
of a satisfactory quality when supplied. So I wont be asking RCI to do anything more
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint about RCI Financial Services 
Limited.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2022.
 
Gordon Ramsay
Ombudsman