DRN-2794554
The complaint
Mrs P complains about the quality of a used car that was supplied through a hire purchase 
agreement with N.I.I.B. Group Limited trading as Northridge Finance (NGL). 
Mrs P has been represented on this complaint. But to keep things simple Ill only refer to Mrs 
P in my decision.  
What happened
On 29 January 2018 Mrs P acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement with 
NGL. The car was registered in December 2016, which means it was about 13 months old 
and it had travelled 16,010 miles at the time of supply. The purchase price of the car was 
£9,925.99 and Mrs P paid a deposit of £100. Mrs P part exchanged her previous car which 
had some previous finance to settle which was in negative equity. This meant the total 
amount financed on this agreement was £11,299.58 payable over 49 months.
Mrs P says that in September 2020 she started experiencing problems with the steering of 
her car. In October 2020 Mrs P went to a mechanic who advised that the steering rack on 
her car would need replacing. The sales invoice recorded the mileage of the car as 36,419 
miles.
On 28 October 2020 Mrs P emailed NGL to complain that she believed the car was faulty 
when it was supplied to her and may have been in an accident. Mrs P says that NGL said 
shed need to obtain an independent inspection proving the fault was present when the car 
was supplied to her. NGL confirmed this in their file submission. 
Mrs P said she arranged for an independent vehicle inspection company, which Ill refer to 
as B, to carry out an inspection of her car. B provided an inspection report dated 4 
November 2020 with their findings.
Bs report concluded that the steering rack was considered a lifetime component but had 
shown several failures. It went on to say that corrosion had been identified within the 
steering rack showing the fault had been present for some time. 
Mrs P shared a copy of the report with NGL. NGL shared this with the dealer. In December 
2020 NGL provided their final response to Mrs Ps complaint. NGL didnt uphold Mrs Ps 
complaint. They explained that the issues identified on the report would have caused the 
MOT that was carried out in November 2019, to fail. They also said it would have shown up 
on the service health check, which was carried out on the car in February 2019.
NGL however offered to make a contribution towards the repairs of the car.
Unhappy with their response, Mrs P advised NGL in November 2020 that she was no longer 
going to make payments to her agreement with them because she wanted to reject the car 
based on the conclusions of the report. NGL confirmed that Mrs Ps last payment towards 
her agreement was made on 2 November 2020. 
In December 2020 Mrs P brought her complaint to us here. She explained that the situation 
with her car was causing her anxiety and she had to take public transport around when she 
had a medical condition.
One of our investigators looked into her complaint and concluded that NGL hadnt acted 
fairly. They didnt think that the car was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mrs P. 
Our investigator recommended that NGL repair the car at no cost to Mrs P and compensate 
her for the inconvenience caused. And they said NGL should reimburse Mrs P for the initial 
diagnostic and the independent report.
NGL disagreed with our investigators view and asked that the complaint is referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. NGL explained that the issue with the steering would have 
been checked during a MOT and service health check, and as it hadnt been picked up 
previously, they didnt believe it was developing at the point of supply. It said the conclusions 
of the independent report were incorrect, as the person who carried it out didnt know the 
steering was checked as part of an MOT. And it said the independent report was too 
expensive and it wasnt fair for it to pay for this.
The case has now been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
The agreement in this case is a regulated consumer credit agreement. As such, this service 
is able to consider complaints relating to it. NGL is also the supplier of the goods under this 
type of agreement, and responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant in this case. It says that under a contract 
to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory, fit for 
purpose and as described. To be considered as satisfactory, the CRA says the goods would 
need to meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, considering 
any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. The CRA 
also explains the durability of goods is part of satisfactory quality.
So, it seems likely that in a case involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court 
would consider might include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the 
vehicles history. 
From the information provided its clear to me that there was a fault with the cars steering 
rack. This is apparent from the invoice provided by the mechanic advising the steering rack 
needed replacing, and Bs report concluding the steering rack exhibited several failures. 
Having considered the cars steering rack was faulty, Ive had to consider whether the car 
was of satisfactory quality at the time of supply.
Mrs P has also complained to us about poor communication she received from NGL when 
she complained, and that she has issues with its investigation of her complaint.NGL are entitled to investigate Mrs Ps complaint as they see fit so I wont comment on this. 
And, while I understand Mrs Ps frustration, the timescale for NGL to provide a response isnt 
something that I can look into either.
satisfactory quality
Ive thought about this carefully, and having considered all the evidence I dont think the car 
was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mrs P.
My starting point is that NGL supplied Mrs P with a used car that had travelled 16,010 miles. 
With this in mind, I think its fair to say that a reasonable person would expect the level of 
quality to be less than that of a brand-new car with lower mileage; and that there may be 
visual and non-visual signs of wear and tear due to its usage. Having said that, the car was 
priced in excess of £11,000 which isnt insignificant. It also wasnt a particularly old vehicle. 
So, I think its fair to expect it could be used, free from any major issues for a reasonable 
period of time.
NGL havent provided us with any inspection reports in relation to the steering, however they 
explained that they believe the car wouldnt have passed its MOT had the steering been 
faulty as this forms part of the MOT check. Theyve also explained that it would have been 
picked up during a health check and service that was carried out on the car.
Bs inspection report has made the following comments within its conclusions:
The corrosion identified within the steering rack to the area inside the rubber gator 
shows that the fault has been present for some considerable time
This component has exhibited several failures while having only been operated for 
36,442 miles
The examiner carried out research into the steering rack component, and noted that 
this part has been updated or improved at least on three occasions, with the part 
number having been changed on all three occasions. This was confirmed with 
telecommunications with three separate authorised [manufacturer] parts outlets. This 
clearly confirms that the initial steering rack supplied with the vehicle was not fit for 
purpose or of suitable quality 
It also says in relation to the steering system the vehicle was not of satisfactory quality or fit 
for purpose at the point of sale.
The Driver and Vehicle Standards Agency advises that the scope of the checks required 
during an MOT test is limited to a visual inspection and doesnt require the dismantling of 
parts. So, I think its possible that the steering issues hadnt been identified during the MOT 
because of the limitations of the tests intrusion. 
I have considered that NGL said they didnt think the conclusions were valid, as the 
inspector didnt know steering was checked on an MOT. It hasnt provided documented 
evidence of this, such as a recording of the phone call it says took place. Bs inspection 
report was produced by a professional examiner who has listed quite extensive experience 
and qualifications, so Ive no reason to question its credibility or accuracy. And, NGL also 
said when it spoke to B about this it stood by its findings. So, thinking about everything, this 
doesnt change my opinion.
I find the conclusive evidence detailed in Bs inspection report quite compelling. In addition, 
Id expect a steering rack to last beyond 36,422 miles. To support this the report also 
advised that the steering rack component had been updated or improved on at least three occasions, so it appears to have been worked on previously which suggests an underlying 
problem with the component. And this further persuades me of its lack of quality and 
durability.
Bs inspection report also noted issues with the cars brakes and tyres, although Mrs P 
hasnt complained to us about these issues, I think theyre likely to be due to wear and tear 
rather than because of an inherent problem with the car, So, I havent considered these 
issues within my decision.
Thinking about everything here, I think its most likely there was an underlying fault with the 
cars steering when it was supplied to Mrs P. And, I also think the steering rack wasnt 
durable. Ive considered that NGL thinks any fault wouldve been picked up on an MOT, 
servicing or another inspection. But, I dont think the steering wouldve been looked at in the 
same level of detail at these points as it was when B inspected it. So, Im more persuaded by 
the conclusions in Bs report and Im satisfied the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it 
was supplied to Mrs P.  
Putting things right
As Ive determined that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mrs P, 
NGL will need to put things right for her.
I recognise Mrs P would like a rejection of the car. However, under the CRA, I think a repair 
is the fairest outcome in the circumstances.
Under the CRA if goods are not of satisfactory quality they do not conform to the contract. 
Section 19 of the CRA sets out certain remedies available to the consumer for goods that do 
not conform:
(3) If the goods do not conform to the contract because of a breach of any of the 
terms described in sections 9, 10, 11, 13 and 14, or if they do not conform to the 
contract under section 16, the consumers rights (and the provisions about them and 
when they are available) are 
(a) the short-term right to reject (sections 20 and 22); 
(b) the right to repair or replacement (section 23); and 
(c) the right to a price reduction or the final right to reject (sections 20 and 24)
In line with the CRA, I think NGL should be given the opportunity to repair Mrs Ps car. 
However, in the circumstances and due to the time that has elapsed since the car became 
undriveable, I find it reasonable that NGL must ensure Mrs Ps car is roadworthy following 
the repairs to the steering. NGL will need to arrange and cover the costs for this.
Mrs P has provided an invoice from a mechanic for £60 for the initial check in October 2020 
and another invoice showing that she paid £1,500 for Bs independent inspection. Although I 
recognise that £1,500 may be more than what an average inspection may cost, I havent 
seen that NGL had provided any guidance to Mrs P in regard to a cost limit. And as NGL 
advised Mrs P would need to provide a report, in the circumstances I think she was entitled 
to choose an inspection company that shed be comfortable with.
So, Ill be instructing NGL to reimburse £1,560 which is the combined cost of the mechanics 
initial investigation and of Bs independent inspection report.
As the car was confirmed faulty by a mechanic in October 2020 Mrs P said she stopped 
making payments towards the agreement from November 2020. And she advised that the 
car was left undriven. NGL has confirmed to us that Mrs P stopped her payments at this time. And Mrs P has provided recent photos showing the car parked on the driveway with a 
mileage of 36,422. So, I think it would be unfair to expect Mrs P to pay for the car whilst it 
was undriveable. This is also consistent with Bs inspection report which advises that in the 
current condition the car should not be driven on public highways. 
So, Ill be instructing NGL to clear the arrears on the agreement from November 2020 until 
when the repairs are completed. NGL will need to adjust the balance of the credit agreement 
to reflect this and treat the outstanding balance as though she had continued to make the 
repayments. NGL however, will need to arrange with Mrs P the re-instatement of her 
repayments to start from when the repairs to the steering are completed.
NGL will also need to remove any adverse information that appears on Mrs Ps credit file in 
relation to this agreement.
I also acknowledge the condition Mrs P says her car is in currently, however from the photos 
Ive seen I think its reasonable to say the mould, as described by Mrs P in her 
correspondence, could have been avoided or mitigated. I say this because the car was kept 
on her drive and so I think Mrs P would have had the opportunity to maintain the cars 
interior. So, I wont be asking NGL to take any action in relation to that.
Mrs P has explained the anxiety and stress that shes experienced as a result of this 
situation. Overall, I think £150 compensation is fair in the circumstances. I recognise Mrs P 
had expected more than this, but I havent seen any evidence that persuades me to award a 
higher amount of compensation.
I acknowledge the correspondence from Mrs P dated 28 April 2021 for the attention of the 
ombudsman. And I recognise that due to her personal circumstances Mrs P would prefer to 
have the car returned, particularly to avoid any delay to the resolution of her complaint. 
However, for the reasons explained I think my decision is the fairest outcome in the 
circumstances.   
My final decision
Having thought about everything above along with what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances I uphold Mrs Ps complaint and instruct N.I.I.B. Group Limited trading as 
Northridge Finance to:
collect the car and arrange for the repairs to the steering and ensuring it is made 
roadworthy at no cost to Mrs P
reimburse £60 paid by Mrs P for the initial mechanics investigation from 16 October 
2020
reimburse £1,500 paid by Mrs P for Bs inspection of the car from 2 November 2020
clear the arrears generated on the agreement from November 2020 as described in 
my decision
arrange with Mrs P the reinstatement of her monthly payments to start when the 
repairs to the steering have been completed
pay £150 compensation to Mrs P for the inconvenience this situation has caused 
her
remove any adverse information from the Mrs Ps credit file in relation to this 
agreement
N.I.I.B. Group Limited trading as Northridge Finance should pay 8% yearly simple interest* 
on all reimbursements calculated from the date of payment to the date of settlement. 
HM Revenue & Customs requires N.I.I.B. Group Limited trading as Northridge Finance to 
deduct tax from the interest amount. N.I.I.B. Group Limited trading as Northridge Finance should give Mrs P a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted if she asks for one. 
Mrs P can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2021.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman