DRN-4182900
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA)s engineer 
falsely told them their hot water cylinder was cracked and had to be replaced when they 
made a claim on their home insurance.
Both Mr and Mrs D are named policyholders on their RSA policy, so any claim or complaint 
is brought by them both. But for simplicity, and because most of the information about the 
complaint has been provided by Mr D, Ill refer mainly to Mr D from here onward.
What happened
Mr D had an RSA home insurance policy which included home emergency assistance. In 
May 2022, he discovered a leak from his boiler which had damaged a carpet as well as 
items stored beneath it. Mr D called RSA to arrange for an emergency repair. 
RSA sent an engineer the following day. The engineer concluded that the hot water cylinder 
needed to be replaced, costing £1,100 plus VAT. Mr D, who couldnt be present during the 
inspection, asked to see the engineers report. RSA initially told Mr D that the engineer 
hadnt provided a full report or cause of damage. It also told Mr D hed have to get the leak 
repaired himself before it would consider a claim but said his policy didnt cover the cost of 
repairs to his boiler. 
Mr D wasnt satisfied by this and asked for more information about the leak. RSA provided a 
little more detail about its engineers findings. Mr D asked RSA for a second opinion. RSA 
sent a second engineer to inspect Mr Ds boiler five days after the first inspection. The 
second engineer thought the leak was likely caused by a problem with the pressure relief 
valve. Neither engineer was able to stop the leak effectively.
Mr D appointed his own engineer to carry out repairs. Mr Ds engineer found the problem 
was related to the hot water cylinder and pressure relief valve and was able to repair it. As 
part of his repair, he replaced the hot water expansion vessel. This cost Mr D £549. 
Mr D complained to RSA. He believes its engineer tried to defraud him by saying the hot 
water cylinder was cracked and had to be replaced. This would have cost him double what 
he eventually paid. Hes also frustrated that he told RSA that the problem might be related to 
the pressure relief valve which appears to have been the true source of the leak. 
RSA didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. While it settled his claim for damage caused by the 
leak, it said its engineers diagnosis of a cracked cylinder was correct. It also said the 
damage to the boiler wasnt covered by Mr Ds policy because it was due to wear and tear.
Mr D brought his complaint to this service. He wants RSA to refund the cost of repairs, 
refund his annual insurance premium, and compensate him for what he says was attempted 
fraud by RSAs engineer and the distress this caused. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought RSA 
acted reasonably by relying on its engineers assessments. She also thought its decision to 
decline the claim for the boiler damage was fair. 
Mr D disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to consider.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 10 May 2023. I said:
First, Mr D has set out his concerns about RSA and its engineers business practices. I 
understand his concerns, however it isnt this services role to investigate misconduct. Thats 
for the UKs financial regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), and Mr D should 
raise this directly with the FCA. Our role is to look at what happened in the circumstances of 
Mr Ds complaint only, assess the cover under his policy, and decide if RSA (including its 
agents  in this case, its engineers) acted fairly.
Ive started by looking at what happened when Mr D reported the leak and RSA sent its 
engineer to inspect the boiler. RSAs engineer attended on 22 May 2022. RSA sent Mr D his 
findings the following day. This was incredibly brief: The customer requires a new cylinder a 
quote will be sent over shortly. The engineer didnt say why Mr D needed a new cylinder, so 
he asked for a fuller explanation. RSA sent him additional detail over the next two days:
24 May. RSA sent Mr D the engineers job report. This repeated the line from the day 
before, plus the following: Leaking all around beneath the cylinder so the shell off 
the cylinder is leaking. 
25 May. RSA sent Mr D the photos taken by its engineer, plus a final two sentences: 
The cylinder is cracked along the bottom which cannot be repaired and will need to 
be replaced. The leak has been isolated by the engineer.
Ive looked at the engineers photos and agree with Mr D that they dont show any obvious 
crack. I also note the engineer didnt highlight the crack in his job report.
I think its entirely natural that Mr D wanted to know what the problem was before agreeing to 
pay for a new cylinder, especially as the photos dont show a crack. The information 
provided by RSA and its engineer didnt identify the source of the leak and didnt say why the 
cylinder couldnt be fixed. I agree with Mr D that RSAs responses were inadequate, and I 
understand why he was dissatisfied with them.
The second RSA engineer who attended on 27 May identified a problem with the pressure 
relief valve. RSAs note of his findings says: Water was shooting out of prv and backing up 
causing water to escape into airing cudboard [sic]. Unvented hw exp vessel had no air 
pressure in it sp [sic] pumped it back up to 3 bar and now prv is not passing. I note that he 
doesnt mention any crack in the cylinder or suggest it had to be replaced. Mr D told us the 
engineer was extremely surprised that the first engineer thought the cylinder had to be 
replaced. 
Mr D also says both engineers were only able to stop the leak for a day or two at most. 
This is consistent with the evidence. RSAs 23 May email  the day after its first engineer 
attended  told Mr D he should get the boiler leak fixed in order to prevent any further 
escape of water. The second engineer noted water shooting out of prv on 27 May. I think 
this shows the first engineer hadnt stopped the leak.
Mr Ds engineer attended on 8 June. According to Mr D, he too found the leak was related to 
the pressure relief valve and hot water expansion vessel. He found he had to replace the hot 
water cylinder. Mr D told us this could have been avoided if the issue had been 
identified/resolved immediately. I accept that its possible RSAs first engineers failure to diagnose the problem correctly 
and/or temporarily stop the leak meant more significant repairs were needed. However, its 
also possible the cylinder would have had to be replaced even if the cause of the leak had 
been identified earlier. I dont have a report from Mr Ds engineer about this and it isnt noted 
in his invoices. 
Ive looked at Mr Ds policy to see what it covers. Home insurance policies dont typically 
provide cover for boiler or central heating failure as standard. This is usually either available 
for an additional premium or must be bought as standalone cover. There are two types of 
home emergency protection in Mr Ds policy:
Home emergency assistance (table 9, page 8). This comes as standard with the 
policy. Under this cover, RSA will pay up to £200 for urgent assistance to make your 
home safe and secure. I think its reasonable to say that stopping a boiler leak might 
fall under this.
Home emergency cover(table 10, page 8). This is an optional cover, available for an 
additional premium, and provides added protection. For example, under this cover 
RSA would pay up to £1,000 for repairs to the heating system and, potentially, up to 
£500 towards the cost of a new boiler. 
The policy booklet explains that Your Policy and Schedule and additional Policy Wordings 
provided with Legal Services and/or Home Emergency cover are evidence of that 
contract. In other words, Mr Ds policy schedule will show whether Mr D has the optional 
cover.
Mr Ds policy schedule shows he had the standard home emergency assistance but it 
doesnt list the optional home emergency cover. RSAs 5 February 2022 cover letter 
summarises the policy, including Optional extras youve added. This lists legal services, 
personal possessions, and freezer food but not home emergency cover. I think this shows 
Mr D didnt have this cover. And, given boiler breakdown is explicitly listed under the optional 
home emergency cover, I think its reasonable to conclude that repairs to Mr Ds boiler 
arent included in his standard cover. 
That means Mr Ds policy doesnt cover him for repairs to his boiler. So, even if the first 
engineer had correctly diagnosed the problem, Mr D would still have had to pay for the 
repairs himself. His home emergency assistance would only pay up to £200 for any 
emergency repairs.
I cant see that RSA ever explained this to Mr D. Instead, it said its engineers diagnosis of a 
cracked cylinder was correct and that the damage to the boiler wasnt covered by his policy 
because it was due to wear and tear. Im surprised RSA has maintained that the cylinder 
was cracked when theres no evidence for this. I also think RSA could have better explained 
the reason that Mr Ds policy didnt cover the repairs.
Ive thought about whether the damage might be covered under the accidental damage part 
of Mr Ds policy. I can see from its internal notes that RSA considered this as well. 
Accidental damage is defined in the policy booklet as Damage caused by external means, 
other than a deliberate act of any of the insured. Thats quite a broad definition. However, I 
havent seen any evidence that suggests the damage was caused by external means. So 
Im satisfied the leak wasnt covered by Mr Ds accidental damage cover.
Finally, there were errors in RSAs 19 October 2022 response to Mr Ds complaint. For 
example, it said: we would not be able to send out another engineer for a second opinion. 
But its clear from the evidence that RSA sent a second engineer on 27 May. The letter also said the first engineer stopped the leak. As Ive said above, I think the evidence shows 
thats not true. I think this is another example of RSAs poor communication to Mr D.
In summary, I find that:
RSAs engineers conclusion that the leak was due to a cracked cylinder was wrong.
Both RSA engineers were unable to stop the leak for more than a day or two.
RSAs explanations about the cause of the leak were inadequate and its 
communication to Mr D was poor. 
Mr Ds policy covers him for emergency repairs but doesnt cover him for permanent 
repairs to the boiler.
Given the above, Im not persuaded that RSA fulfilled its obligations under Mr Ds policy or 
treated him fairly. Its first engineers diagnosis was wrong, and he failed to stop the leak. 
While the second engineers diagnosis is consistent with Mr Ds engineer, he too failed to 
stop the leak. I also think RSAs communication with Mr and Mrs D caused them additional 
frustration and concern.
I cant say for sure whether these failings led to more significant damage to the hot water 
cylinder. Im conscious RSAs first engineer said the cylinder had to be replaced, albeit for 
the wrong reason, but the second engineer didnt. And Mr D would have had to pay for any 
repairs himself. Mr Ds policy covered him for up to £200 for emergency repairs. In the 
circumstances, I think RSA should pay £200 towards the cost of Mr Ds repairs.
As Ive indicated above, it isnt in my power to make punitive awards. Nor do I think its fair to 
ask RSA to refund Mr Ds insurance premium. His policy protects him against many other 
insured events, such as water damage from the boiler leak. Indeed, RSA settled this part of 
Mr Ds claim. So it can be said that Mr D has had use of his policy.
However, I can make an award to reflect the frustration and inconvenience RSAs handling 
of their claim, including its poor communication, caused them. Having thought about the 
level of award this service makes in similar circumstances, I think RSA should pay Mr and 
Mrs D £200.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr D clarified one point. He explained that he hadnt replaced the hot water cylinder, as Id 
said. His engineer replaced the hot water expansion vessel. He said this was an important 
distinction because part of the hot water expansion vessel had become irreparable due to 
RSAs failure to identify the problem. He says if this had been spotted earlier it wouldnt have 
had to be replaced and he wouldnt have had to pay £549 for repairs. He asked me to 
consider whether this made a difference to my decision.
Mr D also asked me to tell RSA that he intended to forward his concerns about its conduct to 
the FCA. 
RSA agreed with my provisional decision and had nothing to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Mr D for his clarification. This addresses the only lingering questions I had in this 
case: why Mr D paid only £549 for something RSA quoted at £1,100, plus VAT; and whether RSAs first engineers conclusion was ultimately correct, if for the wrong reasons. Mr Ds 
clarification has answered both points: Mr D paid for a different repair than that quoted by 
RSA; and the hot water cylinder wasnt replaced.
I know Mr D thinks he paid £549 unnecessarily because of RSAs engineers failure to 
identify and repair the fault with the hot water expansion vessel. However, his additional 
information doesnt change my provisional decision, for two reasons.
First, Ive no evidence showing that an earlier diagnosis would have meant the fault could 
have been successfully repaired. Mr D has acknowledged that his engineers report didnt 
cover this. As I said in my provisional decision: I accept that its possible RSAs first 
engineers failure to diagnose the problem correctly and/or temporarily stop the leak meant 
more significant repairs were needed. However, its also possible the [hot water vessel] 
would have had to be replaced even if the cause of the leak had been identified earlier. 
Second, Mr Ds policy only covers him for emergency repairs, not a permanent fix. Theres 
no guarantee that the hot water vessel wouldnt have failed again even if RSAs engineers 
had been able to make a temporary fix. Mr D would have been liable for any repairs.
My role is to be fair to both parties. I think my proposed redress  for RSA to contribute £200 
towards the cost of the repairs and compensate Mr D for its poor handling of his claim  is 
fair.
Given neither party had any other comments I see no reason to change my provisional 
decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint in part for the same reasons set out in my 
provisional decision. I order Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to:
Pay Mr and Mrs D £200 towards the cost of their boiler repairs.
Pay Mr and Mrs D a further £200 to reflect its poor handling of their claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 July 2023. 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman