DRN-2843435
The complaint
This is a complaint that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold Mr and Mrs C payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1990.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr and Mrs C disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
In reviewing the complaint, Ive checked the possible ways in which the PPI might have been 
mis-sold. Ive also taken full account of the comments made in support of the complaint. 
Mr and Mrs C have said they would not knowingly have taken out PPI, and would have 
assumed the PPI charge was part of the mortgage package that had to be paid. 
If Lloyds did add the PPI without Mr and Mrs Cs true consent, that would be wrong and 
would amount to a mis-sale. 
But it wouldnt be fair for me to conclude this happened unless there was reasonable 
supporting evidence of it. As a general principle of fairness, where someone has said 
another person (or organisation) has done something wrong, there needs to be reasonable 
evidence that this probably did happen. It wouldnt be fair to make someone prove they 
didnt do something wrong, especially when it was such a long time ago. 
And, in this case, there are difficulties with the evidence in showing whether its likely this 
happened. 
First, this did happen over 30 years ago, so it wouldnt be surprising if Mr and Mrs C didnt 
remember the detail of everything that took place  but that does mean it may not be fair to 
rely only on what they now remember.
And, secondly, there is at least some documentary evidence that Mr and Mrs C were made 
aware of the offer of the PPI, and that they agreed to it. The mortgage application form had a 
section where you tick if you want a quote for PPI  this was on the same final page where 
Mr and Mrs C signed their mortgage application. I realise its possible they may not have 
been the people who ticked the box, and that they may not have understood what they were 
signing. But this is at least some evidence to support that Lloyds didnt add the PPI without 
telling customers and getting their agreement.
So, I dont have strong enough evidence to fairly conclude Lloyds acted wrongly in the way 
Mr and Mrs C now believe. 
Ive looked to see whether there are other reasons the PPI might have been mis-sold  but 
having done so, I dont think they apply.
I think Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs C, and this means we would judge its 
sales process by a higher standard  it had to make sure the PPI was suitable for 
Mr and Mrs Cs particular circumstances. However, it looks to me as though a 
recommendation would have been a suitable one, based on what Ive seen of 
Mr and Mrs Cs situation at the time: 
Its true that PPI was of questionable value for many people with certain types of 
borrowing. But finding yourself unable to pay a mortgage can lead to significant 
difficulties, and it was often sensible to consider covering yourself with PPI for this.
Its likely Mr and Mrs C were eligible for the policy, so would have been entitled to 
make a claim if needed. 
The PPI would have paid benefits at the same time as Mr and Mrs C received any 
employer sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would have paid unemployment 
benefits in addition to any redundancy pay. And it would have put off the time when 
Mr and Mrs C would need to fall back on any savings or other means they may have 
had for paying the mortgage and other living costs. This all would have put 
Mr and Mrs C in a more secure position, if theyd eventually lost income due to long 
term sickness or unemployment. 
Ive not been told anything to suggest Mr and Mrs C couldnt afford the PPI when 
they took it out; so it wasnt unsuitable in that way. And they could have cancelled the 
policy if this changed later on. 
There are some things the PPI didnt cover (exclusions). But its unlikely 
Mr and Mrs C would have been affected by any of these.
So I think the PPI would have been potentially useful, and so a recommendation was 
suitable. It would then be up to Mr and Mrs C to decide whether they wanted to accept the 
recommendation and agree to buy the PPI (assuming, that is, they were made aware of the 
offer, which I accept they are saying didnt happen).
Its hard to know how well Lloyds explained the costs and benefits of the policy. But I dont 
anyway think its likely that full and clear information about this would have made a 
difference to whether or not Mr and Mrs C took the PPI. I say this because, in their 
circumstances, its unlikely this would have made the PPI seem less useful.
Its possible Lloyds didnt clearly point out the main things the policy didnt cover. But its 
unlikely Mr and Mrs C would have been affected by any of these.
 
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 August 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman