DRN-2412136
The complaint
Mr P complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) shouldnt 
have given his late wife a credit card. And the interest and fees were unreasonable. 
What happened
The late Mrs P was given a Barclaycard in 2002. She sadly died in November 2009.  The 
account was closed in April 2010. 
Mr P complained to Barclaycard in November 2019. He said his wife had retired and had a 
serious heart condition. She shouldnt have been given the card. As a result, she paid 
interest and fees that were too high. He said that Barclaycard hadnt replied, so he brought 
his complaint to this service in January 2020. He also complained that Barclaycard shouldnt 
have increased her credit limits  but he agreed to make this a separate complaint to 
Barclaycard. 
Barclaycard said they considered that Mr Ps complaint was out of time under the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys rules covering complaints - known as the DISP rules (DISP 2.8.2) - as 
the card was issued more than six years before Mr Ps complaint, and more than three years 
before he should reasonably have been aware that he had cause to complain.
We put this to Mr P. He said that he only became aware of the issue as a result of articles 
published by Debtcamel.co.uk in March 2018  which said that Barclaycard had been asked 
to refund certain fees. There was also a PPI refund made in January 2019  which alerted 
Mr P to the card. We agreed to look at Mr Ps complaint as this event was within three years 
of his complaint to Barclaycard in November 2019. Barclaycard agreed with this.
Barclaycard looked at Mrs Ps account. They didnt have the account opening forms from 
when the account was opened in 2002. They were only required to hold them for six years  
so they had been destroyed. So, they couldnt comment on the application. They looked at 
statements for the account and noted that no fees were charged during the time it was open. 
There were interest charges.
Our investigator looked at what had happened. She said that there was limited information 
available as Barclaycard didnt have the account opening information. But Mr P had told us 
that Mrs P was employed when the card was issued in 2002, and it was likely that this 
wouldve been considered by Barclaycard when giving her the card. But thats all she could 
say. She had looked at the statements and found that between 2002 and when the account 
was closed, there were no fees charged.
Mr P asked that his complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We agreed to look at Mr Ps complaint - as he said he only became aware of his late wifes 
card in 2018, and then again in 2019 when a PPI refund was made. But there are practical 
difficulties in looking at this complaint in a meaningful way with the passage of time. Barclays 
says it no longer holds any information from the time of the sale - as it is only obligated to 
retain information for six years. It is not for this service to tell businesses which information 
they should retain or not. So, we cannot see the account opening form, or any assessment 
Barclaycard made when the card was given to Mrs P. But Mr P told us that she was 
employed in 2002  when the card was issued  and retired in 2003. So, all we can say is 
that Barclaycard wouldve been told this at the time by Mrs P  and wouldve taken that into 
account. This would normally been a positive factor when Barclaycard looked at Mrs Ps 
application. But thats all we know. So, I cans say with any confidence whether Barclaycard 
should, or shouldnt have given Mrs P the card. There just isnt enough information.
Ive looked at the statements between 2002 and when the account was closed in April 2010. 
There were no fees charged. There was interest charged on the borrowing on the card. But 
this service cannot tell Barclaycard what its interest rates should be  thats a commercial 
decision for it. So, I cannot say whether the interest charged to the account was reasonable 
or not. The charging of interest is a consequence of borrowing money  and Mr P has told us 
that he is complaining separately about the credit limits given to Mrs P by Barclaycard.
So, while I sympathise with Mr Ps complaint, there is nothing more I can do here, and wont 
be asking Barclaycard to do anymore.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and the 
estate of Mrs P to accept or reject my decision before 3 March 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman