DRN-4459647
The complaint
In summary, Mr E complains that he was given incorrect information by Citibank UK Limited, 
when he enquired about a payment he was expecting to be made into the bank account he 
has with it. 
In particular, he says he was told the problem was with the payer of the money, he was then 
told the money had been received and checks were being carried out in respect of the 
payment. He wasnt told what checks were being carried out and he thinks the entry in 
respect of the payment on his statement had been doctored; and the timing of 
correspondence made no sense. 
He says Citibanks mistakes delayed the payment being credited to his account.  He also 
said he had been put to considerable inconvenience because of the mistakes it made.
What happened
On 24 August 2022 a third party sent an electronic payment of £1,000 to Mr Es bank 
account with Citibank. Mr E contacted Citibank on 25 August 2022 as the funds had not 
credited to his account, and he provided it with information supplied by the payer, which 
showed that the payment had been made to Citibank.
Over the course of the next two weeks, Mr E was given different information about what had 
happened to the payment. Mr E had multiple conversations with Citibank trying to find out 
what had happened to the payment he was expecting. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Es concerns. He said that Citibank was entitled to 
carry out further checks on the incoming transfer. But he didnt think it should have advised 
Mr E to obtain further information from the third party. He recommended £100 be paid to 
Mr E for the inconvenience he had incurred.
Mr E didnt agree with what the investigator said. He didnt think the investigator had 
correctly understood his complaint. The investigator then asked Citibank for the calls it had 
with Mr E. Citibank provided the calls, but they couldnt be accessed by this Service. 
Transcripts of the calls were then provided by Citibank. 
The case was passed to me to review. I asked the investigator to request further information 
from Mr E and Citibank. Mr E didnt want any further dialogue with the investigator but was 
happy to speak to an ombudsman.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I thought Citibank hadnt provided Mr E with 
correct information, and why I thought the compensation the investigator had suggested 
wasnt enough. Citibank accepted my decision, but Mr E thought a further amount was 
warranted due to the inconvenience and time he had incurred dealing with the investigator. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Es complaint. Ill explain why. 
In reaching my findings, I havent commented on every point of concern Mr E has raised. I 
dont intend to offend him by not doing so or mean any disrespect in taking this approach. 
This reflects the informal nature of this service. Instead, Ive focussed on the key issues I 
think I need to consider, in deciding on whether Citibank did anything wrong. 
 
Im satisfied from the information Ive seen that a payment was sent to Mr E on 24 August 
2022. In its initial response to Mr Es complaint, Citibank told him that it hadnt made an 
error. It said that it carried out checks on incoming and outgoing transfers and that its 
turnaround time for completion of those was two to three business days but could take 
longer. It said the payment was successfully completed by it on 24 August 2022.
In its response to my information request, Citibank said that the payment wasnt held up for 
further review and that Mr E had been incorrectly informed about that. Its payment team had 
advised that the delay was due to an unexpected technical issue regarding incoming CHAPS 
payments which were being received without account numbers. This had caused delays in 
payments crediting beneficiary accounts. 
So, contrary to what Citibank told Mr E in its final response, it didnt carry out checks in 
respect of the payment. Citibank also told Mr E in that response, that the payment was 
successfully completed on 24 August 2022. That again appears to be incorrect information. I 
say this because when it was asked to explain the different dates on the statement entries 
that Mr E has expressed concerns about, it said the value date of 24 August 2022, was the 
date the payment was initiated, and the date of 9 September 2022 was the date the funds 
were credited to Mr Es account. 
I think the impression Citibank gave Mr E, was that the funds were credited to his account on 
24 August 2022, when they werent credited to his account until 9 September 2022  over 
two weeks after it told him the funds had been credited to his account. And it wasnt until 14 
September 2022, that it says it told Mr E of the correct reason for the delay. It was only after 
Mr E lodged another complaint that Citibank issued another final response on 23 September 
2022, offering him £100 compensation. 
I can also see that during this period Mr E called Citibank on several occasions to find out 
what had happened to his payment. The call transcripts and contact records Citibank has 
provided, indicate that Mr E had to chase Citibank during this time period to find out what 
was happening. So, I think its very likely that Mr E found all of this very frustrating as he has 
said it was. And Im satisfied therefore that Citibanks mistakes and the incorrect information 
it provided to Mr E, caused him unnecessary distress and inconvenience. 
I think its appropriate therefore that Citibank should pay Mr E compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience that hes been caused. Ive considered what Mr E has said about what he 
thinks should be an appropriate compensation figure. And Ive noted that he thinks an 
additional £50 should be paid for every continuing failing that he thinks Citibank has made. 
In considering an award for distress and inconvenience, I need to think about the impact on 
Mr E of the mistakes made by Citibank. I also need to explain that I dont have the authority 
to make any punitive award against Citibank. The rules under which I operate simply dont 
provide for me to make such an award. Mr E has said in his response to my provisional decision, that further compensation should 
be paid due to the time and inconvenience he has incurred in dealing with the investigator. 
That isnt something I can comment on or consider in respect of the complaint made about 
Citibank.  I can only consider what has happened in an individual case. And I can only make 
an award that recognises the impact on Mr E of the mistakes made by Citibank.
I understand that Mr E thinks Citibanks actions led to a breakdown in his relationship with 
the third-party payer. However, I dont have enough information to make such a finding. And 
I cant hold Citibank responsible for Mr Es discussions with the third party. 
The delay in the payment being credited to Mr Es account amounted to approximately two 
weeks, which whilst I accept was two weeks longer than it should have been, was a 
relatively short delay. I also accept that Mr E was put to the inconvenience of having to 
chase this matter up with Citibank. Realistically in addressing issues such as those 
experienced by Mr E in this case, there is always going to be certain amount of frustration 
and inconvenience. 
I do think however that in this case, Mr E provided Citibank with evidence to show that the 
payment had been made with the details of his account and the payers account details. The 
amount that had been sent was a relatively large sum. I can understand therefore that Mr E 
may have been more concerned and frustrated by the lack of information and incorrect 
information that he received from Citibank, when trying to find out what had happened to the 
payment; than if he had been chasing a smaller payment. 
 
Deciding on the amount of an award of compensation for distress and inconvenience is not 
an exact science. But I do think Citibank compounded what was already a difficult situation 
for Mr E by providing him with incorrect information about what had happened. As a result, 
for the reasons Ive explained above, I dont think the offer it has made adequately reflects 
the impact on Mr E of its mistakes. I remain of the opinion that a figure of £250 is an 
appropriate figure to compensate Mr E for the distress and inconvenience he has been 
caused by Citibanks mistakes.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I uphold Mr Es complaint. If Mr E accepts my decision, 
Citibank UK Limited should pay him £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
he has incurred.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Mr E to accept or reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman