DRN-3786262
The complaint
Mr M complains that Dixipay Ltd didnt do enough to prevent him losing money to a scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
Mr M made payments to an account held with Dixipay. These totalled around €40,000 and
took place in late 2019 and early 2020. At the time he believed these to be funding a
legitimate investment with a firm Ill refer to as B. But he says he later discovered B were
operating a scam and he was unable to withdraw his funds.
In March 2020 Mr M contacted Dixipay asking that they return his payments and the profits
hed accrued. He also told them that he believes B had defrauded him and that hed
contacted his local police. No money was recovered. Mr M doesnt think Dixipay did enough
to prevent his loss and he complained.
Ultimately Dixipay didnt offer any redress as they didnt think theyd done anything wrong.
The matter was considered by our service and our Investigator didnt recommend it should
be upheld. Mr M disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint.
In September 2023 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im intending to agree with our Investigators outcome, and for essentially
the same reasons. I know this will be disappointing for Mr M, so Ill explain why. And as Im
providing a greater level of detail, Im issuing this provisional decision to give both parties a
further opportunity to comment before finalising my decision.
Whilst Mr M believed he was paying B, his payments actually went to an account in the
name of another business G. In the circumstances here Dixipay were providing their
customer G with a payment service. G then had its own customers or clients. Dixipay arent
responsible for decisions or actions taken by G.
Dixipay have evidenced that they correctly followed their process when opening Gs account.
I dont think they reasonably could have known (at that time) that the account they were
opening would later go on to be used in connection with a fraud or scam. So, I dont think
Dixipay reasonably could have prevented Mr Ms loss in relation to its opening of the
account.
Ive also reviewed the activity on the account both before and soon after the arrival and
spending of Mr Ms funds. Given the previous account history, I dont think there was
anything so unusual in the account activity where Id have expected Dixipay to have
intervened or to have otherwise done more. So, again, I dont think they failed to
appropriately monitor the account.
Mr M has evidenced that another victim had contacted Dixipay in July 2019 reporting a
series of payments theyd made to the same account, as fraud. Dixipay have explained that
when they receive a notification alleging fraud they pass it on to G. G would then provide a
response directly to the client and share information with Dixipay. This is broadly what Id
expect in these circumstances and doesnt change my opinion as to whether Dixipay
appropriately monitored the account they held. In the course of any business relationship
there may be disputes and I dont think it was unreasonable for Dixipay to accept the
evidence G provided showing a link between them and the party raising the dispute.
When Mr M reported his payments to Dixipay, documents were provided by G evidencing a
link between them and Mr M. This included some of the identification documents Mr M had
provided as well as copies of bank statements showing the source of the funds. I dont think
it was unreasonable for Dixipay to accept that documentation and to not take further steps at
the time. Particularly as they had already terminated their relationship with G by that point
and the evidence supports that Mr Ms money had already moved from the account in any
case.
Mr M has highlighted two other victims of the same scam, who he says have received
redress from Dixipay and he questions why he hasnt been treated the same. This complaint
is about the loss to Mr M. And what he is asking about here is a potential complaint from
another party. He is also making assumptions as to where the funds for the other partys
redress came from. I can only comment on Dixipays actions in relation to Mr Ms complaint.
And Dixipay choosing to refund other victims is not a basis upon which I can fairly and
reasonably ask them to refund Mr M.
Mr M also says that G were linked to other businesses about whom there were warnings
online (B being one of these) and that Dixipay had previously ended their relationship with
these other companies. He believes this means that Dixipay ought to have ended their
relationship with G sooner. Id generally expect Dixipay to monitor each of their customer
accounts on an individual basis. I appreciate that G shared what appears to be the same
serviced offices with the other companies. But each of these businesses is a distinct legal
entity. And I dont think sharing the same offices was enough of a reason to expect Dixipay
to also close Gs account. I dont think Dixipays decision to end their relationship with G at
the time they did was unreasonable. Ive not seen anything that persuades me that they
reasonably ought to have acted sooner in relation to the account that received Mr Ms funds
(which was the one held by G).
Mr M has also mentioned the service hes received from Dixipay. But Dixipay arent a
business that generally deals directly with consumers. And to some extent they were reliant
on seeking information from G. I dont think there were service failings by Dixipay such that a
compensation award is appropriate.
I sympathise with Mr M being the victim of a scam. But as Im not persuaded his loss is as a
result of failings by Dixipay, there isnt a reasonable basis upon which I can direct them to do
more to resolve this complaint.
Dixipay didnt respond to my provisional decision. Mr M responded with some comments 
which Ill address below. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In support of his complaint Mr M has provided evidence of various warnings given by 
different organisations about B. And he says that one of these dated in September 2020 
issued by the Captial Market Commission of Bulgaria also made reference to G. 
Ive considered these, but whilst Mr M may have been dealing with B, the account he paid 
was Gs. And the warning Ive referenced above (which he says mentions G) was issued 
long after Mr M had already made the payments relevant to this complaint. And Im not 
persuaded those warnings make a difference to the outcome of this complaint. 
Mr M says he believes that Dixipay have violated Anti-Money Laundering (AML) and Know 
your Customer (KYC) regulations as well as a directive of the European Parliament. The 
crux of his argument seems to be that Dixipay knowingly allowed the transfer of money that 
was the result of a criminal scam. He says that had Dixipay complied with the above, then G 
would not have received his money and his loss would have been prevented. He has 
referenced the previous notification of fraud Dixipay received in relation to Gs account in 
July 2019 from another person to support this. 
Ive addressed Mr Ms point about the notification from July 2019 in my provisional decision. 
And whilst Dixipay provided G with a payment service, G had their own customers. And I 
dont think Dixipay accepting what G told them about that dispute at the time was 
unreasonable. So, I dont agree that Dixipay continuing to provide G with an account after 
that date means they were knowingly complicit in furthering financial crime or failed with 
regard to their AML regulations.
Further to this, even where a payment service providers (PSP) customer has been found to 
have acted fraudulently, it doesnt automatically make the PSP liable for their customers 
actions. Dixipay arent responsible for the actions of G. 
And as I explained in my provisional decision, Im satisfied that Dixipay followed their usual 
process when opening the account in question. So, I dont agree that there were failings in 
relation to KYC. Dixipay followed their process and took appropriate documentation to 
facilitate Gs account being opened. I maintain that they couldnt have known at that time 
that the account they were opening would later receive funds as the result of a scam.
Im of course sorry to hear that Mr M still has such a significant loss. And I hope the 
authorities are able to prosecute those responsible for scamming him and that this results in 
him receiving redress. But as I dont think Dixipay are responsible for the loss, there isnt a 
reasonable basis upon which I can direct them to do more to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Richard AnnandaleOmbudsman