DRN-4220897
The complaint
Mrs J complains that True Potential Wealth Management LLPs (TPWM) poor service led to 
a delay that caused her distress and a significant financial loss to her available pension 
benefits.
Mrs J is represented by her husband, but for ease Ill refer only to Mrs J.
What happened
Mrs J wanted to transfer the benefits from her two Defined Benefit (DB) pensions, which Ill 
call D and Q. She contacted TPWM for advice about this in September 2020, and says 
she met TPWM on 15 September 2020 and gave it the CETVs shed already obtained for D 
and Q. Ds CETV expiry date was 12 November 2020, and Qs CETV expiry date was 18 
November 2020. Mrs Js contact at TPWM wasnt qualified to advise on DB transfers, so he 
referred the matter to a specialist adviser at TPWM. But he remained Mrs Js point of contact 
at TPWM.
TPWM began gathering information from Mrs J and the ceding schemes for pensions D and 
Q. By 30 October 2020 TPWM had decided not to provide Mrs J with advice about 
transferring out of D and Q. It emailed decline letters to Mrs Js TPWM point of contact, but 
it seems this message wasnt passed on to Mrs J. 
Instead, Mrs J thought the advice process for D and Q was still continuing, especially since 
TPWM carried on gathering information from her and the two ceding schemes. This included 
getting a new CETV for D in December 2020, as the original CETV had expired. Ds new 
CETV had an expiry date of 9 March 2021. 
On 16 February 2021, TPWM confirmed to Mrs J that it wouldnt advise her on transferring 
D. Mrs J says she contacted a new financial adviser the same day for advice about 
transferring D and Q, and that her new adviser applied to transfer these on about 17 July 
2021. The benefits from D and Q were then transferred into Mrs Js personal pension on 
2 and 27 August 2021 respectively. 
Mrs J complained to TPWM that it should have told her sooner that it wouldnt provide her 
with advice. If it had done so, shed have contacted a new financial adviser sooner and 
would have been able to transfer pensions D and Q using the earlier and higher CETVs. 
In response, TPWM said the original CETVs were about a month old when Mrs J provided 
them. That it took time to gather the information it needed from Mrs J and both ceding 
schemes. And it considered pensions D and Q together because the income theyd provide 
were part of Mrs Js full circumstances. But on 30 October 2020, it had declined to provide 
Mrs J with advice about transferring D and Q, because Ds ceding scheme hadnt given it 
enough information and the CETV for Q showed the ceding scheme had reduced the 
transfer value due to the schemes assets being currently insufficient to pay full transfer 
values. TPWM accepted it had poorly communicated its decision to decline to provide 
advice. It said it had paid to obtain a new, second CETV for D, but still didnt get all the 
information it needed from Ds ceding scheme until 15 February 2021. And at that point it 
made an informed decision not to provide advice regarding transferring D. TPWM confirmed 
it hadnt charged Mrs J any fee. 
Unhappy with this, Mrs J brought her complaint to our Service. She said TPWMs errors had 
caused her a great deal of worry and distress and had affected her mental health. 
Our Investigator upheld Mrs Js complaint. He thought TPWM should have told her sooner 
that it had declined to provide advice on transferring D and Q. And if it had, Mrs J would 
have been able to complete her transfer of D and Q through another adviser using earlier, 
higher transfer values. He thought TPWM should put Mrs J into the position shed have been 
in but for its error and carry out a redress calculation on that basis. And that TPWM should 
pay Mrs J £350 compensation for the unnecessary distress it caused her. 
In response, Mrs J said TPWM should reimburse the fee shed paid her new adviser, as she 
thought TPWMs delay meant shed been unnecessarily charged that fee. And that the 
compensation shouldnt involve any tax element. But our Investigator didnt think Mrs J could 
have avoided paying a fee for the advice she went on to receive from her new adviser. 
In its response to our Investigator, TPWM thought any advice Mrs J had been given to 
transfer the benefits from D and Q might be unsuitable, so our Service should investigate 
this because it would affect the compensation TPWM might be asked to pay. But our 
Investigator confirmed he was only considering TPWMs actions here.
As agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint was referred for an Ombudsmans 
decision. While that referral was underway, Mrs J passed us her financial advisers view of 
this matter  in summary that TPWM could have seen from the start that Qs CETV was 
reduced, that TPWM continued gathering information after the point at which it now argued it 
had declined to give advice, and that any compensation should be paid directly to Mrs J.
This complaint came to me to consider. On 17 May 2023, I issued my provisional decision in 
which I said TPWM should have clearly communicated its decline decisions of 30 October 
2020 to Mrs J at that time, and should pay Mrs J £500 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience that failure caused her. But I said TPWM wasnt responsible for causing Mrs J 
a financial loss, because even if shed started over with a new adviser on 30 October 2020, 
she wouldnt have been able to complete the transfer process before her earlier and higher 
CETVs expired. 
TPWM accepted my provisional decision and had nothing further to add. 
Mrs J provided further detailed comments in response to my provisional decision. To 
summarise, she said:
Her point of contact at TPWM was still gathering information from her as late as January 
2021, despite it deciding to decline offering her advice on 30 October 2020.  TPWMs 
specialist adviser should have contacted her directly, given that TPWM had said her 
point of contact with it didnt have access to TPWMs specialist adviser and didnt hold 
sufficient qualifications. TPWM should be reported to the regulator for letting an 
unqualified person deal with her transfer.
The original CETV given to TPWM in September 2020 for Q clearly showed it had a 
reduced value, and TPWM wont accept CETVs with reduced transfer values. So it 
didnt matter what else TPWM might have needed to consider during the advice 
process, as it should have seen this was a reduced CETV from the start and gone no 
further.
Mrs J wasnt sure why Id suggested she might be unhappy with her new financial 
adviser, because she was happy with them.Whilst a CETV was initially guaranteed for three months, the guarantee was frozen 
indefinitely if the financial adviser completed their fact find and due diligence work and 
sent their letter of authority to the pension provider within those three months. 
TPWM didnt inform Mrs J about its decision to decline to advise her, so I was wrong to 
imply it hadnt caused significant delays as this was a five-month delay for Mrs J which 
she considered breached the regulators rules and guidance. And the regulator required 
TPWM to put Mrs J back into the position she should have been in, if not for its error.
The 22 weeks taken by Mrs Js new financial adviser was irrelevant. The second CETV 
was guaranteed from 9 December 2020 to 9 March 2021. If TPWM had informed Mrs J 
of its decline decision on 30 October 2020 as it should have, then she would have 
engaged a new financial adviser who would have completed their advice process and 
letter of authority by 9 December 2020, which would have frozen the CETV guaranteed 
as of December 2020 with the pension provider. So Mrs J had lost the difference in 
CETVs from then, and this financial loss should be calculated by an independent expert. 
I hadnt asked TPWM to officially apologise to Mrs J or addressed how its poor 
communication would be rectified to ensure other customers didnt have the same 
experience in future. 
TPWMs delay in telling Mrs J it declined to provide advice meant Mrs J was treated by 
a doctor for the impact of this on her mental health and was off work for six weeks. So, 
£500 wasnt enough compensation for her distress and inconvenience.
Im now in a position to make my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. 
TPWM has suggested that any advice Mrs J was given to transfer the benefits from D and Q 
might be unsuitable, and our Service should investigate this. But in this decision, Ive only 
considered Mrs Js complaint against TPWM. Ive not investigated or made any findings 
about the actions of Mrs Js new financial adviser, and I note Mrs J says she is happy with 
them. But if Mrs J was unhappy with her new financial adviser, in keeping with TPWMs 
suggestion, then shed need to firstly raise a complaint with her new adviser. 
Id like to reassure both parties that Ive considered all of the comments and evidence 
theyve provided to our Service regarding Mrs Js complaint against TPWM. But my 
decision wont address all the evidence and points raised. I mean no discourtesy by this, 
its simply that Ill only address what I see to be relevant in reaching what I consider a fair 
and reasonable outcome to Mrs Js complaint against TPWM. 
Im upholding this complaint, as I think TPWM didnt communicate with Mrs J in a timely 
way as it ought to have done. But I dont think TPWM needs to compensate Mrs J for the 
financial loss she says this caused her. I realise this will be very disappointing to Mrs J, 
but Ill explain my reasons.  When Mrs J approached TPWM for advice in September 2020 and gave it the original 
CETVs for pensions D and Q, those CETVs only had about two of the three-month 
guaranteed period remaining before expiration. Ds CETV expiry date was 12 November 
2020, and Qs was 18 November 2020. 
Ultimately, TPWM can choose not to provide advice. But it still needed to tell Mrs J it had 
declined to provide advice clearly and without unnecessary delay. Mrs J thinks TPWM 
should have seen when she first met its adviser that Qs CETV was reduced, and ought to 
have told her immediately that it wouldnt provide her with advice about transferring Q. She 
says that if it had, shed have found a new financial adviser as she wanted to transfer both D 
and Q. So Ive thought about whether TPWM could reasonably have decided not to advise 
Mrs J any sooner than it did on 30 October 2020. But I dont think this is the case. 
Mrs J met TPWM on about 15 September 2020. This was an initial meeting and Mrs J wasnt 
speaking to a TPWM adviser that was qualified to provide the service she wanted. So I dont 
think its reasonable to think Mrs J ought to have been told at first meeting that TPWM 
wouldnt advise her on the transfers.
Mrs J thinks TPWMs specialist adviser should have communicated with her directly, and 
that TPWM should be reported to the regulator for letting an unqualified (and thus 
unauthorised) person deal with her transfer. But I dont think TPWM made an error here. 
TPWM is entitled to make its own decisions about which of its employees are in direct 
contact with its customers. And while Mrs Js TPWM point of contact dealt with some of the 
administrative work and communicated with Mrs J, its clear that it was one of TPWMs 
suitably qualified and authorised specialist advisers that was ultimately assessing the 
information gathered and deciding about the advice. I havent seen anything that makes me 
think someone was acting in excess of how they were authorised to act by the regulator. But 
its a matter for Mrs J if she wants to contact the regulator.
After meeting with Mrs J in September 2020, TPWM started to gather information from her 
and the ceding schemes, and this would necessarily take time. Its reasonable for TPWM to 
do this and to then properly review the information. I know Mrs J feels very strongly that 
TPWM should have told her right at the start that it wouldnt advise her, as it should have 
seen that Qs CETV had a reduced value and TPWM wont accept such CETVs, so nothing 
else mattered. But it is still the case that the value of one CETV (and whether this was 
reduced) is only one of many points TPWM would have to take into account for the two DB 
pensions Mrs J wanted to transfer, and I think its reasonable for TPWM to have followed its 
usual preliminary information gathering process. It needed to do all this for two DB pensions, 
and Ive not seen anything to make me think TPWM caused any significant unnecessary 
delays during this time.
TPWM then needed to make its decision. Its clear that by 30 October 2020, TPWM had 
decided not to provide Mrs J with advice about transferring either of her two DB pensions. 
I say that because Ive seen that it wrote decline letters regarding D and Q on this date and 
emailed them to Mrs Js TPWM point of contact. Given all this, and bearing in mind that 
Mrs J wouldnt have been TPWMs only customer at that time, I think the six weeks TPWM 
took between first meeting her on 15 September 2020 and then deciding not to provide her 
with advice on pensions D and Q on 30 October 2020 wasnt an unreasonably long time. 
Ive gone on to consider whether TPWM should have told Mrs J sooner and more clearly that 
it wasnt going to provide her with advice about transferring pensions D and Q. And I think it 
should have.
As I say, its clear that by 30 October 2020 TPWM had decided not to provide Mrs J with 
advice about transferring D and Q and had communicated this to Mrs Js TPWM point of contact. But TPWM seems to accept this wasnt passed on to Mrs J. And as Mrs J has 
reiterated, the evidence shows that over the following weeks and months, TPWM continued 
to gather information from Mrs J as well as D and Qs ceding schemes. So Im satisfied 
TPWM didnt clearly and unambiguously communicate its decline decisions of 30 October 
2020 to Mrs J as it could and should have. 
So TPWM should have told Mrs J that it wasnt going to go any further with her soon after it 
had made that decision on 30 October 2020. If her point of contact had told her this, I think 
Mrs J wouldve quickly gone elsewhere for advice, as shes shown thats what she eventually 
did. So I agree TPWM caused unnecessary delays here. 
But I dont think TPWM needs to compensate Mrs J for the financial loss she says this 
communication failure caused her. As Mrs J points out, she should be put back into the 
position she would have been in if not for TPWMs error. And having taken everything 
provided into account, I dont think it can reasonably be concluded that even if Mrs J had 
been told shortly after 30 October 2020 that TPWM wouldnt provide advice, that this means 
she would have found a new adviser who it can be said would have acted in such a way that 
she would have been able to benefit from earlier, higher CETVs. 
Mrs J suggests that if she had been told around 30 October 2020, this would not only have 
allowed her to identify and appoint a new adviser at an earlier time (which I accept) but also 
enabled her to fix the CETVs before they expired. 
Its important to note there is always some necessary uncertainty when looking at 
transferring DB pension scheme benefits and how long the process will take. Its a time-
consuming process in which a lot of information has to be gathered and considered, for good 
reason. And theres no guarantee that the final recommendation will be what the consumer 
hopes for. 
I accept Mrs J was committed to progressing things as quickly as she could, because I can 
see that when TPWM eventually confirmed to her on 16 February 2021 that it wouldnt 
provide her with advice about transferring pension D, she contacted another financial adviser 
the same day. Mrs J has provided me with some correspondence and documents from her 
new adviser. She says that by about 17 July 2021, her new adviser had advised her and 
applied to transfer the benefits from D and Q to a personal pension. The benefits from D and 
Q were transferred on 2 and 27 August 2021 respectively. 
This means it took almost 22 weeks following Mrs J first contacting her new adviser on 
16 February 2021 for that new adviser to submit the application to transfer both DB pensions 
on about 17 July 2021. It then took a further six weeks for both of Mrs Js DB scheme 
benefits to have been transferred to her personal pension. I dont agree with Mrs J that I 
ought to discount this information or that it isnt relevant. 
Ultimately, a new adviser would have started the process afresh. This would involve 
obtaining information from Mrs J and the ceding schemes before it could be in a position to 
advise, as is required by the regulator. I see no reason to think it can be reasonably be said 
Mrs Js new adviser wouldve progressed things any faster overall just because Mrs J had 
contacted it earlier. So if Mrs J had contacted a new adviser on 30 October 2020, I think her 
new adviser would still have taken the almost 22 weeks it did in fact later take to get things 
to the point where it had advised Mrs J and applied to transfer both her DB benefits. So that 
would take us to around 30 March 2021. 
The original CETVs for D and Q had expired months before this in November 2020. I accept 
there was a new CETV for D, which TPWM had paid to obtain. But if TPWM had done what 
it ought to have done and communicated to Mrs J its decision to decline to provide advice on around 30 October 2020, this particular CETV would not have been obtained. In any event it 
expired in early March 2021. I note Mrs J was rightly not charged for this further CETV 
TPWM paid to obtain. I also note its not disputed that TPWM hasnt charged Mrs J any fee.
So Im satisfied Mrs J would still have needed to get new CETVs, and these new CETVs 
were unfortunately lower than the originals. 
But TPWM should have clearly communicated its 30 October 2020 decline decisions to 
Mrs J at around that time. So it must pay Mrs J £500 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience this failure caused her. In reaching this amount, Ive taken into account the 
significant impact Mrs J has told us she personally experienced. I understand Mrs J thinks 
£500 isnt enough and Ive thought carefully about everything our Service has been told. 
Weighing everything up, Im satisfied TPWMs failure to tell Mrs J about its 30 October 2020 
decline decisions caused Mrs J unnecessary distress and inconvenience, as it left her 
thinking matters were progressing for about three and a half months longer than was 
necessary, which will have increased her frustration and worry at the wait, as well as the 
impact of her disappointment in February 2021. 
Mrs J says Ive not asked TPWM to officially apologise to her or addressed how its poor 
communication would be put right so that other customers didnt have the same experience 
in future. Ive seen that TPWM apologised to Mrs J in its final response to her complaint, and 
I think that was fair. And while I can understand Mrs Js concern about what went wrong 
here, my role isnt to tell TPWM how it should communicate in future with all its customers. 
Instead, my role is to consider Mrs Js individual complaint against TPWM.
Putting things right
TPWM should pay Mrs J £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused 
her.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, True Potential Wealth Management LLP should pay Mrs J 
£500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman