DRN-3124390
The complaint
This is a complaint that AXA Insurance UK Plc declined to pay Mrs and Mr Cs 
travel insurance claim.
What happened
Through their bank account, Mrs and Mr C had travel insurance, which was underwritten 
by AXA. In January 2020 Mrs and Mr C had booked a holiday to a Mediterranean 
country, and they were due to travel out on 5 September 2020.
Not long before the departure date, the government of the destination country declared 
that visitors must show they had had a recent negative Covid test. This had to have been 
taken no more than 72 hours before departure.
Mrs and Mr C say they arranged to have an NHS test 71  hours before the departure 
time. Mrs and Mr C says they chased the NHS to try and speed things up, but the results 
didnt arrive until after the time of departure. The results came back negative.
Our investigator looked at the insurance policy, and the circumstances of the claim, 
and thought that AXAs decision was reasonable. Mrs and Mr C disagreed.
When I looked at the case, I also thought the complaint should not be upheld. But, as 
Mrs and Mr C had since made a number of further comments, I decided to write a 
provisional decision, so that eveyone could comment on my current view of the 
case. This is what I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My current view is that I should not uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that AXA has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. Ive taken 
these rules and
guidelines into account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of Mrs and Mr Cs complaint.
Was Mrs and Mr Cs claim covered by the policy terms and conditions?
The policy lists the things AXA will cover, when a holiday cant go ahead. It says:
We will pay You up to £5,000 for Your share of the cost of Your Trip as a 
result of:
the death, injury or illness, as certified by a medical practitioner, of You, 
Your Relative or Colleague or travelling companion or a friend or Relative 
with whom You had arranged to stay; or
Your attendance at a court of law as a witness (but not as an expert 
witness) or for Jury Service where postponement of the Jury Service has 
been denied by the Clerk of the Courts Office; or
You or Your travelling companion is a member of the Armed Forces, 
Police, Ambulance, Fire or Nursing Service and authorised leave is 
cancelled due to an unexpected emergency or a posting overseas at the 
time of Your Trip; or
You or Your travelling companion are instructed to stay at Home (within 
14 days of Your departure date) or return Home by a relevant authority 
due to severe damage to Your Home or place of business in the UK 
caused by serious fire, explosion, storm, flood, subsidence or burglary; or
the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) declaring either of the 
following:
i)Your compulsory quarantine preventing You from travelling
ii)Your destination is unsafe to visit and they advise against all travel; or
Your Redundancy or that of Your travelling companion or Your spouse 
(including a civil partner or co-habitee); notified to You after opening Your 
Ultimate Reward Current Account or after the date the Trip was booked, 
whichever is the later; or
Your cancellation of the Trip as a result of a Travel Delay (Section 5) 
where the delay is in excess of 12 hours from the first international 
departure time specified in Your official itinerary.
The circumstances of Mrs and Mr Cs cancellation are not covered by any of these. 
The nearest is the final bullet point  travel delay. But the section on travel delay 
says:
Section 5: Travel Delay/Missed Departure
This section of Your policy explains the cover We provide for travel delay or 
missed departure whilst on Your Trip. Words with special meanings are 
printed in bold type and can be found in the Words with special meanings 
section.
The benefit provided under 1 below is intended to provide compensation if 
You are delayed at Your point of departure and is only applicable if You have 
travelled there and checked-in. If You have not travelled to Your departure 
point You will not be covered even if You have checked-in online.
What IS covered:
1. A delay resulting in You departing at least 12 hours (unless Your Trip is 
three nights or less when the number of hours delay is reduced to six 
hours) after Your original scheduled departure time; and
2. Abandonment of Your Trip following a 12 hour (unless Your Trip is three 
nights or less when the number of hours delay is reduced to six hours) 
delay at Your first international departure point in the UK; and
3. Arriving too late (as shown on Your ticket) to board Your booked transport 
at Your last departure point from the UK or Your last departure point for 
Your return to the UK as a result of:
a) Public Transport services failing to get You to Your departure point due to strike, industrial action, adverse weather conditions, 
mechanical failure or direct involvement in an Accident; or
b) the private motor vehicle in which You are travelling being directly 
involved in an Accident or breaking down.
Again the reason, that Mrs and Mr C didnt go on their holiday, is not covered by this 
list.
The other area of the policy, which comes a little close to covering Mrs and Mr Cs 
situation, is that of travel disruption cover. This is for mishaps that occur after you 
have started the trip  for example, government travel advice changing. The policy 
says:
Section 13: Travel Disruption Cover
This section of Your policy explains the cover We provide for travel disruption 
cover whilst on Your Trip. Words with special meaning are printed in bold type 
and can be found in the Words with special meanings section and below.
What is covered: Before You reach Your destination
We will pay You up to £5,000 for Your unused travel, accommodation and 
other Pre- paid Charges that You cannot claim back from any other source if 
You cannot travel and have to cancel Your Trip as a result of
c) The Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) or other regulatory 
authority in a country to/from which You are travelling advising 
against all travel or all but essential travel to the country or specific 
area You are travelling to providing the advice came into force 
after You opened Your account or made Your travel arrangements 
for this Trip (whichever is the later) and was within 28 days of Your 
departure date
But the destination governments ban, on travel without a valid test, is not covered by 
this section  and that requirement had been in place before Mrs and Mr Cs 
scheduled departure. Also, for this section there is a specific exclusion:
What is not covered:
Claims arising directly or indirectly from:
[being] Denied boarding due to Your drug use, alcohol or solvent abuse or 
Your inability to provide a valid passport, visa or other documentation 
required by the Public Transport operator or their handling agents.
Mrs and Mr C didnt have the required other documentation, which was proof of a 
negative Covid test, so would have been denied boarding.
By buying travel insurance you dont avoid all risks  there is still a risk that you will 
lose money when booking a holiday, as not every situation is covered. An insurer is 
entitled to decide which risks it is prepared to cover, and which it wont cover  as 
long as it makes this
clear to its customers in good time. I think the policy document does make clear that 
Mrs and Mr Cs situation isnt covered.
Was it unreasonable for AXA to decline the claim?
Despite this, I can completely understand why Mrs and Mr C were surprised that their 
cancellation wasnt covered. And in some circumstances I can require an insurer to go beyond the strict wording of a policy, if it is fair and reasonable to do so. But I 
dont think it would be right for me to do that, in this case.
There have been a great many complications created by the pandemic, many of 
them completely unforeseeable at the time people were booking holidays. But Mrs 
and Mr C were due to travel at a time when there was ongoing travel disruption and it 
was increasingly common for countries to require travellers from the UK to provide a 
negative test, often within a specific timeframe.
This wasnt a risk that this policy covered, and I think it was open to Mrs and Mr C to 
obtain a higher level of cover, which provided protection for late test results, if they 
were concerned about the testing requirements of the country they were travelled to. 
In my experience, such policies were available on the market at the relevant time.
Ive also taken into account Mrs and Mr Cs comments in relation to the 
circumstances surrounding their test. They explained that they used the NHS to 
complete their tests  but theres never been any guarantee that the NHS can return 
results within a specific timeframe and there was a risk that the results wouldnt be 
back in time. Using a private provider would have ensured results within specific 
timeframes and enabled Mrs and Mr C to arrange a test which met their specific 
needs, including the rules of the destination they were travelling to. Ive taken into 
account the time at which Mrs and Mr C were travelling, which was relatively soon 
after travel began to open up within Europe. But by using the NHS there was no 
guarantee that theyd get the results within the timeframe they needed. Thats not a 
criticism of Mrs and Mr C as Im sure that they acted with the best of intentions. But I 
dont think its fair and reasonable for the insurer to have to cover these losses, in the 
circumstances of this case.
So, overall, in the specific circumstances of this case, I dont think it would be 
reasonable for me to require AXA to take on a risk that it did not expressly say it 
would to take on. And, I dont think AXAs decision was unreasonable. Regrettably, 
the losses from this situation will have to be borne by Mrs and Mr C.
Mrs and Mr C and AXA didnt give me any comments on this provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 November 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman