DRN-3482213
The complaint
Mr M complains that Cofunds Limited failed to close down a poorly performing fund despite 
his instructions to do so. Further, he says Cofunds has provided him with poor customer 
service for at least three years, and he wants to be properly compensated for this.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on 25 April 2022. Neither party has provided any further 
evidence in support of their case. So, my decision remains that I am not upholding this 
complaint. The background to this complaint is set out below.
In 2018, Mr M had several investments held with Cofunds. One of the funds held was a fund 
Ill refer to as S Acc fund. This fund formed part of an investment strategy chosen by Mr M. 
25% of Mr Ms monthly direct debit payment of £200, was used to purchase units in the 
S Acc fund and 75% was split equally between three other funds.
In June 2018 Mr M contacted Cofunds to do a fund switch. He wanted to close down his 
investment in the S Acc fund and spread the proceeds of sale across the three other 
investments. So, on 6 June he called Cofunds and asked for this to happen. During several 
calls Mr M wasnt given clear, fair and not misleading information about what he needed to 
do to action his request. As a result of its error, Cofunds paid Mr M £450 for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused.
Mr Ms holdings in the S Acc fund were sold at the end of 2018 by Cofunds as he had 
requested. But Mr M didnt at the same time, give any instructions to Cofunds to change his 
investment strategy. This meant that subsequent direct debit payments starting from January 
2019, continued to be invested in line with his chosen strategy which included buying units in 
the S Acc fund.
In November 2019, Mr M called Cofunds. During this call he noted that his direct debit 
payments were still being invested in the S Acc fund. The agent explained this was because 
he (Mr M) hadnt changed his investment strategy. As Mr M was busy, he asked the agent to 
call him back with an update. The agent undertook to do so, but no call back was received 
by Mr M.
Mr M contacted Cofunds again in October 2020. This time he complained about the 
proceeds still being used to invest in the S Acc fund. He said this had been a long running 
issue with Cofunds and he wanted to be paid compensation for its errors. Cofunds didnt 
uphold the complaint as it said the direct debit payments were being paid in line with Mr Ms 
chosen investment strategy. Mr M brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld as Cofunds had 
previously provided Mr M with confusing information about how to close down his funds. She 
asked Cofunds to do a loss assessment but as this showed hed not suffered any loss she 
didnt think any compensation was due. She noted that as Mr M hadnt changed his 
investment strategy despite being made aware of the need to do so, she didnt think Cofunds 
had to do anything further.
Mr M disagreed. He said in terms of him still not changing the strategy, he would like it 
recognised that due to Cofunds incompetence along with various excuses and lack of 
willingness to admit culpability, it was natural for him to be weary and distrusting of it. He 
said this was the reason along with waiting for the Ombudsmans advice that he hadnt 
changed the strategy. Mr M also noted that he hadnt received a call back when requested 
from Cofunds and wanted this to form part of his complaint.
Mr M says that despite Cofunds acknowledging his request to switch his funds, it has still 
failed to execute this. He said its clear from a call recording that he had concerns but that he 
has never been given the correct information about what terminology to use. He disagreed 
strongly with the investigators view saying he thought that Cofunds financial assessment, 
which showed his investments made a gain during the relevant period, didnt take into 
account the longer term nature of his investment. Mr M said Cofunds actions have resulted 
in considerable time, aggravation and distraction for him.
Cofunds has confirmed the date of the call between Mr M and its agent, was on 
13 November 2019. It said no further calls were made until October 2020 when he (Mr M) 
made his complaint. Cofunds also confirmed that Mr M could find out what his direct debits 
payments were being used for, by checking his online account. He also received information 
about his holdings via quarterly statements which were sent to him.
Following my provisional decision where I said I wasnt minded to uphold the complaint, the 
matter has been passed back to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst Ive taken on board everything Mr M has said, Im not upholding his complaint. I set 
out in my provisional decision the reasons why this is and Ive again set this out below. 
The starting point for this complaint is the terms and conditions of Mr Ms account. Amongst 
other things, these say under paragraph 3.3.3 (July 2020 and April 2018): We will continue 
to invest any regular contributions received in line with your current investment strategy 
unless you tell us otherwise. This applies to an investment strategy that purchases 
investments for which you do not have transactional access or you do not instruct us 
otherwise.
Mr Ms investment strategy involved the purchase of units in the S Acc fund. This is why 
after his switch request, his direct debit payments continued to purchase units in this fund. 
The switch request did mean the amount hed invested in the S Acc fund up until that point, 
were sold and the proceeds spread across his other investments. But it didnt change the 
investment strategy.
Mr M is an execution only client of Cofunds, meaning that whilst it needs to provide him with 
clear, fair and not misleading information, its for him to decide how he wants to invest his 
money and instruct Cofunds accordingly. And the instruction Cofunds currently has for Mr M 
is that he wants to invest in the strategy that invests 25% of his monthly direct debit 
payments in the S Acc fund. I dont think his previous instructions to sell his shares in S Acc 
fund, which was actioned at the end of 2018, changed what would happen with the ongoing 
direct debit payments.Mr M says he hasnt been provided with any clear information either in writing, or over the 
phone, about what he needs to do to prevent further investment in the S Acc fund. But the 
terms and conditions make this clear.
I also note that when Mr M called Cofunds in November 2019, he was told by the agent the 
reason direct debit payments were still being used to invest in the S Acc fund was because 
he (Mr M) hadnt changed his investment strategy. Despite this and knowing that he still had 
investments in the S Acc fund, Mr M didnt contact Cofunds for another year. Whilst Cofunds 
could have provided better customer service by calling Mr M back, I dont think this 
prevented him from changing his investment strategy.
Mr M says hes not taken any steps to change the investment strategy because he was 
waiting for the outcome of our investigation and he has also lost trust in Cofunds. But I cant 
see that any of these reasons prevented him from instructing Cofunds to change his 
investment strategy. Mr M says that Cofunds knew he no longer wanted to invest in the 
S Acc funds following his previous complaint. But as I said, this didnt deal with the future 
direct debit payments. Therefore, I dont think Cofunds has done anything wrong by 
investing in line with Mr Ms chosen investment strategy.
So, whilst I take on board how unhappy Mr M is with Cofunds, I cant fairly hold it responsible 
for any losses he may have suffered as a result of still being invested in the S Acc fund. And 
apart from one unreturned phone call, overall, I think Cofunds has acted fairly and 
reasonably towards Mr M in terms of the customer service it has provided to him. 
For all these reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2022.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman