DRN-2370297
The complaint
Mrs J complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE declined a claim for damage to her sofa on 
her extended warranty. All references to Great Lakes include its agents.
What happened
Mrs J discovered some damage to her sofas recliner seats. Ridges had developed on each 
seat. Mrs J said shed paid a premium of £250 to extend the warranty on her sofa. And shed 
been able to fix a similar problem the previous year.
Mrs J says she thinks there is a structure defect as the problem has happened again. And 
her policy covers her for structural defects and accidental damage. But after submitting a 
claim on her extended warranty Great Lakes refused the claim. So Mrs J would like it to 
cover her claim or return the premium shed paid.
Great Lakes said the policy was designed to provide cover for specific types of damage. But 
after reviewing the details it was unable to accept the claim. The structural cover was limited 
to manufacturing defects in the recliner mechanism. It didnt provide cover for any other 
faults or defects found elsewhere. The technicians report confirmed theyd not found any 
defective components in the recliner mechanism. So Great Lakes said it wasnt able to take 
Mrs Js claim any further. 
Mrs J wasnt satisfied with Great Lakes response. So she contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. She could see Mrs J had an extended warranty for her 
sofa. So she considered whether Great Lakes had declined Mrs Js claim fairly based on the 
terms and conditions of the warranty. 
Our investigator felt the warranty document made clear the circumstances where the 
extended warranty provided cover. And while she appreciated Mrs J felt there was a 
structural defect in her sofa there wasnt any evidence to support this. The problem could 
occur in all sofa seats and wasnt unique to the recliner. So she couldnt ask Great Lakes to 
do anything.
Mrs J didnt agree. So shes asked for an ombudsmans final decision. Shed had a similar 
issue with the sofa previously which had been dealt with under the warranty. The policy had 
been sold as an extension to the original warranty. So she expected the problem to be 
covered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mrs Js frustration. She paid £250 to extend the warranty when she 
purchased a new sofa. And she feels the problem should be covered as shed already had a 
similar issue resolved when she first purchased the sofa. 
So Ive looked carefully at everything Mrs J and Great Lakes have said to see if Great Lakes 
has done anything wrong. And if so what it needs to do to put things right.
When considering if Great Lakes acted fairly in declining Mrs Js claim I need to first decide if 
an insured event has taken place. The insured event would be the cause of the damage or 
problem. And it would be listed as an insured peril on the extended warranty documentation. 
Under the heading what is covered the certificate of insurance lists accidental damage to 
the fabric, staining or structural defects. Mrs J thinks there is a structural problem as shes 
had the same issue before. 
Although the policy document doesnt actually define structural I think the policy does make 
it clear it relates to the recliner mechanism. It states that recliner mechanism cover applies if 
you have paid the appropriate premium and is shown on the front of this certificate of 
insurance within the section what is covered as structural.
Great Lakes initially declined Mrs Js claim based on the information she provided. After 
Mrs J got in touch again it sent a technician to carry out an assessment. According to the 
technicians report the ridging was caused by the foam sheet inside the seat quilt moving 
backwards. But the foam sat on top of the main seat foam and wasnt part of the recliner 
mechanism. And the claim was again declined.
I can appreciate why Mrs J is unhappy. But I dont think Great Lakes acted unfairly in 
declining the claim. The movement of foam sheets inside the sofa can happen in all sofa 
seats and isnt something specifically related to the recliner mechanism. And the extended 
warranty only provides cover for accidental damage or staining to the fabric and to the 
recliner mechanism.
Mrs J says she had a similar problem fixed a year earlier. So Great Lakes should be able to 
fix it again. But Great Lakes doesnt have any details of a previous claim. And its likely Mrs J 
reported the issue under the original manufacturers warranty. 
Although Mrs J purchased an extended warranty, as Ive noted above it only provided cover 
for specific issues. And it only came into operation once the original warranty had expired. 
So although Mrs J was able to have the issue fixed on the original warranty, it wasnt 
covered by the extended policy she purchased from Great Lakes. And Ive not seen anything 
to suggest Great Lakes has acted unfairly in declining the claim. Its acted within the terms 
and conditions of the extended warranty Mrs J purchased and accepted.
I do recognise that Mrs J felt she was simply purchasing an extension, in full, of the 
manufacturers warranty. But the terms and conditions of the extended warranty from Great 
Lakes are clearly stated on the documentation Mrs J wouldve received and agreed to.
As the problem relates to the interior of the sofa rather than as a result of a failing of the 
recliner mechanism, I think Great Lakes acted reasonably in declining the claim. It wasnt 
covered by the extended warranty. So I wont be asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2021.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman