DRN-1414551
The complaint
Miss M has complained that Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold her a credit card payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Miss M took out the policy in 2005 during a phone call.
Miss M cancelled the PPI in September 2007. During the time she had PPI she paid £64.75 
in total in premiums and interest.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss M disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Im not upholding Miss Ms complaint and Ill explain why.
Capital One no longer has a recording of the call in which Miss M took out PPI, which is not 
surprising given how long ago it took place. But it does make the case more difficult to 
decide. In reaching my decision I have considered the information that we do have, as well 
as what I consider is most likely to have happened.
Miss M says the PPI was sold to her without clear advice being given and that theres no 
proof that she agreed to it.
As Ive said, the sale was a long time ago, and so it wouldnt be surprising if Miss Ms 
recollection of events has faded. Miss M was sold the PPI when she rang to activate her new 
credit card. We have a copy of the call script that was in use at the time. Looking at the 
script, on balance I am satisfied that the adviser would have made it clear that the policy was 
optional. Ive no reason to conclude that something different happened in this instance. 
Therefore it seems to me that Miss M probably decided to buy it, knowing that she didnt 
have to, even if she no longer remembers doing so.
Capital One didnt recommend the policy to Miss M, so it didnt need to ensure that it met her 
needs. But it did need to provide Miss M with enough information for her to make an 
informed decision about whether or not the policy was right for her.
Miss M has told us that she wouldnt have received any sick pay from her employer. And she 
didnt have any other means, such as savings, to fall back on. So I think the policy could 
have provided a useful benefit to her at what would have been a difficult time.Its possible that Capital One didnt provide as much information about the policy as it should 
have, particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Miss M wasnt affected by any of 
those things. As I think that she had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont 
think that further information would have caused her to change her mind.
This means that Capital One doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss M. 
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss M because: 
When the policy was sold, Capital One expected to get a high level of commission 
and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Miss M 
about that. Because Capital One didnt tell Miss M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Miss M.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 April 2020.
Carole Clark
Ombudsman