DRN-3400325
The complaint
Mr C complained that Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans lent to him 
irresponsibly and provided a loan that was unaffordable. 
What happened
Mr C took out a loan with Everyday Loans as follows:
Date 
takenTotal 
loan 
amountTermMonthly 
repaymentLoan 
status
March 2014 £2,46826 
months£170.37 outstanding 
The loan comprised an advance of £2,200 and £268 to cover the cost of taking out personal 
accident cover to protect the loan monthly repayments. 
One of our investigators looked at the complaint and didnt think Everyday Loans should 
have provided the loan. She mainly said that the lenders checks showed that Mr C had 
taken out multiple payday loans in the three months before he applied for this loan 
suggesting that he was trapped in a spiral of short-term borrowing. She didnt think that 
using the loan partly for debt consolidation  in other words, to repay other debt  had been 
helpful to Mr C and so this wasnt a reason not to uphold the complaint.   
Our investigator set out directions indicating what Everyday Loans should do to put things 
right. 
Mr C didnt have any objections to what our investigator had said but Everyday Loans 
disagreed with our investigators view. It mainly said that its affordability checks showed that 
Mr C would have been better off per month by £186.86 which was a significant amount that 
wouldve made a difference to him financially.
So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved, it comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. I've 
looked at the complaint afresh and having thought about everything, I agree with our 
investigator for broadly the same reasons and Im upholding this complaint. Heres why I say 
this.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. Lenders must work out if a borrower can 
sustainably afford the loan repayments alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower 
also has to pay. This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation  a proportionate check might also 
require the lender to find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify 
the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think about whether theres any other 
reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender shouldve 
realised that the loan was likely to lead to significant adverse consequences or more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
Everyday Loans asked Mr C about his income and housing costs. It also did its own credit 
check to understand Mr Cs credit history and see what he was paying for his existing credit 
commitments. It collected some payslips from him and saw bank statements covering the 
last three months or so.
Everyday Loans recorded Mr Cs average monthly income was around £1,588 based on an 
average pay figure it worked out from looking at payslip details plus additional benefits that it 
saw on his bank statements were paid into his account. 
It allowed for Mr C needing to pay £500 per month rent. Everyday Loans also relied on 
nationally available statistics when thinking about Mr Cs likely expenditure. And, after doing 
a credit check to see what his existing credit commitments were, based on all this 
information, Everyday Loans said Mr C should still have had around £64 spare cash left 
each month after paying for this loan and using it to pay some other debt that had been 
costing him approximately £186 each month. So Everyday Loans felt he shouldve been able 
to afford the monthly repayment on this loan.
Our investigator didnt think that Everyday Loans checks had been proportionate. I dont 
need to comment further on whether its checks went far enough because I think Everyday 
Loans had enough information in front of it to have realised that its loan was unlikely to be 
sustainably affordable for Mr C. I say this because despite its affordability calculation 
appearing to show that Mr C had enough disposable income each month to cover the loan 
monthly repayments, I think Everyday Loans shouldve realised this was contradicted by 
what it saw in the other information it had gathered. 
Everyday Loans saw that Mr C was already paying a bank loan costing him £159 per month. 
It looks like hed taken out that loan in December 2012 in order to repay a bank loan taken 
out just 8 months earlier and top up his borrowing. So Everyday Loans was aware that this 
was the second time in 15 months or so that Mr C had sought to improve his position by 
consolidating debt. As debt consolidation can be an expensive way to try and manage debt 
I think that potentially suggested that Mr C hadnt managed to restructure his finances 
successfully. I think that was borne out by the fact that it was also apparent that hed had 
some problems maintaining the loan repayments as he was paying extra to this account to 
clear arrears.   He was also repaying a credit card that was approaching its £2,000 credit limit. I think 
Everyday Loans wouldve been aware that in order to make any meaningful inroads into 
repaying his credit card debt hed need to make more than the minimum monthly 
repayments that Everyday Loans seems to have allowed for. I think its reasonable to say 
that an amount of 5% of the outstanding balance (around £100) would be needed to do this. 
As well as this, although this wasnt apparent on the credit report Everyday Loans obtained, 
it saw on Mr Cs bank statements, provided during the application process and covering the 
period 17 December 2013  10 March 2014, that hed taken out multiple payday and 
unsecured loans from a variety of other providers of high cost credit  including a £500 loan 
just a week or so before he applied for this loan. Despite this Everyday Loans could also see 
that Mr C was frequently overdrawn and incurring returned direct debit fees. 
I dont think Everyday Loans properly took into account what all the information it had 
gathered showed about Mr Cs overall financial situation and the likelihood of him being able 
to pay its loan in a sustainable manner. 
In my opinion, as a responsible lender, Everyday Loans shouldve realised that Mr C was 
already over-reliant on taking out expensive loans and his pattern of lending suggested he 
was borrowing in order to fill the gap in his finances left by repaying previous loans  and 
that this loan was part of that same pattern. I think our investigator was right to say that it 
shouldve been apparent that Mr C didnt have the amount of disposable income that 
Everyday Loans calculated. And bearing in mind the repayment of this loan on top of the 
debt Everyday Loans saw Mr C was already responsible for paying, I think its fair to say that 
Mr C needed to pay a significant proportion of his income towards credit  likely around at 
least a third by my reckoning. Overall, I think Everyday Loans saw enough to have realised it 
would likely be a struggle for Mr C to repay this loan with this level of income committed just 
to repaying debt  especially bearing in mind the 26 month loan term. 
I've taken into account that Everyday Loans understood that the loan was partly intended for 
debt consolidation and it appears that Everyday Loans directly repaid £1,036.17 to one of  
Mr Cs outstanding creditors before paying the loan balance to him. But I think the scale of 
his overall debt compared to the much lesser value of the loan and the extent of his evident 
reliance on taking out expensive credit would suggest that he would remain in serious 
financial trouble regardless. And, as mentioned above, it was in any event unrealistic to 
expect Mr C to be able to commit to paying such a significant level of income towards debt 
repayments over the two year plus loan term.
So thinking about all the information Everyday Loans had gathered, I cant reasonably say 
that it made a fair lending decision based on the information it had gathered. I dont think 
Everyday Loans was able to safely conclude that its loan would be sustainably affordable for 
Mr C. So it shouldnt have provided it and Everyday Loans needs to put things right. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that Everyday Loans should pay any additional redress. 
Mr C hasnt commented on that and I havent seen anything which makes me think Everyday 
Loans acted unfairly towards Mr C in any other way. So Im not awarding any additional 
redress. 
And I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr C to repay the capital amount that he borrowed 
because he had the benefit of that lending - but he shouldnt repay any more than this. 
So I've set out below what Everyday Loans should do to put things right.Putting things right
If Everyday Loans has sold any outstanding debt it should buy this back if able to do so and 
then take the following steps. Otherwise, Everyday Loans should liaise with the new debt 
owner to achieve the results outlined below and do the following:
add up the total amount of money Mr C received as a result of having been given the 
loan. The repayments Mr C should be deducted from this amount. 
If this results in Mr C having paid more than he received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
If any capital balance remains outstanding, then Everyday Loans should attempt to 
arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Mr C bearing in mind the need to 
treat him positively and sympathetically if he still needs further time to pay what he 
owes.
Whilst its fair that Mr Cs credit file is an accurate reflection of his financial history, its 
unfair that he should be disadvantaged by the decision to lend this loan. So Everyday 
Loans should remove any negative information recorded on Mr Cs credit file 
regarding the loan. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to deduct tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans should give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if 
he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Cs complaint and direct Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans to 
take the steps I've set out above to put things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman