DRN-3352069
The complaint
Mr S complains about the time taken to deal with his claim under his legal expenses 
insurance policy with QIC Europe Ltd (QIC).
Where I refer to QIC, this includes their agents and claims handlers acting on their behalf.
What happened
In around May 2021, Mr Ss neighbours began work on an extension to their property. 
Builders put up scaffolding that Mr S said encroached onto his land and caused damage. He 
complained of other damage to his property and belongings. And he was concerned about 
trespass by part of the neighbours property.
Mr S made a claim on his legal expenses insurance (LEI) policy with QIC for cover to pursue 
a claim against his neighbours. He was disappointed with the time taken by QIC and their 
panel solicitors to assess his claim and with their communication. He thought the delay in 
taking action against his neighbour had led to additional damage being caused. 
QIC said theyd dealt with Mr Ss claim promptly and in line with the terms and conditions of 
his LEI policy. Since they didnt uphold his complaint, Mr S brought it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. Our investigator thought QIC had progressed Mr Ss claim fairly and 
didnt uphold his complaint. Since Mr S didnt accept her view, his complaints been passed 
to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of the problems Mr S has had with his neighbours and the damage they 
caused to his property. I can understand Mr S was keen to sort things out as quickly as 
possible. 
The starting point for considering his complaint is the policy terms. Broadly, Mr S had cover 
for reasonable legal costs up to £25,000 for pursuing claims arising out of an event insured 
under the terms of the policy. The relevant event here fell under the Protecting property 
from damage section, which included claims for damage to the home and personal 
possessions, nuisance and trespass.
Cover was subject to the policy terms and conditions. They said that if QIC decided there 
was a less than 51% chance of the legal claim being successful or the costs of legal action 
would be disproportionate, theyd let him know why they wouldnt agree to the claim. And it 
said they could limit the costs theyd pay. These are common LEI policy provisions which we 
dont think are unfair. Court action can be expensive. We dont expect insurers to bear the 
costs of legal claims that a privately paying customer wouldnt want to bear if a claim is 
unlikely to succeed or cost more than they are likely to recover in damages.
The claims procedure set out in the policy explained Mr S must at all times co-operate with 
[QIC] and give [them] and the [solicitors]evidence, documents and any relevant 
information they [QIC] ask for. [Mr S] must pay any charges involved in doing this.
Mr S said he first contacted QIC in June 2021. But the available records suggest his first 
contact about a claim on his LEI policy was with QICs legal helpline in mid-July, so Ive 
looked at what happened from then on.
I can understand Mr S felt urgent action was needed to stop his neighbours encroaching on 
his property and causing damage. And I acknowledge his own solicitors were able to write to 
the neighbours in early August when he felt the insurance claim wasnt progressing. But QIC 
were entitled to assess whether Mr Ss claim met the policy requirements before they 
confirmed cover would be provided. 
QIC arent legal experts. It was reasonable for QIC to instruct solicitors to advise on that, 
provided they were suitably qualified to consider the case. And, as long as the advice the 
solicitors gave wasnt obviously wrong, it was reasonable for QIC to rely on it. Im satisfied 
the solicitors QIC instructed had the right experience to consider Mr Ss claim. I havent seen 
anything to suggest the advice they gave was obviously wrong or factually incorrect. So, I 
think it was reasonable for QIC to rely on the solicitors advice here.
QIC set out in their email to Mr S dated 12 July 2021 the information theyd need to assess 
his claim under the policy. They let him know that the value of the claim needed to be more 
than £10,000, that prospects of success must be at least 51% and that the costs of pursuing 
the claim must be proportionate for them to provide cover. They explained if these 
requirements were met, theyd instruct their panel solicitors to contact Mr S directly for any 
further information theyd need to handle the legal claim on his behalf. So, I think they fairly 
managed Mr Ss expectations about what would happen.
I acknowledge Mr S felt he should have been asked for all the information the solicitors 
needed at the outset of the claim. And he was unhappy with the time things took, the 
communication and the solicitors advice. I dont have the power to consider the actions of 
the solicitors or the advice they gave. Mr S would need to contact the Solicitors Regulation 
Authority to complain about them. Looking at the actions of QIC, I dont think they behaved 
unreasonably or treated Mr S unfairly, as Ill explain. 
I wouldnt expect QIC to have known all the information the solicitors might need to consider 
the legal issues involved in Mr Ss case, as they arent legal experts. They asked Mr S for 
additional information the solicitors requested and passed it on to them to consider promptly. 
They kept the solicitors updated with the changing situation. They were conscious of the 
pressures on Mr S and his family and asked the solicitors to prioritise their case. And they 
were updating Mr S. Overall, Im not persuaded there were any unreasonable delays by QIC 
or that they communicated poorly with Mr S. I acknowledge Mr S was unhappy with some of 
the information he was asked to provide, and felt the solicitors should obtain it. But the policy 
required him to produce it and meet the costs of doing so. 
Initially the claim appeared to be less than £10,000. But further information from Mr S 
clarified it was likely to exceed that amount. And the solicitors agreed the claim had 
prospects of success. QIC thought it was proportionate to fund a letter of claim to the 
neighbours and let Mr S know in early September. Mr S raised some concerns about that 
since his own solicitors had already written to them. QIC agreed the solicitors should review 
things. The situation at the property had changed with the removal of the scaffolding and 
progress of the neighbours works. And information had been collected on a piecemeal 
basis. So, I think it was reasonable that QIC agreed the solicitors should draw things 
together and review the way forward at that stage, particularly given Mr Ss concerns. The solicitors advice in early October noted they were continuing to assess the prospects of 
success. They identified gaps in the evidence. And they cautioned that the costs of pursuing 
the legal claim could become disproportionate and exceed the policy limit. I note Mr S was 
unhappy with the advice, but hed need to take that up with the solicitors. The policy terms 
allowed QIC to limit the costs theyd pay. It was possible the letter might resolve the dispute 
with the neighbour. And QIC said theyd reassess the position based on the neighbours 
response. Based on that, and the solicitors advice, I think it was fair for QIC to agree to fund 
the letter to the neighbours at that stage.
Mr S is concerned he was advised to make a claim on his home insurance policy and that 
affected his premiums. The solicitors advised on that, so Mr S would need to raise his 
concerns with them. This complaint only addresses the LEI policy. So, any concerns Mr S 
has about his home insurance would need to be raised with the insurers separately.
Bearing everything in mind, whilst I understand my decision will be disappointing to Mr S, I 
dont uphold his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2022.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman