DRN-3402135
The complaint
Mr M complains that Loans 2 Go Limited lent to him irresponsibly. 
What happened
Mr M was approved for a loan on 4 June 2021 of £250 repayable at just over £13 a week for 
78 weeks which is about 18 months. The total amount payable was around £1,028.
Notes from Loans 2 Go show that Mr M got an Early Settlement balance on 5 June 2021  
very soon after the loan funds were transferred to him and it was going to be about £301 to 
repay early. And on 11 June Mr M cancelled the loan and knew he had 30 days in which to 
repay it. Its not clear to us why Mr M did not repay it.
In the meantime, Mr M received numerous texts and communications about missing his £13 
repayments. And in July 2021 Mr M set up a 12 week repayment plan at £5 a week. 
Mr M complained to Loans 2 Go and received a response from it dated 10 August 2021 in 
which it did not accept it had lent irresponsibly, but it offered to reduce his interest by 30%. 
Loans 2 Go said:
Amount of Credit: £250.00
Total Amount Payable: £1,028.82 
Total Amount Paid: £10.00 Current Balance: £1,018.82
Proposed Write Off Amount: £233.64 (30% of Total Interest) 
Proposed New Balance: £785.18
Mr M had already referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. So, he did 
not accept that offer. One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that the 
credit search information Loans 2 Go had obtained before it approved the £250 loan for 
Mr M was a concern and it ought to have interpreted the information it saw there in such a 
way that Loans 2 Go realised that Mr M was in financial trouble.
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision on 
14 March 2022 in which I gave reasons as to why I was planning not to uphold Mr Ms 
complaint. I gave time for both parties to respond. We have not heard from Loans 2 Go. 
Mr M has responded to say he is disappointed and does not think hell be able to repay the 
amount he owes Loans 2 Go. 
I am issuing my final determination in the same terms as my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - including all the relevant rules, 
guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, what I need to 
consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint are 
whether Loans 2 Go completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr 
M would be able to repay in a sustainable way? And, if not, would those checks have shown 
that Mr M wouldve been able to do so?
If I determine that Loans 2 Go did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr M and 
that he has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
The rules and regulations in place required Loans 2 Go to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Ms ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Loans 2 Go had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable and/or cause significant adverse consequences for 
Mr M. In practice this meant that Loans 2 Go had to ensure that making the payments to the 
loan wouldnt cause Mr M undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Loans 2 Go to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr M.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the circumstances of the consumer (e.g. 
their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or 
financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the same 
customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing 
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Ive carefully reconsidered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint. And I have come to the decision Loans 
2 Go did not lend irresponsibly, but it should honour the offer it made in its FRL dated August 
last year. 
Our adjudicators view was that the credit file showed Mr M was struggling to repay his 
existing debt and was relying on taking further borrowing to maintain the repayment on these 
accounts. His credit file showed that he was in a continuous chain of borrowing in the 
months between January and June 2021.
I do not agree. Ive reviewed the information Loans 2 Go had about Mr M, including the fact that it had verified his income as around £1,380 a month as he had declared. It also 
increased his declared expenditure figure (£420) to about £700 and then added on a 10% 
additional sum to allow for a margin of error. That still left Mr Ms repayments of £13 a week 
affordable.
Our adjudicator also said that it would not be proportionate for Loans 2 Go to have asked to 
view Mr Ms bank statements and so although Mr M has described to us (and demonstrated 
through copy bank statements) that he did seem to have a gambling issue, our adjudicator 
had said as part of her view that it was not something Loans 2 Go would have seen.
I agree with this part. It would have been disproportionate for Loans 2 Go, having obtained 
the information it had obtained about Mr M, to then go further and ask to review any of his 
bank statements. So, it was not likely to have seen that Mr M spent a lot of money on 
gambling, and therefore I do not think it would have known, or ought to have known, unless 
Mr M had told it. And I doubt that Mr M would have, or did tell, Loans 2 Go about the 
gambling because he had applied to it for a loan.
Ive concluded that Loans 2 Go did carry out proportionate checks taking into consideration 
all the circumstances including the low value of the loan and the period over which the loan 
was to be repaid. The credit file does show an increase in debt but I accept what Loans 2 Go 
has submitted to us that the credit accounts were not poorly managed. And on the declared 
incomes and expenditure figures Loans 2 Go used (including the increased expenditure 
figure it used to build in a margin) then the £13 a week was affordable in my view.
I do not to uphold this complaint.
I endorse the offer Loans 2 Go made in its FRL in August 2021. I remind Loans 2 Go that it 
must approach Mr M in relation to this debt in a positive and sympathetic way. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint and Loans 2 Go Limited needs to 
do as it said it would do in its final response letter from August 2021.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman