DRN-4282183
The complaint
Mr P complains about the way that Scottish Equitable Plc trading as Aegon (referred to as 
Aegon throughout this decision) administered his pension account. 
What happened
Through his former employment, Mr P became a member of a group personal pension plan 
administered by Aegon with effect from 1 June 2020. The funds were invested in a SE 
Universal 2023 fund as selected by his employer. Aegon sent Mr P various policy 
documents in August 2020. Those explained, amongst other things, that 100% of the 
contributions would be invested in the SE fund. It also referred to the charges that would 
apply. 
Aegon wrote to Mr P in September 2022 and said that his plans value was £4,572.53. As Mr 
Ps employer had stopped making contributions into the plan (it appears that Mr P had too) it 
was for Mr P to decide what to do with his pension. It set out various options for him. 
In a statement sent in December 2022, Aegon confirmed the following in relation to Mr Ps 
account: 
Mr P had paid in £113.34;
An additional £6,333.15 had been added through employer contributions and 
available tax relief;
Changes had been made to the plan amounting to an overall reduction of 
£1,461.78. Aegon described changes as things like charges; rebates, additional 
payments and the impact of investment performance.  
It said that the total amount of money in Mr Ps plan in 2022 was £4,984.71 (up from 
£4,421.21 in December 2021). This amount accounted for charges of £16.72 and reflected 
the fact that Mr Ps investments had decreased in value by £1,700.07 that year.
Aegon said that at age 65, the fund value could be worth £4,950.58. 
In January 2023 Mr P attempted to access his online account. Those attempts werent 
successful, so he called Aegon. During the call, it came to light that some of the personal 
information Aegon held about Mr P wasnt correct. Aegon required Mr P to verify his identity. 
Mr P says he provided the documents Aegon wanted, but it didnt contact him in response. 
He complained to Aegon about that and said he wanted a full breakdown of the funds 
deposited along with dates. He also asked for other information such as the profit made from 
the investment of his pension contributions. Finally, Mr P said he wanted access to his online 
account to be restored and he then intended to withdraw the entirety of his pension fund and 
close his Aegon account. 
Aegon responded on 1 February 2023. Whilst it appreciated Mr Ps frustration, it said that 
having investigated his concerns, it was satisfied it hadnt made a mistake. It explained that 
when setting the plan up, Mr Ps employer had provided the wrong date of birth. And, after 
receiving Mr Ps identity documents in order to correct the mistake, its team had 10 working 
days to sort things out and issue the necessary paperwork to Mr P. 
Aegon sent Mr P a retirement pack the same day and told him that the plans value at that 
point was £4,783.68. It said the value wasnt guaranteed and can fall as well as rise. Mr P 
then needed to decide which option to choose and complete a settlement form. 
Mr P first complained to our Service in early February 2023 citing the issues with his 
account. 
Aegon sent Mr P another response on 11 February 2023. It mentioned the retirement quote 
sent on 1 February 2023 showing the various ways for him to access his plan. It added that 
the values mentioned werent guaranteed, meaning Mr P might be paid more or less than 
the amount quoted. 
Mr P confirmed that he wanted to take his full fund as cash. So, Aegon made a payment of 
£4,093.73 to him, which was received in his bank account on 16 March 2023. It sent him a 
breakdown of the transactions on his account on 12 April 2023. 
One of our Investigators looked into the complaint, but she didnt uphold it. The Investigator 
noted that Mr Ps employer quoted the wrong date of birth for Mr P when his policy was first 
set up on Aegons system. So, when Mr P tried to log into Aegons online system, he wasnt 
able to due to a mis-match in his personal details. And Mr P also wasnt able to pass 
Aegons security checks when he called it. That meant he had to verify his identity by other 
means. The Investigator thought it was reasonable for Aegon to take additional steps to 
safeguard Mr Ps pension funds. And she was also satisfied that it sent him the required 
forms to access his pension within a reasonable timescale. Similarly, the Investigator was 
satisfied that Aegon explained the plans value wasnt guaranteed and that Mr P might get 
back less than the amount invested.  
Mr P made a number of comments in response. Those included that Aegon had applied a 
charge of 35% for a service it hadnt performed. He also suggested that had he been aware 
of the full features of the plan, he wouldnt have allowed his employer to enroll him in the 
pension scheme. Instead, he said hed have deposited the same amounts elsewhere, so he 
had more control over the amount deposited. He said he wanted this Service to investigate 
Aegons actions further. 
The Investigator considered Mr Ps comments. She recognised his disappointment about the 
way the fund had performed, but again said why she didnt think Aegon had done anything 
wrong. She reminded Mr P that his employer selected the fund choice, not Aegon. Mr Ps 
comments didnt cause the Investigator to change her opinion. So, as no agreement was 
reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And, having done so, for broadly the same reasons our Investigator gave, Im not intending 
to uphold this complaint. 
Problems accessing the online account
Mr P said he encountered problems in January 2023 when he tried to access his online 
account. The personal details he input werent recognised. This led to Mr P having to call 
Aegon and then submit various identity documents as his details couldnt be verified by phone either. I can understand that must have been frustrating for him especially when Mr P 
hadnt made any mistakes when providing personal details. He says many of those details, 
such as his address and phone number, hadnt changed over the years. 
But its clear from the evidence Ive seen that Mr Ps employer did make a mistake when 
providing his personal details to enable Aegon to set up his pension policy. And although the 
policy documents that Aegon sent to Mr P also contained the wrong date of birth, it appears 
that Mr P hadnt noticed the error at the time. 
Its quite common for pension providers to require policyholders to verify certain personal 
information to access their policy details. I dont think thats unreasonable, especially as it 
helps to safeguard the policyholders pension fund. So, when it became clear that the details 
Mr P submitted didnt match those held on Aegons file, I think it was incumbent upon Aegon 
to satisfy itself that it was the policyholder himself who was trying to access his account. I 
dont think Aegon did anything wrong here.
Mr P also thinks Aegon took too long to process the documents he sent confirming his 
identity and to issue settlement forms. According to the postal tracking information that Mr P 
supplied, Aegon received his documents on 20 January 2023 (a Friday). According to what 
Aegon said, it typically processes actions such as this within 10 working days. That doesnt 
seem an unreasonable timescale to me. In any event, in Mr Ps case, it updated its records 
and sent him the information to enable him to consider his options on 1 February 2023 which 
was within nine working days. Im satisfied based on the evidence Ive seen that there were 
no delays on Aegons part when processing information in light of Mr Ps request. 
Is there evidence of wrongdoing/ mismanagement on Aegons part causing the value of Mr 
Ps fund to reduce?
Its clear that Mr P expected to receive a greater amount from his pension than he did. 
Bearing in mind Aegon told him in December 2022 that his employer had paid over £6,000 
into his pension pot, I can appreciate why Mr P might have been concerned and 
disappointed to receive £4,093.73 in March 2023.  
Mr Ps made a number of points to demonstrate why he thinks Aegon is at fault. Im not 
proposing to address each and every one in detail. Instead, Ill focus on those that I believe 
go to the heart of Mr Ps complaint. Mr Ps gone as far as saying that had he known the full 
details regarding his plan, he wouldnt have joined the pension scheme. He also says he 
didnt know that his funds could potentially suffer from investment risk.
Having carefully considered the evidence, Im not persuaded by that position. And for the 
reasons Ill later set out, Im satisfied that Aegon did give Mr P information about his plan and 
told him that his funds could be at risk.
I dont know all of the detail about the circumstances leading to the group personal pension 
plan being set up in Mr Ps place of work at the time. But its evident that this was something 
arranged by Mr Ps employer (possibly as a result of changes to legislation and the 
requirements made of employers). According to the policy documentation that Aegon sent 
Mr P, contributions were expected to be made by him and his employer. But from the 
statements Ive seen, it appears that the employer paid the lions share of the contributions, 
before stopping them altogether around September 2022. Im inclined to agree with our 
Investigator here in saying that had Mr P not joined the scheme, hed likely have missed out 
on those contributions from his employer altogether. His pension may therefore have been 
worth less than it was. And as our Investigator also said, it isnt usual for an employer to 
make contributions to an employee directly in lieu of paying them into a pension.Its also evident that the employer, rather than Aegon, decided which funds the contributions 
should be invested in. So, despite what Mr P might think, this wasnt a situation where 
Aegon chose the funds on his behalf. And I can see that within the policy documentation 
Aegon sent Mr P, it clearly set out the name of the fund the contributions were to be invested 
in (the SE Universal 2023 fund). It also explained that was the default investment strategy for 
the plan and that Mr P could change the investment funds at any time in the future, as set 
out within the policy booklet that was also enclosed. Therefore, if Mr P wasnt happy with the 
fund choice, it seems he had the option to change it if hed wanted to. Based on these 
factors, I think Mr P did have information relating to the policy. 
Also, as Ive already mentioned, on balance, I think Mr P probably did know his fund could 
be at risk from investment losses. I say that because when Aegon sent Mr P policy 
documents after it was set up, it enclosed other material such as a policy booklet describing 
the general contractual provisions of his plan. It advised Mr P to read policy booklet GPP 
V13B. Ive taken this to mean version 13B of the policy booklet relating to Aegons group 
personal pension plan. 
Ive been given a fact-sheet relating to the fund. Thats the type of information thats often 
included with policy documentation. And whilst the version Ive seen appears to be from a 
later date, Ive no reason to believe, on balance, that key details such as The value of an 
investment can fall as well as rise and investors could get back less than they originally 
invested. All funds carry a level of risk would have been any different in an earlier version. I 
say that because its a risk that comes with many investments and is information that 
providers are expected to clearly highlight.
But even if I was persuaded that Mr P didnt already know there could be some risk to his 
investment (Ive already said why Im not) Im satisfied that before he took his pension 
benefits, he knew there was some risk involved. I say that for a couple of different reasons.
First, when it sent Mr P a statement in December 2022 Aegon clearly showed that the value 
of the investment had decreased by about £1,700 that year. And whilst it seems there had 
been some recovery compared to the previous year (the net value was £4,984.71 compared 
to £4,421.21 in December 2021) it clearly hadnt recovered to the extent that it matched the 
contributions paid in overall. 
Second, when Aegon wrote to Mr P in early February 2023, it set out the value of his 
pension fund at that time. And it explained that the value of your fund isnt guaranteed  it 
can fall as well as rise. When you choose to take your benefits, the value of your plan may 
be less than has been paid in. Therefore, in addition to the likely forewarning that Mr P had 
from the outset, Im satisfied that these additional explanations alerted Mr P to the risk of 
investment loss before he accessed his retirement fund.  
Mr P also seems to be suggesting that Aegon didnt clearly show that his fund suffered from 
poor investment performance, but instead tried to present the losses as a fee of around 
35%. That position isnt supported by the evidence Ive seen. Apart from the fact that the 
December 2022 statement showed the relatively small charges that had been applied, it also 
showed that in 2022 alone, investment losses of around £1,7007 were a factor in the plans 
value reducing overall. So, contrary to what Mr P thinks, Im satisfied that Aegon did explain 
the position. 
In summary, I do understand why Mr P isnt happy that he received less from his fund than 
the amount paid in or expected. There are many things that can influence market 
performance. So, if I was to uphold this part of Mr Ps complaint, Id need to be satisfied that 
Aegon mismanaged the fund or otherwise did something wrong to drive poor performance. 
Ive seen no evidence to suggest thats the case. For all of the reasons Ive set out, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint. So, I wont be directing 
Aegon to do anything else. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2023.
 
Amanda Scott
Ombudsman