DRN-2790788
The complaint
Mr M in unhappy with the settlement he received from Aviva Insurance Limited for a claim he 
made under his travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr M has a travel insurance policy attached to his packaged bank account. He made a claim 
because whilst on holiday, in April 2020, he was unable to get back to the UK as the country 
he was holidaying in went into lockdown. Mr M was unable to leave his hotel as a result and 
its these additional costs he claimed for. Mr Ms also complained about the time it took for 
Aviva to reach a decision. 
Aviva said it paid Mr Ms claim up to the policy limit which was £5,000 on an ex-gratia basis. 
Thats to say a gesture of goodwill. It doesnt think it should have to pay any more. It also 
said that it had to validate Mr Ms claim, which explained the delays. 
Our investigator said Aviva had acted fairly. He also said there wasnt any provision of cover 
under the policy for this type of situation as normally, the trip would have been curtailed but 
Mr Ms trip essentially wasnt cut short. However, he noted that Aviva applied the limit for this 
part of the policy to Mr Ms claim and so he didnt think it should do anything further in that 
respect. He also acknowledged there were some delays, however, said that they were not 
exceptional. 
Mr M didnt agree with his findings. He said the overall cost of his extended stay was around 
£18,000 and so theres a significant deficit, which he feels strongly that Aviva should 
reimburse him for. He also said that had Aviva not delayed giving an answer to his claim, he 
could have potentially moved to another hotel that didnt cost as much. And so, its for me to 
make a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. My reasons for doing so are 
similar to those already explained by our investigator, and that overall Mr M is better off 
financially with the settlement Aviva paid him. Ill explain why.
There relevant part of the policy says about enforced stays abroad;
we will pay you either: 1. £100 for each full 24 hour period you are unable to travel home, or
2. up to £1,500 for travel and accommodation costs if, after 24 hours, you unavoidably have 
to make alternative arrangements to travel home.
Mr M was on holiday from 14 March and supposed to return on 7 April. But he didnt return 
until 16 August. He was provided repatriation assistance through the British High 
Commission and given a £3,000 loan. By considering the claim under the cancellation 
section of the policy, as a gesture of goodwill, Aviva paid Mr M more than he was entitled to 
under the policy.  Thats because, under the enforced stay section of the policy, the 
maximum it would pay in the circumstances is £1,500 per person and I note that he received 
£5,000 as a result of Avivas decision to consider the claim under the cancellation section. 
The investigator indicated that Aviva may have considered the claim in conjunction with its 
curtailment section of the policy as £5,000 is the maximum figure it would pay if the trip was 
curtailed. I can understand why Aviva may have thought it more appropriate to consider Mr 
Ms claim in that way, but I wouldnt have expected it to as in my view, Mr M was forced to 
stay abroad  which means he should have received a significantly lower settlement of 
£1,500. Thats why I say that Mr M has benefited from Avivas stance in these particular 
circumstances.
I should also highlight that although when Mr M travelled abroad, the guidance said it was 
safe to travel. But by 12 April the country had closed its airspace due to the COVID-19 
pandemic and gone into lockdown. And so, he was unable to return to the UK. This was 
further complicated by Mr M not being able to afford a plane ticket home. He discussed this 
with Aviva and it sign-posted him to other organisations that could help. This is how Mr M 
was eventually able to return home, with the support of the relevant local government 
department. 
I should highlight that it wasnt Avivas responsibility to repatriate Mr M because he wasnt in 
need of a level of assistance that would require that level of response. Covid-19 was also an 
unprecedented event which caused widespread travel disruption and, based on the evidence 
Ive seen, it seems unlikely that Aviva could have got him home any sooner. Aviva explained 
Mr M must pay the costs and then make a claim, rather than it simply hand him the cash for 
a plane ticket. Thats standard industry practice and I dont think Avivas actions were 
unreasonable in the circumstances. 
Ive also thought carefully about the delays Mr M complained about, but Ive not seen any 
evidence to persuade me that he was left waiting for an unreasonable amount of time. I say 
that because Mr M first called to enquire about making a claim the day before his scheduled 
flight home, on 13 April, but it wasnt until 15 June that he provided any documentary 
evidence for it to consider his additional accommodation costs, despite Aviva explaining this 
information was essential to make a claim. And so, although there were some delays here, 
Im not persuaded they were caused by Aviva. 
The initial submission made by Mr M was illegible and so Aviva asked for some clearer 
copies. Although, when this was received, Aviva had some additional questions because it 
had to validate his claim. This involved sending an agent to the hotel so it could obtain some 
further information about the costs Mr M was claiming. This took some time to arrange and I 
can see from the claims notes that there was meaningful movement throughout that period, 
up until the point his claim was paid on 18 August. So, Im not persuaded that Aviva caused 
any unnecessary, or lengthy delays with this aspect of the complaint. In any event, Mr M 
received the maximum pay out under the policy and so I dont think it reasonable to ask 
Aviva to pay anything more in the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2021.
 Scott Slade
Ombudsman