DRN-4274665
The complaint
Mr R complains that AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (AA) mishandled a claim
on his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a premium-brand car, first registered in 
early 2014. Mr R acquired it in 2017 (according to the policy documents from January 2022).
For the year from early January 2022, Mr R insured the car on a comprehensive policy. AA
was the insurance company that was responsible for dealing with any claim.
The policy documents said that Mr R had twenty years no-claims discount (NCD). That was
protected so that it wouldnt be affected by a single claim in the policy year.
Any claim for damage to the car (except to a windscreen) was subject to a policy excess of
£200.00. However, a feature of the policy was an Uninsured Driver Promise that AA would
not take the excess if an uninsured driver was the cause of the incident.
Unfortunately, in late May 2022, another vehicle hit the car. Mr R got its registration number.
But its driver (and passenger) left the scene without giving contact details, remaining 
unidentified.
Mr R made a claim on the policy. AA said the car was a total loss. AA said its pre-accident
value had been £12,500.00, which it later increased to £12,600.00.
In June 2022, Mr R complained to AA that it was under-valuing the car and unfairly
deducting the excess. In July 2022, Mr R complained to AA that it had recorded a fault claim
against him.
By a final response dated late July 2022, AA turned down the complaint about valuation.
By a final response dated early September 2022, AA turned down the complaint about the 
excess.
Mr R brought his complaint to us in late October 2022.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that AA
had acted fairly and reasonably in these circumstances.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr R 
and to AA on 19 July 2023. I summarise my findings:
AA couldnt identify or pursue the third party or their insurer. So I couldnt say that AA 
acted unfairly by recording a fault claim against Mr R.
AAs valuation of £12,600.00 was within the range of the trade guide figures and 
higher than most of them. So I couldnt say it was unfair or unreasonable.
I didnt find it fair and reasonable for AA to rely on the condition of identification.
Subject to any further information from Mr R or from AA, my provisional decision was that I 
upheld this complaint in part. I intended to direct AA Underwriting Insurance Company 
Limited to pay Mr R:
1. £200.00 in reimbursement of the excess; and
2. simple interest on that amount at a yearly rate of 8% from 31 May 2022 to the date of 
its payment. If AA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr R how much its taken off. It should 
also give him a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Mr R disagreed with the provisional decision. He says, in summary, that:
Fault claim against him
CCTV footage caught the accident. 
Police told him he wasnt at fault.
AA ignored this vital evidence.
The offending car was subject of a Statutory Off-Road Notification (SORN). It was not 
insured or legally allowed to be on the road.
AA attributed fault to him without a thorough investigation.
He has to declare the accident to future insurers. He is being unfairly nancially 
penalised.
Pre-market value
AAs letter dated late July 2022 made reference to using only CAP and Glasss. 
Through a colleague, he obtained a trade valuation immediately after the incident.
The £12,600 AA offered was nowhere near the actual amount required to replace his 
car with a similar model in a similar condition.
Uninsured driver promise
He doubts that AA got the police report. 
AA disagreed with the provisional decision. It says, in summary, that:
Someone can provide details and be uninsured.
The decision here is to change its wording on its product which is a usual criterion 
across the industry.
The resolution to the customers issue lies with the untraced drivers agreement 
which is for hit and run accidents. The customer can easily claim through the Motor 
Insurer Bureau (MIB) for the benefit of excess reimbursement and a non fault 
change to the Claims Underwriting Exchange (CUE) database. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Financial Ombudsman Service
We are bound by the Financial Services Markets Act and by the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys dispute resolution rules. We deal with consumer complaints against regulated 
financial firms. We are independent of both, and we act impartially.
We take into account applicable law, regulation and good practice. Above all, we decide 
whats fair and reasonable based on evidence.
Recording a fault claim against Mr R
Where an insurer has made an outlay on a policyholders claim, its common practice for that
insurer to record the claim as a fault claim against the policyholder unless and until the
insurer has recovered its outlay in full, typically from a third partys insurer. So a fault claim
doesnt necessarily mean the policyholder was responsible for causing the damage.
In response to the provisional decision, Mr R has reiterated that the other vehicle shouldnt 
have been on the road at all. CCTV and the police email showed that he wasnt responsible 
for the accident. I accept that. 
I havent seen a formal police report. But I dont doubt that it would say that Mr R wasnt 
responsible for the accident.
In response to the provisional decision, Mr R has said that AA didnt do a thorough 
investigation. But the policy terms included the following:
(b) The Insurer will be entitled to take over and conduct at the Insurers expense in 
Your name or in the name of any other person insured by this Insurance Document:
(i) the negotiation defence or settlement of any claim;
(ii) legal proceedings to recover for the Insurers own benefit any payments made 
under this insurance You or any other person covered by this insurance must give 
the Insurer all documentation, help and information they may need.
Thats a common term in motor policies. In my view, it meant that AA could decide whether it 
was worthwhile to pursue recovery of its outlay.
Im satisfied that AA did a proportionate investigation of whether it could identify the third 
party driver or any third party insurer. Unfortunately it couldnt. So AA couldnt pursue 
anyone to recover its outlay. In line with common practice, I dont find it unfair that AA  
recorded a fault claim against Mr R.
I accept that any claim  particularly a fault claim  is likely to adversely affect the cost to of 
motor insurance for Mr R for a few years from January 2023.
Pre-accident market value
AAs policy terms included the following definition:
Market Value
The cost of replacing the Insured Car with one of the same make, model, age,mileage, specification and condition at the date of accident or loss.
The Financial Ombudsman Service expects an insurer to value a used vehicle with
reference to the retail prices in certain trade guides. As they are based on extensive
research of likely selling prices, we regard those guides as reliable evidence of market value.
We do not use  and we do not expect insurers to use - the guide that Mr R used (even 
though it bears the name of one of the trade guides that we do use).
Typically, each guide that we use provides a different figure so that there is a range of
figures. We may disregard a figure that is out of line with the others. But otherwise, we often
say that a figure within the range is a reasonable valuation.
Ive noted the make, model, age, specification, recorded mileage and condition of the car
before the accident. For a car like that, AA found retail valuations in the Glasss and CAP 
trade guides. Our investigator checked them and found retail valuations in the Cazana and 
Auto Trader trade guides. Together, they were as follows:
Cazana £11,870.00
Glasss £12,540.00
CAP £12,595.00
Auto Trader £13,946.00
If any of those figures is out of line with the others, it is the highest one. In any event, AAs
valuation of £12,600.00 is within the range of these figures and higher than most of them. So
I cant say it was unfair or unreasonable. And I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct AA to
increase its valuation or to pay any more.
Uninsured driver promise
The policy terms included the following:
Uninsured Driver Promise
If You make a claim following an accident, You will not lose your No Claim Discount
or have to pay any Excess, provided that:
o The Insurer can establish that the accident is not Your fault and the driver of
the other vehicle is identified and is not insured; and
o You give the Insurer the other vehicles make, model and valid registration
number.
It will help us to confirm who is at fault if You can supply the names and addresses of
any independent witnesses, if available. If possible, You should also supply the name
and address of the person driving the other vehicle.
When You claim You may have to pay Your Excess and may also temporarily lose
Your No Claim Discount.
If subsequently the Insurer is satisfied that the accident was not Your fault, they will
repay Your Excess, reinstate Your No Claim Discount and refund any premium which
may be due to You.
The Uninsured Driver Promise is applicable to comprehensive policyholders only.
AA has placed emphasis on the wording in the first bullet point. Ive added the underlining. I
accept that the words Ive underlined were a condition that the driver of the other vehicle was
identified and was not insured.However, the context includes the fact that it is a criminal offence to drive a vehicle on a road
without third party insurance. So an uninsured driver is not likely to want to be identified.
So  in an Uninsured Driver Promise - I regard the condition of identification as an onerous
or at least a significant term. Therefore Ive thought about whether the underlined words
were sufficiently clear in the policy documents.
The welcome letter included the following summary:
Uninsured Driver Promise: no excess or noclaims discount penalty if you are hit by
an uninsured driver and the accident is not your fault
That didnt highlight the condition of identification. And the Insurance Product Information
Document didnt mention the uninsured driver promise at all. So Im not satisfied that the
condition of identification was clear enough.
I accept that its possible that the third party driver had third party cover on a policy not
recorded against the vehicle they were driving. However, I keep in mind that the driver didnt
exchange details. So I find it more likely than not that the driver (as well as the vehicle) was 
uninsured.
In my view, an uninsured driver who didnt stop is unlikely to have credibility as a witness if,
for example, they later dispute liability for the accident. If that driver had been identified, they
were unlikely to give a credible version of events that Mr R had caused the accident. And I
consider that AA had established that the accident wasnt Mr Rs fault.
Also, an uninsured driver will often not have sufficient financial means to make it worthwhile
for an insurer to seek to pursue them for recovery of its outlay.
So I dont consider it likely that the lack of identification caused any prejudice to AA.
In response to the provisional decision, AA said that its term was industry-standard. 
However, I wouldve upheld the condition of identification if it had been made clearer. 
In response to the provisional decision, AA said that Mr R had an alternative remedy through 
the MIB untraced drivers agreement. However, Mr R suffered property damage for which he 
had comprehensive insurance on which he claimed. So I dont consider that MIB untraced 
drivers agreement will help him.
For all these reasons. I dont find it fair and reasonable for AA to rely on the condition of
identification.
Putting things right
Mr R didnt lose his NCD because it was protected. But AA declined to waive the excess.
From what hes said, Mr R was upset about the fault claim and the valuation (on which I
havent upheld his complaints), but not particularly upset about AAs response under the
uninsured driver promise (on which I have upheld his complaint). So I dont direct
AA to pay him compensation for distress and inconvenience.
I find it fair enough to direct AA to pay Mr R £200.00 in reimbursement of the excess. As his 
claim dates from 31 May 2022, I will direct AA to add interest at our usual rate from that date 
to the date of its payment. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr R:
1. £200.00 in reimbursement of the excess; and
2. simple interest on that amount at a yearly rate of 8% from 31 May 2022 to the date of 
its payment. If AA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr R how much its taken off. It should 
also give him a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman