DRN-2349821
The complaint
Mr B and Mr H have complained about their home insurer Fairmead Insurance Limited in 
respect of a claim they made to it when they found water in the cellar of their home.
What happened
Mr B noted that the wall in his bedroom was wet. Upon investigation, water was found in the 
cellar of the property. In late November 2019 a claim was made to Fairmead and it dealt 
with it on the basis there might be a leak from an underground pipe. Its drainage company 
found a problem with a pipe and fixed it. But Fairmead didnt do or say anything regarding 
any water damage at the property. The damage in the bedroom was a particular problem 
for Mr B. And neither he nor Mr H were in good health. They wrote to Fairmead again.
On 23 December 2019, noted in Fairmeads case file, Mr B told Fairmead the cellar was 
flooded again. Fairmead sent its drainage company back to the property and determined 
there were no further problems with underground pipes which might be causing an issue. 
It said Mr B and Mr H would have to investigate and find the cause of the leaking water. It 
said it wouldnt do anything until then. But it offered £50 compensation for what it accepted 
were some service failings. Mr B and Mr H complained to us.
Our investigator explained that insurance policies dont offer cover for any and all 
damage that might occur at the property. And he felt that Fairmead had acted fairly by 
relying on its drainage companys view that the underground pipes were sound. Mr B and 
Mr H were unhappy and the complaint was passed to me for review.
I felt Fairmead had failed Mr B and Mr H regarding the bedroom damage. I sent the 
following findings to both parties:
It seems Mr B and Mr H made a claim to Fairmead by letter dated 7 November. Below is 
an extract from that letter:
The problem first came to light in the main bedroom occupied by [Mr B], co-owner of the 
property, when it was noted that clothing in the wardrobe was damp, walls behind the bed 
head were also damp, and in an attempt to resolve this problem we installed a 
dehumidifier in the bedroom, which has to be emptied daily, due to the amount of water 
being found. 
The file Fairmead submitted to us suggested that the bedroom did not become damaged 
until after further water ingress occurred in December 2019. Im currently satisfied the 
bedroom damage was part of the initial loss Mr B and Mr H reported to Fairmead, but that 
Fairmead did not register this properly or seek to act on it.
In correspondence with this service Fairmead has said that it doesnt feel liable for the 
bedroom damage because it has not solely been caused by the leak its agent found and 
fixed in November. Im not persuaded that Fairmead has shown this is likely the case. And 
even if it were true that would not absolve Fairmead from liability. It would still have to fix the 
damage that had been caused by the leak it fixed, and if it cant separate what damage that 
leak caused from any which is due to an uninsured cause, it will have to fix it all.
Furthermore, even where it can separate out the damage, if it cant fix the damage it is 
liable for without fixing that which it is not liable for, it will have to fix it all. And I would 
suggest that until Fairmead starts to try and dry the bedroom it is not going to know if other 
sources of water are impacting the moisture levels therein. But if another cause of damp is 
found and is determined to not be covered by the policy, Mr B and Mr H will likely have to 
fix that before any repairs can be undertaken.
This has clearly been an upsetting and difficult time for Mr B and Mr H. Fairmead should 
pay them £500 compensation.
Mr B and Mr H noted my findings. They reiterated their firm belief that Fairmead should 
have investigated the damage in the bedroom at the outset and that this was not about any 
internal leak of water from their property.
Fairmead said it was unclear why I would suggest that it do any work in the bedroom 
whilst there was an undiagnosed leak causing damage. It said it also felt that an award of 
compensation was unfair because Mr B and Mr H had refused to resolve the cause of the 
on-going water damage at their home.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont intend to move away from the findings I shared with both parties. 
And whilst I agree with our investigator that Fairmead was entitled to rely on the advice of 
its drainage company regarding the underground services, Id remind it that the policy, as 
well as offering cover for damage to underground services and for damage caused by 
water leaks, also offers cover for that caused by flood.
Fairmead completed work to repair a leak that was occurring on the underground pipes. It 
did that and Mr B and Mr H reported that for a few days the cellar remained dry. When the 
drainage company reattended to investigate, it confirmed the repairs which it had carried 
out were sound and there were no other issues (with the underground pipes) that might be 
causing the problem. Fairmead was entitled to rely on that advice particularly as Mr B and 
Mr H presented nothing from a similar expert to suggest that it was wrong.
However, Mr B and Mr H told Fairmead at the outset that their home had suffered water 
damage. And Fairmead did not log that properly or deal with it at the time it dealt with 
the issue to the underground pipes. It didnt note the issue until the further water ingress 
occurred. I think it failed Mr B and Mr H in this respect.
If it had dealt with things as it should have, then it would have started to dry the bedroom 
once the initially suspected cause of the damage had been resolved by its drainage 
contractor. When further water then came into the cellar, as long as the bedroom continued 
to respond to the drying (which would indicate the further water ingress was not affecting 
the bedroom), then the reinstatement would have continued. Thats because an insurer is 
not absolved from fixing insured damage just because there are other potential causes of 
damage on-going at a property.
That said if the bedroom had stopped responding to the drying regime, and/or once the driers were removed the damp returned, that would suggest the further ingress was 
affecting the bedroom. At which point Fairmead would reasonably need to have reviewed 
its position. As I mentioned above it is liable for damage caused by water leaks and flood, 
but it wouldnt be up to it to trace a leak from the propertys water systems.
I know Mr B and Mr H made enquiries with the water authority and it said the mains use is 
at normal levels, indicating theres no leak. But a risk of leaks doesnt just come from mains 
pipes  there are rainwater goods at the property, as well as waste water pipes, and not just 
those situated underground. So it is possible that a leak is occurring that wasnt caught by 
the underground pipe investigations Fairmead initially undertook, or by the checks the water 
authority made. Its also possible that other water is getting into the property somehow 
which the policy offered by Fairmead might not cover. Either way if something is happening 
that would potentially impact on any repairs Fairmead might undertake for water damage, it 
wouldnt be unreasonable for it to expect that potential cause to be traced and resolved 
before it completed reinstatement work. But any drying company instructed by Fairmead, in 
the event the bedroom doesnt respond to drying may well be able to give a view as to why 
and/or what else might be causing the room to be wet. That is exactly the course a claim for 
this type of damage would normally take. And I see no good reason why none of this 
happened here. To put things right, this is what Im satisfied Fairmead must now do.
But Mr B and Mr H will need to be prepared to cooperate with Fairmead if it needs them 
to complete further investigations. I know theyve been less than keen to do so before. 
But I also havent seen that Fairmead has ever taken the time and trouble to properly 
explain the situation to them as I have above. I think if it had, and it had been handling 
the bedroom damage initially in the way Ive described above that it should have done, I 
think theyd have been more responsive. I dont think Fairmeads view, that it is not 
responsible for their upset because of their lack of co-operation is a fair one. Fairmead is 
the insurance expert, not them and, in my view, it should have handled things better. Im 
satisfied that £500 compensation is fairly and reasonably due.
My initial findings shared with both parties have not changed. They, along with my 
further comments set out here, form the findings of this my final decision.
Putting things right
I require Fairmead to act to progress this claim in line with my comments above  and 
that should start with it attempting to dry the bedroom.
I also require Fairmead to pay Mr B and Mr H £500 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience Im satisfied its failure to progress their claim caused.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Fairmead Insurance Limited to provide the redress set 
out in putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 January 2021.
Fiona Robinson
 
Fiona RobinsonOmbudsman