DRN-2736663
The complaint
Ms W is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC approved an interest rate switch that her 
ex-husband submitted through a broker without her consent. 
What happened
Ms Ws ex-husband approached a broker in January 2020 to arrange a product rate switch 
on their joint residential mortgage. The mortgage at the time was on Barclays Standard 
Variable Rate of 4.24% but this was switched to a two-year fixed rate product of 1.21%. 
There was also a £999 fee added to the loan which attracted the same level of interest.
 
The broker has since accepted that this application was done without Ms Ws knowledge or 
consent and have offered its own resolution to Ms W for its part in what happened.
  
However, Ms W was unhappy that Barclays allowed the rate switch to take place despite 
there being a marital dispute marker on the account since 2016. She also called up on       
18 January 2020 to explain she had no idea about the transfer, but it still went ahead. 
Barclays said that the broker should be responsible for the complaint. The broker had 
marked the application as if they had spoken to Ms W and her ex-husband to agree the rate 
switch. Barclays said the broker should have completed the necessary checks and not them. 
Barclays relied on what it was told by the broker. 
Our investigator looked at the complaint and agreed that Barclays hadnt done enough and 
should have asked more questions before allowing the rate switch to proceed. Our 
investigator recommended that Barclays pay £250 to apologise for the trouble and upset 
caused.
 
Barclays agreed with our investigator, but Ms W disagreed as she didnt believe the 
compensation reflected the distress caused and that Barclays actions had allowed her 
ex-husband to continue to financially control her. She also said that she would have taken a 
different product and that the choice had been taken away from her.
 
Ms W asked for the case to be passed to an ombudsman, so its been passed to me to 
decide.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start by saying that Im sorry to hear about the circumstances Ms W has been through. I 
appreciate this matter is sensitive and is causing her continued distress to this day. Id like to 
assure her Ive taken her evidence and arguments very seriously, and carefully considered 
the information weve been provided. And Im very sorry to hear her account of the difficulties 
shes faced over the years. 
Although I havent heard from Ms Ws former partner, Ive seen that the broker accepts that 
the application was put through without Ms Ws consent, but was presented to Barclays as if 
she had consented. Im satisfied on the balance of probabilities that that is what did happen.
In respect of these events, the broker has made its own offer of resolution to Ms W, but I am 
solely looking into the actions of Barclays. But its important I take into account the offer the 
broker has made, to make sure Ms W receives fair compensation overall and there is no 
duplication. The broker offered to pay the £999 product fee, plus interest charged, direct to 
Barclays to reduce the mortgage balance back down to what it would have been had the fee 
not been added. And it offered £500 compensation. It also offered to indemnify Ms W if in 
future better Barclays interest rates became available than the one applied to the mortgage. 
Barclays received an application for a product rate switch on 16 January 2020 from the 
broker. The application was detailed as an advised sale and both parties names were 
detailed on the form. On this basis, Barclays applied the new rate on 17 January 2020, 
backdating it to the previous day. 
A marital dispute marker had been placed on Ms Ws joint mortgage with her ex-husband 
since 2016. However, as both parties names were detailed on the form, Barclays believed 
that the application had been consented to by both parties. It therefore applied the rate 
switch even though there was a marker in place.
Ms W learned about the rate switch and fee, and called Barclays on 18 January 2020 to 
query the £999 fee and check if it had been added to the loan or paid upfront. The advisor 
confirmed that a new rate had been added on 16 January 2020 and the fee had been added 
to the loan. Ms W explained that following their divorce her ex-husband was only still on the 
mortgage as she couldnt afford to take the mortgage solely into her name. But she was the 
party who made the full mortgage payments each month. She understood her ex-husband 
had done the switch without her permission to reduce payments  to help him show that a 
separate mortgage application of his own would be affordable. Ms W says that he had 
refused to agree to new rates in the past. 
Ms W said she believes her former husband made the rate change not only to assist his own 
application, but also to continue to exert control over her even though the relationship ended 
some years ago.  
The paperwork was sent solely to Ms Ws ex-husbands address. So, Ms W requested 
information to be sent to her as well. Ms W asked that a note be added to the account so 
that her ex-husband couldnt make any further changes to the account. 
Ms W said her preference would have been for a two-year fixed-rate product at 1.49% with a 
lower fee of £299. She asked Barclays to cancel the new rate, but Barclays said this couldnt 
be done without incurring an early repayment charge. Though Ive also noted the mortgage 
has been on the standard variable rate for some years, as there hasnt been agreement 
between Ms W and her former partner to apply for a new rate.
Putting things right
From what Ive seen, the offer of compensation from the broker means that Ms W has not 
been financially disadvantaged by the fee or rate that her ex-husband applied for. I say that 
because Ms W says her preference would have been for a slightly higher rate, with a lower 
fee. As the broker has offered to refund the whole fee, that means she can benefit from the 
lower rate without any fee. And its also the case that the mortgage is now on a lower fixed 
rate  moving it off the standard variable rate it had been on for some years, and reducing 
the amount Ms W has to pay going forward.However, while the brokers offer means that Ms W hasnt lost out financially on her 
mortgage, its clear that this is not how the process should have happened  and she has 
been caused considerable distress and worry by it.
The broker has taken steps towards putting that right by offering compensation as well as 
the fee refund. But I think Barclays has some responsibility here too. It applied the rate 
switch even though it knew there was a dispute, and didnt communicate with Ms W at her 
address. 
Once it knew what had happened, Barclays ought to have considered unwinding the rate  
waiving, if necessary, the ERC  not simply saying nothing could now be done. Though I 
think the brokers offer puts this part of the complaint right. And unwinding the rate  without 
agreement about a new one  would have put the mortgage back on to the standard variable 
rate. 
The dispute marker on the account should have alerted Barclays to ask further questions  
as should the later conversations with Ms W. Thats not to say a dispute marker should 
always be a barrier to a rate switch  it would depend on the individual circumstances  but 
in this case there was enough for Barclays to have looked more closely.
And Barclays should have sent the paperwork to the mortgage address. The paperwork from 
the broker appears to have only cited Ms Ws ex-husbands address and this, combined with 
the marital dispute marker, could have flagged to Barclays that they needed to clarify 
consent with both parties. 
However, I must bear in mind that Barclays is not solely responsible, and the broker has also 
made an offer of compensation. As I say, Ms W has suffered considerable upset here  not 
least through worry about what shes described as the continuance of her husbands 
controlling behaviour. And while Barclays isnt responsible for that, theres more it could 
have done to have prevented its impact in this case. Taking into account the offer the 
brokers already made, and looking at things in the round I think £250 is fair compensation 
for Barclays to pay.
I dont think it would be fair to ask Barclays to pay Ms Ws legal fees. Theres no need to 
instruct solicitors to make a complaint either to Barclays or to us. It doesnt seem that the 
solicitors were used for the complaint; rather, they were used to communicate with Ms Ws 
former husband, as seems to be usual practice between them. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct 
Barclays Bank UK Plc to pay Ms W £250 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2021.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman