DRN-4058222
The complaint
Mrs J complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) trading as 
American Express (Amex) suspended her account.
What happened
Mrs J has had an Amex account for many years. Amex sent her a communication advising 
her that her account had been suspended. Mrs J said she spoke to Amex over the phone 
about the suspension of her account, but she didnt want to provide her personal information 
over the phone which they asked for. Mrs J says she had no previous communication from 
Amex that she needed to give them this information. Mrs J made a complaint to Amex.
Amex did not uphold Mrs Js complaint. They said they needed the information they 
requested from Mrs J to fulfil their Know Your Customer (KYC) requirements. They said 
when they are unable to fulfil their KYC requirements then they take a policy decision that 
they will exit the relationship and either suspend or close an account. Amex quoted a section 
of the credit agreement which they say entitle them to take this type of action. Mrs J brought 
her complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold Mrs Js complaint. He said Amex were within their rights to 
suspend her account as per the credit agreement. He said that as Mrs J did not provide the 
requested information after 64 days and five notifications sent by Amex, as they were 
obliged to request this information in line with their Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
obligations in regard to KYC checks, then they suspended the account.
Mrs J asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. She made a number of points. In 
summary, she said that she didnt receive any letters from Amex and her account was 
suspended after she had made it clear to them that she had no idea what information Amex 
required or the reasons why they needed this. She said she received generic letters from 
Amex that never stated what was required or how to fill in the information that they needed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware that Ive only summarised Mrs Js complaint points. And Im not going to 
respond to every single point made by her. No discourtesy is intended by this. Our rules 
allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive 
ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point to be able 
to reach what I think is a fair outcome. 
As Mrs J has said she didnt receive the prior communications from Amex, I asked Amex to 
provide system evidence of her registered details so I could ensure they matched the details 
that Mrs J provided to this service. Amex sent our service a system screenshot showing her 
registered address and the information matches what Mrs J has provided to our service. The 
email address they told us also matches Mrs Js email address that she told us. 
While Amex have been unable to provide me with the communication they sent Mrs J as 
they say this is automated and sent by their system, I can see system evidence with date 
stamps that they sent Mrs J on 31 August 2022 a KYC refresh email. This was followed up 
with another email on 30 September 2022 which their system shows as a Final Reminder 
AML (Anti Money Laundering) servicing letter, a direct mail letter on 1 October 2022 with a 
Final Reminder AML servicing letter reference, a 3 November 2022 email with a reference 
on their system of Suspension AML servicing letter, an email with a reference of First 
Cancellation Warning AML servicing Email on 5 December 2022. On 7 January 2023, I can 
see that Amex sent Mrs J an email and a letter on this date with their reference of Second 
cancellation warning AML servicing (and then letter or email, depending on the method 
sent).
So although Mrs J says she didnt receive these letters, Im satisfied that Amex have sent 
them to her as these are date stamped on their system and her address (postal and email) 
matches the information she provided to our service. As a result, I cant hold Amex 
responsible for any postal or delivery issues as this would be outside of their control. 
I have listened to the call which Mrs J had with Amex on 3 November 2022, where Mrs J lets 
them know her account has been suspended. The call handler says this is for the American 
Express erm periodic review, that erm, we did not receive the account information update 
from you, so I can go ahead and update your account, erm, information, I just need to ask 
you questions, and then after an hour your account will be activated. Mrs J replies ok.
The call handler says I also need to ask your annual income, the source of income, and 
occupation. Mrs J says that she is not telling the call handler her annual income. The call 
handler says she can just give her an estimate of her annual income because that is part of 
the information that they need to update her account. Mrs J reiterates that she is not going to 
give the call handler that information. The call handler indicates she could get the other 
information. Mrs J asks what other information is needed, the call handler tells her and Mrs J 
asks if she is joking, as she feels she is being scammed and it doesnt feel right. Mrs J tells 
the call handler her profession, and the call handler says there is no way for her to proceed, 
but before she can finish her sentence Mrs J says shes not giving the call handler her 
income and the call handler doesnt need to know that. 
The call handler tells Mrs J that she will make a note on the system that Mrs J is not 
comfortable with providing her income, but there is no way for her to continue the updating of 
her account. Mrs J says that Amex cant possibly be suspending her account on that basis 
(of her not providing her annual income). The call handler confirms that as a financial 
institution they need up to date information, and Mrs J says they dont need her income and 
she will report them to our service. The call handler explains that she has made a note on 
the system, but she would have to leave the account as it is. 
I must make it clear to Mrs J that it is not within this services remit to tell a business how 
they should satisfy themselves that they are meeting their legal and regulatory requirements, 
such as their KYC/AML requirements. It would be the role of the regulator  the Financial 
Conduct Authority, who have the power to instruct Amex to make changes to their policies 
and procedures, if necessary. 
The account was suspended before Mrs J made the call to Amex. Im satisfied that after 
listening to the call that the call handler had made it clear they needed certain information 
from Mrs J in order to remove the suspension from her account. So even if Mrs J did not 
receive the information request from Amex via post or email prior to this call, Im satisfied that she would be left in no doubt what they needed from her by the end of this call. Although 
Mrs J felt she was being scammed, she had called Amexs phone number and this wasnt an 
unsolicited call from them, so she should have reasonably been aware that it wasnt a scam. 
The call handler explained they had conducted a periodic review. This is a common thing for 
lenders to do, to ensure they are still meeting their AML/KYC requirements.
Ive noted the strength of feeling that Mrs J had that she didnt want to give the call handler 
this information, but Im not persuaded that Amex were unreasonable to ask her for these 
details. And it was very clear to Mrs J that they would need this information to remove the 
suspension. And as Mrs J did not provide this to them, then this is why they did not remove 
the suspension. 
Ive looked at the credit agreement that Mrs J entered into with Amex. There is a section on 
the credit agreement about suspending her account. This shows they can suspend her 
account if they reasonably believe that by allowing the use of the account they might breach 
a law, regulation, code, other obligation, or face action from a government, law enforcement 
agency or regulator. So Im satisfied that Amex were entitled to take the action that they did 
to suspend her account when Mrs J didnt give them the information that they asked for. 
Looking at the system notes I cant see she provided them with this information prior to them 
closing her account in February 2023. So it follows that I dont require Amex to do anything 
further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman