DRN-1426705
 
The complaint
Mr L complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) unfairly declined his application 
for his joint mortgage to be transferred into his sole name. Mr L had to re-mortgage with 
another provider and paid an early repayment charge (ERC) to Halifax of about £3,800, 
which hed like refunded.
What happened
Mr L had a joint mortgage with Halifax, taken out in 2016. He applied to Halifax in mid 2019 
for the mortgage to be transferred into his sole name. Halifax declined the application. Mr L 
had to re-mortgage with another provider and paid an ERC to Halifax. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He said Halifax was 
entitled to carry out checks and Mr L didnt meet its lending criteria. 
The investigator said we cant look into Mr Ls concerns about how Halifax dealt with his 
complaint, as complaint handling isnt a regulated activity.
Mr L didnt agree, and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and 
the wider circumstances. 
Mr L applied to Halifax for his joint mortgage to be transferred into his sole name. Halifax 
recommended a mortgage and issued a mortgage illustration. It then made further checks, 
as is its usual process for such applications, after which it declined the application.
When there are two or more borrowers on a mortgage account theyre jointly and severally 
liable for the repayments. Once the mortgage is in Mr Ls sole name, hes solely responsible 
for repayments. This changes the risk for both Mr L and Halifax. 
So its right that Halifax carried out checks, to assess that the mortgage would be affordable 
for Mr L and that it was willing to accept the additional risk of a sole borrower. After doing so, 
Halifax declined Mr Ls application. 
Halifaxs final response letter, sent in August 2019, said the problem was that credit 
commitments on Mr Ls application didnt match those on his credit file. It said it couldnt give 
Mr L details of the discrepancies, and suggested Mr L review the commitments on his credit 
file. Mr L says he was told by Halifax some months later that the reason was a commitment for 
car finance, which Mr L says Halifax didnt deal with correctly. I agree with Mr L that he told 
the adviser he had car finance when he made the application. But, while I understand Mr Ls 
concern that his application was declined due to an error by Halifax relating to his car 
finance, I think, based on the available evidence, its unlikely this was the case. 
Mr L wants to know why his application was declined. I can understand this, and his 
frustration about the explanations he's been given. Mr L says if Halifax had told him what the 
problem was at the time he could have explained it, and his application would have gone 
through. But I dont think that would necessarily have been the case. I cant reasonably 
require Halifax to provide more details to Mr L about its policy, or the checks it makes. 
Halifax said Mr Ls application didnt meet its lending policy: I dont think I can reasonably 
find that it would have accepted his application if it had spent more time discussing it with 
him.
Mr L repaid his mortgage while the ERC applied. Mr L agreed to the ERC when he took out 
the mortgage product. So I think Halifax was entitled to ask him to pay it. I dont think, in the 
circumstances, it would be fair and reasonable to require Halifax to refund the ERC.  
Mr L says Halifax made a binding offer to lend and hes confident a court would agree. If Mr 
L doesnt accept my decision he will be free to raise this matter in a court, if he wants to do 
so.
Mr L has also complained about the way Halifax dealt with his complaint. As complaint 
handling isnt a regulated activity, I cant look into his concerns about this.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2020.
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman