DRN-3587251
Complaint
Mr T has complained that Zopa Limited (Zopa) unfairly and irresponsibly arranged an 
unaffordable loan for him. He says he was lent too much given his credit score.
Background
Zopa operated the electronic system in relation to lending which led to Mr T being provided 
with a loan in January 2015. The loan was for £10,000.00 and the total amount of 
£16,116.58, which included interest, fees and charges of £6,116.58, was due to be repaid in 
48 instalments of £272.05. Mr T ran into difficulty making his payment and the outstanding 
balance on the loan was sold to a third-party debt purchaser. 
Mr Ts complaint was reviewed by one of our investigators. She didnt think that reasonable 
and proportionate checks would have shown Zopa that Mr T wasnt in a position to 
sustainably repay this loan at the time it was arranged. And so she didnt recommend Mr Ts 
complaint be upheld. 
Mr T disagreed with our investigators view and asked for an ombudsman to look at his 
complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive 
referred to this when deciding Mr Ts complaint. 
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions 
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr Ts complaint. These 
questions are:
Did Zopa complete proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr T would be able 
to meet his obligations under the P2P agreement in a sustainable way? 
oIf so, did it fairly conclude that Mr T could sustainably make his 
repayments?
oIf not, would such checks have shown that Mr T wouldve been able to do 
so?
Did Zopa act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
If I determine that Zopa didnt act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr T and that he 
has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
Did Zopa complete proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr T would be able to meet his 
obligations under the P2P agreement in a sustainable way? 
The rules, regulations and good industry practice in place when Zopa brought about this P2P 
agreement with Mr T required it to carry out a proportionate assessment of whether he could 
afford to repay his loan in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to 
as an affordability assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Zopa had to think about whether repaying the 
loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr T. In practice this 
meant that Zopa had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt cause Mr T 
undue difficulty or adverse consequences. 
In other words, it wasnt enough for Zopa to simply think about the likelihood of Mr T making 
payments, it had to consider the impact of loan repayments on Mr T. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the application. In 
general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different 
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an 
extended period); and 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. 
Ive carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.
Were Zopas checks proportionate?
Zopa has said that it completed an income and expenditure assessment with Mr T before 
arranging this loan. It looks like Mr T declared that he was employed and had a monthly 
income of just under £2,250.00. Mr T also declared that he paid rent of £600 a month and 
Zopa carried out a credit check to ascertain Mr Ts existing credit commitments. The 
information remaining from the application suggests that Mr Ts application was manually underwritten. But there no longer appears to be a record of the underwriting notes. Given the 
length of time thats passed since the application, I dont think that this is surprising.
Nonetheless, Zopas notes from the application do clearly indicate that the information 
gathered about Mr T required manual scrutiny. And as Ive not been provided with a record 
of what that manual scrutiny covered or more crucially what it showed, I cant reasonably say 
that Zopas checks before providing this loan did go far enough. 
So bearing in mind all of this and what Zopa has been able to provide, Im not satisfied that it 
did carry out reasonable and proportionate checks before providing this loan to Mr T.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have indicated to Zopa that Mr T would have 
been unable to repay this loan?
As Zopa hasnt been able to properly evidence that reasonable and proportionate checks 
were carried out before this loan was provided, I cant say for sure what they wouldve 
shown. So I need to decide whether it is more likely than not that proportionate checks would 
have told Zopa that Mr T wouldve been unable to sustainably repay this loan. 
Mr T has now provided us with evidence of his financial circumstances at the time he applied 
for this loan. Of course, I accept different checks might show different things. And just 
because something shows up in the information Mr T has provided, it doesnt mean it 
wouldve shown up in any checks Zopa mightve carried out. 
But in the absence of anything else from Zopa showing what this information would have 
shown, I think its perfectly fair, reasonable and proportionate to place considerable weight 
on it as an indication of what Mr Ts financial circumstances were more likely than not to 
have been at the time.
Zopas checks suggested that Mr T had a monthly disposable income of just over £1,070.00. 
The credit check it carried out showed that Mr T did have some existing revolving credit 
commitments but they were well maintained and Mr T wasnt excessively indebted. Indeed, 
Mr T could have consolidated all of his existing debts with this loan if he wished to do so. 
Mr T insists that his credit report suggests he only had a limit of £400. Ive thought about 
what Mr T has said. But I think that he has misinterpreted the screenshot hes provided. 
Firstly, the £400 credit limit relates to the limit on one of Mr Ts credit cards. This account 
showed up on the credit search that Zopa carried out. The screenshot Mr T has provided 
does not show that he was only able to afford to borrow £400 in the way hes suggesting. 
Secondly and most importantly, it is the P2P operators responsibility to gather enough 
information and decide whether it is appropriate to lend. While credit checks are likely to pay 
a part in this, I wouldnt expect a P2P operator to decline an application solely as a result of 
the credit limit another lender offered or what a credit reference agency determines 
someones credit limit to be. Conversely, I wouldnt expect a P2P operator to proceed with 
an application solely on the basis of such information either.
Ive also reviewed the copies of the bank statements Mr T has provide too. And having done 
so, there isnt anything in them which obviously contradicts what Mr T told Zopa about his 
circumstances or expenditure at the time. So overall the information Ive been provided with 
about Mr Ts circumstances does appear to show that when his committed expenditure and 
existing credit commitments were deducted from his monthly income, he did have the funds, 
at the time at least, to sustainably make the repayments due under this agreement. It's not in dispute that Mr T went on to experience difficulty making his payments. And Im 
sorry that Mr T has been unable to repay this loan. The information Ive seen suggests that 
this was due to a change in Mr Ts employment situation from 2017 onwards. Mr T has 
provided his full credit report and this clearly shows that his borrowing increased 
unsustainably from this point onwards. 
But the key thing here is that there isnt anything to suggest that it was clear from the 
information gathered, or that Mr T told Zopa his circumstances were likely to change. 
Indeed, Im not persuaded that even Mr T knew this would happen at this time. So I cant 
reasonably say that this is something Zopa ought to have accounted for when deciding 
whether Mr T could afford these monthly payments. 
As this is the case, bearing in mind what it had and what any further manual scrutiny is likely 
to have shown, I think that Zopa was reasonably entitled to conclude Mr T could make his 
loan payments when it brought about this loan for him - the information gathered from 
reasonable and proportionate checks are likely to have suggested the repayments were 
affordable. And Im therefore satisfied that it wasnt unfair for Zopa to bring about this loan 
for Mr T.
Did Zopa act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr T in some other way?
Ive carefully thought about everything provided. Mr T believes that Zopa should write off the 
outstanding balance on his loan as a payment hasnt been made since 2017. Ive thought 
about what Mr T has said but Zopa sold the outstanding balance on his loan to a third-party 
debt purchaser some time ago. And as it no longer owns Mr Ts debt, it simply isnt in a 
position to write it off  even if it wished to do so. 
As this is the case, I dont think that Zopa has unfairly failed to write off the outstanding 
balance on Mr Ts loan and I find that Zopa didnt act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr T 
in some other way.  
I appreciate that Mr T says hes still experiencing difficulty and that hes unable to repay 
what he owes. But if thats the case, this is something he needs to contact the third-party 
debt purchaser about.
Conclusions
Overall and having carefully thought about the two overarching questions, set out on page 
one of this decision, I find that:
Zopa cant evidence that it completed fair and reasonable and/or proportionate 
checks on Mr T to satisfy itself that he was able to repay his loan; 
But fair and reasonable and/or proportionate checks are unlikely to have shown this 
loan was unaffordable for Mr T at the time Zopa arranged it;
Zopa didnt also act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr T in some other way.
The above findings leave me concluding that Zopa didnt act unfairly or unreasonably 
towards Mr T when it brought about his loan in January 2015. And this means Im not 
upholding Mr Ts complaint.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ts complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman