DRN-1774751
The complaint
Mr M complains about the administration of an online bond by Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc 
trading as Post Office Financial Services (Post Office Financial Services). He complains 
about the document validation scheme when he opened the bond. Mr M also complains he 
was told he had to make his payment by cheque. He says these issues delayed the opening 
of his bond and that meant he lost interest which caused him stress and upset.
What happened
Mr M applied for an online bond at the end of June 2019. Mr M was asked to provide 
verification of his name and address. Mr M went to a local branch to provide the information 
and have it certified. Those documents were then sent to Post Office Financial Services.
Post Office Financial Services wrote to Mr M on 5 August 2019 informing him the document 
he had provided was not acceptable for proof of address. The letter explained there was a 
list of documents that were acceptable. 
Mr M then provided the supporting document and a cheque for the monies to open the 
account. His documents were received on 15 August. The account was opened on 19 
August 2019. 
Mr M complained to Post Office Financial Services. He complained that he had been told his 
document was unacceptable even though he had been to the Post Office to have it certified. 
He said the Post Office branch should be held responsible as they had certified and sent off 
documents. Mr M also complained that he had been told to pay the deposit by cheque, but 
he had then become aware there were two other ways of making the deposit. He said Post 
Office Financial Services was treating him unfairly. 
Post Office Financial Services didnt uphold his complaint. It said it had a legal duty to carry 
out verification checks. It said the original document sent by Mr M was not acceptable 
because only the first page of his bank statement was provided which didnt show any 
transactions. Post Office Financial Services said it wrote to Mr M on the same day the 
documents were received. It also said when an acceptable document was received on 15 
August it processed Mr Ms application, so his account was opened on 19 August.
Post Office Financial Services agreed that the branch should have noticed the first page of 
the document provided was insufficient for verification of address and should have asked 
Mr M for further documentation. It said this point had been fed back to the branch network.
It also said that the terms and conditions set out the three ways the deposit could be made. 
It said Mr M would have confirmed he had read, understood and agreed to those as part of 
the application process. It also said it asked Mr M for a cheque when it asked for further 
documents as this was generally the quickest way of making the deposit.
Mr M disagreed and referred his complaint to our service. He said Post Office Financial 
Services didnt properly check his documents and unfairly required him to make his deposit 
by cheque. Mr M said he lost interest as a result of the delay and was caused considerable 
stress including loss of sleep. 
Our investigator considered Mr Ms complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He felt 
Post Office Financial Services was entitled to ask for verification of Mr Ms identity and 
address. The investigator noted that certification could be carried out by a third party as well 
as at the Post Office branch. The investigator didnt think the certification service could be 
reasonably expected to confirm that a document met the criteria for verification.
The investigator didnt think it was clear from the first page of the document provided by     
Mr M that it was a bank statement. He said Mr M wouldve had to return with a valid 
document in any event. So, he didnt think he had been caused further inconvenience by 
Post Office Financial Services.
The investigator also noted that the bond would run for two years from when Mr M opened it, 
so he didnt think he had lost out on the interest over that period.
He considered what Mr M had said about being required to provide a cheque, but he didnt 
think Post Office Financial Services had acted unfairly. The investigator said the terms and 
conditions of the bond set out the different methods of payment allowed. The investigator 
thought that Post Office Financial Services explanation for requesting a cheque at that stage 
in the process was reasonable. He also didnt think the request to provide a cheque had had 
a detrimental impact on Mr M.
As no agreement could be reached Mr Ms complaint was referred to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M wanted to open an online bond. This was a fixed rate bond for a specified fixed term. 
He completed an online application form and was then asked to provide documentation to 
verify his name and address.
Requirements for verification
The terms and conditions of the online bond state that the name and address of the 
applicant has to be verified before the bond can be opened.
Section 2 of the conditions for the online bond says that Post Office Financial Services would 
try to verify the applicants electronically. But it also says:
If we cannot verify you electronically we may require you to provide us with proof of your 
identity and permanent address. If you fail to provide the necessary identity and address 
verification an Account will not be opened and your deposit will be returned to you without 
any interest.
So, I am satisfied Post Office Financial Services was entitled to ask Mr M for proof of his 
identity and address. I also note that financial businesses, such as Post Office Financial 
Services, are subject to legal requirements in respect of verification checks. Information 
about the proof required was provided to Mr M during the application process. The account 
opening form gave clear information about the documents required. So, I consider Post 
Office Financial Services made it clear to Mr M how this could be achieved. Mr M visited a local branch with his documents and asked for them to be certified. The 
documents were certified and sent off. The certification of a document confirms that the 
document is a true copy of the original. But that doesnt necessarily mean the certified 
document is a relevant document and complies with verification requirements 
Post Office Financial Services said as it was only provided with page 1 of Mr Ms document it 
couldnt be satisfied it was a bank statement as there were no transactions. And I am 
satisfied having looked at the first page that there were no transactions on that document.
Mr M questions why the Post Office branch representative didnt inform him this was 
insufficient for the purposes of verification. I agree things wouldve been much clearer for   
Mr M if he had been informed at that point that he needed to provide the whole document or 
another form of address identification. As it was, Mr M didnt become aware until around 6 
August when he received a letter from Post Office Financial Services.
Post Office Financial Services has accepted that it could have done things better and has 
said advice and feedback would be sent to the branch network. Whilst I think Post Office 
Financial Services could have handled this better at the local branch, I think there was also 
an onus on Mr M - as the person wanting to open the bond -to read the information and 
ensure he brought the correct documentation to be certified.
In any event, if Mr M had been informed by the local branch that the document was unlikely 
to be acceptable, he still wouldve had to return with the full document or another document. 
So, the outcome would have been the same. While I can understand his frustration, I dont 
think Mr M was caused additional inconvenience by not being informed at the time. 
Mr Ms documents were certified on 31 July 2019. He was notified one of them was 
unacceptable by letter dated 5 August 2019, probably received on 6 August 2019. So, it 
added just under a week to the application process. 
On the first occasion Mr Ms documents were received on 5 August. On the second occasion 
they were received on 13 August. 
Mr M says Post Office Financial Services should pay the interest he says he lost as a result 
of the delay. 
As this was a fixed rate bond where the maturity date was determined by reference to the 
start date Mr M hasnt lost any of the fixed rate period.
I appreciate that Mr Ms money was invested later than it would have been if the correct 
documents had been provided in the first place- about a week later. I am sorry to hear that 
the delay caused Mr M stress and upset. But while I think the Post Office branch could have 
done things better, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable in those circumstances to 
hold Post Office Financial Services responsible for that short delay. Particularly because, as 
I have said, I think there was an onus on the applicant, Mr M, to make sure he supplied the 
correct documents.
Payment by cheque 
Mr M complains he was told by Post Office Financial Services to pay his deposit by cheque 
when there were other ways of depositing funds. He says this delayed the opening of his 
online bond. As this is an online bond the vast majority of the administration happens online. So, an 
applicant or bond holder is expected to read through the relevant information and 
instructions. 
I can see the terms and conditions clearly stated that there were three ways of depositing 
funds to set up the online bond. These were from a linked account by direct debit; by cheque 
and from an existing Post Office Money savings account where the existing customer logged 
into the online servicing site.
As Mr M was applying for an online bond, I would expect Mr M to read through the relevant 
information to find out how to open the bond. Particularly because the account opening didnt 
happen by way of a face to face meeting with a Post Office Financial Services 
representative. I think the information provided made it clear that there were different options 
in relation to the deposit. 
Post Office Financial Services has explained that once it asked for documentation to verify 
the applicants identification and address, as it did in Mr Ms case, it requested a cheque 
because this was generally considered to be the quickest way to process the application. 
It appears that Mr M was able to provide a cheque and I cant see that he contacted Post 
Office Financial Services to say there was a problem with that payment method or he 
preferred another payment method. So, I dont consider Post Office Financial Services has 
done anything wrong here. I think it acted to try not to delay the application process further. It 
has explained if a direct debit is set up from a linked account it can take up to 12 days for 
funds to be received. Whereas in Mr Ms case the cheque was received on 13 August and 
the account opened on 19 August.
Complaint handling 
I note Mr M has also raised some issues about the way his complaint was handled by Post 
Office Financial Services and how long it took to investigate his complaint. I should clarify 
that this service can only decide complaints about regulated activities. Handling complaints 
is not a regulated activity in and of itself, so Im not able to consider that point in isolation. 
So, I have focused on the subject matter of the complaint made to Post Office Financial 
Services. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Mr Ms complaint against Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc trading as Post 
Office Financial Services is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 3 January 2020.
 
Julia Chittenden
Ombudsman