DRN-2609485
The complaint
 Mr B is unhappy with the poor service and the administrative errors made by British Gas 
Insurance Limited (British Gas) in regard to his annual boiler service.
What happened
 Mr B had a Homecare policy with British Gas. He was due both a repair and a service to his 
boiler. He attempted to contact British Gas on four occasions on 8, 22, 28 and 29 October 
2019 to arrange an appointment. But on each occasion, there was a problem and it wasnt 
until 29 November when the boiler service and repair were both done.
Mr B is deaf and uses British Sign Language (BSL). He also suffers from spinal arthritis and 
has had a hip replacement operation. 
Mr B used the online system to book an appointment. The first appointment he booked was 
for 8 October 2019 and requested a time between 10am and 2pm but no-one from 
British Gas attended or informed Mr B they couldnt make that appointment. He says he has 
a flashing doorbell, and, on many occasions, this isnt used when people come to his home 
which means he must wait and watch for any new visitors when they are due to arrive. On 
the two occasions British Gas were due to attend, he had to wait around and keep watch, 
and this caused him a lot of pain, discomfort and frustration.
Around the same time, Mr B had to book in a repair for his boiler. He went to his
community centre to use a BSL interpreter to help him make the appointment.
The appointment was booked for 9:30am onwards on 22 October 2019 and this was agreed
by British Gas. The engineer arrived at around 8:50am and left a card explaining hed 
visited, but Mr B wasnt in. So, the appointment was missed. 
Mr B called British Gas again using an interpreter to reschedule the appointment and again, 
requested that they attend from 9:30am onwards. The appointment was booked for 
28 October 2019. Again, Mr B arrived home and saw a card was left by British Gas to say 
theyd attempted the visit; the appointment had been missed once more.
On 29 November 2019, an all-day appointment was booked. The engineer arrived at
11:20am and both the service and the repair were carried out on the same day.
Mr B made a complaint to British Gas. It responded and said there had been service failings 
on its part both in terms of the appointment bookings and the details not being noted 
correctly on his account. It also said when morning appointments are booked the default slot 
is for 8am to 1pm. British Gas apologised that Mr B was not advised of this. It explained the 
notes on Mr Bs account werent updated to inform the engineer that he should call after a 
certain time, so they were unaware of Mr Bs request.
So British Gas made a permanent note on Mr Bs account for an engineer to text rather than 
call when hes on his way for an appointment. British Gas said however that this couldnt 
always be guaranteed as the engineers may not always have the opportunity to do so. 
British Gas offered £50 for the issues Mr B had faced and apologised.
Unhappy with British Gas, Mr B brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked
into it and said she thought £350, in addition to the £50 it had paid, was a fair and
reasonable amount of compensation for the trouble and upset caused to Mr B. She said
Mr B has faced considerable difficulty making appointments and has suffered physically due
to his spinal arthritis. And, the difficulties hed faced had also caused a mental impact on him
due to him being a deaf person. She said Mr Bs vulnerable circumstances should have
been recorded on their systems from the beginning and instead he was disadvantaged when
he tried to make multiple appointments and tried to inform British Gas of his situation. Our
investigator didnt think British Gas had done enough in this situation.
British Gas reviewed the investigators findings and offered a further £100 compensation 
making it a total of £150 compensation for the failings.
Mr B didnt accept British Gas offer and asked for the complaint to be referred to an
ombudsman. So, the complaint was passed to me.
I issued my provisional decision on 20 January 2021. I said the following:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key issues I need to decide are whether:
British Gas took due regard of Mr Bs vulnerable circumstances and treated him fairly 
and reasonably; and
£150 is a fair amount of compensation in the circumstances.
I appreciate and acknowledge that British Gas has accepted it could have done better and
apologised to Mr B. I understand that it thinks £150 is fair compensation for the failings that
happened.
Keeping in mind the challenges faced by Mr B, Ive looked at The Financial Conduct
Authoritys (FCA) guidance on how businesses ought to treat vulnerable consumers. It
defines a vulnerable consumer as someone who due to their personal circumstances, is
especially susceptible to detriment, particularly when a firm is not acting with appropriate
levels of care.
Financial businesses are expected to follow certain key principles. These include (but are
not exclusive) being sensitive, flexible and responsive to the needs of customers by
providing access/help through a range of communication channels and customers not
needing to tell firms about their circumstances more than once.
Ordinarily, I understand that errors can happen and in putting this right, it would mean
looking at the impact of what happened in a given situation. Mr Bs circumstances however
werent necessarily ordinary  he informed British Gas that he was deaf at the time of
booking the appointments online and by phone. He was told this information would be
passed to the engineer making the visit. There are no transcripts of the calls available
however, and notes have been provided which I have considered. There isnt anything in the 
notes to say whether an interpreter was used. Mr B has confirmed he used an interpreter 
and also informed British Gas when he made the online appointments when he would be 
available for an engineer to attend.
British Gas has also said that its online system encountered a fault when the first
appointment was booked which wasnt within its control. It said however the engineers haveattended the property in the past and over the years. And the engineers who attended on
22 and 28 October 2019 did attend as they had left a card.
I do understand this and acknowledge British Gas comments. However, Im looking at what
happened in the circumstances of this complaint. On this complaint, it seems four
appointments had to be booked but none of these were processed correctly or took Mr Bs
vulnerable situation into account. It took nearly seven weeks for the issue to be resolved and
Mr B attempted to make multiple appointments in order to get an engineer to attend.
Therefore, considering the trouble and upset caused as well as Mr Bs vulnerable
circumstances, Im not satisfied British Gas did enough to mitigate the challenges Mr B
faced, despite the fact that Mr B informed it of his situation. I can see eventually the
appointment was made over a day and both issues  the service and repair  were resolved.
But it took longer than it should have, and I cant see British Gas made sufficient efforts to
resolve the issues and quickly enough. This had an impact on Mr B and I dont think he was
treated fairly or reasonably.
Ive considered that, from its perspective, British Gas has said vulnerability is assessed on
several factors. When a customer calls it would look at the age of the people in the
household, medical conditions and the ability and/or the impact of the customer having no
heating or hot water and then it would prioritise the most vulnerable customers first. In
applying this to Mr Bs situation, Im not persuaded this was assessed as British Gas says it
should have been.
From the information available, Im not satisfied British Gas did enough or picked up on
Mr Bs vulnerabilities as it should have. Because of this, Mr B was disadvantaged as it
impacted his physical health as well as his mental health. Looking at this, even though Mr B
tried to make British Gas aware of his circumstances, it took multiple attempts before an
engineer visited his property, and this has caused him considerable distress and
inconvenience.
Overall, Im not persuaded British Gas did enough in the circumstances of this complaint. As
such, I intend to award £350 (in addition to the £50 already paid) as a fair and reasonable
amount of compensation for the way Mr B was treated and for the trouble and upset caused
to him.
Mr B responded and said he has nothing further to add. 
British Gas responded and said it has nothing further to add to whats already been 
provided. It confirmed it didnt agree with the provisional decision and feels £350 
compensation isnt fair for three failed appointments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having reviewed everything again, Im upholding the complaint. I still think £350 
compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Ive considered British Gas comments and appreciate it feels a further £350 compensation 
is unfair. However, as I explained in my provisional decision, Ive taken into account that 
Mr Bs circumstances were vulnerable. British Gas caused unnecessary delays and didnt 
take account of Mr Bs needs or that a different approach needed to be taken. The issue in dispute was about Mr Bs vulnerable situation as well as delays and the administrative 
errors. From the evidence available, I think British Gas could have done more. 
Overall, taking into account the further comments, Im not persuaded that British Gas did do 
enough to mitigate the challenges Mr B faced in making the appointments. As such, Im not 
persuaded to change my provisional findings. I think an additional £350 compensation is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Putting things right
 I require British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Mr B £350 as compensation (in addition to the 
£50 already paid) for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
 For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require British Gas 
Insurance Limited to put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2021.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman