DRN-1612170
 
The complaint
This is a complaint that Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold payment protection insurance 
(PPI) to Mrs S. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 2006. Capital One sold Mrs S 
the policy by phone some time after the card had been set up.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mrs S disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive considered what Mrs S and her representatives have said, but Ive decided the policy 
wasnt mis-sold. I will explain why.
Mrs S has said she had no knowledge of the PPI and believes it was added without her 
being given a choice. However, it wouldnt be fair for me to conclude this happened unless 
there was reasonable supporting evidence of it. Where someone has said another person or 
organisation has done something wrong, fairness requires that the person making the 
allegation should present evidence that this probably did happen. It wouldnt be fair to 
require someone to prove they didnt do something, especially when it was such a long time 
ago. And, from we know about Capital Ones telephone sales processes in this type of case, 
I think it likely the adviser was trained and instructed to offer the PPI as a choice. Overall, 
without stronger evidence, I cant fairly say the PPI was added without Mrs Ss consent. 
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI as being particularly suitable for Mrs Ss individual 
needs. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted her circumstances. 
Its difficult now to know how well Capital One explained the PPI. Its possible the information 
Capital One gave Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have been. But I dont 
think full information about costs and benefits would have affected whether she took the PPI. 
I say this because, in her circumstances, the PPI could have helped out if she lost income 
through sickness or redundancy. From what shes told us, it seems she had limited 
entitlement to sick pay and no savings. And it doesnt look like shed have been affected by 
any of the significant exclusions in the policy. So the PPI could have seemed useful, even if 
she was given full information about it. So I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. This means Capital One doesnt have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mrs S. But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to 
Mrs S because: 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs S about that. Because Capital One didnt 
tell Mrs S, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
Mrs S has said she was unable to work for a period and that she would have made a claim if 
shed realised she had PPI. Mrs S may want to ask the insurer if she is entitled to make a 
backdated claim. I dont know anything about that, however, as Ive just looked at how the 
PPI was sold. 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mrs S.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have to pay back to Mrs S any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, and so Im not awarding any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2020.
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman