DRN-3932785
The complaint
Ms P complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim she 
made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system she says was misrepresented to her by the supplier.
Ms P is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In February 2016, Ms P purchased a solar panel system (the system) from a company 
which Ill call P. She financed it through a 15-year fixed sum loan agreement with 
Shawbrook. 
In September 2021, the CMC made a claim on Ms Ps behalf under section 75 of the Act to 
Shawbrook. she said that P had made the following misrepresentations that had induced 
Ms P to enter into the contract:
The reductions in energy bills and the funds generated through the feed in tariff 
would be sufficient to fund the cost of the credit agreement. Therefore, not placing 
Ms P  in a position where they would be financially worse off per month. In other 
words, the system would be self-funding.
Shawbrook explained that it didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to Ms P or 
that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. They didnt think that P had 
misrepresented the system to Ms P and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view but provided no reasons for this. As an 
agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Ms P paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Ms P could claim against Shawbrook, 
the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way she could 
have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding 
what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Ms P and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
The CMC has also mentioned section 140 of the Act, which deals with unfair contracts. So, I 
have thought about this as well.
For the purpose of this decision, Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or its agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide what happened on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the 
evidence that is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Ms P says that during a sales meeting she was told that the system would be self-funding on 
a monthly basis.
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. 
Ive considered these, along with Ms Ps testimony and recollection of the sales meeting, to 
decide on balance what is most likely to have happened. 
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits, and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process, and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with the consumer, explaining any benefits of the 
system, prior to the consumer agreeing to enter into the contract. 
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with the Ms Ps 
version of events when considering if there have been any untrue statements of fact. 
The credit agreement sets out the cash price, the amount being borrowed, the interest to be 
charged, total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
On balance Im satisfied that Ms P was told that the cost of the system was £7,995.00, the 
monthly payment was £85.75, the total amount of credit was £7,895.00 and the total amount 
payable would be £15,535.03.
Overall, Im satisfied that P made it clear that although the cost of the system was £7,995.00, 
it would cost Ms P more than this as she had decided to pay for it with an interest-bearing 
loan. 
Feed-In Tariff (FIT) paymentsThe quote shows the estimated FIT payments in year one and on average over 20 years as 
follows:
 
I think it is clear from this that Ms P could expect to receive a total FIT income in year one of 
£135.62. This would be an average monthly income of £11.30. This is less than the monthly 
loan repayment of £85.75. I think these figures wouldve been discussed with Ms P, so Im 
not able to conclude that the Ms P was told that the monthly loan repayments would be 
covered by the FIT payment.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Ms P could expect from the system. The 
expected year one electricity savings is £232.38 and the combined income and savings in 
year one is shown as £469.76. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together.
The quote contains a graph titled your average monthly returns over 30 years with RPI and 
increase in electricity costs against the monthly cost of the system. This clearly shows that 
the monthly payments exceed the average annual benefits of the system.
Theres a section headed System Performance and Returns with three tables showing 
repayments over 60 months, 120 months, and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 
months because this is the length of the loan that Ms P entered into with Shawbrook. This 
table shows the loan as repayable in 180 illustrative monthly payments of £84.36  which is 
slightly less than the actual loan repayments shown on the credit agreement. 
For each year of the 15-year loan it shows the expected grand total return from the system. 
It then averages that figure over 12 months and subtracts the illustrative monthly loan 
repayment of £84.36, to give an average difference between the monthly return from the 
system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. 
I think this clearly shows that average monthly returns would be less than the loan 
repayment until the final year of the loan term. 
In summary, I think that the quote did form a central part of the sales process which the 
salesperson went through at the meeting. So, I dont think I can reasonably find that Ms P 
was told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT payments alone.
Self-funding
I have found that Ms P was not told the system would be immediately self-funding. However, 
I do accept that Ms P was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a certain 
duration of time. 
The system performance and returns page of the quote has a table detailing the 
performance over 30 years. This shows that by the end of year 20 the overall benefits that 
Ms P could expect to receive would have exceeded the total amount payable under the loan 
agreement. 
Im satisfied that P told Ms P that the system would pay for itself by the end of year 20, and 
this is supported by the table above included in the quote. If that were an untrue statement of 
fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced her to enter into the contract, and she 
subsequently suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
I have looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, expected 
annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. I am 
satisfied that Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2006 and 2015 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between the sale 
and 2020 and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale and I 
think this explains why Ms P hasnt been receiving the financial returns she may have been 
expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the 
modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system has 
been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS covering 2006 to 2015. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for 
P to have used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Ms P couldve 
expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not 
have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to 
unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Ms P entered into the contract.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Ms P to enter 
into the contract for the system, nor do I think that a court is likely to find that Shawbrooks 
relationship with Ms P was unfair on her. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Ms Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2023.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman