DRN-2755150
The complaint
Mr H says that Shelby Finance Ltd trading as Dot Dot Loans (Dot Dot) hasnt administered 
his loan account properly. He says it took two payments when it agreed his account should 
be placed on hold. Mr H thinks he should be paid compensation due to the distress and 
inconvenience this has caused him. 
What happened
This complaint is about one payday loan Dot Dot provided to Mr H. Mr H was due to make 
regular monthly payments to the loan of £140.77. Ive not been provided with information on 
the size of the loan or how many repayments Mr H was due to make. 
On 16 October 2020 Mr H contacted Dot Dot and informed it that he had been made 
redundant and so he would find making the contracted loan payments difficult. Because of 
this, Dot Dot agreed to place the account on hold for 60 days. It requested more information 
about Mr Hs income and expenditure at this point. 
Dot Dot has said that, due to an error, it didnt place the loan account on hold. Because of 
this, the regular payment was taken from Mr Hs account on 30 October 2020. 
Mr H contacted Dot Dot about this straight away. He says he had to make a few calls and 
the Dot Dot representatives werent always helpful. That said, the payment was returned to 
him on 6 November 2020. 
Dot Dot again didnt place his loan account on hold. So, a further payment was taken on 
27 November 2020. After Mr H contacted Dot Dot again it refunded the payment on 
1 December 2020. Which was the next working day. 
Mr H made his complaint to Dot Dot. The business has upheld his complaint and said that it 
was poor customer service that his account wasnt put on hold in October 2020. It offered 
£50 compensation for the distress and inconvenience this caused him. It also asked for 
information about any further bank charges that Mr H may have incurred due to this. As far 
as I can see Mr H hasnt provided this. 
Mr H is now on a payment plan and he is repaying the outstanding amounts.  
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. She agreed that Dot Dot shouldnt have taken 
the two payments Ive outlined above. But she thought that the compensation it had already 
offered to pay was reasonable. 
Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. He says when it took the payments it caused 
him hardship and he was still unhappy with this outcome. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that Dot Dot shouldnt have taken the two payments when it had agreed 
that Mr Hs account would be placed on hold. So, I dont need to consider whether it made 
the mistakes Mr H says it did. Im only looking at whether the compensation offered is fair. 
Its reasonable to say that things do go wrong from time to time and this is part and parcel of 
dealing with Financial (and other) businesses. As this is the case it is important that any 
mistakes are put right quickly, so they dont cause a consumer any further inconvenience. I 
think its reasonable to say this happened here. As Ive outlined above both refunds were 
made promptly. 
Of course, this could still have caused Mr H significant distress and inconvenience and 
Mr Hs complaint is that when Dot Dot took the payments this happened. But whilst I dont 
want to underestimate the consequences for H I havent seen enough, such as information 
about any bank charges he incurred due to this, to enable me to say with certainty this was 
the case. 
So, because of this, I think the award that Dot Dot has already offered is fair and reasonable. 
Putting things right  what Dot Dot should do
Dot Dot should pay £50 to Mr H. If it has already done this it doesnt need to make a second 
payment. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman