DRN-4101479
The complaint
Mr W complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited unfairly declined his home 
insurance (buildings) claim.
Admiral is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of its agents. As Admiral has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the agents, 
in my decision, any reference to Admiral includes the actions of the agents.
What happened
In May 2022, Mr W made a claim under his home insurance (buildings) policy with Admiral 
after discovering an escape of water in his home. Mr W was having a new kitchen installed 
along with some other home improvements. A leak was identified after skirting boards were 
removed.
 
Admiral arranged for surveyors (company B) to visit the property to carry out an inspection. 
Following this, Admiral declined Mr Ws claim. Mr W was told the cause of damage was 
considered to be due to a long term leak and not the result of an insured cause.
Mr W complained to Admiral about its decision to decline his claim as well as the service 
hed received from it and from B.
Admiral said it could see no errors in the service Mr W had received. It said B had been 
appointed the same day Mr W had reported his loss. They had visited and sent their full 
report five days later. 
Admiral said B advised Mr W that due to a lot of work already completed by himself, they 
would need evidence of the loss. It said it couldnt accept the evidence Mr W had provided of 
his water bills as they were not conclusive. Admiral said Mr W had no photographs from 
before the work and it wasnt able to validate his claim as it couldnt see if gradual causes 
were ignored.
Mr W remained unhappy and asked our service to consider his complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on 14 April 2023 where I explained why I intended to uphold 
Mr Ws complaint. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I intend to uphold Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain why. 
From what Ive seen and been told, the damage to Mr Ws property was caused by a leak 
coming from a main cold water pipe, with water leaking under the floor. 
The terms of the policy provide cover for loss or damage to buildings due to:
Water escaping from any:
fixed water tank
water pipe
fixed central-heating system: or
domestic appliance
Admiral says it declined Mr Ws claim because the damage to his property was considered 
to be due to a long term leak and not as the result of an insured cause. So, it seems to be 
relying on a general exclusion that says it will not cover a policyholder for:
Gradual causes
Any loss or damage caused by anything that happens gradually, including wear and tear, 
wet and dry rot, or damage due to exposure to sunlight or atmospheric conditions, 
settlement, mildew, rust or corrosion.
The available evidence suggests that the water was leaking for several months, and the 
damage happened gradually. So, strictly speaking, the exclusion would apply. However, I 
also need to consider if Admiral has treated Mr W fairly and reasonably. 
Mr W says he wasnt aware of the damage until skirting boards were removed as part of the 
renovations to his property. 
In its final response to Mr Ws complaint dated 6 June 2022, Admiral said: You have no 
photographs before the work started and without being able to validate, your claim was 
declined as we are unable to see if gradual causes were ignored.
Mr W says he wasnt previously asked for photographs of his property before the work 
started. The day after Admirals final response (on 7 June 2022), Mr W emailed a number of 
photographs of his property, which he says were taken in April and May 2022, before the 
work commenced. 
Admiral says it didnt receive this email. But it was sent to the address Mr W had sent a 
previous email to. And Mr W has also provided a copy of a letter he received from Admiral 
dated 10 June 2022, which says:
I have sent these photographs to our Claims Department who will then contact (B) for you. 
After they have received these photographs, they can proceed with your claim. 
However, neither B nor Admiral appear to have considered the photographs. Admiral still 
hasnt commented on these, despite our investigator giving it several opportunities to do so. 
And Mr W has told us his claim was closed in July 2022.
Having reviewed Mr Ws photographs, Im not persuaded that he should reasonably have 
been aware of the damage happening gradually. I can see mould in the photographs 
included in Bs validation report from its inspection on 13 May 2022. However, the mould 
appears to be where the skirting boards would have covered the walls so I dont think this 
would have been visible prior to their removal. Its not apparent in the photographs Mr W has 
provided of his property prior to the start of the renovations. 
I dont think Mr W was likely to have known about the escape of water until the renovations 
to his property began. Mr W appears to have made his claim as soon as he became aware 
of the damage. So, I dont think its reasonable for Admiral to have relied on the gradual 
causes exclusion to decline the claim.Admiral has also commented that the surveyor (from B) believed the leak had been going on 
for many years. However, the report suggests that they reached that conclusion because 
the customers builders believe that the leak had started prior to the customers purchase of 
the property. Mr W says his builder didnt say this, they said it could have been going on for 
years or it could only have been a matter of months and would depend on the rate the water 
was leaking.
Reports from another surveyor and plumber who attended the property around the same 
time, estimate that the water had been leaking for around 6 to 8 months. Mr Ws policy 
schedule shows that his policy was renewed in August 2021. So, I think the damage was 
likely to have happened, whilst Admiral was insuring Mr Ws property. 
I dont think Admiral acted fairly in declining Mr Ws claim. Mr W says hes had to commence 
the remedial work to rectify the water damage himself, so I think it would be fair for Admiral 
to reimburse him for this, in line with the remaining terms of the policy. And I think it would be 
fair for Admiral to pay interest on the cost of repairs, at a rate of 8% simple from the date   
Mr W paid for these until the date it reimburses him.
I also intend to award £250 for the distress and inconvenience Mr W experienced due to 
Admirals poor service. Admiral failed to consider the photographic evidence Mr W supplied, 
despite acknowledging its receipt via email. I think this caused some unnecessary frustration 
for Mr W and has delayed the matter being resolved.
I set out what I intended to direct Admiral to do to put things right. And I gave both parties 
the opportunity to send me any further information or comments they wanted me to consider 
before I issued my final decision.
Responses
Mr W said he had no additional information to raise, and he was satisfied with my provisional 
decision. He raised some concerns that Admiral might not settle his claim in a reasonable 
way. 
Admiral said it agreed with the findings Id reached in my provisional decision. It agreed that 
Mr W was unaware of the leak, and it was likely to have started when he was insured with 
Admiral.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties agree with the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision, I see no 
reason to change them.
I appreciate Mr W has concerns about Admiral not settling his claim, given the difficulties 
hes experienced. However, Admiral has now agreed to settle the claim and my final 
decision will be legally binding if Mr W accepts it.
Putting things right
Admiral should:
Settle Mr Ws escape of water claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions 
of the policy. Pay interest on the cost of repairs, at a rate of 8% simple*, from the date Mr W paid 
for the repairs to the date it reimburses him. 
Pay Mr W £250 for distress and inconvenience.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Admiral to deduct tax from this interest. Admiral should give 
Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ws complaint and direct Admiral Insurance 
(Gibraltar) Limited to put things right by doing as Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman