DRN-4008767
The complaint
Miss S is unhappy with a repair carried out following a claim on her home insurance policy 
underwritten by U K Insurance Limited (UKI). 
What happened
In July 2021 Miss S submitted a claim on her home insurance policy for a damaged iPad. 
UKI accepted the claim as accidental damage and the iPad was sent to be repaired. Once 
repaired it was returned to Miss S in December 2021. 
In April 2022 Miss S contacted UKI and said the screen wasnt repaired properly and was 
loose. The iPad was sent to the technicians who originally repaired it to inspect it. They 
reviewed the iPad as well as photographs they took before it was returned to Miss S and 
based on that said they felt the damage was new damage. So essentially, it wouldnt be 
covered under the original repair warranty and Miss S would need to submit a new claim and 
pay another excess.
Miss S referred her concerns to this service. Our investigator didnt think UKI had been 
unfair when deciding it was new damage. As Miss S remained unhappy it has been passed 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
UKI have a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly and they shouldnt decline a 
claim unreasonably. 
Miss S was looking for the damaged iPad to be repaired under the original repair warranty. 
UKI had the iPad inspected by the technicians that carried out the repair and Ive seen their 
report. It says:
The rear housing has received impact damage at the top, the frame is curved at the top 
causing the digitiser to come away from the housing. This gap has allowed dust and 
debris to enter the tablet, which has settled onto the LCD and digitiser internally over a 
period of time. This would be classed as warranty void due to impact damage found to 
the housing..
So Im satisfied it has been inspected to see if its covered under the original repair. Ive also 
seen photos taken by the technician that carried out the original repair before they returned it 
to Miss S, and from those I cant see impact damage or any curving of the frame. So I 
havent seen anything to persuade me that the damage was there when it was returned 
initially.
Furthermore, if the iPad had this damage at the point it was returned, Id have expected 
Miss S to be in touch with UKI a lot sooner about it than she did. The iPad was originally 
repaired and returned to Miss S in December 2021. And it took her four months to raise her 
concerns about the repair to UKI. Whilst I can understand that an issue may not always be 
apparent immediately, I think its likely that a screen that wasnt repaired properly and was 
loose would be obvious quite soon after the return. I say that as the screen is the main part 
to the iPad and undergoes a lot of physical contact to interact with it.
Overall, based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied UKI havent been unfair in declining to cover 
the iPad under the original repair warranty. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 April 2023.
 
Karin Hutchinson
Ombudsman