DRN-2201118
The complaint
Mr I complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) incorrectly advised him about how an 
incident would be reported on the Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE).
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties  so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigators for these reasons:
Im satisfied that UKI was correct to report this incident on CUE as it did. I.e. on an 
information-only basis, showing that no costs were paid and that Mr Is No Claims 
Discount (NCD) wasnt affected. UKI is signed up to CUE, so has a duty to accurately 
report any incidents, whether or not they lead to claims. And Mr I doesnt dispute the 
incident itself  he reported it to UKI, in line with his requirements under the general 
conditions of the policy:
Notification of accidents and losses
You must tell us as soon as reasonably possible about any incident which 
may lead to a claim under this policy. 
That said, as Mr I has pointed out, its clearly evidenced that UKI made errors. It gave 
him incorrect and conflicting information about how the incident would be reported. 
Its already paid £300 compensation in relation to this. So the key question is, does 
this adequately address the impact its errors had on Mr I?
Mr I says the resolution of this complaint doesnt surround the £300. But our 
services approach  in the context of compensation for non-financial harm  is to 
think holistically about the overall impact of the errors. And to decide what 
compensation is needed to adequately address this. From what Mr I has told us, its 
clear he suffered inconvenience, stress and anxiety due to UKIs errors. Im satisfied 
the £300 compensation offered is a fair and reasonable reflection of this considerable 
impact.
Im not persuaded theres a further material impact to address. As the incident would 
always have been reported on CUE, any impact this has (or may have)  beyond the 
disappointment etc. caused by the miscommunication  is unavoidable. And I cant 
reasonably hold UKI responsible for how other insurers may consider this incident. In 
any event, Mr Is NCD wasnt affected.   
For these reasons, although I understand and empathise with Mr Is frustrations, Im not 
increasing the compensation or directing UKI to do anything further to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
U K Insurance Limited has already offered to pay £300 in total to settle this complaint. I think 
this offer is fair in all the circumstance.
So my final decision is that U K Insurance Limited should pay Mr I anything outstanding of 
the £300 its offered in relation to this matter. This should be paid within 28 days of being 
notified by us of Mr I's acceptance of my decision, failing which interest will accrue at the 
simple rate of 8% a year from the date of decision to the date of settlement (less any tax 
properly deductible).
If Mr I accepts this decision, it becomes legally binding on both parties. So he wouldnt then 
be able to take legal action in relation to any issues covered in this case. On the other hand, 
if he rejects the decision, whilst that wont affect his legal rights, it will mean that UKI 
wouldnt be obliged to comply with my order  so it would then be purely a matter of 
goodwill as to whether it honours the offer. Legally, an offer isnt binding until unconditional 
acceptance of it has been communicated by the offeree.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2020.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman