DRN-3684292
The complaint
Mr M complained that he had been paying fees to Tees Financial Limited (Tees) for a 
number of years and had not received a service in return. He said he was unaware of the 
extent of the fees. Represented by his daughter, Mr M wants the fees returned by way of 
redress.
What happened
Mr M and his wife had been clients of their adviser since the 1970s and had a good 
relationship with him. Their adviser sold his business to Tees in around 2001 but continued 
to work there and looked after Mr and Mrs M until about 2010. 
Over that period of time they put in place a number of arrangements including investments, 
pensions, estate planning and life assurance. 
Mrs M unfortunately passed away in 2019. Following that, Mr Ms daughter began to help 
him manage his affairs, which meant dealing with Tees. Previously, Mrs M had managed the 
family finances as Mr M had not taken much of an interest. As part of this process Mr Ms 
daughter sought information from Tees to get a picture of her parents finances.  
Mr Ms daughter was acting under a letter of authority signed by her father. However, Mr Ms 
son (her brother) told Tees that his father was no longer able to make his own decisions. 
Tees felt that this meant they were unable to honour the authority Mr M granted to his 
daughter to act on his behalf. An Enduring Power of Attorney had been completed some 
years ago and would come into effect once registered with the court but it had not been so 
registered. Mr Ms daughter disagreed with her brother and felt that her father retained the 
capacity to make his own decisions, so that the authority was valid. Mr M claimed that Tees 
has taken fees from investments and not provided a service in return, and that they have not 
been transparent about the fees they have received. He said that he had been unaware of 
an annual charge paid from a pension fund, which was by far the largest arrangement he 
and his wife held with Tees. He felt that the fee had either not been disclosed or had been 
hidden from him. It should be noted here that Mr Ms complaint was more wide-ranging than 
just fees and service but, for reasons that I will come on to, were not the right service to deal 
with all the points of the complaint.
Mr Ms daughter submitted a complaint to Tees, but the business did not treat it as valid 
because of the question over Mr Ms capacity described above. Their position was that, if he 
had lost capacity then the Enduring Power of Attorney in favour of his daughter needed to be 
registered to allow her to act; alternatively, they needed evidence that Mr M had not lost 
capacity in which case he was able to grant his daughter the authority to act on his behalf. 
Mr M did not accept this response and so brought the complaint to this service. 
Our investigator felt that Tees had offered a service to Mr M, and that remuneration had 
been adequately disclosed. He did not think it was reasonable to ask the business to 
reimburse fees. 
Mr M and his daughter did not accept this assessment so the case was referred to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is only fair to acknowledge the time and effort taken by both parties. The documentation in 
this file is extensive and I would hope that neither party thinks I mean any disrespect in not 
attempting a full summary. I can assure both parties that I have given the file full 
consideration but will focus my decision on what I consider to be the key points. 
There are some aspects of the complaint that I cant consider.  Mr M also complained about 
client confidentiality, alleged breaches of the Mental Capacity and Data Protection Acts, 
asset protection and withholding documents. Like the investigator, I have considered all the 
points made, but I am satisfied that we are not the right service to deal with all of these 
points. The main issues I can look at concern the remuneration received by Tees and the 
service provided in exchange. 
So that is what my decision will focus on, with an emphasis on transparency, which is of 
particular concern to Mr M.  
Remuneration
Mr M and his daughter say that they were unaware of the level of fees being charged due to 
a lack of disclosure. While the main investment involved in this part of the complaint was the 
Suntrust pension scheme, Mr M was also concerned about fees/commissions on other 
investments. 
The Suntrust pension scheme paid Mr M an annual income of just over £50,000 net of tax. In 
July 2019, as Mr Ms daughter gathered information from Tees, I can see that an 
administrator told her that £70,000 was Mr Ms gross income, with the difference being 
explained by income tax. Mr M believed that the difference was due to undisclosed fees. 
Tees denied that they had hidden or failed to disclose their remuneration.
Our investigator explained to Mr M about the changes in rules on financial advisers 
remuneration in 2013 (the retail distribution review). Where, previously, advisers had been 
paid by product providers paying commission from a product, from 2013 this was no longer 
allowed. 
After 2013 any payment made to an adviser from a clients investment had to be agreed 
upfront between the client and their adviser, with the agreed amount deducted directly from 
the investment. Prior to this, adviser remuneration was paid from the product provider to the 
adviser, but would still have been disclosed to, and agreed by, the investors. The two main 
products under consideration with this complaint differ in how they pay adviser remuneration, 
as will be covered below. 
The Suntrust scheme holds a bank account through which all payments were made, and a 
separate investment portfolio. Funds would be moved from the investment portfolio to the 
bank account to ensure that there was money available to make the necessary payments. 
For this scheme, the bank account would need to pay out the scheme pension to Mr M (net 
of tax), the income tax due on that pension (paid direct to HMRC) plus any remuneration agreed with the adviser, Tees (which was 0.5% of the value of the scheme). To cover these 
payments an annual withdrawal was set up from the investments to the bank account of 
£70,000. 
Tees have provided us with a copy of the original application for the Suntrust scheme. The 
application, as well as the adviser remuneration form showing the ongoing 0.5% payment to 
Tees, were signed by Mr M.
Tees have also provided us with copies of annual Suntrust statements. These show Mr Ms 
income of £63,577 gross, from which income tax of £12,715 was deducted leaving Mr M with 
a net pension of £50,861. These same annual statements, copies of which are on file and 
are addressed to Mr M, also show the annual adviser remuneration based on 0.5% of the 
value of the fund. 
It seems clear that the administrator made an error in a July 2019 email when they explained 
that £70,000 p.a. gross (rather than £63,577 p.a. gross) was being paid to Mr M. While 
regrettable, I do not agree that an error of this nature amounts to a lack of transparency or 
that the ultimate amount paid to Mr M was incorrect. 
Mr M also believes that he was told that this was the only remuneration received by Tees in 
respect of his investments. This view is based on an email to his daughter in 2020 which 
said:
Tees normal charge for ongoing advice is 0.75%, however as discussed this was 
discounted to 0.50% for your parents, and also covers their other policies outside of the 
Family Suntrust Scheme, where we havent charged an ongoing advice fee. 
Mr M interpreted this as meaning that Tees received no other remuneration apart from that 
paid from the Suntrust pension. When he and his daughter discovered remuneration from 
other sources, they felt they had been deceived. 
I am afraid that I do not agree with this analysis. It does not necessarily follow from this 
statement that Tees received no other remuneration, only that there are other investments 
from which Tees has not received any remuneration, but where they are still able to provide 
a service because of the remuneration from the Suntrust Scheme. It is not uncommon for 
adviser firms to offset fees from one investment against work elsewhere particularly where 
clients pay higher rates of income tax, as this can reduce the net cost of the fee to the client. 
As with the administrators error in explaining the withdrawal, I can see how Mr M arrived at 
his interpretation of this statement. But, taking into account all of the evidence on file, I do 
not agree that the statement meant that Tees derived no other remuneration from Mr Ms 
investments or that other remuneration was taken unfairly. 
Finally, Mr M refers to another arrangement, an Utmost investment bond, where Tees 
earned commission. This was originally an Aviva product, held in trust, and was arranged 
prior to the 2013 retail distribution review rule change referred to above. Unlike the Family 
Suntrust pension scheme, remuneration from this investment was paid from the product 
provider to the adviser so was less visible as a specific deduction on annual statements as 
was the case with the Suntrust scheme. Nevertheless, the remuneration would still have to 
be disclosed to, and agreed by, the clients. Tees have provided us with the application form, 
which shows an ongoing payment of 0.5% a year to be paid to Tees. The application form 
was signed by both Mr M and Mrs M. 
Taking into account all of the evidence from 2009/2010 until the more recent 
correspondence leading up to the complaint, I find that Tees acted fairly in disclosing their remuneration.
Mr M and his daughter have told us that Mrs M was the one who managed the family 
finances as Mr M had little interest, so I can see why he might not have been aware of these 
fees until after his wifes death, despite receiving correspondence and signing applications. 
But that does not mean that the fees were not adequately disclosed, and I can see evidence 
from the file that they were disclosed. 
Service and advice
The second strand of the complaint which I can consider was that Mr M felt that he received 
no, or an inadequate level of service from Tees over the years. Three examples were raised. 
These are:
The names of Mr & Mrs Ms grandchildren were not added to family trusts as they 
were born. 
Mrs Ms nomination of death benefits on the Suntrust scheme was not changed to 
reflect changes to pensions legislation introduced in 2015 
The investments underlying the Suntrust arrangement were not reviewed to consider 
performance, risk and so on.
As part of their response to the complaint, Tees sent this service c. 8000 pages of 
documents. This includes completed application forms, illustrations, review letters, 
recommendation letters, annual statements and other correspondence. That Tees still have 
on file application forms from over a decade ago, together with the sheer volume of papers 
alone, shows in itself that there was clearly some level of ongoing service provided. 
However, I think that it would be useful to look at what the file tells us about the three 
examples highlighted above. 
In relation to adding the grandchildren as trust beneficiaries, there is a file note dated 6 
December 2018. The adviser at Tees said that he had spoken to Mrs M and proposed a 
meeting to discuss adding the grandchildren by name to all of the trusts and to review the 
underlying investments and other matters. The file note records that the call ended with no 
commitment (from Mrs M) to meet. 
In any case, I believe Mr M should be aware that the trust documents that we have seen 
would not require grandchildren to be named individually in order for them to benefit from the 
trusts. Most discretionary trusts allow the trustees to pay money to children and remoter 
issue of the settlor, without the need to name them individually to allow for circumstances 
such as these, so there is no detriment to those who are not named individually. This was 
explained to Mr Ms daughter by email in October 2019.
In April 2015 the tax treatment of pension scheme death benefits changed significantly. Mr M 
believes that Tees should have advised on potential changes to the death benefits 
arrangements in place in relation to the Suntrust scheme.  
In the files provided by Tees, there is a portfolio review letter dated 10 March 2015, a few 
weeks before the rules changed. This letter suggests reducing the holding in the AXA 
Distribution fund and also refers to the coming changes to death benefits legislation, to be 
discussed at an upcoming meeting. There is a further letter dated 22 June 2015, which again 
discusses making changes to the death benefit nominations and possible fund changes. The 
following year, a letter dated 26 April 2016 encloses further information on the death benefit position with the Suntrust scheme. These letters were addressed to Mr and Mrs M.
Later, in November 2019, Tees offered an annual review via Mr Ms daughter. 
Taking all of this evidence into account, I find that Tees did provide an ongoing service to Mr 
and Mrs M, both generally and in respect of the three specific matters detailed above. I can 
see that there has clearly been a breakdown of communication and a loss of trust between 
Mr M and particularly his daughter and Tees. But there is no evidence to show that Tees has 
either been misleading about their remuneration or has not provided a service in keeping 
with what had been agreed.
I agree with our investigator that it would not be reasonable to require Tees to do anything 
further.
I have already said that the other points in the complaint are in the remit of other regulatory 
bodies so I will not comment further on those.
My final decision
I am not going to uphold Mr Ms complaint for the reasons I have already explained.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
Martin Catherwood
Ombudsman