DRN-2798902
The complaint
Mr Ms complaint is about a claim he made on his property insurance policy with Liverpool 
Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV). He is unhappy that the claim was declined, as he 
thinks the property is subsiding, but LV thinks the damage to the property has been caused 
by a problem with the roof.
Mr M is being assisted in his complaint by a relative, but for the purposes of this decision, I 
will refer to all comments having been made by him.
What happened
Mr M arranged his buildings insurance policy with LV at the end of 2017. The following year 
he had accepted an offer to buy his home and the prospective purchasers had a survey 
done. The survey said there had been movement in the building and there may be damage 
to the raft foundation. As such, Mr M made a claim to LV.
LV assessed the damage and completed some investigations, including monitoring the 
property for vertical movement (level monitoring). It determined the foundation slab had 
moved at some point, but was stable at that point, and LV thought it was historic and likely 
initial settlement when the property had been built. Based on the cracking and damage at 
roof level, it concluded the cracking was being caused by movement in the roof structure, 
which was possible due to a lack of restraint in the roof. This type of damage wasnt covered 
by the policy, so LV declined the claim.
Mr M wasnt happy with LVs conclusions and commissioned an engineering report on his 
property. In summary, this concluded there had been downward movement to the foundation 
slab (toward the east end of the property) at some point since it had been built. It also 
confirmed that there was a problem with the roof  there had been movement in it and there 
was a lack of restraint in the roof. The engineer recommended further investigations be 
undertaken and the property monitored for at least another year. 
Mr M asked this service to consider the complaint. LV was asked to consider Mr Ms 
engineers report and, having done so, it agreed to monitor the property for a further period. 
Our investigator endorsed this offer, which Mr M accepted and the complaint was closed. 
LV monitored the property between 10 October 2019 and 1 September 2020.  This showed 
that there was some slight movement in the property (both up and down at different points 
and at different times) but by very small amounts that could be attributed to normal seasonal 
movements a building experiences. LVs engineer assessed the evidence and concluded 
that while there was some evidence of historic movement of the slab (raft) the property was 
built on, the monitoring in the original claim and more recently, showed that the property 
wasnt subsiding. 
In light of this, LV wrote to Mr M and confirmed that it wouldnt be accepting liability for the 
damage to his home. It reiterated the engineers findings about subsidence and the stability 
of the property. It also repeated that it thought the roof had inadequate internal bracing, 
which had caused lateral movement (evidenced by the displacement at verge level at the 
gable ends) and it remained satisfied this was the cause of the cracking around the property. 
Mr M didnt accept LVs position and referred the complaint back to this service.  When he 
did so, he said that LV hadnt checked whether the gable wall was level in the vertical plane. 
He considers the measurements hes taken show that the wall has moved outward at the top 
due to subsidence and is moving away from the roof by the same amount as the foundation 
has subsided at that end. He doesnt accept that inadequate bracing in the roof has caused 
this damage. He pointed out that LV had admitted the roof had complied with building 
standards at the time it was built. He also said he thinks the movement has slowed down 
due to the weather being very wet since the drought period prior to the claim being made.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but he didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. He didnt think the evidence indicated Mr Ms home had suffered from subsidence 
movement and the crack damage was likely to have been caused by the movement in the 
roof structure. 
Mr M didnt accept the investigators conclusion. He highlighted that the property had been 
assessed three times. The prospective purchasers surveyor had said he suspected 
subsidence and the foundations were broken. Mr Ms engineer had said the property had 
suffered from subsidence. It was only LVs engineer that said the property hadnt suffered 
from subsidence and that the damage had been caused by the roof. Mr M said it was only 
common sense that a roof cannot damage a raft foundation. He also highlighted that it had 
been confirmed that LVs engineer had confirmed the foundation had complied with building 
regulations. Mr M also provided evidence that the local council had determined the road 
outside his property was damaged by drought conditions in 2017, when there was a low 
rainfall.
Our investigator completed some further investigations and considered Mr Ms comments 
and additional evidence. However, he wasnt persuaded to change his conclusion that LV 
hadnt been wrong to reject the claim. Mr M didnt agree with the investigator and asked that 
the complaint be referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The engineers working for both Mr M and LV identified two structural issues with Mr Ms 
property. The first of these is a distortion in the raft foundation, in that it drops by 
approximately 200mm over the length of the property toward the east gable wall. LVs 
engineer doesnt believe the raft has moved recently because the pattern of cracking around 
the building isnt consistent with subsidence. It thinks it is likely the deflection of the raft is 
historic and caused by settlement of the property shortly after it was built. 
If that were the case, the movement in the raft would have started and stopped long before 
the LV policy existed. In addition, like most policies of this nature, initial settlement is 
excluded from cover.
Mr Ms engineer has said the raft has subsided, but he didnt comment on whether that 
movement was recent or historic. Instead he recommended that the property be monitored 
to see if the property was actively moving at that time. This would indicate the engineer 
wasnt sure whether the property was actively subsiding at the time of his inspection.I would explain at this point the difference between subsidence and settlement. Both would 
result in the same type of downward movement to the raft of Mr Ms property, but the 
mechanisms are slightly different. In the case of settlement, the weight of the newly built 
property would have put pressure on the top of the raft, which would have caused the 
ground beneath the raft to consolidate and resulted in downward movement. The 
mechanism of subsidence is slightly different. In that the ground beneath the raft would have 
moved downward and the raft would have followed. This type of downward movement can 
be caused by many things, but most commonly it will be something like clay shrinkage due 
to dehydration or the effects of a flow of water washing away particles. The effect of both 
subsidence and settlement on a raft such as Mr Ms will be the same, as would be the crack 
patterns in the walls of the property. I note that Mr Ms engineer stated Mr Ms home was 
built on clay and silty soils.
So the fact that the raft on which Mr Ms property is built has dropped at one end, doesnt 
necessarily mean the property has subsided or that if it has, it has done so recently and the 
damage would be covered by the insurance policy. So I need to consider the further 
evidence available to determine whether it is likely that there was subsidence and when the 
movement was likely to have happened. 
Mr M has provided information about problems that were caused to roads in the vicinity of 
his home due to a lack of rainfall in 2017. Whilst Ive considered this information, I dont think 
it proves that Mr Ms home subsided in 2017 or 2018. Most insurance policies will exclude 
subsidence damage to paths, drives and other external hardstanding unless there is also 
damage to the house they are associated with. This is because the foundations of such 
structures, and roads would fall into the same category, tend to be less substantial than 
those associated with buildings, and makes them far more vulnerable to movement of all 
types than a building would be. So I am not persuaded that subsidence damage to a road in 
the vicinity of Mr Ms home evidences that his property also have subsided. 
The monitoring of the property showed that it was stable  there was no progressive 
downward movement. I note what Mr M has said about the fact that there has been a higher 
level of rainfall than there was in 2017 and that this will have slowed down the subsidence. 
However, if the ground beneath the property is clay and movement had been caused by it 
dehydrating, higher levels of rainfall would have rehydrated it causing the raft to move 
upwards and any cracks around the property to narrow and potentially close completely. 
There is no mention of that having happened and indeed Mr Ms engineer noted that 
previous repairs had failed, and cracks were opening up again, which would only happen if 
the movement that was causing the cracking was continuing. 
LVs engineer pointed out that 200mm is a significant amount of downward movement and 
that amount of movement in a relatively short period of time would have caused very 
significant cracks in the fabric of the property. The cracks that were present were not of the 
degree that would be from such a large amount of movement. In addition, LV has pointed 
out that while some door frames are not square, none of the doors stick, which again would 
be expected if there had been recent significant subsidence of the property. 
As such, the evidence doesnt support that Mr Ms property had suffered from subsidence 
during the period before the claim was made in the autumn of 2018 or since.
The other structural issue identified by both engineers was that of movement in the roof 
structure. Both engineers agree that this has been caused by a lack of restraint in the roof. 
LVs engineers believe the lack of restraint in the roof has allowed it to move under the 
pressure from strong winds (due to its exposed position). It considers the vertical cracking in 
the walls is consistent with movement in the roof rather than subsidence. Mr Ms engineer suggested movement of the raft could have caused pressures in the roof 
structure thereby causing it to move at the gable ends. However, the evidence I have 
detailed above doesnt indicate there had been recent subsidence that could have affected 
the roof structure. 
I note Mr M has highlighted that the roof and the raft foundation complied with building 
standards at the time the property was built. That may be the case, but building standards 
set minimum requirements for certain aspects of a buildings design. Sometimes the location 
and surrounding environmental factors can require designs that need more than the basic 
building standard requirements. Settlement in the raft of the degree that has been identified 
and the problems with the roof moving could indicate Mr Ms property was in that category. 
I know this will disappoint Mr M, but based on the expert evidence in this case, I dont think 
LV was wrong when it concluded the damage to Mr Ms property wasnt subsidence and 
declined his claim.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 
15 July 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman