DRN-4013238
The complaint
Ms M has complained about the way her motor insurer, esure Insurance Limited (esure), 
dealt with a claim that was made on her policy.
What happened
Ms M was involved in a collision with another car as she was entering a roundabout. She 
said the other car had changed lanes and collided with the side of her car. The third party 
made a claim against Ms Ms policy and said that the accident was her fault. esure decided 
to deal with the third-party claim as it felt that Ms M had changed lanes. Ms M was unhappy 
about this and complained.
esure didnt uphold Ms Ms complaint. It said it had watched dashcam footage which showed 
Ms M changing lanes. It added that as Ms M was the party executing a manoeuvre, she had 
a greater duty of care. esure said that as Ms Ms insurer it has the right to take over and 
settle a third-party claim and that if the matter were to go to court, Ms M would be held 
responsible for the accident.
Ms M then complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. She said she didnt agree that 
she was at fault for the accident and that she had been driving within the lane markings; 
something that would have made it impossible for her to have changed lanes. She said that 
having a fault claim on her record was affecting her financially. She was also unhappy with 
the service esure provided and its lack of communication with her. Also that it didnt properly 
consider all the available evidence. She further said the dashcam footage showed the other 
driver driving off and her having to chase him. 
Ms M added that the claim has impacted her mental health and caused added stress and 
anxiety. She said she wanted esure to support her in defending the matter in court. 
One of our Investigators reviewed the complaint but didnt think that esure had acted outside 
its policy terms or unfairly or unreasonably. She thought the claim was correctly recorded as 
a fault claim and that this could impact Ms M financially for example by impacting future 
premiums.
Ms M didnt agree. She said she was not sure we had been provided with all the available 
evidence and that esure hadnt confirmed to her it had received and reviewed everything she 
had sent to it. 
Our Investigator didnt change her view. She said the main piece of evidence was the 
dashcam footage which showed Ms M changing lanes. Our Investigator added that our role 
isnt to decide whos at fault but to decide whether esure had, in the circumstances, acted 
fairly and reasonably. And she thought it had. 
Ms M didnt agree. She said esure failed to consider evidence about the road markings and 
layout. She insisted that she was not prepared to admit liability and would defend the matter 
in court. She provided evidence from a senior traffic technician which showed that the lane 
she was in was a designated left turn only which then becomes two lanes. Our Investigator 
provided this to esure.
esure responded to our Investigator and said that if Ms M wanted to take the matter to court 
she would have to raise a separate claim against the third-party and fund it herself. It said if 
the claim was settled in Ms Ms favour it would mark it as non-fault. But it would not fund 
any litigation as it doesnt believe it has a valid defence. Our Investigator relayed this to 
Ms M and confirmed that her view remained the same. Ms M asked for an Ombudsmans 
decision.
Before I issued my decision I asked our Investigator to ask esure for further information 
including whether it openly admitted liability to the third-party. esure said it did but it is still 
open to Ms M to take the matter to court herself.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, with regret for the disappointment this may cause, I have decided not to 
uphold it. I trust that my reasons below will help Ms M understand why I have arrived at this 
decision. 
Ms M has sent a fair amount of information and documentation to us which I have 
considered but will not address individually in this decision. In doing so I dont mean any 
discourtesy to Ms M but Id like to explain that as an informal dispute resolution service we 
aim to keep our decisions as concise and to the point as possible. 
 
Like most motor insurance policies, Ms Ms policy says that esure has full discretion to take 
over, defend or settle a claim or take up any claim in the consumers name for its own 
benefit. I dont think this clause is unusual or necessarily unfair but we do expect insurers to 
apply it fairly and reasonably based on the circumstances of each claim.
From what I have seen esure initially disputed liability. It then reviewed the dashcam footage 
and felt that it was Ms M who changed lanes. I also see that it reviewed maps of the location 
provided by Ms M. It contacted the third-party solicitors after reviewing further evidence 
provided by Ms M and asked which lane the third-party had approached the roundabout from 
to which the solicitors said that the third-party was also in the left lane  like Ms M. Liability 
was still being disputed two months after the accident. It wasnt until three months after the 
accident that esure finally admitted liability and only after the matter was referred to a 
manager who agreed with the claims departments decision to admit liability. 
Overall, from what I have seen esure did review information provided by Ms M and having 
done so I dont think it arrived at a decision that was unfair or unreasonable. As our 
Investigator explained it isnt our role to decide which party was at fault for the accident. In 
my opinion esure has given valid reasons why it believes Ms M would be held to be at fault if 
the matter went to court. And this is because the dashcam footage shows her veering across 
to the right which led to the third-party vehicle, which was behind her, colliding with the side 
of her car. 
So I dont think esure was acting unfairly in relying on the term in her policy which enables it 
to take over and deal with a claim as it deems appropriate. If, after reviewing the available evidence, esure does not believe that the matter can be defended in court it is reasonable 
for it to deal with it in the most pragmatic and cost effective way possible. i.e. by dealing with 
the third-party claim. 
esure said that it admitted liability but that this doesnt prevent Ms M from bringing a court 
claim against the third-party if she wishes; which she will have to fund herself. As esure will 
be aware we sometimes feel it is more appropriate for an insurer to deal with a third-party 
claim in a way that wouldnt prejudice/prevent its insured from pursuing their own claim in the 
future if they wish. esure doesnt believe that it has prejudiced Ms M by admitting liability. If, 
in the future, Ms M has further evidence including legal advice which suggests she has been 
prejudiced and that this has caused her a loss she is free to raise this with esure and then, if 
necessary, with us. 
 
Ms M also said that having a fault claim has affected her financially. I should explain that a 
fault claim doesnt always necessarily mean that the customer is at fault for an incident but 
rather that the insurer has had to pay something out under the policy which it doesnt think it 
can recover. And a claim will remain a fault claim while it is open and until the insurer 
makes a full recovery of its outlay. Also, as our investigator explained, it is not unusual for 
any type of claim to impact a consumer including affecting their future premiums. If Ms M 
feels that esure hasnt calculated her premiums fairly, this is something she can raise with 
esure and then refer to us if necessary. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I have decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2023.
 
Anastasia Serdari
Ombudsman