DRN-4149387
The complaint
Ms J complains that for several years Skipton Building Society applied her overpayments to 
the wrong part of her part and part mortgage. Although this has recently been adjusted, her 
contractual monthly payments (CMP) have dramatically increased.
What happened
Ms J has a part interest only, part capital repayment mortgage with Skipton since 2006. The 
loan was for £64,000 with £37,145 of that being the interest only account. The term was 19 
years. At times Ms J requested to make monthly overpayments in addition to her CMP to 
reduce her interest only balance. It seems that in May 2015 Ms J took out a new mortgage 
product with a CMP of £213.58 but asked for an overpayment of £260 to reduce the interest 
only amount. But Skipton in fact from June 2016 started to apply the overpayment to the 
capital repayment account. 
A new mortgage product was taken out in July 2017. At that time the CMP quoted to Ms J 
was £197.96 and Ms J increased her payments including the overpayment to £300. In July 
2019, Ms J took out a new mortgage product with a CMP of 158.85 and Ms J arranged a 
new voluntary overpayment of £310.71. In July 2021, Ms J took out another mortgage 
product with a CMP of £80.50 and Ms J increased hr payment to £350.
Skipton says that in a conversation in September 2021 it told Ms J that the outstanding 
balance then showing in her mortgage was £37,072.06 of which £36,912.90 was then 
showing as interest only and £159.16 as capital repayment.
Skipton accepted that the overpayments were applied incorrectly and adjusted the accounts, 
crediting the interest only account with the overpayments and deducting the capital 
repayment account with the overpayments that had been incorrectly allocated. But this also 
meant that the CMP was then significantly increased from £94.44 to £353.30 to ensure that 
the now increased capital repayment balance was paid off by 30 June 2025 in accordance 
with the term of the mortgage. Skipton also offered £100 compensation.
Our investigators view
Our investigator was content that Ms J had been put into the position she would have been 
had Skipton not made the error and that the compensation of £100 was a fair reflection of 
the impact on Ms J of the error. Ms J disagrees. She says that the payment in July 2021 was 
£80 per month and is now £358 per month and this is causing her great stress. She wants 
an investigation of what product should have been offered to her at the renewal dates had 
the correct figures been applied.
My provisional decision
As my view of this complaint differed from that of our investigator I issued a Provisional 
Decision in the following terms:
Ms J has a mortgage composed of different parts. From about 2015 Ms J decided to make 
overpayments to reduce the interest only balance on her mortgage so that she wouldnt be 
faced with a large outstanding balance when its term ended. At the same time, she assumed 
that by making the monthly repayments the capital balance, on the capital repayment part of 
the mortgage, would be reducing to ensure that that part of the mortgage would be paid off 
at the end of term. But its accepted that Skipton made an error putting the overpayments to 
the credit of the capital repayment side of the mortgage rather than the interest-only part. It 
has since reversed this which is appropriate.
But there is another issue which Ive brought to Skiptons attention. Ms J was working on the 
assumption that she was making the capital repayments to pay off that part of the mortgage 
at the end of term. Her capital balance was reducing but because of this error by Skipton 
which was funding the capital repayment side rather than the interest-only side. Now that the 
error has been recognised and reversed Ms J is left with a much higher capital balance on 
the repayment side than should have been the case. The reason being that Skipton was not 
correctly collecting the monthly capital repayments it should have been collecting if it had not 
made the error. So, because of this Ms J was underfunding the capital repayment account. 
I dont consider that Ms J was aware of this. I note that on each mortgage product renewal 
she always asks that the overpayments be put to the interest-only side and no one from 
Skipton tells her that it is in fact going to the capital repayment side. So, I dont consider that 
Ms J was alert to this issue. In my view this is an issue of Ms J underfunding the capital 
repayment side because she was misinformed by Skipton as to what the correct repayments 
should have been. In a normal underfunding case, we would ask the business to make up 
the capital repayments that Ms J should have been paying if it had informed her correctly 
what those payments would have been. 
Skipton asked whether his should be looked at differently. Ms J has had been able to use 
overpayments to reduce the interest-only balance. Skipton asks me to consider whether Ms 
J could afford the same level of overpayments and have effected the same reduction in her 
capital repayment balance if Skipton had been collecting the correct repayments it should 
have been collecting. In other words, if I am to put Ms J back in the situation she should 
have been in with Skipton doing things as it should have been - would Ms J have made the 
same overpayments on the interest only account?
That seems to me to come down partly to Ms Js motivation and partly whether she could 
afford to do it. Ive no doubt that even if Ms J was paying a larger sum towards the capital 
balance it was clearly her intention to pay down the interest only balance, so she was left 
with a manageable balance at the end of the term. I recognise that she didnt intend to pay 
off the full balance before the mortgage term ended or she would have chosen a full capital 
repayment mortgage. But I believe that even if required to pay a higher payment towards the 
capital repayment balance she would have still wanted to pay down the interest-only balance 
in the amounts she was doing. 
The other issue is whether she could afford to pay the correct capital repayments and the 
overpayments to the interest-only account.. Skipton has worked out what those extra 
payments towards the capital balance would be from under £10 per month until June 2019 
rising to about £40 month until July 2021 and then over £100 per month up to July 2021. 
Was this affordable to Ms J whilst she made the overpayments on the interest only account?  
I note that Ms J holds a substantial amount of money in investments. But Ive reasonably 
assumed that Ms J wanted to hold onto that money for the future and I should look at what 
was affordable with her income rather than her savings.
Ive looked though the information that Skipton holds on file for Ms J. I note in 2017 at the 
review held then that Ms J had a gross income of £22,060.32 pa, free disposable income of £670 and said she could afford £420 as a monthly payment. I note that Skiptons stress test 
based on interest rates going up suggests she could afford £ 200 per month more than that.  
So, I believe that Ms Js self-assessment of what she could afford is reasonable and a good 
benchmark for what she could afford. 
I note that Ms Js gross income increases by the time of the 2019 review to £25,680.00 pa 
and in June 2021 its £25,896.00. I calculate that to be about a 13-14% increase in her 
income from 2017. There is no indication of any lifestyle changes that would have 
substantially affected Ms Js expenditure during that period although from 2021, inflation 
would have had increased her expenditure and affected her disposable income. 
In the period before 2017, Skipton figures indicate that for Ms J to keep her capital payments 
on track, Skipton should have told her to make monthly amounts of less than £5 per month 
and I believe that those payments were affordable along with the overpayments she was 
making at that time had Skipton made her aware of it.
Following the 2017 review Ms J paid £300 per month including overpayments. Using the 
information from Skiptons spreadsheet, Skipton should have asked her to pay an extra 
£6.73 per month rising to £9.23 per month to reduce the capital balance as intended,. As 
those figures together are lower than £420 I believe that Ms J would have paid the increased 
figure had she been aware of it.
Following the 2019 review Ms J paid £310 per month including overpayments. Skipton 
should have asked Ms J to pay an extra £34.41 per month, rising to £41.67 per month and 
falling to £39.64 per month over the two years to reduce the capital balance as intended. As 
the increased figures would be less than the benchmark figure of £420 I believe that Ms J 
would have paid the increased figure had she been aware of it.
Following the 2021 review Ms J paid £310 per month including overpayments. Skipton 
should have asked Ms J to pay an extra £112.99, rising to £146.58 in January and February 
2022, falling to £139.19 in March, £135.39 in April and May, £128.54 in June and £124.65 in 
July. My figures would indicate that Ms J could only afford extra payments of £110 per month 
(£420-£310). My view is that she could not afforded the full extra payments but could have 
paid up to £110 during this period.
So, I find that had Ms J been aware of the true capital repayment figures she would have
been able to meet those payments in full during most of the period but would have been
unable to meet her overpayments in full from July 2021 onwards. Skipton denied Ms J the
opportunity to make those payments. In order to put Ms J in the position she should have
been in, Skipton should adjust Ms Js capital balance on the repayments side of her
mortgage for the period before August 2021 as if she made the capital repayments that
Skipton should have required her to make. For the period from August 2021 until July 2022,
it should adjust the capital repayments balance as if Ms J was making additional payments
of £110 per month off the capital repayment part of her mortgage. I believe that these
adjustments fairly address the underfunding issue.
There is one other issue that Ms J raised which was that Skiptons errors had affected her 
choice of mortgage product at the 2021 review when she chose a tracker mortgage.. But the 
evidence indicates that her choice was related to the fees that were applied to Skiptons 
fixed rate mortgages and there is nothing to support the view that her choice of mortgage 
product was affected by these errors. So, I dont uphold that part of the complaint.
Skipton suggested that £100 would be suitable compensation for Ms Js distress and
inconvenience following its adjustment of the balances on the accounts. That seems
reasonable. However, that adjustment didnt consider the underfunding issue and left Ms J indistress faced with the higher capital balance and a higher CMP than she should have to
pay. But I recognise that for a long period Ms J was making savings by not being required to
pay the full CMP. Those savings would far outweigh any further award for Ms Js distress
that I would be minded to make. So, I dont consider it appropriate to make an additional
award arising from the underfunding issue. 
For the above reasons I said that I intended to uphold the complaint but subject to any 
responses I received from Ms J or Skipton. Ms J accepted my decision. Skipton said that 
they were happy to accept my findings and that they would make any adjustments to Ms Js 
mortgage required as a consequence of my decision so that they were in place for 1 July 
2023. 
    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the evidence and note that both parties agree with my decision. In the 
circumstances I consider that my provisional decision represents a fair outcome to this 
complaint for the reasons set out in that decision. So, I uphold this complaint and require 
Skipton to adjust the balance on the capital repayment side of Ms Js mortgage account as 
set out in that decision.
Putting things right
Skipton Building Society should adjust Ms Js capital balance on the repayments side of her 
mortgage for the period before August 2021 as if she made the capital repayments that 
Skipton should have required her to make. For the period from August 2021 until July 2022, 
it should adjust the capital repayments balance as if Ms J was making additional payments 
of £110 per month off the capital repayment part of her mortgage.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Skipton Building Society to adjust the 
balance on the capital repayment side of Ms Js account as set out above and pay her 
compensation of £100. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2023.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman