DRN-3346364
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as P, complains that Santander UK Plc acted unfairly when 
recalling funds provided under a Bounce Back Loan and closing its account. 
Ps director, Mr A, brings the complaint on the companys behalf.
What happened
P banked with Santander and in June 2020 applied to the bank for a loan of £49,000 under 
the Bounce Back Loan Scheme. The application was approved, and the funds were credited 
to Ps account on 12 June. 
Santander subsequently reviewed the application and wrote to P on 13 November 2020, 
explaining that it had some concerns as to the companys eligibility for the loan it had 
obtained. It said that when requesting the loan, P had declared an annual turnover of 
£29,100,000  but the banks records only showed income of around £52,000. This was 
relevant as a business was only entitled to borrow up to 25% of its annual turnover under the 
Loan Scheme rules. So it asked for evidence to demonstrate the turnover figure declared in 
Ps application. The bank also asked for information as to how the loan funds had been 
utilised, as it believed that P may not have used them for business purposes as was 
intended under the Loan Scheme.
P explained that the £29,100,000 figure was an error and said its annual turnover should 
have read £291,000. Santander accepted this, but explained it still required evidence of this 
turnover. It asked P to provide a copy of its tax return. 
Having not received the information requested from P despite granting it some additional 
time, Santander wrote to the company on 22 January, explaining that it had decided to 
terminate the Bounce Back Loan and close Ps account. 
P complained about the banks actions, but Santander didnt change its decision so the 
company referred its complaint to us and it was reviewed by one of our investigators. 
Our investigator didnt think Santander had acted unfairly. In summary, he thought 
Santander had been entitled to review Ps application in the manner it had. As the bank had 
been unable to verify the companys entitlement to the loan, he thought it had reasonably 
decided to recall the funds in line with the terms of the agreement. He also said that 
Santander had been entitled to close Ps account and use the funds held therein to pay 
down the loan balance. 
P didnt accept our investigators view. Mr A said that the application form had asked for a 
turnover projection that excluded the effect of the coronavirus pandemic. And he thought the 
bank had unfairly based its decision on just four months of activity through the account, 
which showed income of around £50,000, given that the companys operations were 
inevitably impacted by the pandemic  in itself the reason for taking out the loan. 
So with no resolution, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Bounce Back Loan Scheme, an applicant could borrow up to a 
maximum of 25% of their annual turnover. P applied for a loan of £49,000, so it needed to 
have an annual turnover of at least £196,000. Applicants were asked to use their turnover for 
the calendar year of 2019, unless they were established after 1 January 2019  in which 
case they could use an estimate. P was established in 2017, so it needed to use its 2019 
turnover figure rather than an estimate.
Mr A says P was asked to provide a projected turnover figure that excluded the impact of the 
coronavirus pandemic when completing its application. But I dont think it was. Lenders were 
required to use a standardised online application form that incorporated questions and 
criteria set by the British Business Bank, which administered the Loan Scheme. And having 
looked at Santanders Bounce Back Loan application form, which P wouldve completed, I 
can see that it asked applicants to provide their 2019 company turnover. An explanatory 
note said:
You can use estimated figures if your business was established after 1 January 2019
So I think Santander made it clear that P needed to provide its actual turnover for 2019, 
rather than an estimate.
The way the Scheme was set up meant that applicants were required to self-declare that 
they met the eligibility requirements and that the information theyd provided in their 
application was correct. Santander approved Ps application on that basis, with the company 
having self-declared that the loan amount it had requested was equal to or less than 25% of 
its annual turnover for 2019. 
Although the loan was initially approved, Santander was expected to keep matters under 
review. This is in line with its anti-fraud obligations under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme 
and its wider regulatory requirements. So I dont think the bank did anything wrong in 
conducting a review of the loan or Ps account.
While Santanders concerns were initially raised by the £29 million turnover figure that P had 
provided in its application, the activity running through Ps accounts wasnt sufficient to 
validate the revised £291,000 figure it subsequently provided either. Looking at the 
statement for Ps account, payments into the account during 2019 totalled around £55,000. 
In light of this, I think it was reasonable for Santander to request evidence to confirm that the 
company had the requisite level of turnover for the loan it had obtained. Having been 
established since 2017, I would expect P to have been able to provide copies of its tax 
returns to confirm its income. But it declined to do so. Although I understand from what Mr A 
has told us that as a projected figure was used, the companys tax returns wouldnt have 
substantiated this figure anyway. 
Under the terms and conditions of the Bounce Back Loan, Santander was entitled to 
terminate the loan and demand its immediate repayment in certain circumstances. This 
included where any of the information provided within the application was found to have 
been misleading, incomplete or incorrect. So given what Ive said above, I think Santander 
was entitled to terminate the loan in the circumstances here. And it only took this action after 
giving P reasonable time and opportunity to evidence its entitlement to the loan, which it 
failed to do.The terms and conditions of Ps account and the loan agreement also gave Santander the 
right of set off  in short, it was entitled to use any credit balance held by P in any other 
account with Santander towards the repayment of any amounts the company owed to the 
bank. So I dont think Santander did anything wrong in removing the remaining funds from 
Ps account and applying these to reduce the amount it was owed under the Bounce Back 
Loan agreement.
The actions Santander took when restricting and later closing Ps bank account were in line 
with the applicable terms and conditions and  given all Ive said about its valid concerns 
over Ps entitlement to the loan  were reasonable steps for the bank to take. 
So looking at everything, I dont think Santander did anything wrong in how it terminated and 
recalled the Bounce Back Loan from P, or in its restriction and closure of the companys 
bank account. It follows that there is no basis on which I could fairly hold the bank 
responsible for any impact these actions may have had on the company.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman