DRN-3814149
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K have complained that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs K took out the PPI in 1995, a few months after arranging the mortgage. Although 
it was a joint mortgage the PPI was set up just to cover Mr K.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs K disagree with the adjudicators 
opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs K say they didnt know that PPI had been added to their mortgage account, 
meaning it was added without their knowledge or consent.
Neither party has any details of how the PPI was sold. However, Nationwide says a mailout 
was done to existing customers in late 1995 and so it is likely that the sale was made by 
post.
From what we know of Nationwides sales processes at the time, the PPI would normally 
have been presented as optional and I havent seen any evidence that would lead me to 
conclude that something different happened in this case. The fact that the mortgage had 
already been running for eight months when the PPI was sold means that Mr and Mrs K 
would have known that the policy wasnt a condition of the borrowing.
I have no doubt that Mr and Mrs K have provided their genuine recollection of events. But 
the sale was a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if their memories have faded. 
Based on the available evidence, I think that Mr and Mrs K probably decided to buy the PPI, 
knowing that they didnt have to, even if they no longer remember doing so.
Nationwide needed to provide Mr and Mrs K with sufficient information for them to be able to 
make an informed decision about whether or not the policy was right for them.
Mr K says he had an existing insurance policy. But that was critical illness cover and 
therefore the PPI was not replicated his existing cover. Mr K would have received some sick 
pay from his job. However, the policy would have paid out in addition to any sick pay and 
potentially for longer than Mr K would have received full pay for. Mr and Mrs K had some 
savings. But having the policy meant that they could have retained these or used them to 
cover other outgoings at what would have been a difficult time. Overall, I think Mr and Mrs K 
had a need for the policy and could have benefitted from it.
Its possible that Nationwide could have provided more information about the policy, 
particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr K wasnt affected by any of those 
things. For example, he didnt have any pre-existing medical conditions that might have been 
excluded under the policy. As I consider that Mr and Mrs K had an interest in the policy and 
decided to buy it, I dont consider that further information would have caused them to change 
their minds. So they are no worse off as a result of anything Nationwide may have done 
wrong, so theres nothing Nationwide needs to do to put things right.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 January 2023. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman