DRN-1000271
The complaint
Miss C complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) didn't offer her enough for her written-
off car when she made a claim on her motor insurance policy.
What happened
Miss C made a claim on her motor insurance policy with UKI after being involved in 
an accident in November 2018. UKI settled her claim by paying her the market value of 
£2,610 for her car.
Miss C brought the complaint to our service in January 2019. She said she'd only bought her 
car four months earlier for £3,495, so she felt the valuation wasn't fair. She also 
explained that the car had low mileage and had been recently serviced.
UKI gave its early consent for us to look into Miss C's complaint.
One of our investigators reviewed Miss C's complaint but didn't uphold it. She said she'd 
checked the valuations given in the main trade guides for cars similar to Miss C's and felt 
£2,610 was a fair reflection of the market value. She also explained that she'd taken into 
account the actual mileage of Miss C's car in the valuation and so felt it was a fair price. Our 
investigator also acknowledged that Miss C had incurred expenses for servicing the car, but 
noted this was to ensure that the car was road worthy.
Miss C remains unhappy so the complaint has passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done, so I agree with the investigators conclusions for broadly the same reasons.
Miss Cs policy says UKI will settle the claim by paying her the market value of her car at the 
time of the claim. That amount isnt necessarily the same amount that she bought the car for 
or the cost to her of actually replacing it.
Our service doesn't decide a valuation, instead we look at whether an insurer has reached 
its valuation reasonably and in line with the policy. We have a long-standing approach to 
valuation complaints, and we think its generally fair for an insurer to look at the main motor 
trade guides to obtain a valuation for a customers car. We place most weight on the values 
in the main motor trade guides as theyre based on likely selling prices rather than 
advertised prices, which allow a margin for negotiation. 
Bearing this in mind, I've considered all four of the main motor trade guides - and having 
done so, three of these gave figures of around £2,600. One of the trade guide's 
valuation was out of line with the other three guides, and in these circumstances, we think 
it's fair to disregard it. So as UKIs offer of £2,610 is within the middle of the range of the 
main trade guide valuations, I consider it to be fair.I understand that Miss C has raised concerns that the valuation didn't take into account the 
car's low mileage and that she'd recently had work done to it when it was serviced. However, 
I'd like to assure Miss C that her car's actual mileage was used when checking the main 
motor trade guides and so the valuation takes this into account. Also, as all cars should be 
kept in roadworthy condition, which involves regular servicing, I dont think UKI was required 
to increase the valuation.
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained, I think UKI's valuation was fair and so I don't uphold Miss 
C's complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 October 2019.
John Norton
Ombudsman