DRN-2179406
The complaint
Ms K and Mr S say that Lloyds Bank PLC (which was trading as TSB at the time) mis-sold 
them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1997.
Ms K and Mr S paid a monthly premium for the PPI policy. The policy was in Mr Ss name. If 
hed made a successful claim for accident, sickness or unemployment, it would have 
covered Ms K and Mr Ss monthly mortgage payments for up to 12 months.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Ms K and Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms K and Mr Ss complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive seen a copy of Ms K and Mr Ss signed mortgage application form. It included a 
section about PPI (referred to as TSB MortgageSure). There were equally prominent 
options to take or decline the cover. Theres a tick in the yes box, indicating that Ms K 
and Mr S wished to protect their mortgage against accident, sickness and involuntary 
unemployment. And a box was completed to show that Ms K and Mr S wanted the whole 
of the policys benefit to cover Mr S.
I acknowledge that Ms K and Mr S say the PPI was added without their knowledge. But 
I think it was clear from the way PPI was referred to in the application form that it was 
optional. And I think Ms K and Mr S decided to take it out, knowing that they had a 
choice  although I can understand how they may no longer remember this, more than 
20 years later.
Lloyds says it would have recommended the policy to Ms K and Mr S. This means it had 
a responsibility to check that it was suitable for them. But I dont think it was unsuitable, 
based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. Mr S has told us hed have 
been entitled to six months full pay from his employer if hed been off sick. But the policy 
would have paid out for up to 12 months per successful claim for accident, sickness or 
unemployment. Whats more, it would have paid out in addition to any payments Mr S 
received from his employer. So Ms K and Mr S could have used those to meet other day-
to-day expenses. 
When Ms K and Mr S originally brought their complaint to us they said that as well as 
being employed, Mr S had his own business and would have had a little extra income 
from that to make his repayments if hed ever been struggling. When we asked Mr S for 
more details of his work situation when he took out the policy, he said the work he did as 
an employee was his only employment, and that he used to carry out his other activity 
part-time as a hobby. But after the adjudicator sent out her view, Mr Ss representatives 
told us that he had, in fact, worked for himself between the shifts he worked for his 
employer, and that he could be earning a significant amount per day.
What weve been told about Mr Ss work situation when he took out the policy is not fully 
consistent. But if Mr S had been off sick, hed have experienced a significant income 
drop once his sick pay stopped. And I can see from the mortgage application form that 
Mr S was the main earner. So I think Ms K and Mr S could have found themselves 
financially stretched. And overall, Im not convinced from what weve been told that any 
income Mr S was earning from his other occupation at the time could have been relied 
on to make up the shortfall in his earnings if hed been made redundant.
Ive also borne in mind that the mortgage was a significant, long-term financial 
commitment, secured on Ms K and Mr Ss property, and the consequences of falling 
behind with their mortgage payments could have been serious. So taking everything into 
account, I think the PPI could have been useful for them.
The cost of the policy was set out clearly in the mortgage offer. So Im satisfied that Ms K 
and Mr S would have known how much theyd have to pay for the PPI. And since they 
were paying for it monthly, they could have cancelled it at any time with no further cost if 
their circumstances changed, or if they decided they no longer wanted the cover.
Its possible that Lloyds didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover. But based 
on what Mr S has told us about his circumstances at the time, I think its unlikely that hed 
have been affected by any of those. 
Taking everything into account, I dont think that better information about the PPI would 
have put Ms K and Mr S off taking it out.
I should add that even if I had found that the PPI was mis-sold, its unlikely that Id have 
been able to require Lloyds to pay any compensation to Ms K and Mr S. This is because it 
looks from Lloydss records as if Mr S made a successful unemployment claim on the policy 
in 1999. The records appear to show that more than £1,200 in total was paid out for that 
claim. Thats significantly more than the total premiums paid for the PPI during the whole of 
the life of the policy. So even if Id decided that the policy was mis-sold, its unlikely that Id 
have found that Ms K and Mr S had suffered any financial loss as a result. As it is, Ive 
explained that I dont find that the policy was mis-sold in any event.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 November 2020.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman