DRN-3641432
The complaint
Mr D and Mrs D complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc  (HSBC) didnt cancel an international 
payment.
What happened
On 13 January 2020, Mr D and Mrs D made an international payment of £6,000 to a 
beneficiary in China. It was made online. Mr D called HSBC and asked that the payment 
description should be changed and he then asked that the payment be cancelled. The 
payment was sent. HSBC asked that the receiving bank return the money, but it refused to 
do so  as the receiver of the funds wouldnt agree to do that.
Mr D and Mrs D complained. They said they were told the payment could be cancelled, and 
it wasnt. They said HSBC should refund the amount of the payment - £6,000.
HSBC said the call handler did her best to get the payment cancelled, or the reference 
removed, but the payment was sent. HSBC tried to recall the funds, but the beneficiary had 
received the money and refused to return it. They agreed the telephone service received by 
Mr D and Mrs D was poor and for that, paid compensation of £200.
Mr D and Mrs D brought their complaint to us. Our investigator said that HSBC acted 
reasonably. HSBCs terms and conditions say that immediate payments cant be cancelled. 
The payment had been sent and HSBC then tried to have it refunded by contacting the 
receiving bank. And the beneficiary had refused to return the funds. He agreed the calls 
between HSBC and Mr D were poor and agreed with the compensation of £200. He noted 
that HSBC had also waived the payment tracing fee of £25.
Mr D and Mrs D asked that an ombudsman look at their complaint. They said that they 
thought the payment wouldve been held for fraud checks and during that period, the 
payment couldve been cancelled. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D and Mrs D made an online payment for £6,000 in connection with an investment, and 
initially wanted to delete the purpose of payment description; and then asked HSBC to 
cancel the payment altogether. 
The important point here is that international, online payments are immediate and cannot be 
cancelled. HSBCs terms and conditions say so  they say We cant cancel any immediate 
payments such as debit card, online transfers or telephone banking payments. Youll need to 
contact the person youve paid money to if you want your money back. I also looked at the 
online payments screens that Mr D and Mrs D went through when making the payment. On 
the verification screen it says, Please check your payment detailscarefully before 
selecting Confirm. If the payment details are incorrect your payment may go to the wrong 
payee and it may not be possible to get your money back from them. And under Your 
reference it says, Please check your payment details carefully before continuing, as this 
payment cannot be recalled. Mr D and Mrs D then had to click confirm. 
So - its clear from HSBCs terms and conditions, and the warnings displayed on the online 
payments screens  that payments cannot be cancelled or amended, and that the onus is on 
the payer (i.e. Mr D and Mrs D) to make sure theyve input the correct details.
I looked at the audit trail for the payment. This says the payment was started at 11.16am on 
13 January 2020 and completed and sent at 11.18am. So  that confirms what happened, 
and that the payment was completed and sent within two minutes.
I listened to the calls, and I agree there were mixed messages within the HSBC internal 
teams who discussed the situation when Mr D first called within a few minutes of placing the 
payment instruction. One department said the payment was being held for fraud checks, and 
another then said it was not so, and it had been sent. Another department said that Mr D 
could call them and the payment could be cancelled. Its not clear if this confusion (within 
HSBC) was communicated to Mr D. 
But when HSBC called Mr D back  at 13.11 on 13 January 2020 the payment had been 
sent. In the next call, HSBC advised the payment could be recalled or reversed but not 
cancelled  by which I think they meant that HSBC could ask for a refund, but the payment 
couldnt be stopped. But  I can see that Mr D may have interpreted this to mean the 
payment could be cancelled, when it couldnt. The call handler said there was a disclaimer 
about online payments on the online screen  which was correct. 
HSBC asked for the money back from the receiving bank, but as the account holder refused 
to pay it back, this request was declined  which they had the right to do.
I also noted that Mr D spent almost two hours on the phone to HSBC  mostly while HSBC 
made inquiries of internal departments about what to do. So  I agree that Mr Ds experience 
wasnt a good one. HSBC paid £200 compensation for that, which I think was the right thing 
to do.
The main point in reaching my decision is that such a payment is immediate and cannot be 
stopped, and HSBCs terms and conditions say so  as do the screens that Mr D and Mrs D 
went through and confirmed in making the payment. As such, HSBC couldnt stop the 
payment  and so didnt make an error. The poor communications with Mr D on the calls 
were unhelpful, but that doesnt mean that HSBC must refund the money as a result.
And so, while Mr D and Mrs D will be disappointed by my decision, I am not going to ask 
HSBC to do anymore here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to accept or reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman