DRN-3924740
The complaint
Mr C complains that Lloyds Bank Plc wont update his address via its online banking facility. 
What happened
Mr C has an account with Lloyds, opened when he lived in the UK. Some years ago, Mr C 
moved oversees. Last year, Mr C contacted Lloyds after he tried to amend his address 
online but was unable to do so. Mr C has explained that he tried to call Lloyds but it was 
disconnected after waiting for over 20 minutes. Mr Cs explained that calling Lloyds is 
expensive because of international call charges. 
Mr C complained to Lloyds and it confirmed there was no option for customers living 
oversees to amend their address online. Lloyds said Mr C could call it via its online banking 
facility or over the phone to speak with an agent and update his details. Lloyds also gave 
Mr C an address he could write to and details of the information he needed to supply to 
amend his address. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Cs complaint. They thought Lloyds had dealt 
with Mr Cs case fairly and didnt ask it to take further action. Mr C asked to appeal and said 
hed tried to update his address over the phone and by letter without success. Mr C advised 
he thinks Lloyds should have a facility that allows him to amend his address online. As Mr C 
asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to the investigator, Mr C explained hed tried to update his address using the 
methods offered by Lloyds. We asked Lloyds to provide evidence to show whether it 
received a written or phone request to update Mr Cs details. Lloyds has forwarded systems 
evidence that shows no letters have been received from Mr C asking it to update his 
address. And the contact records dont show any evidence of a call from Mr C during which 
he requested amendments to his address. 
I understand Mr C feels Lloyds process for updating oversees addresses is unreasonable 
and differs from other banks. But businesses are free to decide how to operate, including 
how to process a change of address request. Lloyds responses to Mr C said its taken the 
decision not to allow online changes to oversees addresses as its considered high risk. Im 
sorry to disappoint Mr C, but Im satisfied thats a decision Lloyds is entitled to take. 
Lloyds has provided a range of other options for Mr C to use to update his address. Mr Cs 
told us that calling the UK is expensive. I note Lloyds has also advised theres a function 
within its online banking facility that allows customers to make a call online. That means 
Mr C wouldnt incur international call costs when contacting Lloyds. Lloyds has also provided 
an address and details of the information Mr C needs to provide to update his address. 
Overall Im satisfied Lloyds has provided reasonable alternatives to amending Mr Cs 
address online. I havent been persuaded Lloyds has treated Mr C unfairly. 
I appreciate Mr Cs told us he has already written to Lloyds as requested. But as Ive noted 
above, the evidence from its records shows no change of address letters have been 
received from Mr C. If Lloyds had received Mr Cs letter, Id expect there to be a record on its 
systems. I can only recommend Mr C sends a follow up letter or contacts Lloyds directly to 
speak with an agent, in line with the options its given. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr C but as Im satisfied Lloyds dealt with his complaint fairly Im 
not telling it to do anything else.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman