DRN-3110749
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy with how U K Insurance Limited  trading as Direct Line handled his car 
insurance claims. References to Direct Line include agents acting on its behalf.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons. Please note, Ive read and considered everything provided in its entirety. But in 
keeping with our role for quick and informal resolution, Ill be concentrating on the crux of the 
issue. Im also not addressing Mr Js later complaint that Direct Line damaged the car during 
the May 2021 claim  as that has been considered under a separate case: 
Mr J says his May 2021 claim was linked to his January 2021 claim, as Direct Line 
didnt repair this properly. But there were several months between the car being 
returned and the first record Ive seen of Mr J raising the damage. During that time, 
he drove almost 5,000 miles. And the damage reported isnt evident in the 
photographs from when the car was returned following the first claim. Similarly, the 
report Mr J has provided post-dates the cars return by around six months, so isnt 
enough to show this damage was caused prior to the cars return. 
On balance, theres not enough persuasive evidence to show that the second claim 
was caused by poor repairs or was otherwise linked to the first. So Im satisfied it was 
reasonable for Direct Line to treat the May 2021 damage as a separate claim.
Direct Line then told Mr J that a third claim would need to be logged. But it 
acknowledges this was incorrect. It hasnt recorded a third claim, and it dealt with the 
further damage reported under the second claim. So Im satisfied Direct Line has 
fairly corrected this error  although Ive considered the distress and inconvenience 
this mistake caused when assessing the compensation its offered.
Whilst Mr J is unhappy with the hire cars Direct Line provided, Im satisfied it fulfilled 
its contractual obligations regarding this. The policy terms say it will provide a similar 
physical size car or van to your car, if such size is available and explains This 
should keep you mobile but may not be the same as your car in terms of its size, 
type, value or status. I understand Mr J was mainly unhappy with the boot size of the 
three cars Direct Line provided, but in line with the policy terms, this wasnt 
something it was obliged to ensure was the same as his usual car. 
Direct Line accepts it may have previously given Mr J the impression that the hire car 
would be offered on a like-for-like basis. And it wrongly told him that a particular 
model was available. My role is to put Mr J in the position hed be in if Direct Line 
hadnt made those errors. And regardless of the communication errors, he wasnt 
entitled to the exact same car (or car specification). But Ive taken into account his 
loss of expectation when considering Direct Lines offer of compensation.
For the May 2021 claim, Direct Line replaced Mr Js child car seat without requiring a 
receipt. He says it should therefore have done this on his January 2021 claim as well 
as an earlier claim. But Direct Line says it will only consider doing this if Mr J can 
provide receipts. I consider that reasonable. The policy term regarding child car seats 
specifically explains: You may be required to provide proof of purchase as part of 
the claim validation process. The fact Direct Line didnt ask for this in one claim, 
doesnt mean its obliged to always pay this without evidence.
Mr J is also unhappy with Direct Lines communication regarding these claims. For 
example, hes unhappy with its phone contact, and with texts he received which he 
didnt find to be clear about which claim they related to. And again, Direct Line admits 
its service was poor at times, such as during a call in which Mr J was interrupted. 
Taking those communication issues into account, along with the confusion about the 
third claim and the poor expectations set about the hire car, I do think the impact on 
Mr J went beyond what was reasonable. Claims like these are often stressful, but this 
could have been lessened if Direct Line had handled them better.
Overall, in line with our services approach, Im satisfied the £300 compensation 
Direct Line has offered (and, so far as Im aware, already paid) fairly reflects the 
distress and inconvenience Mr J suffered due to its errors. 
My final decision
U K Insurance Limited  trading as Direct Line has already made an offer to pay £300 
compensation to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So 
my final decision is that Direct Line should pay Mr J £300 if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman