DRN-3167075
The complaint
Ms N complains that Everyday Lending Limited (ELL) lent to her in an irresponsible
Manner.
What happened
Ms N was given a loan by ELL. She applied for the loan in August 2015, for £6000 and 
agreed to repay £271.74 over 4 years. The total repayable if the loan went to full term would 
be £13,043.52. Ms N settled the loan in January 2019.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in October 2021. Both parties have received 
a copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from the 
decision below. I said;
ELL gathered some information from Ms N before it agreed to the loan. It asked her for 
details of her income and her normal housing costs. It then checked Ms Ns credit file to 
determine how much she was paying to other lenders. And it asked Ms N to provide copies 
of her bank statements so it could verify the information shed supplied. It obtained 2 months 
worth of her statements for the months of July and August 2015.
Ms N was consolidating revolving credit and was also using a proportion of the loan to pay 
for home improvements. ELL says it verified Ms Ns income using a payslip and noted down 
that this was £2170.75. It then recorded her housing costs as £400 and verified this using 
Ms Ns bank statements. It then assessed Ms Ns credit commitments and used an average 
figure of 35% of income as Ms Ns monthly expenditure costs. From this, it calculated Ms N 
would have disposable income of £603.45, after the consolidated credit repayments had 
been removed and the loan repayment had been included.
I can see why ELL would think the loan repayment would be affordable based on what it had 
calculated. But I dont think its checks were proportionate and I think it should have gathered 
more information than it did. I say this because in the credit search it had carried out and had 
in front of it, it would have seen Ms N had missed or made late payments on a mail order 
account and two communications accounts. On all 3 occasions, the late or missed payments 
were within 6 months of Ms N asking for this loan. When I consider this alongside the 
amount Ms N was looking to borrow and also the term of the loan, I think ELL should have 
carried out further checks. 
I would have expected ELL to conduct a complete review of Ms Ns finances to ascertain 
whether she would be able to sustainably make the repayments. So, I think, as well as 
verifying her income, ELL should have also looked to verify Ms Ns expenditure within the 
bank statements that it had gathered rather than using an estimated figure for her living 
expenses. It should have also looked into her finances over a longer period too. This is so it 
could assure itself of Ms Ns true financial position and that she could make the repayments 
in a sustainable way.
As I cant see that it did this, I would need to consider what it would have seen if it had 
carried out further checks. Ms N has provided her personal bank statements from a period of 
time of 3 months leading up to the loan application. So, I have been able to review them and 
look through Ms Ns expenditure. In doing this I can see that there was no credit impairment 
on the statements and that Ms Ns living expenses were roughly in line with ELLs 
assessment. It had worked out that Ms N would have had disposable income of £603.45 
after the loan repayment and consolidation. So, I can see that based on its assessment, Ms 
N would have comfortably been able to afford the repayments for the loan. And I havent 
seen anything within the bank statements provided by Ms N that would suggest to me that 
further checks and further verification of her expenditure would make the loan unaffordable. 
So, I dont think ELL irresponsibly agreed to this loan.
So, I currently dont think ELL was wrong to give the loan to Ms N based on the 
circumstances of her complaint.
I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response to 
my provisional decision. Both parties have not responded with any further comments or 
given a response to my findings. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have not made any further points. So, as neither party has anything further to 
add, I dont see any reason to depart from my findings within my provisional decision. With 
that being the case, I do not uphold Ms Ns complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Ms Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman