DRN-2866592
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain about the service they received from American Express Services 
Europe Limited (AESEL) (Amex) when they asked it to process a chargeback.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B purchased airline tickets in May 2019 at a cost of £5,512.96 through on an 
online travel agency and they used their Amex card to pay for the tickets. Mr and Mrs Bs 
flights were scheduled for March and April 2020.
In March 2020, the government advised against all unnecessary foreign travel and the 
country then went in to a full national lockdown. Mr and Mrs B say the airline cancelled their 
flights and although it initially said it would refund them, it subsequently said it would allow 
them to re-book their flights or they could accept a credit voucher instead. Mr and Mrs B 
didnt want vouchers, but both the airline and the travel agency wouldnt provide them with a 
full refund  so they contacted Amex to ask it to help them get their money back. 
Mr B put in a claim with Amex on 3 April and Amex acknowledged this on 5 April and it 
temporarily credited the account with the full amount whilst it investigated the claim. It 
contacted Mr B again in May to seek additional information about the claim and it asked him 
to upload the information through its online portal. Once hed done this, Amex raised a 
chargeback dispute with the online travel agent.
The travel agent raised an objection to the chargeback; it said it had provided the service 
that Mr and Mrs B had paid for and that Mr and Mrs B were eligible for a credit voucher in 
accordance with the airlines policy. Amex communicated this to Mr and Mrs B and 
confirmed that no refund was due, and it explained it would remove the temporary credit 
from Mr and Mrs Bs account.
Mr and Mrs B disagreed and provided additional information and evidence to support their 
position. Amex agreed to look at the claim again and it contacted the travel agent. And 
again, it applied a temporary credit to Mr and Mrs Bs account while the matter was looked 
into. 
Mr and Mrs B simultaneously took their claim to another ADR entity in June 2020 and 
received a determination in their favour in July 2020. This determination instructed the travel 
agent to refund the full claim to Mr and Mrs B directly, but it allowed it to deduct a small £50 
administration fee.
In July 2020, Amex told Mr and Mrs B that the dispute had been closed in their favour and 
their credit card statement for August 2020 would reflect this.
In December 2020, Amex wrote to Mr and Mrs B to tell them that the credit it had previously 
applied to their account would now need to be removed. It explained that the travel agent 
had contacted it and explained that it had refunded Mr and Mrs B directly in August 2020, as 
a result of the determination from the other ADR entity.
Mr B complained to us about the service hed received from Amex and its overall handling of 
his claim. He says hes wasted many hours of his own time to obtain his refund, a task that 
Amex as his credit card provider shouldve undertaken on his behalf. And he says Amex 
should compensate him for the time hes wasted resolving this issue.
Amex rejected this complaint. It says it acted on the available information to hand and 
reached the right and appropriate outcome. Amex says the original transaction amount was 
£5,512.96 and this was successfully charged back on 29 July.
Amex told us that at first the chargeback went in the merchants favour as its terms and 
conditions allowed for a flight voucher, but Mr B said he should also be offered a refund and 
he wasnt given a choice. The merchant was therefore successfully charged back. Further 
down the line the travel agent received a refund from the airline, they deducted an 
administrative fee and then forwarded the refund on to Mr B. Amex says Mr and Mrs B 
received a refund direct from the travel agent, so it wouldnt be right for them to benefit from 
double recovery and the temporary credit to their account was reversed.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said she thought it should be upheld. She said 
she thought Amex couldve communicated better with Mr and Mrs B and it shouldve 
considered the bigger picture when the chargeback claim was first defended by the travel 
agent. She explained that had Amex undertaken a more thorough investigation at the outset, 
it wouldve concluded that the offer of only a credit voucher was not in the airlines terms and 
conditions when Mr and Mrs B purchased their flights in May 2019.
She acknowledged that Mr and Mrs B had now received a refund, but she said theyd not 
received the service they shouldve done. Taking everything into account, she thought that 
Amex should pay Mr and Mrs B £75 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience it had 
caused them.
Mr and Mrs B disagree so the complaint comes to me to decide. Mr B says hes 
disappointed with the level of compensation as it doesnt compensate him for his time, 
energy and effort in resolving this matter. And it wont encourage Amex to behave more 
diligently and meet its obligations in future chargeback cases.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything very carefully, Ive reached the same conclusion as our 
investigator.
In this particular complaint, Im only looking at the delays and the associated level of service 
that Mr and Mrs B received from Amex. This is because although Mr and Mrs B paid for 
flights that were subsequently cancelled, and were, initially, unable to get a refund from 
either the airline or the travel agent, both parties have confirmed that Mr and Mrs B have 
now received a refund. And although Mr B originally complained about the late payment 
charges and interest that had accrued on his account from March 2021 when the credit card 
balance wasnt repaid, Mr B told us that with hindsight, I accept that I should have repaid 
the balance (and now have), but given the lack of engagement from Amex throughout this 
process, felt I needed to hold this position to encourage them to engage in the matter.
It might be helpful if I explain that in some cases, a bank may be able to request a refund 
from the supplier through the chargeback scheme. This is a way in which payment 
settlement disputes are resolved between card holders and suppliers/merchants. They are dealt with under the relevant card scheme rules. In certain circumstances the process 
provides a way for Amex to ask for a payment Mr and Mrs B made to be refunded. Those 
circumstances include where goods or services arent supplied by the company Mr and 
Mrs B paid.
Theres no obligation for a card issuer to raise a chargeback when a consumer asks for one.
But I would consider it good practice for a chargeback to be attempted where the right exists
and there is reasonable chance of success.
In this case, it appears that Mr and Mrs B werent provided with the goods that they originally 
paid for  the airline cancelled their flights. And in normal circumstances, it would seem 
reasonable to expect Amex to raise a chargeback for them, as Im satisfied that this scenario 
is one that is likely covered within their chargeback rules.
Its not unusual for a chargeback to take some time to process. It can take time for a bank to 
gather the correct and necessary information needed to raise the claim, and the chargeback 
rules also require banks to give suppliers time  usually around a month - to respond to any 
chargeback raised, in case they want to dispute it. But even so, in normal circumstances, Id 
have expected Amex to have resolved this chargeback sooner than it did. It couldve 
investigated things more thoroughly at the outset and established more quickly that it 
needed further information from Mr and Mrs B.
This wouldve avoided the need for it to approach the merchant a second time and avoided it 
having to temporarily credit and then re-debit Mr and Mrs Bs account on two occasions.
I dont doubt for a moment that this whole experience was worrying and stressful for Mr and 
Mrs B. Theyd booked flights, and from what Mr B has told us, their experience with both the 
airline and the travel agent wouldve caused them anxiety. They were initially told theyd 
receive a refund before later being told they could re-book their flights or take a credit 
voucher instead.
But I cant hold Amex responsible for any of this and ultimately it was the airline and travel 
agent who caused the initial problems here as they didnt give Mr and Mrs B their money 
back when it seems they should have.
I also need to take into account that these werent normal circumstances; it was an 
unprecedented and unusual time for the banks, when Mr and Mrs B first contacted Amex, 
dealing with significant numbers of enquires from consumers looking to get money back as 
the global pandemic unfolded. Many of these claims will have brought up issues which were 
relatively novel, and the banks were having to digest new information, rules and guidance at 
a very unusual time. And many firms faced operational challenges during this period.
Ive thought carefully about the service Amex provided. I think it shouldve better explained to 
Mr and Mrs B the chargeback process and undertaken a more thorough investigation when 
Mr B first contacted it - I think it couldve obtained the additional information it needed from 
Mr and Mrs B sooner. Taking all this into account, I do think Amex should pay Mr and Mrs B 
something to compensate them for the poor service it provided and the distress and 
inconvenience it caused.
Mr B says the £75 compensation suggested by our investigation isnt enough; he says hes 
spent many hours 20-30 hours pulling together all the information for the different parties to 
support his claim for a refund. Although I understand the frustration this mustve caused him, 
we dont usually make awards for a consumers time in dealing with a claim. This is because 
its part of a consumers responsibility in making a claim to pursue the issues to a conclusion and we wouldnt usually award compensation for a consumers time taken to make a 
complaint to a business, in this case Amex.
And although I understand why Mr B says £75 wont encourage Amex to behave more 
diligently and meet their obligations in future chargeback cases, its important that I explain 
my role isnt to punish businesses for their performance or behaviour  thats the role of the 
regulator. My role is to look at problems that a consumer may have experienced and see if 
the business, in this case Amex, has done anything wrong. If it has, we seek to put the 
consumer back in the position they wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And 
we may award compensation that we think is fair and reasonable.
In this particular case, Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs B experienced some delays and poor 
service in connection with their chargeback claim, so Im going to increase the compensation 
that Amex should pay them to £100 in total.
Putting things right
Im going to ask American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) to pay Mr and Mrs B 
£100 in recognition of the poor service it provided. I think this is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of this complaint and I dont think American Express Services Europe Limited 
(AESEL) needs to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct American Express Services 
Europe Limited (AESEL) to pay Mr and Mrs B £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 September 2021.
 
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman