DRN-4260881
The complaint
Mr L complains about the advice given by AXG Advice Ltd (AXG) to transfer the benefits 
from his occupational pension scheme to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP). He says 
the advice was unsuitable for him. 
What happened
Mr L held benefits in a workplace pension and in January 2021 he obtained a summary of 
those benefits from the scheme administrator. His pension was split into three parts. Part 
one was a defined benefit pension. This had a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of 
£664,732. Part two was another defined benefit (DB) arrangement and had a CETV of 
£49,770. Part three was a defined contribution (DC) pension arrangement. This was 
valued, at that time, at £27,028.25. Part two and part three were both held under the same 
section of Mr Ls pension. The trustees of the pension have since explained that part one 
could be transferred separately to parts two and three. But if part two was transferred, Mr L 
was required to also move part three because these benefits were held under the same 
section of the pension arrangement.
Mr L was discussing his finances with another business, which Ill call Firm S. Hes said he 
was looking into his options regarding reducing or repaying his mortgage. He says Firm S 
explained the benefits of transferring his pension into a SIPP. But Firm S didnt have 
permission to advise on DB transfers. So, he was told hed need to take advice from AXG.
A fact-find, recording information about Mr Ls circumstances and objectives, was completed 
on 17 February 2021 and provided to AXG. This said Mr L was 52, divorced with two 
financially dependent children. He owned his own home, with an outstanding mortgage of 
£186,000. He also owned rental property which was mortgaged for approximately £114,000. 
No other debts or liabilities were recorded. Mr L was employed earning £61,500 plus 
variable bonuses. He also received income from his rental properties. He had savings and 
investments of approximately £33,400. And his income was noted as exceeding his 
outgoings by around £3,500 per month.
In addition to his workplace pension, Mr L had another SIPP, which was noted as having a 
value of £47,825.
The fact-find said Mr L hoped to retire from his current role at age 55. It said he wanted to 
take the maximum tax-free cash (TFC) possible at that point and begin drawing a modest 
income which hed supplement with the income from his rental property. And he also 
intended to take up another, less stressful job, to provide further income. So, it said, he was 
interested in transferring to a flexible pension. It also said Mr L was concerned about the 
funding level of his workplace pension and was thinking of transferring to safeguard his 
pension. And he was also keen to leave the pension to his children in the event of his death.
The fact-find included a section where Mr L was asked to rank a list of 11 priorities regarding 
his pension and retirement. And it included questions about Mr Ls investment experience, 
attitude to and capacity for risk. Based on the answers given AXG determined that he had a 
low medium attitude to risk or a 5 on a scale of 1-10.
On 9 March 2021, AXG sent Mr L its recommendation. The report said AXG was not 
considering the DC portion of his pension (part three) as this wasnt guaranteed nor did it 
provide guaranteed benefits. And its advice focused on the two DB parts of his pension (part 
one and part two). AXG said it recommended that Mr L transfer his DB benefits to a new 
provider. It noted that under the rules of the subsections of the DB scheme, early retirement 
appeared to only be possible from age 57. And retiring early would result in a significant 
reduction in benefits compared to those available at the normal retirement date. AXG said 
that a transfer allowed Mr L to meet his objectives. 
The recommendation noted that Firm S had suggested a pension provider and product to 
which Mr L should transfer. AXG said, having reviewed this, it was satisfied this provider and 
product were in line with Mr Ls attitude to risk and were suitable. The report noted that 
Firm S would act as Mr Ls ongoing adviser, at a further ongoing cost.
Ive been provided a recording of a call which took place between AXG and Mr L after this 
advice was provided but before the transfer was instructed, in which AXG sought to confirm 
Mr L understood its recommendation. AXG re-caped Mr Ls stated priorities and the reasons 
for its advice, while noting he was giving up guaranteed benefit. Mr L explained during that 
call that hed taken his mortgage in his mid-40s and it was due to run into his 70s. He didnt 
envisage working to that age, particularly in his existing role. And him thinking about 
reducing his mortgage was what had led him seek advice. So based on what AXG had 
suggested he might achieve by investing, including releasing more TFC, he believed it might 
be favourable. Mr L said he had read the advice, and had done so with Firm S. 
The transfer was subsequently completed in line with this recommendation. Part three of 
Mr Ls pension was also transferred, because it had to be as the advice included moving part 
two.
In June 2022, AXG contacted Mr L and said, as the advisors who had provided Mr L DB 
transfer advice, it was making him aware of a review of that advice which had been agreed 
with the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). And it invited him to take part. 
Mr L asked for his advice to be reviewed. Dissatisfied with the amount of time the review 
was taking Mr L asked our service to consider his complaint.
Mr L said, with hindsight he didnt think it was suitable for AXG to have advised him to 
transfer during the covid pandemic. He said his main objective at the time had been to 
reduce his mortgage and its remaining term. But his plans werent finalised, and hed always 
intended to continue working in some capacity. Now he was about to reach age 55, he didnt 
foresee his employment circumstances changing. He said Firm S had offered to review his 
options and referred him to AXG to transfer his pension. Mr L said the other things recorded 
as being a priority were not important to him and were emphasised by the adviser. And he 
said the risks and negatives of a transfer werent sufficiently highlighted to him.
One of our Investigators considered the complaint and felt that it should be upheld. She 
thought Mr L was likely to receive retirement benefits of a lower overall value by transferring. 
And she didnt think accessing his DB scheme to reduce his mortgage was necessary or in 
his best interests, as he had other means to reduce the balance and was not having any 
issues making repayments. Nor did she think the alternative death benefits offered by a 
SIPP justified giving up his guaranteed benefits. So, she thought AXG should compensate 
Mr L for any losses the transfer had led to.
AXG disagreed. It said Mr L had been clear he was keen to clear his mortgage and to leave 
his pension to his children. AXG said the advice was in line with Mr Ls recorded priorities 
and attitude to risk. So, AXG said it stood by its advice to transfer. It also said it had not 
advised Mr L about the transfer of part three of his pension.The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
Its apparent from the available information that Mr L had been discussing his finances with 
Firm S. And the fact that it suggested a pension provider and investment strategy for his 
pension in the event of transfer indicates it mightve suggested to Mr L that a transfer of his 
DB scheme benefits was a potentially appropriate way to meet his objectives. But I think it is 
important to be clear Im only looking at the actions of AXG here.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of AXG's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, AXG should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ls 
best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his 
best interests.
Financial viability 
AXG was required to carry out an appropriate transfer value analysis (APTA) by the 
regulator. This included producing a transfer value comparator (TVC)  a comparison of the 
CETV with the estimated monetary cost of acquiring the same benefits as those the DB 
scheme guaranteed to provide at retirement. AXG also calculated how much Mr Ls pension 
fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide the same benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield). The recommendation letter that AXG sent to Mr L referred to the 
contents of the APTA.
For retiring at age 65, AXG estimated that the cost of replicating the DB scheme benefits 
was likely to be £1,491,422.76, which was £776,920.76 more than the CETV of Mr Ls DB 
scheme benefits. The critical yield was estimated to be 8.37% per year to match the full 
pension that the DB scheme would provide at 65 (starting at £36,280 per year). And to 
match the maximum TFC and reduced annual pension the DB scheme would provide at that 
point (£170,316 TFC and a starting pension of £25,547) the critical yield was 6.73%. 
The critical yields to match the benefits the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) would provide 
were also calculated. The PPF is a lifeboat scheme to protect members of DB pension 
schemes when the employer became insolvent and couldnt meet any deficit in the funding 
of the DB scheme. It pays compensation to members of eligible schemes for their lifetime. 
The critical yield to match the full pension it was estimated the PPF would provide at age 65 
(£32,792.24 per year), in the event Mr Ls scheme became insolvent and pension benefits 
were provided by the PPF, was 6.22%. And to match the maximum TFC and reduced 
pension the PPF would offer (£177,763.83 TFC and a starting pension of £26,664.57), 
5.85%.
AXG noted though that Mr L was interested in taking his retirement benefits early, from age 
55. It said, under the DB scheme rules, it understood Mr L could not access his benefits until 
age 57. But to provide Mr L with examples, it calculated the relevant critical yields for taking 
benefits at age 57.
To match the full pension his DB scheme was estimated to provide at age 57 (which would 
start at £18,049) the critical yield was 10.81%. And to match the TFC and reduced starting 
pension the scheme would offer from 57 (£90,446 and a starting pension of £13,566 per 
year) the critical yield was 7.55%. 
In respect of the PPF, to match the benefits it was estimated might be provided at age 57 the 
critical yields were 15.79% for the full pension itd offer (£23,985.60) and 14.78% for the TFC 
and reduced pension (£137,119.18 and £20,567.87 per year). 
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
The relevant discount rates closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017 and 
were 4% per year for 12 years to retirement and 3% for 4 years to retirement. I acknowledge 
that these were from several years prior to the advice being given so Ive also considered 
the regulator's standard projection rates. The regulator's upper projection rate at the time of 
the advice was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%. 
I've taken all of this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, 
Mr Ls low medium attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. There would be little 
point in Mr L giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to 
achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here I think Mr L was 
likely to receive benefits of a substantially lower overall value than the DB scheme at 
retirement, as a result of investing in line with that attitude to risk. And even more so in the event of early retirement. And this would be the case even if the scheme moved to the PPF.
For this reason alone, I dont think a transfer out of the DB scheme was in Mr Ls best 
interests. Of course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer 
advice, as AXG has argued in this case. There might be other considerations which mean a 
transfer is suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered this below.
Flexibility and access to tax-free cash
AXG has said that Mr L wanted to be able to repay his mortgage at age 55 from his pension 
fund, change job and to take income flexibly from his pension, as and when he needed it, 
which would be supplemented by rental income and his expected reduced wage. And it 
noted that maximising tax-free cash and retiring early were selected as the most important 
priorities for him during the fact-find. 
Ive heard a recording of the call with Mr L, which took place after AXG had issued its 
recommendation to transfer, where this was discussed. And Mr L did indicate this was why 
hed sought advice. I note though that the contents of the call and the lack of reference to 
repaying his mortgage in the recommendation makes it appear that this was the first time 
AXG was aware of this apparent objective. And this conversation took place after AXG had 
already recommended a transfer and after Mr L had been in contact with Firm S for some 
time. And again, it appears, based on it suggesting an investment strategy before DB 
transfer advice had been given, Firm S may have at least indicated that a transfer might be 
an appropriate way to meet this goal.
Mr L has confirmed that potentially repaying his mortgage at age 55 was what prompted him 
to seek advice, initially from Firm S. And this was why potentially transferring his DB scheme 
was considered. But he has also highlighted that he was not in any financial difficulty, he 
was in a secure and well-paid job and he was in good health and wouldve continued 
working, had he been advised that a transfer was unsuitable. So, his plans were not 
finalised.
Ive thought about all of this carefully. Mr L was 52 at the time of the advice. So, I believe he 
was likely beginning to make plans for what his retirement would look like. And he did have a 
large mortgage, which had a significant period still to run. So, thinking about how to address 
that wouldve been important to his planning. 
Mr L did though have a significant surplus income and I cant see that hed had any issues 
making his mortgage repayments, or that he wouldnt have been able to maintain these 
moving forward, particularly while he was in his existing job. And he couldnt access any 
benefits from his pension until age 55 at the earliest anyway. So, at the point of the advice, 
any thoughts about early retirement were purely aspirational and, in my view, unlikely to be 
finalised. And a decision about transferring  which is a one-off, irreversible choice - couldve 
been deferred until his plans were finalised, avoiding incurring any unnecessary investment 
risk in the meantime.
In addition, while this mightve been something Mr L was interested in, AXGs role in 
providing advice about his pension and a potential transfer wasnt that of wish fulfilment or to 
put in place what Mr L mightve thought he wanted. It was to consider what he needed and 
advise him on what was in his best interests.
It appears that Mr L would not have been able to access his benefits under the DB scheme 
until age 57. But again, while Im satisfied he did talk about potentially retiring at age 55, I 
dont think a final decision had been made at that point. So, it appears he had the option of 
deferring his plans.The benefits hed have received under the DB scheme from age 57  a full starting pension 
of £18,049 or £90,446 TFC and a reduced starting pension of £13,566 per year  wouldnt 
have been enough to clear the full mortgage value noted in the fact find. But Mr L had 
several years in which hed have continued to make repayments to reduce that balance. 
And, given his surplus income, he couldve also made overpayments. Indeed, he has 
indicated this balance has already reduced by approximately £26,000 since the advice. Mr L 
also had a significant amount in savings, which he says has also increased in the time since, 
that couldve been used in addition to tax free cash from his pension, to further reduce the 
mortgage. And although he mightve hoped to clear the mortgage in full, given he was 
intending to continue to work in some capacity and receive a wage, would continue to 
receive rental income and couldve received a significant guaranteed income from his DB 
scheme, reducing the mortgage to a lower level and continuing to meet payments was also 
an option for Mr L.
Based on the CETV it appears that a transfer did present an opportunity to potentially have 
access to a larger sum of TFC, particularly at early retirement. But this involved taking 
investment risk, which Mr L wasnt otherwise subject to. And again, while I dont doubt that 
access to a large sum sounded appealing, I dont think he necessarily needed this to meet 
his objective of reducing his mortgage and it involved giving up a guaranteed escalating 
income in retirement.
Although I acknowledge that the fact-find suggested Mr L was interested in having flexibility, 
I cant see that he had a strong need for a variable income in retirement. Indeed, I cant see 
that there was any analysis of his expected income needed in retirement.
Taking all of this into account, I dont think transferring at the time of the advice based on 
Mr Ls aspirational goals was in his best interests, particularly as he was unlikely to improve 
on the guaranteed pension benefits he was entitled to under the scheme by doing so. 
Death benefits
AXG has said that the alternative death benefits offered by transferring, and the flexibility to 
leave his pension to his children appealed to Mr L. Mr L however says this wasnt a 
significant consideration for him until speaking to Firm S and AXG.
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension were likely an attractive feature to Mr L. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr L might have even thought it was a good 
idea to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this once they were 
discussed, the priority here was to advise Mr L about what was best for his retirement 
provisions. A pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think 
AXG explored to what extent Mr L was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in 
exchange for higher death benefits.
I also note that, in the call recording Ive heard, Mr L indicated that he had a partner and they 
had been together for some time. It is unclear whether his partner wouldve qualified for the 
spouses pension provided by the DB scheme at the time. But if they had later married, it 
seems likely she wouldve done. But I cant see that AXG considered this at all.
The CETV figure would no doubt have appeared attractive as a potential lump sum. But the 
sum remaining on death following a transfer was always likely to be different to that figure  
unless Mr L had passed away immediately, which was unlikely. As well as being dependent 
on investment performance, it wouldve also been reduced by any income Mr L drew in his 
lifetime. Mr L was in good health, so there was nothing to suggest he was less likely to live until at least his average life expectancy. And given the advice seems to have been based 
on him taking the maximum possible TFC from the pension and then continuing to draw a 
regular income, it appears likely the fund wouldve been significantly depleted by the time he 
reached his average life expectancy. So, the pension may not have provided the legacy that 
Mr L may have thought it would. In any event, AXG should not have encouraged Mr L to 
prioritise the potential for alternative death benefits through a personal pension over his 
security in retirement.
Furthermore, if Mr L genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his children, I think AXG 
shouldve instead explored life insurance. Mr L had a significant income surplus through with 
which to pay premiums. And he was in good health, so this appears to have potentially been 
a realistic option. I appreciate that life insurance can be expensive, particularly so if trying to 
provide cover equivalent to Mr Ls CETV. But basing insurance on this figure would 
essentially assume that he would pass away on day one following the transfer, and that isnt 
realistic. So, the starting point ought to have been for AXG to ask Mr L how much he would 
ideally like to leave to his family, and this couldve been explored on a whole of life or term 
assurance basis  which was likely to be cheaper. But there's little evidence it did so.  
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer justified the likely 
decrease of retirement benefits for Mr L. And I dont think that insurance was properly 
explored as an alternative.
Control
I think Mr Ls desire for control over his pension and how it was invested was overstated. I 
cant see that Mr L had experience or specialist knowledge relating to the management of a 
fund of this size and importance. And he has said this wasnt actually something he was 
necessarily looking for. The recommendation also indicated the intention was that, after a 
transfer, Firm S would provide him with ongoing support and advice. So, I dont think that 
this was a genuine objective for Mr L  it was simply a consequence of transferring away 
from his DB scheme.
Concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
The fact-find noted that Mr Ls DB scheme was underfunded and that he was potentially 
concerned about this. And the recommendation letter indicates AXG agreed this was 
concerning. However, Mr L says he had no concerns about the funding of the scheme until 
speaking to Firm S and AXG and this was not a genuine worry.
Ive been provided information that indicates that the DB scheme was underfunded. But this 
was from 2018. Whereas the advice was given in 2021. And the information on file suggests 
there was a plan in place to address the shortfall. So, I dont think there is enough 
information to say the scheme was in such a position that Mr L ought to have genuine 
concerns about this.
In addition, the scheme was covered by the PPF. And, as Ive explained above, this 
wouldve still provided Mr L with guaranteed benefits. I also think AXG should have 
explained that a potential move to the PPF was not as concerning as Mr L mightve first 
thought  if this was a genuine concern of his. As Ive outlined already, Mr L was still unlikely 
to match, let alone exceed the benefits available to him through the PPF if he transferred out 
to a personal pension. So, I dont think transferring for this reason, was in Mr Ls best 
interests.
Suitability of investmentsAXG recommended that Mr L take out a pension with a specific provider and invest in line 
with a suggestion already made by Firm S. Ultimately though, AXG was responsible for the 
advice to transfer, without which this couldnt have happened. But as Im upholding the 
complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mr L, it 
follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment recommendation. This is 
because Mr L should have been advised to remain in the DB scheme and so the 
investments wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been given.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility and potential for higher death benefits on offer through a 
personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr L. But again, AXG wasnt 
there to just transact what Mr L might have thought he wanted. The advisers role was to 
really understand what Mr L needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr L was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr L was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and, in my view, there were no other particular reasons which 
would justify a transfer and outweigh this.  
So, I think AXG shouldve advised Mr L to remain in his DB scheme.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr L would've gone ahead anyway, against AXG's 
advice. Ive considered this carefully.
As Ive explained, I am satisfied that Mr L was thinking about how he could address his 
mortgage as he moved into retirement. I also accept that Mr L is an adult and plainly capable 
of making his own decisions. And I also believe, when entering discussions with AXG, Mr L 
mightve thought that transferring was a good idea. I also acknowledge that, when speaking 
to AXG after receiving the recommendation, Mr L indicated he understood the report and 
that he felt it was detailed and thorough. But I cant rule out the possibility that the 
discussions hed already had with Firm S influenced Mr Ls point of view  as again it seems 
to have suggested a transfer as a potential solution. And ultimately, while he mightve felt 
well informed by the report he received, AXG recommended that Mr L transfer, and I think he 
relied on that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr L wouldve insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme, against 
AXGs advice. I say this because Mr L had a low medium attitude to risk and this pension 
accounted for the majority of his retirement provision. So, if AXG had provided him with clear 
advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best 
interests, I think he wouldve accepted that advice.
Im not persuaded that his ambitions in relation to his mortgage or thoughts on flexibility and 
alternative death benefits were so great that he wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing 
that a professional adviser, whose expertise he had been recommended and was paying for, 
didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. If AXG had explained that Mr L 
could meet his objectives without risking his guaranteed pension, I think that wouldve 
carried significant weight. So, I dont think Mr L would have insisted on transferring out of the 
DB scheme.
AXGs role was pivotal, since the eventual investments were fully reliant on the funds being 
transferred first. If that hadnt happened, Mr L wouldve remained in his DB scheme and the 
investments wouldnt have happened. So, in my view, the entirety of the impact of the 
transfer stems from AXGs unsuitable advice to transfer away from the DB scheme. Mr L also transferred the DC portion of his occupational pension, when transferring the DB 
portions of his pension following AXGs advice. As part of the complaint Mr L has said he 
was advised to transfer the DC portion of his pension (part three). But the suitability report 
issued by AXG said it wouldnt be considering that part of Mr Ls pension. And it doesnt 
appear to have provide advice in relation to part three of his pension. 
However, as Ive already noted, the trustees of the occupation pension scheme have said 
that the DC portion of Mr Ls pension benefits (part three) was effectively tied to part two  
the DB benefits that were held under the same section of the pension. And all benefits held 
under that section had to be transferred together if moving one part. AXG advised Mr L to 
transfer part two of his pension. So, following that advice necessitated transferring part 
three, regardless of the fact that AXG didnt address this as part of its recommendation. So, 
that part of Mr Ls pension was only transferred because of AXGs advice. And as a result, I 
think any losses relating to that part of Mr Ls occupational pension also stem from AXGs 
advice. 
In light of the above, I think AXG should compensate Mr L for any losses incurred as a result 
of the unsuitable advice.
Putting things right
My aim in awarding redress is to put Mr L as far as possible in the position he would be in 
now if AXG had given him suitable advice. I think Mr L would have remained in the 
occupational pension scheme and wouldve retained both his DB and DC benefits. 
What should AXG do?
To compensate Mr L fairly, AXG must determine the combined fair value of his transferred 
pension benefits as outlined in Step One and Step Two below. If the actual value is greater 
than the combined fair value, no compensation is payable.
actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the SIPP at the date of the calculation. 
fair value  step one
If Mr L had been given suitable advice, I think he would have remained in the DB scheme. 
AXG must therefore calculate the value of the benefits Mr L lost as a result of transferring 
out of his DB scheme in line with the rules for calculating redress for non-compliant pension 
transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 and set out in the regulators 
handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter.
For clarity, Mr L has said he has not yet retired, and has no plans to do so at present. So, 
the calculation should be based on the scheme normal retirement age, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ls 
acceptance of the decision.
fair value  step twoAXG must use the benchmark shown below to determine the fair value of the DC portion of 
Mr Ls occupational pension scheme if suitable advice had been given. 
Investment 
nameStatus BenchmarkFrom (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Value of new 
SIPP which 
relates to the 
DC section 
of the 
occupational 
pensionStill exists Notional 
value from 
the 
administrator 
of the 
occupational 
pensionDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 90 days 
of the business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Any additional sums paid into the SIPP should be added to the fair value calculation from the
point in time when they were actually paid in. Any withdrawal, income or other payment out
of the SIPP should be deducted from the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it
ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there are a large number
of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, I will accept if AXG totals all those
payments and deducts that figure at the end instead of deducting periodically.
In the event that it isnt possible to obtain a notional value from the trustees of the 
occupational pension scheme, AXG will need to determine a fair value for Mr L's investment 
instead, using this benchmark: For half the investment: FTSE UK Private Investors Income 
Total Return Index; for the other half: average rate from fixed rate bonds. The adjustments 
above also apply to the calculation of a fair value using the benchmark, which is then used 
instead of the notional value in the calculation of compensation.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, if AXG needs 
to do so here, it should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as 
published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of 
the previous month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually 
compounded basis.
Why is this benchmark suitable?
In the event AXG needs to use the benchmark, I think this is appropriate because:
Mr L had a low medium attitude to risk
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr L's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr L into that position. It does not mean that Mr L 
would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of 
index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that 
broadly reflects the sort of return Mr L could have obtained from investments suited 
to his objective and risk attitude.The combined value of the sums produced by the above two steps is the combined fair 
value.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, AXG should:
always calculate and offer Mr L redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr L before starting the redress calculation that:
his redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
a straightforward way to invest his redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his personal pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr L receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr L accepts AXGs offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr L for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ls end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr L as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, AXG may 
make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that 
consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss 
could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to Mr Ls 
likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction 
of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £375,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £375,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require AXG Advice Ltd to pay 
Mr L the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £375,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £375,000, I also recommend that 
AXG Advice Ltd pays Mr L the balance.
If Mr L accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on AXG Advice Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr L can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr L may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2023.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman