DRN-2756685
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE has declined to provide them with 
a cash refund, after cancelling their travel insurance policy.
What happened
On 16 February 2020, Mr and Mrs B purchased a single trip travel insurance policy, which 
provided them with cancellation cover from this date. The policy also provided additional 
cover for their trip, including post-departure cover, with Mr and Mrs B going on holiday from 
10 June 2020 to 19 June 2020. They paid £237.02 for their policy, which included a discount 
of £25.10. The policy also included cover for four medical conditions they declared.
Mr and Mrs B have explained that the airline operator they were due to be travelling with, let 
them know their flight was to be cancelled. And so, on 13 May 2020, on receiving this 
information from the airline, they contacted Great Lakes to cancel their insurance policy, and 
request a refund of the premium paid. 
At this point, Great Lakes said it would allow Mr and Mrs B to move their travel insurance 
cover dates. As long as the new cover dates selected were within 18 months of when they 
originally purchased their travel insurance policy. Alternatively, Mr and Mrs B could be given 
a pro-rata credit voucher for the unused part of their original travel insurance policy. They 
would then be able to use this to purchase a new travel insurance policy - so long as they 
did so within 36 months.
Mr and Mrs B declined the offer to move their travel insurance dates but accepted the option 
to receive a credit voucher. However, they expressed their dissatisfaction that only a credit 
voucher was available to them. They felt they should be provided with a cash refund for the 
full policy instead.
Mr and Mrs B explained why they thought a monetary refund instead would be fair. They 
said they hadnt received any benefit from the policy. And they also felt Great Lakes were 
tying them into future travel, when they may not want, or be able to go on holiday, in light of 
their health conditions and the continuing pandemic. 
Great Lakes considered Mr and Mrs Bs concerns, but its position remained the same. It said 
it couldnt offer Mr and Mrs B a cash refund for their policy. It said Mr and Mrs B had 
benefitted from cancellation cover since they purchased their policy in February 2020. And 
the terms and conditions of the policy didnt provide for a refund, after the 14 day cooling-off 
period had elapsed. 
Instead Great Lakes reiterated its offer, saying that;
So long as the original policy dates had not expired, and the cover was for the same 
duration and destination, Mr and Mrs B could move their single trip cover to within 18 
months of the original policy purchase date, free of charge. If the duration or 
destination were to change an additional premium would be charged.
It could provide Mr and Mrs B with a pro-rata voucher refund, valid for 36 months, 
that can be used against a new policy.
Mr and Mrs B remained unhappy with Great Lakes position. And so, they referred their 
complaint to this service for an independent review.
Our investigator considered this complaint and set out the details of the relevant cancellation 
rights  and how they applied in the circumstances of this case. They also explained that it is 
a fundamental principle of insurance law, that if the insurer has started to bear risk  for 
however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. The investigator said that this 
meant its not unreasonable for an insurer to keep any premiums relating to the risk it 
covered during that time. 
The investigator also explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the contract of 
insurance to be performed because cover under the policy started on 16 February 2020, and 
the policy covered various risks during from that point, until the date the holiday Mr and Mrs 
B were due to embark on was cancelled. 
The investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. 
They thought that the fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of this complaint 
was for Great Lakes to provide Mr and Mrs B with a pro-rata credit voucher, calculated 
based on the remaining premium from the date Mr and Mrs Bs holiday was cancelled on 13 
May 2020, to the end date of the policy on 19 June 2020. 
And they clarified that this voucher could be used as per the above, as well as the option for 
this voucher to be transferred to a friend or relative as a gift, if Mr and Mrs B would rather do 
this. Our investigator thought this was fair.
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree. They felt that Great Lakes was taking unfair advantage of the 
situation  and that a cash refund would be best. Mr and Mrs B also said they felt a cash 
refund should be provided from the date the UK government had said people in England 
needed to stay at home  the 23 March 2020.
Because Mr and Mrs B remained dissatisfied, their complaint has been referred to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
The policy terms and conditions say: 
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt of 
your documents, whichever is later. We will only refund you any premium you have paid, 
less any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or made, or intend to make a claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14 day cooling off period no premium will 
be refunded, however in exceptional circumstances such as bereavement or a change to the 
policy resulting in us declining to cover your medical conditions.
Im not upholding this complaint because: The policy was cancelled outside the cooling-off period and so there is no requirement under 
the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a refund to Mr and Mrs B.
As Ive outlined above the contract of insurance says that it wont provide a refund after the 
cooling-off period, unless in exceptional circumstances. And, it gives examples of what 
would be considered exceptional circumstances. Whilst I can appreciate why Mr and Mrs B 
wanted to cancel their insurance policy, I dont think their reasons for cancelling the policy 
reasonably fall into what would be considered exceptional circumstances. I say this 
because I dont think the global coronavirus pandemic, which affected many of Great Lakes 
policyholders, is one which the policy term relating to discretion is intended to cover. The 
examples of exceptional circumstances given in the policy terms relate to bereavement or 
changes in the policyholders health. 
Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint, 
including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding Covid-19. And in the 
circumstances of this case, I think Great Lakes offer is fair and reasonable. I appreciate Mr 
and Mrs B have said they didnt receive the benefit of any cover under the policy. But I dont 
agree. Mr and Mrs B were covered from the date they purchased their policy, for any 
cancellation claim they needed to make. And the premium they paid included this cover. As 
Great Lakes were on risk for any potential claim during this time, Im satisfied its reasonable 
for Mr and Mrs B to pay for this cover.
Mr and Mrs B didnt need to make a claim for the cancellation of their holiday. But instead 
called Great Lakes on 13 May 2020, to cancel the policy as it was no longer needed, given 
they had just been informed their holiday was cancelled. Because there was nothing left to 
insure from this point, and this was an unprecedented situation, I do think Great Lakes offer 
to provide a pro-rata refund, from the date of the holiday cancellation is fair. It means Great 
Lakes isnt charging a premium when it knows there is nothing left to cover.  
I think a voucher is a fair alternative to a monetary refund in the circumstances of this case. I 
do appreciate Mr and Mrs Bs concerns in relation to current uncertainty around travel, and 
that their health might mean they cant travel in the future. But I dont think the terms of the 
voucher are unreasonably restrictive. It does allow Mr and Mrs B to go on the same holiday 
at a later date than originally planned, at no extra cost. And, I have to be mindful that Mr and 
Mrs B were willing to travel with their pre-existing health conditions previously.
Im also satisfied the value attached to the voucher is fair. And I dont think Great Lakes has 
treated Mr and Mrs B differently, and therefore unfairly, in relation to how it has set and 
calculated the voucher amount in this case. 
Great Lakes calculated the voucher amount from the date Mr and Mrs Bs holiday was 
cancelled  13 May 2020, to the date the policy was due to end. This meant there would be 
38 days of the policy unused, where Great Lakes werent on risk - which equates to £54.58 
of the premium paid. As this offer reflects the fact Great Lakes was not on risk for the 38 
days after the holiday was cancelled, Im satisfied Great Lakes offer is fair. And so, I wont 
be requiring it to do anything more. 
My final decisionGiven the above, my final decision is that Im satisfied the voucher Great Lakes has offered 
Mr and Mrs B is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. So, I dont require it to do anything 
more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 May 2021.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman