DRN-2376262
The complaint
Mr S believes that NewDay Ltd, trading as Aqua, lent to him irresponsibly and is unhappy 
that they defaulted his credit card.  
What happened
Mr S applied for an Aqua credit card in January 2015. Aqua accepted Mr Ss application and 
issued him with a credit card with an initial credit limit of £100. In July 2015, Aqua reviewed 
Mr Ss account and offered him a credit limit increase to £1,100. In August 2016, Aqua 
increased the credit limit on the card again to £1,700.
In January 2017 Mr S notified Aqua that he was struggling financially. Mr S wasnt able to 
complete an income and expenditure assessment at that time and didnt contact Aqua again 
about this. The account went into arrears, and when Aqua tried to contact Mr S to follow up 
on this point they were told that they had the wrong contact number on file. 
The account remained in arrears, and in April 2017 it was passed to a debt collection agency 
and all interest and charges were stopped. Debt collection activities were unsuccessful, and 
the account was then sold to a debt purchasing company in 2017.
Around May 2020, Mr S complained to Aqua, saying that it was irresponsible in giving him 
the card. Aqua reviewed Mr Ss complaint but didnt uphold it as they felt that they hadnt lent 
irresponsibly. Aqua said that they had performed the necessary checks before issuing the 
card and before increasing the credit limit on both occasions, and that these checks didnt 
highlight anything that would cause them to agree that they lent to Mr S irresponsibly.
Mr S didnt agree with Aqua and so referred the matter to our service. One of our 
investigators looked at this complaint, and specifically at Mr Ss circumstances at the time 
that the card was issued and at the time of both the first credit limit increase in July 2015 and 
the second in August 2016. While our investigator was satisfied that the initial issuance of 
the card and also the first credit limit increase was warranted, they felt that Mr Ss 
circumstances at the time of the second credit limit, in August 2016, should have given Aqua 
cause for concern, and that this particular limit increase shouldnt have taken place.
So, our investigator upheld Mr Ss complaint about irresponsible lending for the August 2016 
credit limit increase only and said that Aqua should put Mr S back in the position that he 
would have been in had that second credit limit increase never have taken place. This 
included refunding fees and interest, as well as removing the default which Aqua 
subsequently applied from Mr Ss credit file. Aqua disagreed with our investigators view and 
so the complaint was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To begin, Ill briefly address both the initial card issuance and the first credit limit increase in 
July 2015. Our investigator found no cause for concern with regard either of these events 
and I am in agreement with this position. I say this because I have reviewed the information 
that Aqua used to assess Mr Ss financial circumstances at those times and based on that I 
agree that those offers of credit to Mr S were appropriate. So, Ill move on to consider the 
second credit limit increase which occurred in August 2016.
Following Aqua raising the credit limit to £1,100 in July 2015, its notable that Mr S quickly 
took the account balance close to, and occasionally over, that limit. Ive also noted that in the 
12 months leading up to the second credit limit increase, Mr S made monthly repayments 
that were consistently close to the minimum repayment allowed, and also that Mr S took the 
card over the agreed credit limit on two occasions during that same time period. Finally, I 
have also considered that in the four months leading up to the second credit limit increase, 
Mr S made late repayments in three of those four months.
These factors, if considered individually, might not have been a cause for concern. However, 
taken as a whole  alongside a broader consideration of Mr Ss circumstances, I think these 
should have given Aqua cause for concern when assessing whether a second credit limit 
was appropriate. 
However, I also note Aquas response to these points, which in essence is that our 
investigator was taking the raw data out of context. For instance, Aqua noted that while Mr S 
did indeed make late repayments in three of the four months leading up to the second credit 
limit increase, each repayment was by a matter of a few days, and that the payments were 
eventually made. Aqua argued that this was consistent with someone who didnt pay 
attention to repayment timescales, rather than being an indicator of someone in financial 
difficulty.
I can understand Aquas position here, and the points which they raise arent without merit. 
But I think when taken as a whole, the signs that Ive mentioned above do suggest that they 
were offering credit to someone who wasnt always able to manage what hed already 
borrowed. As Ive said, taken individually, these factors might be indicative of someone just 
not managing their account well. But I think when considering all the points together, the 
wider picture is more suggestive of someone struggling to stay on top of what they had 
borrowed, and I think that these indicators warranted a more cautious approach. Because of 
this, I dont think that it was fair for Aqua to have made a further increase to Mr Ss credit 
limit in this instance.
So, I agree with our investigators position, and so I will be upholding this complaint.
Putting things right
To put things right, Aqua should put Mr S back into the position he would have been in had 
the second credit limit to £1,700 not taken place.
This means refunding all fees and interest applied to the balance above £1,100 from August 
2016 onwards. Any refund can be used to reduce any outstanding debt.
Aqua should remove the overlimit and late payment markers applied after the second credit 
limit increase to £1,700. Any late payment or overlimit markers on the credit file before the 
second credit limit increase should remain.
Aqua should then ensure that any subsequent payment arrangements between Mr S and Aqua have been accurately captured and recorded on Mr Ss credit file.
Aqua should also remove the default from Mr Ss credit file. Its difficult to know what would 
have happened with the debt here in terms of the repayments if Aqua hadnt have given Mr 
S this increase. But, in the circumstances there is the possibility he may have been able to 
avoid this. In any event, I note that Mr S has had the impact of this default on his credit file 
for a few years now despite it not being fair for Aqua to have increased his limit  and so in 
the circumstances here, I think its fair that Aqua removes this too.
Once these refunds and amendments have taken place, Aqua should inform the current 
owner of the debt about what has happened here and tell it to amend the relevant balances 
in line with the above. Then, Mr S remains liable to repay any outstanding balance here. He 
should discuss this with the current debt owner to arrange an agreeable way forward here.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint for the reasons explained above. 
NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua must:
Refund all fees and interest applied to the balance above £1,100 from August 2016 
onwards
Remove the overlimit and late payment markers applied after the second credit limit 
increase to £1,700  ensuring that any subsequent payment arrangements are 
accurately recorded
Remove the default from Mr Ss credit file
Tell the current owner of the debt what it has done here and ensure the current 
balance is amended and accurate  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman