DRN-4108797
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain about the way Covea Insurance Plc handled a claim they made on 
their home insurance policy for damage caused by subsidence. 
What happened
In 2020, Mr and Mrs T contacted Covea to notify it of damage to their property. Covea 
accepted a claim made for damage caused by subsidence. During the claim, Mr and Mrs T 
complained about Coveas handling. In January 2021 Covea responded to a complaint from 
Mr and Mrs T and that was brought to our service. 
In September 2022, Covea responded to a further complaint from Mr and Mrs T. They raised 
issues with Coveas contractors and communication, as well as issues around alternative 
accommodation (AA). Covea accepted there had been issues and it offered Mr and Mrs T 
£250 to resolve this complaint. 
Shortly after, Covea responded to another complaint with a final response sent in November 
2022. In this response it recognised matters hadnt moved forward since the previous 
complaint and not all areas of the complaint had been considered. Covea offered Mr and 
Mrs T £500 compensation. This was later increased to £750 after further contact with them. 
Covea also offered around £11,000 for Mr and Mrs T to have some repairs carried out 
themselves. 
Mr and Mrs T didnt accept Coveas offer but said they would accept £1,000 compensation. 
As Covea didnt agree to increase the amount anymore, Mr and Mrs T brought the complaint 
to our service.
Our investigator didnt think Covea needed to do anything more to put things right. She 
acknowledged the claim was still ongoing but said we could only cover issues up until the 
final response of November 2022. 
Mr and Mrs T didnt accept that and asked for an ombudsmans decision. They said issues 
were still ongoing and they had specifically raised Mrs Ts disability with Covea, and it hadnt 
responded about what reasonable adjustments it would make. They requested £5,000 
compensation. They also asked that Covea be instructed to expedite the work on the 
property as it was unresponsive to them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In line with the investigator, Ive considered events up until the November 2022 final 
response letter. Mr and Mrs T have referenced further issues theyve had this year. I want to 
be clear I havent considered any further issues when deciding this complaint. Mr and Mrs T 
have also mentioned a key date where they told Covea of a disability. As this also happened 
after the final response of November 2022, I havent considered this as part of this 
complaint. If Mr and Mrs T would like anything after that date reviewed, they will need to 
refer a further complaint to this service. 
As this is an informal service, Im not going to respond here to every point Mr and Mrs T and 
Covea provided. Instead, Ive focused on those I consider to be key or central to the issue. 
But I would like to reassure both that I have considered everything provided  including 
Mr and Mrs Ts response to our investigators assessment. 
Unfortunately, by their nature, claims of this type often involve inconvenience for the 
policyholders. I cant fairly require Covea to pay compensation for any thats directly caused 
by the original loss  the subsidence. However, I can do so where the insurers poor 
handling of the claim or mistakes have caused unnecessary or additional distress or 
inconvenience.
Covea accepts in its final responses that it has made errors. And it accepted in November 
2022 that it hadnt fully considered the impact of its errors on Mrs T in particular. There were 
several issues around AA and Mr and Mrs T only being given short notice about moving from 
their property, which was difficult for Mrs T due to her health condition. Mr and Mrs T were 
also forced to relocate Mr T to a different hotel whilst he was poorly and self-isolating. This 
was because Covea extended his stay at the wrong hotel. This put Mrs Ts health at risk and 
caused considerable distress and inconvenience. 
I understand there were numerous other issues involving contractors communicating poorly 
and not addressing issues. This led to Covea issuing a cash settlement for works to of 
around £11,000. This amount isnt factored into any award of compensation for unnecessary 
distress and inconvenience caused. But I have also considered that as well as recognising 
its errors, Covea also made this offer, which Mr and Mrs T accepted, to help them move the 
claim forward in November 2022. This is what Id expect it to do as part of resolving a 
complaint.
It is clear this has been a very difficult experience for Mr and Mrs T, and their circumstances 
mean theyve been affected more so than other people would have in the same scenario. It 
is always difficult to quantify compensation in these circumstances. Covea says across the 
two final responses, it paid £1,000 for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience caused. 
So I have to consider whether this is in line with what Id expect an insurer to offer to 
recognise the impact of its mistakes given what it knew about Mr and Mrs T. And having 
considered all of Mr and Mrs Ts points, I think it is. So Im not going to require it to pay any 
more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont require Covea Insurance Plc to pay any further 
compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 August 2023.
 
Michelle Henderson
Ombudsman