DRN-3264253
The complaint
Miss D is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) reported a default to her credit file, 
following it authorising two payments from her account which resulted in her using an 
unauthorised overdraft.
What happened
In July 2018, Miss D was accepted for a current account with HSBC. In November 2018, she 
made two payments which resulted in her account being overdrawn. As the account 
remained overdrawn, HSBC defaulted the account in April 2019. 
Unhappy with this, Miss D complained to HSBC in April 2020. She said she wasnt living at 
home at the time and didnt know her account was overdrawn. She said when she returned 
home, she made the payment to a third-party debt collector who HSBC had instructed to 
collect the debt on its behalf. She complained and asked HSBC to remove the default.
HSBC looked into Miss Ds complaint. But it said it hadnt made an error when it reported a 
default to Miss Ds credit file. Following this, in November 2020, HSBC refunded Miss D all 
charges applied to the account from December 2018 until it was closed. It said it refunded 
the charges because it failed to notify Miss D her account was using an unarranged 
overdraft. However HSBC said it wouldnt remove the default as it had reported this 
correctly. Unhappy with this, Miss D referred her complaint to this service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss Ds complaint, but she didnt think HSBC had 
incorrectly reported the default. She also said the terms and conditions of the account 
allowed HSBC to authorise payments where there were insufficient funds in an account. 
Miss D disagreed and said HSBC should have never authorised payments to allow her to fall 
into an unarranged overdraft, as she was in financial difficulties at the time. And she said 
HSBC had agreed it hadnt provided her with notification the account was using an 
unarranged overdraft. So she said it should also remove the default.
As Miss D remains in disagreement, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at whether HSBC was entitled to authorise a payment when Miss D had 
insufficient funds in her account. And Ive looked at whether it unfairly reported a default to 
her credit file. Having done so, I dont think HSBC has done anything wrong. Ill explain why.
Section 21 of the terms and conditions of Miss Ds account state the following:
Types of overdraft - Unarranged: where, without you asking in advance and in addition to 
any arranged overdraft, we let you borrow for a particular payment or to cover an amount 
weve taken out of your account (e.g. a charge). Well give you up to 31 days to repay the 
arranged overdraft, if weve allowed it for a particular payment.
When Miss D initiated the two payments, she was requesting that HSBC authorise the 
payments, despite there being insufficient funds in her account at the time. And HSBCs 
terms and conditions allow it to authorise payments where there are insufficient funds in an 
account, without a customer asking for this borrowing in advance. I appreciate Miss D says 
she was in financial difficulty at the time, but before this, she had maintained a credit balance 
on the account. There wasnt anything to suggest she was in financial difficulty. So Im 
satisfied HSBC acted in line with its terms and conditions, when it authorised the two 
payments Miss D requested HSBC pay from her account. 
Ive gone on to look at the account notes and statements. The statements show that in 
October 2018, Miss D made two payments which resulted in her account falling into an 
unarranged overdraft. No further payments were made to or from the account by Miss D. 
HSBC applied overdraft charges to the account in December 2018. Because the account 
had been in an unarranged overdraft for an extended period, HSBC closed the account and 
reported a default to the credit reference agencies in April 2019. 
In its Principles for the Reporting of Arrears, Arrangements and Defaults at Credit 
Reference Agencies, the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) says a business can 
register a default after a customer is behind with their payments for three months. And that it 
expects businesses to register a default by the time a customer is six months behind with 
their payments. I consider this to be representative of good industry practice. And as a 
minimum would expect a lender to act in accordance with these principles when deciding 
whether to default a consumers account. 
Having thought about the dates here and the account activity, I think it was appropriate for 
HSBC to report a default to credit reference agencies when it did. This is because Miss Ds 
account was in an unarranged overdraft and she was behind with her payments for around 
six months. So HSBC was entitled to register that the account had defaulted as per the ICO 
guidance.
Ive also thought about what Miss D has said about HSBC refunding the overdraft charges 
and its reasons for doing so. And that she said she didnt know her account was in its 
overdraft or that HSBC had filed a default. She says she only found out about it when a third-
party debt collector contacted her. 
However, despite what HSBC said in its letter to Miss D dated November 2020, HSBC has 
sent us evidence to show it sent Miss D eight text messages between November 2018 and 
January 2019. Each of these text messages requested that Miss D contact HSBC. But 
HSBC didnt hear from Miss D until April 2020. 
HSBC has also provided this service with copies of six letters it sent to Miss D between 
November 2018 and March 2019. These letters explain Miss D is using an unauthorised 
overdraft and explain the account will be defaulted if Miss D doesnt bring the account into 
credit. The address the letters were sent to is the same as Miss Ds current address. And I 
appreciate shes said she wasnt living there at the time, but HSBC was required to serve 
these notices on Miss Ds last known address and it wasnt made aware Miss D wasnt living 
at this address at the time. Given that HSBC has provided our service with a copy of the 
letters, I think its more likely than not, that they were sent to Miss D and that HSBC did what 
it could reasonably be expected to, to bring the matter to Miss Ds attention. 
Overall, Im satisfied HSBCs terms and conditions entitled it to authorise the two payments 
Miss D made in November 2018. And Im satisfied that HSBC notified Miss D she was using 
an unarranged overdraft and told her of its intention to report a default to her credit file. In 
addition, as the account wasnt brought up to date by the date provided in the default notice, 
Im satisfied the date HSBC reported the default is correct and that it hasnt acted unfairly.My final decision
I dont uphold Miss Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Sonia Ahmed
Ombudsman