DRN-2497474
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Allianz Insurance Plc mis-sold her a payment protection
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mrs W bought the PPI policy at the same time as she took out a Marks & Spencer charge 
card in one of its stores in 1997. Allianz has taken responsibility for the sale and by 
extension this complaint. The PPI gave Mrs W accident, sickness and unemployment 
protection and some life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt think Mrs Ws complaint should be upheld. Mrs W disagreed with
this view so the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed
it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
Allianz needed to make sure it gave Mrs W an option to purchase the PPI and Mrs W had to
agree to buy it. Mrs W says she was told shed have a better chance of getting the card if 
she also took out PPI. Allianz disputes this. I cant know what was said at the time of the 
sale, but Ive looked carefully at the application form. I think it made clear PPI was optional. I 
say this as Mrs W had to select the cover, and the form shows that Mrs W ticked a box 
indicating that she wanted to take out PPI. Theres nothing on the form that I think could 
reasonably have led her to believe it was mandatory. I have considered her comment 
carefully, but I also have to take into account how long ago the sale was and how that might 
impact what she recalls. And I cant find enough other evidence to support her claim that she 
was led to believe taking PPI would increase her chances of being approved for the charge 
card. Overall, I think its most likely she selected PPI, knowing she had a choice. I do 
understand she might not remember this given the time since the sale.
I dont think Allianz recommended the PPI to Mrs W. Mrs W has pointed out the form said 
We strongly recommend  but I think it was clear this was generic wording and I dont think 
she could have thought this was advice tailored to her. This means Allianz didnt have to 
check if it was right for her, and it was up to Mrs W to decide whether the policy was right for 
her, bearing in mind her ability to make her repayments if she was sick or lost her job. 
Allianz still needed to give Mrs W enough clear information so that she could decide for 
herself whether or not she wanted the policy. Its possible that the information Allianz gave 
Mrs W wasnt as clear as it should have been. But even with better information I still think 
Mrs W would have taken out the PPI. 
I say this because Mrs W was eligible for the policy. And she doesnt seem to be affected by
any of the main things the policy didnt cover and which might have made it more difficult to
make a successful claim, such as unusual employment circumstances or a pre-existing
medical condition. I dont know when the cost was made clear to Mrs W but I think the policy
was reasonably priced for the benefit it offered and apparently affordable.
Mrs W told us she would have received six months sick pay from her employer, then some 
ongoing disability protection. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to this, covering 
15% of the outstanding monthly balance on the account until Mrs W returned to work, or the 
outstanding balance was cleared. Mrs W said she also had a critical illness policy, but this 
provides protection in different circumstances, and wouldnt help with monthly card 
repayments in the same way as PPI.
Mrs W said she would have received 10 months redundancy pay. But the PPIs 
unemployment cover would have paid out in addition to this, allowing her to protect any lump 
sum repayment, giving increased stability at an already difficult time. She also said she had 
some savings but the PPI would have allowed her to use these for other living expenses 
whilst not working, or to protect them for her future needs. So, overall, I think the PPI would 
have been useful for Mrs W, in addition to her existing means, if she was sick or lost her job. 
And I think its most likely better information wouldnt have changed Mrs Ws mind about the 
PPI.
It follows I dont think Mrs W lost out because of anything Allianz did wrong.
My final decision
My decision is I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman