DRN-3764929
The complaint
Mr T complains about the way that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, has dealt with 
his credit card account after he disputed three payments.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in October 2022 in which I described what 
had happened as follows:
Mr T used his Halifax credit card between October 2018 and March 2019 to make 
payments of £2,750, £7,150 and £1,000 to a supplier. He claimed a refund of those 
payments in June 2019 and Halifax considered his claim under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974. It put the total of £10,900 into disputed status but didnt 
uphold his claim for a refund, though it accepted that it had provided some poor 
service to Mr T.
The £10,900 was left in disputed status in error so, although Mr T continued to use 
his credit card, the minimum payment due each month was zero and no interest was 
charged to his account between July 2019 and January 2022. The outstanding 
balance increased and by January 2022 it was £5,984.29. Halifax identified its error 
in December 2021 so it contacted Mr T, the £10,900 was released from disputed 
status in January 2022 and it offered him £150 compensation. Mr T wasnt satisfied 
with its response so complained to this service.
Our investigator recommended that his complaint should be upheld. He said that Mr 
T was misinformed and that Halifax had admitted that errors had been made which 
lasted for an extended period of time. He recommended that Halifax should pay Mr T 
an additional £150 compensation on top of what it had already offered and should 
assist him with an affordable payment arrangement regarding the outstanding 
balance owed. Both Mr T and Halifax have provided further comments in response to 
those recommendations.
I set out my provisional findings in my provisional decision which were as follows:
Mr T disputed three payments totalling £10,900 in June 2019. Halifax put that 
amount into disputed status and considered his claim for a refund under section 75. It 
concluded that he wasnt entitled to a refund but the £10,900 wasnt removed from 
disputed status. That meant that even though Mr T continued to use his credit card, 
no interest would be applied to his account unless his balance was more than 
£10,900 and that the minimum payment due was specified as zero.
Mr T says that he contacted Halifax three times about the payment due from him but 
was told that the statements were correct. Halifax identified its error in December 
2021 and it contacted Mr T and offered him a total of £150 compensation. The 
outstanding balance on his account in January 2022 was £5,984.29.
There doesnt seem to be any dispute that Halifax has made an error. The 
consequence of that error was that Mr T wasnt required to make any payment to 
Halifax from July 2019 to April 2022 and hes not been charged any interest on the 
outstanding balance during that period. Mr T has used his credit card during that time 
to make payments totalling at least £5,984.29 and hes clearly had the benefit of the 
goods and services that he bought during that period. Those payments and the 
monthly outstanding balance were clearly shown on the monthly statements that 
were produced for Mr Ts account. Although Mr T may not have known the reason 
that he wasnt being required to make a monthly repayment, I consider that he would 
have known that there was an error of some description on his account. I dont 
consider that it would be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require 
Halifax to write-off the outstanding balance of Mr Ts account.
No interest was applied by Halifax during that period, even though Mr T had an 
increasing balance, and he had the benefit of the money that he should have been 
paying to Halifax each month as he was able to use it for other purposes.
Halifax has offered Mr T £150 compensation and our investigator recommended that 
the compensation should be increased to £300. Although Halifax has made an error 
which continued for two and a half years, I dont consider that it ought to have been 
that much of a surprise to Mr T when it contacted him about the error in December 
2021. I consider that a total of £300 compensation for any distress and 
inconvenience that Mr T has been caused is fair and reasonable and Im not 
persuaded that a higher award of compensation is justified in these circumstances.
I consider that Halifax should try to agree an affordable repayment arrangement with 
Mr T for the amount that he owes to it. The duration of that repayment arrangement 
will be dependent on Mr Ts income and expenditure. Halifax offered to waive interest 
on the outstanding amount for three months. I consider that it would be fair and 
reasonable for it waive interest on that amount for twelve months from the date of my 
decision.
Halifax said that it had recorded a late payment on Mr Ts credit file about the 
payment that was due from him in April 2022 - and it may have recorded other late 
payment on his credit file since then. I dont consider that to be fair or reasonable in 
these circumstances so I find that Halifax should remove any adverse information 
that its recorded on Mr Ts credit file about any late payments on his credit card 
account.
Subject to any further representations by Mr T or Halifax, my provisional decision was that I 
intended to uphold this complaint. Halifax has accepted my provisional decision but Mr T 
says, in summary, that:
he was surprised that after the amount of time he received a letter from Halifax 
asking him for the money in full and in one payment;
£150 is not enough compensation for this big error and the occasions that Halifax 
didnt return his calls when it had agreed to call him back;
he asked Halifax if the calls were being recorded, and he was told that they were, but 
it then said that it didnt have them, but when the investigator pushed harder 
suddenly the calls became available;
Halifax has made many, many mistakes and not acted or actioned what it said it was 
going to do;hes been making the minimum requested payments since our investigators 
recommendations and he has no intention to use his Halifax credit card but it sent 
him a letter saying that because of his payment history it was reducing his credit limit;
the twelve month interest free period would result in payments of roughly £500 a 
month which is not a great thought or compromise; and
the provisional decision is very much in favour of Halifax as this is not just one 
mistake but a series of errors over a very long time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not persuaded that I should change the findings that I set out in my 
provisional decision. Its clear that Halifax made an error when the £10,900 wasnt removed 
from disputed status and it didnt correct its error when Mr T contacted it about his account. I 
can understand the frustration that Mr T clearly feels about the way that hes been treated by 
Halifax but I consider that a total of £300 is fair and reasonable compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience that hes been caused in these circumstances.
Mr T continued to use his credit card, no interest was applied by Halifax and he made no 
payments to it even though he had an increasing balance. I dont consider that it would be 
fair or reasonable for me to require Halifax to write-off the outstanding balance of his 
account. Theres no requirement for Mr T to pay that amount within twelve months and Ive 
said that Halifax should try to agree an affordable repayment arrangement with him for the 
amount that he owes to it and that the duration of that repayment arrangement will be 
dependent on his income and expenditure. But Ive said that it shouldnt charge any interest 
on that amount for twelve months. I consider that to be fair and reasonable and Im not 
persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require it to waive interest for a longer 
period that that.
Halifax provided the recordings of Mr Ts phone calls and they didnt have a material impact 
on my decision on his complaint. Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show 
that Halifax has acted incorrectly in relation to those recordings or for me to make any 
finding against it about the delay in the recordings being provided. 
Mr T says that Halifax has now reduced his credit limit but he also says that he has no 
intention of using his Halifax credit card again so the lower credit limit wont have an impact 
on him. In any event, Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that Halifax 
has acted incorrectly  or in breach of the account terms and conditions - in reducing Mr Ts 
credit limit in these circumstances. I dont consider that it would be fair or reasonable for me 
to require it to reinstate Mr Ts credit limit.
Putting things right
I consider that the remedy set out in my provisional decision is a fair and reasonable way for 
Mr Ts complaint to be resolved. Halifax has accepted my provisional findings and I find that 
it would be fair and reasonable for it to take the actions described in my provisional decision 
and as set out below. Im not persuaded that a higher award of compensation is justified in 
these circumstances or that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require Halifax to take 
any other action in response to his complaint.My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ts complaint in part and I order Bank of Scotland plc, trading 
as Halifax, to:
1. Try to agree an affordable repayment arrangement with Mr T for the outstanding 
balance of his account.
2. Waive any interest on that amount for twelve months from the date of my decision. 
3. Remove any adverse information that its recorded on Mr Ts credit file about any late 
payments on his credit card account.
4. Pay a total of £300 (which includes the £150 that its already offered to him) to Mr T 
to compensate him for any distress and inconvenience that hes been caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2022.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman