DRN-1631208
 
The complaint
Ms P complains that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) failed to adequately repair part of 
her roof damaged during a storm, which resulted in further damage.
What happened
I won't recite the background to Ms Ps complaint as the details are well-known to both 
parties. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision, which is not to uphold Ms 
Ps complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From the information Ive seen, there have been a number of repairs to various parts of Ms 
Ps roof undertaken at various times by various contractors. Its therefore not at all clear what 
work was done when, where, and by whom, which makes it difficult to attribute responsibility. 
And to uphold Ms Ps complaint, I have to be satisfied that theres a connection between the 
damage Ms P complains about, and something that IPA did wrong, or failed to do.
IPA has referred Ms P to the terms of her home emergency policy which state:
We will pay for:
3. Storm damage causing water to enter your home or likely to cause further loss or
damage to your home or its contents.
We will not pay for:
The cost of effecting permanent repairs once the immediate emergency situation has been 
resolved, including any redecoration or making good the structure, fixtures and fittings of 
your home.
So I think its clear that IPAs obligation in a situation where storm damage has occurred is to 
undertake a temporary repair to keep a property watertight and to prevent further damage. A 
permanent repair will then need to be undertaken and this may be covered by a home 
insurance policy. Ms P shouldn't have expected IPA to pay for a permanent repair.
Ms P maintains strongly that the original repair to the damaged area of roof above her 
bathroom was not a temporary repair. She says she wasnt told it would be, and that shed 
need to arrange for a permanent repair. She said the roofers who undertook the work told 
her it was a permanent repair. When another leak occurred in the same area some 12 
months later, the quality of what she thought was a permanent repair was brought into 
question.Ive listened to a number of telephone calls between Ms P and IPA. Our investigator 
originally referred to a call in which Ms P was told clearly by IPAs agent that it would only do 
a patch up job to make the property watertight, and that anything more permanent would 
be for her home insurers. 
But Ms P has said this wasnt the original call she made after the storm damage in 2018, and 
that she wasnt told this in that original call. Unfortunately theres no record of that call 
available to verify what she was told.
But in the call our investigator referred to, Ms P goes on to say that this was the third time 
shed called, and that her roof had leaked in the same place, and so obviously it was a 
temporary job, and it had just been patched up. She says shed looked at the repair out of 
her skylight and it looked just like theyd put silicone on the roof.
Ive seen the invoice from the roofer who Ms P engaged to repair her roof after the second 
leak. This refers to the re-setting of ridge tiles to prevent water penetrating into Ms Ps roof 
space (so not her bathroom). This suggests that he was working on a different section of 
roof to that where the storm damage had occurred on 2018, which was on an extension roof 
above her bathroom. From the photographs Ive seen there are no ridge tiles in the area of 
the 2018 repair.
I've also seen a report from the roofers who undertook the repair in 2018. This states:
After we attended the temp (sic) repair we discovered various problems to the roof. The roof 
is slate and is the original roof approx 100 years old. The leak was on the bathroom roof 
which sticks out at the rear and has a change of pitch. This roof will need replacement as it 
has had many old poor repairs and without stripping the whole roof it is impossible to 
guarantee it as we cannot warranty other peoples work. We quoted. The bathroom roof is 
wear and tear and a full replacement wouldnt be covered. I will forward the breakdown of 
the works and the pictures are attached of the damage we repaired which in our view were 
covered by storm damage and although we have not re attended we assume these are still 
ok. We are happy to repair free of charge to the bonding gutter as pictured and general 
slates to main roof. The comments made by [other contractors] say they were unable to 
identify issues would back up my point that the bathroom roof has been poorly maintained 
and it leaks because it has been poorly installed. The bathroom roof will need to be replaced 
and our repair works to the main roof should keep that in good watertightness for a number 
of years.
This doesnt suggest to me that the roofers considered that theyd done a permanent repair 
to the bathroom roof. It does say that this part of the roof was in generally poor condition.      
In the absence of conclusive evidence in the form of a recording of the initial call Ms P made 
to IPA, I feel unable to uphold her complaint. To do so, Id need to be satisfied that IPA had 
done something wrong or had misled Ms P.
 IPA isnt required under the policy to arrange for a permanent repair. The repair it did 
arrange appears to have lasted for many months, so was effective as a temporary repair. 
And I cant say Ms P was misled as to the nature of the repair. From what she herself 
observed, it had just been patched up, and she could see from the skylight the quality of the 
repair that had been done.
Ms P might have a claim against her home insurance policy for a permanent repair following 
damage initially caused by an insured event.So as Im not satisfied on the basis of the evidence I have that IPA did anything wrong here, 
Im not going to ask it to reimburse Mrs P for the cost of the permanent repair she paid for.
My final decision
For the reasons I've given above, I'm not going to uphold Ms P's complaint, and I won't be 
asking Inter Partner Assistance SA to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2020.
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman