DRN-1533187
The complaint
Ms P is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) cancelled her direct debit instruction to 
her credit card provider. HSBC says this happened because the direct debit hadnt been 
claimed for over 13 months.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator, so Im not upholding 
the complaint. Ill explain why.
The direct debit scheme stipulates that a bank should remove a direct debit 
instruction set up on an account if it hasnt been claimed for 13 months. This is to 
ensure that banks hold accurate and up-to date information, and to avoid many 
financial institutions having access to an account indefinitely. As direct debits are 
generally intended for regular payments to be made, its not unreasonable to 
consider a payment as not regular if it hasnt been claimed at least once in over a 
year.
 
The terms and conditions for the account state that if a direct debit isn't claimed for at 
least 13 months, it will be cancelled by HSBC. And HSBC isn't under any obligation 
to contact its customers to let them know when it applies this term.
 
Ms P accepts that she hadnt used the credit card for a long time, and only used it to 
keep the account open. The direct debit was last claimed in April 2018, and the next 
attempts to collect it (albeit unsuccessfully) were in August and September 2019. 
This is outside of the 13-month dormancy period Ive explained above. 
 
Ms Ps account shows some other direct debit instructions that are still in place 
despite not having been claimed for over a year. HSBC says this could be because 
theyve been updated by the originator within the last 13 months  even though no 
money has been claimed  which has meant theyve remained active. I havent seen 
any evidence to corroborate HSBCs explanation, but it sounds reasonable. And in 
any case, it doesnt change whether HSBC has done anything wrong with the direct 
debit in question in this case, which was cancelled. 
 
I understand why Ms P thinks HSBC has favoured its own direct debit, as one of the 
direct debits that appears to have remained active is for Ms Ps former HSBC credit card, and was last claimed in 2016. But that doesnt mean that it did something 
wrong when it cancelled the instruction to Ms Ps other credit card.
 
I do understand that this payment not being made to Ms Ps credit card has had implications 
on her credit card account with that provider. And there's no doubt that it caused Ms P some 
inconvenience and upset. But I cant hold HSBC responsible for these issues because it has 
acted in line with standard industry practice by removing the inactive direct debit from Ms Ps 
account.
Im sorry to disappoint Ms P but for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Ps complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2020.
Sam Wade
Ombudsman