DRN-2922490
The complaint
Mr M says National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 1996 at the same time as a credit card. It 
covered Mr M in case he was off work sick or lost his job.
I sent Mr M and NatWest a provisional decision on 9 June 2021, to explain why I didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Based on what Ive seen so far, I have not found this policy to have been mis-sold  Ill 
explain why.
This sale was two and a half decades ago, and the account involved has long since closed. 
So its completely understandable that neither side still have the original documents from the 
sale. Indeed, under data protection rules, NatWest were required to dispose of Mr Ms data 
rather than hold onto it for too long, and the common period to hold data for is normally only 
around six years. Meanwhile, Mr M doesnt recall being sold PPI, and I also think thats 
unsurprising given that buying insurance is not often memorable and this sale was especially 
long ago. Ive thought carefully about whats most likely to have happened based on the 
limited information I have.
It would have been a very serious failing for NatWest to have misled Mr M into having PPI. 
And I have no evidence which shows thats what NatWest did here. Nor have I seen any 
wider problems with their sales process from the time. And this particular sale was too long 
ago for me to reasonably require NatWest to be able to produce documents from the time to 
defend themselves now. So I dont have a fair basis on which to conclude that NatWest 
misled Mr M  theres no evidence which substantiates that. I think its more likely that 
NatWest followed a relatively normal sales process, where they offered Mr M a choice and 
he chose PPI  though I can understand if he no longer recalls doing so after so many years.
Its not clear whether NatWest recommended the PPI to Mr M, or not. The requirements 
were stricter on NatWest if they did recommend it, so to be as fair to Mr M as possible, Ill 
look at things as if they did. That would mean that NatWest had to check the policy was right 
for Mr M  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think it wouldve 
been. For example, it looks like Mr M was eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of 
its main exclusions or limitations. And he didnt have any significant work benefits aside from 
the very limited statutory ones, nor any alternative protection. So the PPI could have really 
been useful for him in case he was off work sick or lost his job.
Since I dont have the original records from the sale, its not clear what was said, and so it is 
possible that the information NatWest gave Mr M about PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But that, on its own, does not mean that the policy was necessarily mis-sold. Instead, 
the question is whether I think better information was likely to have changed Mr Ms mind. 
But as I explained above, it doesnt look like he was affected by any of the policys main 
exclusions or limitations, and the PPI could have really been useful for Mr M in case 
something went wrong. So I dont think better information about the PPI was likely to have 
put him off taking it out.
Lastly, Mr M made some comments about the commission on the PPI, and I understand why 
he brought this up. There are rules about the commission and profit share on PPI policies, 
but those rules only apply to agreements which started on or after 6 April 2007, or which 
were still running on 6 April 2008. Here, Mr Ms agreement started in 1996 and ended in 
2004, so the rules about commission and profit share dont apply in this case.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
8 July 2021. NatWest didnt have anything further to add. Mr M added some further 
comments, which Ill talk about below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M pointed out that weve found other PPI policies to have been mis-sold in the past, 
including a couple of his own  and I understand why he raised this. But different policies 
worked in different ways, were suitable in different circumstances, were sold using different 
methods at different times, were subject to different rules at different times, and so on. So 
while some policies were mis-sold, some were not. We look at each case on its individual 
merits, and our decisions do not set a precedent in the way Mr M has suggested.
I understand Mr M still feels that his policys commission rate should mean it was mis-sold. 
But as I explained in the provision decision, the rules around commission only apply in 
certain cases, and this is not one. Im afraid it is not a relevant consideration here.
Mr M also felt that because we couldnt be sure that NatWest had given him clear enough 
information, that meant the policy was mis-sold. But that is not necessarily the case. As 
I explained in the provisional decision, the question here is whether I think better information 
was likely to have put Mr M off taking out the PPI  and here I do not think it was likely to.
So having reconsidered the case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before  that I have 
not found this particular policy to have been mis-sold.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2021.
 Adam Charles
Ombudsman