DRN-1606169
The complaint
Mr M complains that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited acted unfairly and unreasonably by 
declining his claim under a private health insurance policy. He wants to be paid in full.
What happened
Mr M had a private health insurance policy with AXA. He said that he followed all the policy 
procedures with AXA PPP and following an emergency operation in March 2019, he 
submitted a claim for medical expenses for the extraction of a gall bladder due to acute 
cholecystitis (swelling/ inflammation of the gall bladder). Mr M said that his claim was 
declined initially on the basis this was a pre-existing medical condition excluded under the 
terms and conditions of the policy and hed had acute pancreatitis in April 2018.
Mr M was unhappy and complained to AXA. It said that cholecystitis was the most common 
cause of pancreatitis, and Mr Ms policy specifically excluded any underlying cause and 
conditions arising therefrom or associated therewith to pancreatitis. AXA went on to say that 
the effect of the exclusion was to exclude any underlying cause of pancreatitis, such as 
gallbladder difficulties. Mr M provided evidence that his treating doctor didnt think the 
removal of his gall bladder was connected to the pancreatitis and was due to alcohol intake.
Mr M complained to us. The investigators view was that the complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
He thought that the specific exclusion for anything relating to or associated with pancreatitis 
meant that it was fair and reasonable for Mr Ms claim to be declined.
Mr M disagreed. He said that it was only in the most loose terms acute cholecystitis was 
related to pancreatitis, and the previous bout didnt cause the March 2019 treatment. Mr M 
was also unhappy about the width of the exclusion. The investigator didnt change his view 
and said that acute cholecystitis is associated with pancreatitis, and it didnt matter how it 
was caused. The investigator also commented that insurers could decide what they would 
cover, as long as the exclusion was set out.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im going to focus on the core of this complaint, which is about the decline of Mr Ms claim. I 
note that hes later raised issues about an alleged delay in considering his claim or telling 
him about the impact of the key exclusion, but that wasnt raising in his original complaint 
and AXA has not had the opportunity to deal with the issue. I cant deal with this point within 
this complaint as a result. I would though comment Mr M needed emergency treatment so it 
wasnt an elective procedure.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that AXA has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. But insurers do have the 
right to say what they will and wont cover, and I note the exclusion was brought to Mr Ms 
attention in advance. I cant say that the exclusion is too wide.
Mr M had a fully medically underwritten policy  this means medical information was 
considered by AXA before it accepted him under the policy. It specifically excluded any claim 
relating to pancreatitis:
No benefit is payable for any investigations and treatment related to Pancreatitis any 
underlying cause and conditions arising therefrom or associated therewith
Ive had the benefit of seeing the medical evidence, but its important to understand that this 
exclusion is not the usual exclusion of a pre-existing medical condition. It specifically aims to 
exclude anything relating in any way to pancreatitis, whether or not it has arisen before. This 
means it doesnt matter whether theres any connection to the April 2018 bout of pancreatitis 
(and I accept that the treating doctor has said that theres no connection); the question is 
whether the hospital treatment and operation in March 2019 relates or is associated with 
pancreatitis.
The medical evidence available to me shows that the treating radiologist (after carrying out a 
laparoscopic procedure to see the affected area) thought Mr M had probable edematous 
inflammation of the pancreas. The hospital noted that Mr M was initially hospitalised for 
diverticulitis and acute pancreatitis. The treating doctors conclusion was that Mr M was 
suffering from acute lithiasic cholecystitis and acute biliary pancreatitis, requiring a 
laparoscopic cholecystectomy.
The NHS and other medical bodies confirm that gallstones and drinking too much alcohol 
are the two most common causes of pancreatitis; AXA received similar advice when 
considering Mr Ms claim. Mr M himself argues that his gall bladder operation was due to 
alcohol; the treating hospital notes seen by AXA when it made its decision says pancreatitis 
was involved, though it wasnt found to be the cause of the treatment. All that AXA needs to 
show to exclude the claim is that its more likely than not that pancreatitis was associated 
with the treatment; given the medical evidence, Im satisfied that its done so. Both 
gallstones and alcohol are common causes of pancreatitis, and the hospital itself referred to 
pancreatitis in its notes. I cant say that AXAs decision was unfair or unreasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 
29 September 2020.
 
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman