DRN-4182899
The complaint
C, a limited company complains about the way that Clydesdale Bank PLC, trading as Virgin 
Money (Virgin) handled its accounts.
C is represented in its complaint by a director, Mr K.
 What happened
Mr K outlined several concerns about Virgin. He says Virgin unfairly refused to open a client 
account, didnt have processes in place to open executor accounts and took too long to try 
and recover money paid to a third party.
Before this service became involved, Virgin sent C £225 to apologise for complaint handling 
delays, customer service failures dealing with calls and statements, applying charges 
incorrectly and not providing updates about recalling a payment made by C.
Some aspects of the complaint Mr K brought to this service relate to a different limited 
company to C, so these are being dealt with under a separate complaint. 
Having considered Cs complaint, the investigator thought Virgin had already offered and 
done enough to put things right. He explained that although Virgin shouldve dealt with Cs 
request to recall monies more quickly than it did, it wouldnt have affected the outcome.
The investigator told C that he hadnt investigated Virgins complaint handling as this wasnt 
a regulated activity. 
Mr K was very unhappy with the investigation outcome. In summary Mr K asked whether this 
service was turning a blind eye to regulatory breaches by Virgin when dealing with the 
complaint. Mr K says several executor accounts havent been opened and that each failure 
has led to financial loss and reputational damage.
Mr K says the compensation for Virgins failure to recall a payment mightve been fair had it 
not caused so much personal damage to him. Mr K says that because Virgin didnt promptly 
tell him it couldnt recall a payment, he lost the opportunity to find alternative representation. 
This led to a costs order against Mr K which he says couldve been avoided.
After considering Cs complaint, I issued a provisional decision on 12 May 2023, in which I 
said:
Im sorry to disappoint Mr K and C but I dont find Virgin needs to do more than it 
already has. However, as some of the reasons for reaching this conclusion havent 
been given before, Ive issued a provisional decision. This gives both parties the 
opportunity to respond before I make my final decision. 
As I said above, certain aspects of the complaint against Virgin relate to other 
businesses that Mr K is involved in. So, I need to decide what aspects I can and cant 
consider as part of Cs complaint against Virgin. To help me, we asked Virgin and Mr 
K for further clarification. 
Executor accounts
Im very grateful to Mr K for his recent explanation of the problems faced with the 
executor accounts. Mr K has also provided a copy of a grant of probate which is 
helpful. The grant of probate names Mr K personally as the executor. He confirms 
that this would usually be the case. 
Mr K says that when opening executor accounts with Virgin, he thought it had been 
done in his personal name as executor but instead, Virgin opened them as business 
accounts for which it applied a charge.
Virgin says that it only has one account which is held by C, for which Mr K is a card 
holder. Virgin doesnt have any record of other executor accounts in the name of C or 
Mr K. Under the Dispute Resolution rules that apply to this service  which can be 
found in the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook  I must consider who is eligible 
to bring a complaint. The only account Ive seen here is held in Cs name  which is a 
relationship that C has with Virgin, rather than one that Mr K has in his own personal 
capacity. So, I can only consider the issues here as they relate to Cs relationship 
with Virgin.
Based on what Mr K and Virgin have told me here, it seems to me that any problems 
Mr K faced trying to open executor accounts at Virgin likely relate to him personally 
rather than C. This means its likely that C isnt eligible to complain about the 
problems that Mr K says he encountered personally with the executor accounts. 
The situation is further complicated by the fact that in the case of executors  the 
eligible complainant would be the estate of the deceased person. An executor can 
bring a complaint on behalf of the estate if theyre authorised to do so, for example if 
there are problems opening an account and this leads to a loss by the estate. 
This means I dont require Virgin to pay more than it already has for this aspect of Cs 
complaint. But I can go on to consider issues that have arisen from Cs relationship 
with Virgin.
Payment recall
My understanding is that C sent a faster payment to a third party which it then asked 
Virgin to recall. Virgin didnt action the recall until C chased, by which time a few 
months had passed. Virgin then told C that it couldnt recall the payment as there 
was a dispute between C and the third party. Mr K says that because of the delay, he 
didnt have legal representation at a hearing. This led to a penalty and an award of 
costs against Mr K.
I agree that Virgin shouldve acted sooner than it did to deal with Cs recall request. 
But like the investigator, I dont think Virgin was wrong to say that the recall couldnt 
go ahead after the third party said there was a dispute with C. So, Virgins advice that 
C could try to recover the money through the small claims process was correct.
I take on board what Mr K says about the personal impact the delay had on him. 
However, I am considering a complaint by C. Mr K has confirmed that the judgment 
and costs were awarded against him personally. Even if Mr K used or intended to 
use Cs account to pay the judgment amount and costs, the loss is personal to Mr K. 
This means Ive not taken account of it when considering Cs complaint. Like the investigator, I consider Virgins apology and compensation payment were reasonable 
in the circumstances. 
Account fees
Virgin has already agreed that it shouldnt apply fees to the account it holds in the 
name of C. It has previously refunded the account fees and paid compensation to C. 
Virgin says it will continue to refund further fees if they are applied to the account. I 
consider this is a fair way to resolve this aspect of Cs complaint so I dont require it 
to do more than this. 
Personal upset to Mr K
I dont want to appear in any way insensitive to Mr K but my decision looks at the 
impact any mistakes have had on C which is its own legal entity. A limited company 
cant experience distress or suffering. Although Mr K, as director, says hes been 
personally affected, I cant award him compensation for any upset hes felt personally 
because of the rules that Ive already mentioned. 
Complaint handling
Virgins compensation payment of £225 included £50 for its delays in handling Cs 
complaint. Although I agree it wouldve been better if Virgin had dealt with Cs 
complaint more quickly, this service doesnt regulate or punish the businesses that 
we cover  that is the role of the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority.
Overall, I consider the compensation paid by Virgin adequately recognises the 
inconvenience caused to C by its customer service delays.
Further submissions
Virgin hasnt responded to my provisional decision. Mr K on behalf of C doesnt accept my 
provisional decision. 
In summary, Mr K thinks that Ive misrepresented the facts of Cs complaint by treating the 
issues separately and not recognising his link to the different legal entities. 
Mr K says its incorrect to say that Virgin only holds one account in the name of C and that its 
failure to open other accounts correctly is the subject of further complaints yet to be referred 
to this service.
Mr K says that the payment C tried to recall was made by C not himself personally. Mr K 
thinks that Ive been bias towards Virgin and that what Ive said is factually incorrect. Mr K 
points out that by failing to recall the payment in line with distance selling regulations, Virgin 
harmed the business of C and damaged clients. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Ks frustration with the way that this service has separated complaints but 
my role has been to consider Cs complaint, not that of Mr K or any of the other companies 
that Mr K is linked to.Although Mr K says that Virgin holds more than one account in the name of C, thats not 
what Virgin has told this service. I also note that Mr K has yet to refer further complaints 
about Virgins failure to open executor accounts to this service. So, if he or C refers these 
complaints, this service will be able to consider them at that time. 
Turning to the question of the payment recall - Mr K refers to distance selling regulations. I 
agree that the Consumer Contracts (Information, Cancellation and Additional Charges) 
Regulations 2013 give consumers certain rights to cancel services that are made remotely. If 
Mr K thinks there has been a breach of these regulations, he would have to take his 
concerns up with the trader whose services he wanted to cancel, rather than Virgin. 
Particularly as there are complex issues over when and how the regulations will apply 
including whether the individual consumer involved was acting for purposes outside their 
trade, business, craft, or profession. 
Ive not set out everything that Mr K has said in response to my provisional decision as it 
involves third parties and information which could potentially identify C or Mr K. However, I 
want to reassure Mr K that Ive considered everything he has said and that it doesnt change 
my decision not to uphold Cs complaint. 
I also think that some of the arguments that Mr K makes about the knock on effect of his 
failure to have legal representation at the hearing, would be better suited to the courts. I say 
this as the arguments are likely to involve multiple parties, questions of causation, liability, 
mitigation, and consequential loss which I dont think I can decide as part of Cs complaint. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr K but for the reasons set out in my provisional decision and those 
that Ive outlined above, I dont uphold Cs complaint in the sense that I consider Virgin has 
already done enough to put things right. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 July 2023.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman