DRN-4309000
The complaint
Mr T complains that a car acquired with finance from First Response Finance Ltd (FR) 
wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In February 2022 Mr T was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement 
with FR. At the point of supply the car was around 7 years old and had covered around 
118,450 miles.
In or around February 2023 the car broke down, Mr T reported this to FR and they advised 
him to obtain a diagnostic report.
In March 2023 Mr T took the car to a garage who diagnosed issues with the ECU and other 
components in the engine.
FR contacted the garage to obtain further information. The garage said there had been an 
engine manipulation/override, but it couldnt confirm when this had been done or whether 
any of the current issues with the car wouldve been present at the point of supply.
Based on the diagnostic report and the information provided by the garage, FR didnt uphold 
Mr Ts complaint.
Mr T remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said there wasnt enough evidence to show 
that the fault with the car was present or developing at the point of supply, or that there had 
been a misrepresentation about the car at the point of supply.
Mr T didnt agree. He said he wouldnt have purchased the car if hed known there had been 
an engine manipulation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. This says that goods must be of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as 
the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. The legislation says that the quality of 
goods includes their general state and condition, as well as things like fitness for purpose, 
appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety and durability.
The car supplied to Mr T was around 7 years old and had covered around 118,450 miles. So 
its reasonable to expect that the car would already have a degree of wear and tear and that 
it would require repairs and maintenance sooner than a brand new car. 
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault occurs with a car in the first 6 months of 
the point of supply, its assumed that the fault was present at the point of supply and its 
generally up to the business to put things right. 
Where a fault occurs outside of the first 6 months of the point of supply, the burden of proof 
is reversed and its up to the consumer to show that the fault was present or developing at 
the point of supply.
Ive reviewed the available evidence about the issues which Mr T experienced with the car. 
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that the car had a fault. I say this because the report 
provided by the garage states that there is fuel in the engine wiring loom due to the fuel 
temperature sensor failing and contaminating the ECU and other components in the engine 
bay. The report also states that the swirl flaps are worn in the inlet manifold.
Ive gone on to consider whether the car was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied.
As Ive already said, where a fault occurs outside of the first 6 months of the point of supply, 
its up to Mr T to show that the fault was present or developing at the point of supply.
The diagnostic report from the garage doesnt give any indication of whether the fault was 
likely to have been present or developing at the point of supply. And when FR asked the 
garage to comment on this, the garage said it wasnt able to say whether the faults wouldve 
been present at the point of supply.
Mr T got the car in February 2022. By the time the fault was diagnosed, hed driven the car 
for a year and had covered around 6000 miles. If there had been a fault with the car at the 
point of supply, I think its likely that Mr T wouldve experienced issues with the car much 
sooner than he did. Taking into account the time elapsed and the mileage covered before 
the fault occurred, I dont think its likely that the faults were present at the point of supply.
The legislation places the burden of proof on Mr T in these circumstances. He needs to 
provide evidence to show that the faults with the car were present or developing at the point 
of supply. I havent seen any evidence which suggests that the faults were present at the 
point of supply. So Im unable to say that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of 
supply.
Mr T has said that he wouldnt have purchased the car if hed known that there had been an 
engine manipulation.
Theres no dispute that theres been an engine manipulation. This is evidenced by the report 
from the garage. However, the report doesnt say when the engine manipulation was carried 
out, nor does it link the engine manipulation to the current faults with the car.
Mr T has said that he hasnt done anything to the engine. Hes asserted that the engine 
manipulation had already taken place at the point when he acquired the car.
I dont have any evidence to say when the engine manipulation was carried out. Ive 
considered whether theres been a misrepresentation about the car here. But Im not 
persuaded that there has been. Ill explain why.
A misrepresentation is an untrue statement of fact which induces a consumer to enter into a 
contract. Here, theres no evidence that an untrue statement was made to Mr T. the 
supplying dealer didnt say to Mr T that there hadnt been an engine manipulation. Even if 
the supplying dealer had said this, theres no evidence that the statement induced Mr T to 
enter into the agreement.Taking all the available information into account, Im not persuaded that theres enough 
evidence to say that theres been a misrepresentation.
For the reasons Ive given, Im unable to uphold the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman