DRN-2947493
complaint 
Mr Bs complaint is about payment protection insurance (PPI) which was sold to him by Bank 
of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax. 
For consistency, Ill refer mainly to Halifax.
The crux of Mr Bs complaint is that although Halifax conceded the PPI was mis-sold to him 
and that redress was due, it paid the redress to the Official Receiver in his case. This was 
because Mr B had previously been the subject of bankruptcy proceedings. 
To be clear, Im referring to the credit card account ending 0295 and its associated linked 
numbers for the same account.
background 
Halifax wrote to Mr B in 2020 saying it had identified that he was made bankrupt in April 
2003 and that any PPI redress was rightfully an asset in his bankruptcy. It said the right to 
claim the PPI redress automatically transferred to his trustee on the date he was made 
bankrupt. Halifax said the redress owed had therefore been paid to the Official Receiver in 
his case.
Mr B complained about this and one of our adjudicators looked at the circumstances of the 
case. And after investigating, they found that Halifax was right to pay the redress in this way.
Mr B disagreed and still thinks he should have been paid the money directly, so the 
complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
my findings 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. When considering what is fair and 
reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators 
rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to 
have been good industry practice at the time. 
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
I note the Official Receiver in this case has declared an interest in this matter and joined the 
complaint. There is no dispute between the parties that the redress was properly owed or 
that it has been paid to the Official Receiver. However, Mr B says that because his 
bankruptcy was discharged in April 2005, he should have the PPI redress money thats due.
Halifax, on the other hand, sent us evidence which shows the PPI was taken out by Mr B 
pre-dates the above bankruptcy date. I should therefore make it very clear, as our 
adjudicator has done before me, that this approach is within the rules. PPI is an insurance 
contract generally taken out with a loan or credit card. The law states that this contract is an 
asset in the bankruptcy, as is the right to complain if it was mis-sold. The bankruptcy trustee 
has the right to claim compensation for a PPI contract signed before the date of the 
bankruptcy.
In this case, Halifax agrees it mis-sold the PPI. And so it owed Mr B compensation when he 
entered into the bankruptcy. So, the PPI costs formed part of his assets. Given this, I dont 
think it was unfair for Halifax to pay Mr Bs Official Receiver. Put another way, if a consumer 
was mis-sold a PPI policy before being made bankrupt - whether they are still in bankruptcy 
or whether it has been discharged - the bankruptcy affects any PPI redress owed.
I have read everything Mr B has sent us with great care and I fully understand the points 
hes made. 
However, I am very sorry to disappoint Mr B, but for the reasons Ive set out above, it was 
fair for Bank of Scotland plc to pay the redress it offered, for mis-selling Mr B a PPI policy, to 
the Official Receiver. 
my final decision 
I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
I do not require Bank of Scotland plc to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2022.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman