DRN-4058535
The complaint
Mrs T complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) did not honour her £1 
repayment plan and passed her account on to third-parties.  
What happened
In summary, Mrs T requested that NatWest honour the agreement made in February 2015 
for her to pay £1 per month towards the overdraft debt that accrued on an account jointly 
held with her husband, Mr T. As Mr T was made insolvent, the debt was passed to Mrs T. 
Mrs T was unhappy that NatWest passed the debt on to three separate third-party 
companies since 2015 and that NatWest and the third-party companies continued to chase 
her about the debt. 
NatWest clarified that the initial sale to a third-party company Ill call W was done so in 
error, and that it had paid Mrs T £1,150 compensation in recognition of this, and also 
refunded backdated charges. Following this, it had brought the account back in house and 
removed any adverse information from Mrs Ts credit file. 
In its final response letter, NatWest said that the later instances of Mrs Ts account being 
passed to third parties had been done so correctly and in line with the terms and conditions 
of the account. In its summary to our service, it explained that the £1 repayment plan was 
not agreed indefinitely and such repayment plans are normally reviewed every twelve 
months. 
Mrs T referred her complaint to our service with Mr T as her representative. Our Investigator 
looked into the case and clarified that we would not specifically be looking at the 2015 
complaint relating to the account being passed onto W. 
The Investigator felt it was reasonable that Mrs Ts repayment agreement was regularly 
reviewed to ensure it remained suitable for all parties involved. And they could see no 
evidence that NatWest agreed to accept £1 per month forever with no possibility of the plan 
being reviewed at a later date. They also felt that while it was reasonable that NatWest 
passed the debt to a third party in line with the terms and conditions of the account, they 
didnt agree that passing it to one third party for just two months in July 2019, then bringing it 
back in house for six months before passing it onto another third-party was in the best 
interest of Mrs T. So, they felt NatWest should pay Mrs T £200 compensation in recognition 
of this.
NatWest disagreed with this in principle and maintained that it was their commercial decision 
to pass on the account to a third party. However, in an effort to resolve the complaint, they 
accepted the recommendation of £200 compensation. 
Mr T, on behalf of Mrs T, disagreed with the recommendation and the view as a whole. He 
did not agree that the £1 repayment plan should be reviewed annually and said NatWest had 
agreed that the repayment plan would be in place for life. He asked for proof that this had 
not been agreed. Mr T said that as NatWest had paid compensation to Mrs T in 2015 in 
recognition that they should not have passed the account to a third party, this means they 
accept they would not pass the account on in future. Finally, he said that Mrs T continued to 
be chased for the debt and the £200 offered was a low amount compared to the £1,150 
previously paid.
As an informal agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the Investigator for largely the same reasons, and I think the 
£200 recommended is a fair way to resolve the complaint. Ill explain why in more detail. 
I want to start by explaining that I wont be commenting on the merits of the 2015 complaint 
Mr and Mrs T raised about the account being passed to W. However, I want to assure them 
that I have considered it when gaining an understanding of the background of their 
complaint. 
Mrs T has said that the £1 repayment plan was agreed for the life of the account and it would 
not be subject to review. And Mr T has asked for evidence showing this was not agreed. It 
should be explained that where it isnt possible for me to know exactly what happened, I 
have to consider everything available to me to decide what I think is more likely in the 
circumstances. 
In doing so, I have considered the notes made by NatWest at the time the £1 repayment 
plan was agreed. Looking at these, there is no mention of the plan being in place indefinitely 
or that it will not be reviewed in the future. In addition, Ive considered NatWests letter dated 
14 April 2016 that was in relation to the previous complaint. This mentions that the account 
had been brought back in house with NatWest and that a new 12- month agreement had 
been put in place. I think the fact they mention a new 12-month agreement means its more 
likely the previous agreement made in 2015 was also set up as a 12-month one and was not 
indefinite. Finally, Ive considered that in my experience dealing with banking complaints, it is 
normal for a repayment plan to generally be reviewed periodically, normally at a maximum of 
12-months, and it would be highly unusual for a plan to be put in place indefinitely. 
In summary, I think its more likely the plan was set up to be reviewed annually, and I also 
consider this to be reasonable to ensure it remains suitable for all parties. Because of this, I 
dont think NatWest has acted unreasonably when it has contacted Mrs T when these plans 
have expired, or a review needed to occur. And it has sent me sample copies of the 
correspondence it sent Mr and Mrs T over the years to this effect. 
Mr T has said that because NatWest upheld Mrs Ts previous complaint about the account 
being passed to W, this means it should not have passed the account on in 2019 and 2020. 
However, I disagree with this logic. The complaint made in 2015 was a standalone issue that 
came from an internal error on NatWests side that can be evidenced by their internal 
collection notes on the system. But it does not therefore follow that NatWest was unable to 
reasonably pass on the debt at a later date if it was suitable. And the terms and conditions of the account allow for this. 
The terms and conditions state: We may transfer our rights or responsibilities under this 
agreement to another person or organisation in the future. Well only do this if we reasonably 
believe that youll be treated to a similar standard after the transfer as we treated you 
beforehand.
Considering this, I think NatWest has acted fairly and reasonably when it made the decision 
to pass on Mrs Ts account to a third-party. While I accept Mrs T was maintaining the 
monthly £1 payment, there was still over £7,000 left to repay. And while it is accepted this is 
all Mrs T was able to repay at the time, this is not a long-term repayment plan that would 
reasonably repay the debt. So, it was therefore reasonable that NatWest passed the account 
to a third-party rather than keep it in house. 
Having said this, I do accept the Investigators finding that, considering Mrs Ts customer 
journey with NatWest, it was not in her best interest to pass the account to a third-party for 
just two months before bringing it back in house for six months and then passing it onto 
another third party. While I appreciate Mr Ts comments that the £200 recommended is low 
compared to the £1,150 compensation paid for the previous complaint, as I mentioned 
before I am not considering the merits of that complaint. Instead, I have considered the 
specific circumstances of the 2019/2020 collections activity of NatWest and having done so, 
I agree that £200 is in line with what I would have recommended in the circumstances. 
In summary, I have seen nothing to suggest the £1 repayment plan was agreed indefinitely 
and I think its more likely it was due to be reviewed annually. I think it is reasonable that 
NatWest passed the account on to a third-party company, but I agree the quick changes 
made in 2019 and 2020 would have been distressing for Mrs T so NatWest should pay her 
£200 compensation to reflect this. And I think it was reasonable that NatWest continued to 
contact Mrs T about the debt even though she was maintaining the £1 per month payments. 
As NatWest passed the account on in 2020, any collections activity from that point onwards 
is not the responsibility of NatWest 
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Ts complaint in part and direct National Westminster Bank Plc to pay Mrs T 
£200 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2023. 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman