DRN-2728350
The complaint
Mr L complains that One Call Insurance Services Limited (One Call) cancelled his car
insurance renewal without notice at the time or afterwards.
Any reference to One Call includes its agents.
What happened
Mr L had a car insurance policy with One Call. One Call wrote to Mr L at the beginning of
April 2020, approximately three weeks before his policy was due to finish. They told Mr L
that his insurance would automatically renew on 23 April 2020.
Mr L contacted One Call shortly afterwards to let them know hed like a discount on the
renewal quote. A renewal figure of £250.14 was agreed between One Call and Mr L.
Mr L heard nothing more from One Call and says he assumed the policy had been renewed.
In July 2020 Mr L was stopped by the police. He later received a prosecution letter with a
court date for having no insurance, along with the threat of a £300 fine and 6 points added to
his license.
Mr L complained to One Call as he said he was unaware that hed been driving without
insurance. One Call explained that theyd tried to take payment for the policy renewal with
the card details held on file but were unsuccessful. They also said they were unsuccessful in
contacting Mr L to let him know his policy renewal had been cancelled and that he had no
insurance. One Call said it was Mr Ls responsibility to ensure payments were made, but
offered him £75 as an apology for no email being sent to notify him that the policy hadnt
renewed.
Mr L remained unhappy and referred his complaint to our service for an independent review.
Our investigator upheld the complaint and recommended that One Call increase their offer to
£200 and provide Mr L with a letter of indemnity. She also said that if the letter wasnt
successful in Mr L having the penalty points and £300 fine removed, they should pay any
fine Mr L received and 8% interest. She also recommended that One Call ask the
underwriter of the policy to remove any record of the policy being cancelled from the
insurance database and cover any premium increases because of the penalty points for the
next 5 years.
One Call didnt accept the investigators assessment so the complaint was passed to me for 
a decision. Mr L provided further evidence after I asked for clarification on what the situation 
was with the prosecution which followed him being stopped by the police.
I provisionally considered the complaint and sent both parties a copy of my provisional 
decision with my intended findings. A copy of my findings has been included below. 
Mr L responded to say hed received the provisional decision. One Call didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive included the findings from the provisional decision below as they form part of my final 
decision:
Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks
more likely than not to have happened in light of the evidence.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
Having done so, I have to tell Mr L and One Call that although I currently intend to uphold
this complaint, Ive reached a slightly different outcome to the investigator - in light of the
new evidence which Mr L has provided very recently. Ill explain why below.
When coming to my decision, the key findings I need to make are:
Did One Call act inline with the policy terms when not renewing the policy? And;
Have One Call treated Mr L fairly and reasonably overall?
In my opinion, its not in dispute that Mr L wanted the policy to renew. If he didnt he could
have ignored the renewal letter. Mr L responded to the renewal letter to seek a better quote
and was successful in getting a slight discount. I interpret this as a positive and proactive
move by Mr L.
I find, based on the communication between One Call and Mr L, it wasnt unreasonable that
Mr L expected the policy to renew as planned. I say this because the One Call adviser told
Mr L:
I have set this back up on an automatic renewal for you now the payment will come
from the card we hold on file for you on the 20th of April
This was an opportunity for the adviser to either remind Mr L about the previous message
about his card or to check the card was still valid. In the renewal letter One Call stated on
page 3 of 5:
Please ensure the payment details on file are correct and sufficient funds are
available as your policy will not renew if this payment fails.
Mr L has since told our service that he didnt have any issues with other payments being
made or taken on the card in question.
I note One Calls point about Mr L not receiving paperwork, such as a policy schedule
around the time of renewal. Theyve suggested he shouldve been reasonably aware that
something wasnt quite right. But equally, it can be argued that if there was no reason for
Mr L to think that the policy hadnt renewed as planned, he may not have passed much
notice on not receiving further paperwork. So, I dont think the onus was solely on Mr L to
contact One Call when he didnt hear anything from them after being told the policy renewal
would be going ahead. I consider his actions reasonable.
Ive also considered the actions taken by One Call when they were unable to take payment.
Their records suggest that when payment was unable to be taken they didnt try to takepayment again. This isnt inline with the relevant policy terms:
Debt Recovery
If for any reason, you default on a payment (instalment or account balance after
cancellation) or any other non-payment of a balance to a member of the One Call
Group, and after several reminders you do not pay the debt, we will exercise any
Continuous Payment Authority. If the payment is still not recovered, we will then refer
the matter to our debt recovery department. You will have to pay, as well as the debt,
a fee of £25.00 once the first letter has been sent to you.
Our investigator previously referred to a different term, but I consider it more applicable to
direct debit payments rather than the one-off card payment that Mr L had intended to make
at renewal.
One Calls records show that when payment failed, they called Mr L but couldnt get through
or leave a message and, as no mobile number was held on file, a reminder wasnt sent and
they cant locate any automated email that shouldve been sent. Mr L has confirmed his
landline number does have a voicemail function. In any case, as One Call did hold a valid
email address and postal address, they havent made a reasonable effort to contact Mr L to
let him know about the non-payment. I find that One Call havent treated Mr L fairly and
reasonably here.
As Ive concluded that things didnt happen as they should have, Ive then considered what
the impact has been on Mr L. If things had gone according to what One Call and Mr L had
agreed, payment wouldve been taken and the later issues of him being stopped for not
having insurance likely wouldnt have happened. Therefore, its my opinion that Mr L has lost
out because of One Call not making a sufficient effort to let him know about the policy not
renewing.
However, as Mr L has very recently provided new evidence which suggests that, although he
was prosecuted, he was successful in his defence. This resulted in no £300 fine or penalty
points being issued to him. Im pleased to hear this update and it means the detriment to
Mr L wasnt as great as first thought.
Although I do agree with One Call that had Mr L made them aware of the penalty points and
fine they couldve helped sooner, this doesnt negate that they didnt do enough to contact
Mr L when the renewal was unsuccessful - before cancelling the policy and therefore
preventing the later issues.
Specifically in response to our investigators assessment, One Call stated that their existing
offer of £75 was adequate and that it was the responsibility of the consumer to ensure they
check their documentation.. But there was no documentation to check because One Call
never renewed the policy or sent any paperwork. So I disagree with their points for all the
reasons Ive outlined above.
Often when this type of scenario occurs (where a customer isnt notified that theyre not
actually insured by the insurer) the customer will refer to hypothetical scenarios such as: I
couldve been involved in a serious accident or I couldve been stopped by police and the
consequences couldve been much greater. But here I can safely say were not dealing with
hypothetical scenarios and there has actually been detriment caused to Mr L by One Calls
failing.
Therefore, my current intended direction is:
One Call should, if it hasnt already done so, ensure that any policy cancelation iscorrected and not recorded on Mr Ls record and any relevant insurance databases
where its recorded - including the Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE). This is
to ensure there are no adverse effects for Mr L moving forward; and
One Call should pay Mr L an additional £125 for trouble and upset caused. This is in
addition to their existing offer of £75 in the final response letter. So, a total of £200.
This is to compensate Mr L for the inconvenience, stress and uncertainty that their
error caused him until he mounted a successful defence to his prosecution for driving
without insurance.
As Mr L appears to have successfully defended the prosecution against him, our
investigators recommendation that One Call cover any increase in premiums for the next
five years (when the penalty points may still have been on his record) is irrelevant, as is
providing Mr L with a letter of indemnity.
As no new evidence has been provided by either party, I see no reason to deviate from the 
provisional outcome Id reached. 
Putting things right
One Call should, if it hasnt already done so, ensure that any policy cancelation is
corrected and not recorded on Mr Ls record and any relevant insurance databases
where its recorded - including the Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE). This is
to ensure there are no adverse effects for Mr L moving forward; and
One Call should pay Mr L an additional £125 for trouble and upset caused. This is in
addition to their existing offer of £75 in the final response letter. So, a total of £200.
This is to compensate Mr L for the inconvenience, stress and uncertainty that their
error caused him until he mounted a successful defence to his prosecution for driving
without insurance. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ls complaint against One Call Insurance Services 
Limited. I direct One Call Insurance Services Limited to follow what Ive set out under the 
heading Putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman