DRN-1341160
 
The complaint
Mr L complains about the way Barclays Bank UK PLC handled a cheque payment from his 
current account. 
What happened
Mr L paid for some work carried out at his house by cheque. The cheque was for over 
£16,000. When it was presented for payment, Barclays sought to contact Mr L to authorise 
the payment.
For very understandable reasons, Mr L didn't wish to discuss the matter over the phone at 
the time. And although he rang Barclays back soon afterwards, the upshot was that 
the cheque wasn't paid.
During that call, Barclays misled Mr L. They told him the cheque was going through and that 
the previous call may have been a scam. Neither was true.
The cheque was presented for payment again a few days later. Again, Barclays called Mr L 
to authorise the payment. Again he didn't wish to continue with the call and the process. He 
was told the cheque would again not be paid. Barclays also gave Mr L the impression the 
fault lay with the tradesman who was trying to cash the cheque.
Mr L arranged to pay the tradesman by other means. Only to find that the cheque had in fact 
been paid due to what Barclays have described as a system error.
When Mr L complained, Barclays apologised to Mr L, explained the cheque had been paid in 
error and admitted they'd misinformed him. They offered Mr L £250 compensation for his 
trouble and upset.
Mr L wasn't happy with this outcome and complained to us. Our investigator looked into it 
and thought Barclays hadn't offered enough compensation. She thought £500 would be 
more appropriate given the nature and extent of Barclays' failings.
Mr L disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. He says Barclays errors 
were shocking, made him feel he wasn't able to control his own money and caused him a 
high level of frustration, stress and embarrassment. He's also concerned about the effect 
this incident will have on his reputation given the delayed payment to the tradesman. 
Mr L has closed his accounts with Barclays as a result of these events. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.There's no dispute about the facts in this case. Barclays misled Mr L on a number of 
occasions. And their system error caused the cheque to be paid when it shouldn't have 
been.
Mr L was put to a great deal of trouble in trying to resolve the matter. And I completely 
understand his concern about being seen to have let the tradesman down when the cheque 
wasn't at first paid.
I don't intend to go into detail about every conversation Mr L had with Barclays or exactly 
what was said by who to whom. That's not necessary. Everyone agrees Mr L was 
misinformed more than once about what was happening with his cheque payment and that 
the misinformation was serious. 
Everyone also agrees the cheque was paid due to an error - and contrary to what Mr L was 
told.
Putting things right
So, all that remains for me in this decision is to determine what level of compensation is 
appropriate in all the circumstances. 
In doing so, I have to look at the impact Barclays errors had on Mr L. In the end, Mr L didn't 
suffer any financial or other loss, although he had to go to some trouble to ensure he hadn't 
paid the tradesman twice.
I can also understand that he suffered a fair degree of stress and frustration at Barclays 
errors - and their misinformation. Against that, I have to bear in mind that any worry Mr L 
might have had about control of his money and/or whether the tradesman would get paid (or 
paid twice) wasn't of any great duration. The matter was resolved within a few days - albeit 
only after Barclays had made a significant error in paying the cheque on the second 
occasion it was presented.
I agree with our investigator that the £250 originally offered by Barclays wasn't enough given 
the compound errors, the amount of money involved and sheer frustration Mr L would have 
experienced when trying to find out from Barclays what had happened.
However, I also agree that £500 would be fair and reasonable compensation in this case 
bearing in mind all the circumstances. This award is at the bottom end of the scale we set 
out on our website to cover 'substantial' compensation. 
I think it's appropriate we make a substantial award given the degree of frustration, stress 
and embarrassment Mr L experienced due to Barclays' errors. 
Mr L thinks we should make an award of £2,000 for what we would call "severe" trouble and 
upset. I'm afraid I don't agree. I understand Mr L's strength of feeling about this but although 
the impact on Mr L was quite high at the time, there was no lasting loss or long term effect 
on him.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr L's complaint.
Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay him £500 for his trouble and upset.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2020.
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman