DRN-3599797
The complaint
Mr B has complained about his car insurer Skyfire Insurance Company Limited because it 
has declined his claim for his stolen car.
What happened
Mr B found his car was missing on 12 January 2021. When he spoke to Skyfire he told it he 
had last used the car on a round trip of about a mile on the night of 11 January 2021, before 
parking up on his drive at 22.45. He said his father had seen the car, still on the drive, 
around 03.00. But the next day it was gone. Mr B sent his registration document to Skyfire 
along with the key he had for the car.
In May 2021 Mr B knew Skyfire had some concerns about the claim and was still considering 
it. He heard nothing more until September 2021. At that time Skyfire wrote to Mr B. It said 
there were discrepancies on the claim (which it had discussed with Mr B) and this meant it 
couldnt settle the claim. It confirmed it had marked the claim as notification only and 
backdated the policy cancellation, effected by Mr B in May 2021, to the loss date, also 
providing a refund of premiums. Skyfire accepted that it had provided poor service to Mr B 
between May and September 2021 and offered £75 compensation. Mr B complained to us.
Our investigator asked Mr B if he could explain the discrepancy that concerned Skyfire. Mr B 
could not. Mr B said he was honest and there was no reason for Skyfire to decline his claim.
Our Investigator considered the technical evidence Skyfire had received about Mr Bs key. 
He felt this, set against the report of the theft put forwards by Mr B, gave Skyfire good 
reason to be concerned about the claim. He felt Skyfire had acted fairly and reasonably.
Mr B remained unhappy. He detailed what had happened again, what he had lost, and why 
he felt Skyfire should accept the claim. He also said that one of Skyfires investigators had 
made racist and mocking remarks to him. His complaint was passed for an Ombudsmans 
consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and with regret for the upset I know this will cause Mr B, I think Skyfire has 
acted fairly and reasonably on this occasion. Ive explained my views on this below.
A policyholder, when making a claim, only has to show, on the face of it, that something has 
happened that might be covered by the policy. Here Mr B did that as he reported that his car 
was missing and he reported the same to the Police. But that didnt mean Skyfire then had to 
accept that and settle the claim.
Rather the ball, so to speak, then passed to Skyfire. And it was up to Skyfire to validate the 
claim and if, it wanted to, show that it was not liable for it for some reason. That might have 
been due to a breach in policy terms. Or could even just be by it showing that the theft, as 
reported, couldnt have happened in that way. If Skyfire shows that the theft hadnt 
happened as reported then that means that Mr B hasnt shown that on the face of it he has 
a claim.  
Mr B told Skyfire that he last drove the car for a distance of about a mile and parked on the 
drive before 11pm. Also that he had the key that he later gave Skyfire in his possession and 
he didnt use the key or the car again. But Skyfire was able to retrieve data from the key. 
This showed that the time and date of the car was re-set and the car then drove eight miles 
around midnight on 12 January 2021  after Mr B said he used it for the last time. Mr B 
wasnt able to explain the time and date reset  so seemingly he had not done that himself 
before or when parking up. And his last journey on 11 January 2021 was only a mile. I know 
Mr B thinks this evidences that thieves used the coding of his key to steal the car  but a 
theft like that wouldnt explain how the key Mr B had with him at home recorded an eight mile 
journey. So far as Im aware the key would have had to have had detail sent back to it from 
the car once the eight miles had been completed. And Im not sure that generally happens 
as part of a relay theft, or that it could have happened here, where the car and the key seem 
to have ended up far apart.     
I know Mr B is frustrated as he has said he is making an honest claim and he doesnt have 
an answer for how or why his key showed what it did. I can understand that frustration. But 
I cant ignore the key report which has been completed by a key expert. And, having 
considered that, I can see, from Skyfires point of view, that it is unlikely that the theft 
occurred in the way reported. I think it was reasonable, on this occasion, for Skyfire to feel 
that the discrepancy meant it could fairly decline the claim. 
I think Skyfire could have reached its decision more quickly, keeping Mr B up to date in the 
meantime. However, a decision like this can have severe consequences for a policyholder 
so I can understand that Skyfire took a while to consider things. I note it has accepted it 
should have acted sooner, and or kept Mr B up to date. Its offered £75 for the upset it has 
caused. I think thats fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
I can see that Mr B would be concerned if he was spoken to improperly by one of Skyfires 
investigators. But this complaint is not recorded on Skyfires file and the final response 
issued in respect of the complaint Mr B had made about delays considered poor service in 
respect of limited communication, not inappropriate comments. Also Mr B did not detail on 
his complaint form to the Financial Ombudsman that this had happened and he was 
unhappy about it. So that all means that I cant consider that concern of Mr Bs as part of this 
complaint. If Mr B is still unhappy about it, which Id understand, he can complain to Skyfire 
and give it a chance to investigate the concern before responding to it. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Skyfire Insurance Company 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2022.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman