DRN-2064816
The complaint
Mr M complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc ('Co-op') did not credit £200 to his account 
which he says he deposited in a local branch.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide a brief 
overview here. In October 2019 Mr M says he visited his local Co-op branch to deposit a 
cheque and £200 cash into his savings account. He found a penny on the branch floor which 
he also asked the cashier to pay into his account. Several months later Mr M noticed the 
cheque and penny had credited his account, but the £200 cash deposit was not showing on 
his statement. He raised this with the branch - who were unable to trace the £200 Mr M says 
he paid into his account. 
Unhappy with Co-ops response Mr M brought his complaint to this service and one of our 
investigators looked into things. She didnt think that Mr Ms complaint should be upheld as 
she hadnt seen any evidence a mistake or any wrongdoing was committed by the branch 
staff. Mr M disagreed, he is adamant he gave the cashier £200 and asked for an 
ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so Im afraid I agree with the 
outcome reached by our investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
I know Mr M will be disappointed, but I hope he can understand in situations like these, 
where I wasnt present at the time the events took place or when it's one of the parties word 
against the other  I cant know for certain what has happened. So where evidence is 
incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I need to decide a complaint on what I think is 
more likely than not to have happened in light of all the available evidence and the wider 
surrounding circumstances. Im afraid it would not be reasonable, nor fair of me to uphold 
this complaint based solely on Mr Ms testimony if on balance the evidence suggests 
otherwise.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, Id like to assure Mr M its not because Ive 
failed to take it on board and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it 
to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Mr M's testimony is that he deposited a cheque, £200 in cash and a penny he'd found on the 
branch floor into his account. The branch journal shows that Mr M was provided separate 
receipts for both the cheque and the penny deposit. Mr M shared these with Co-op when he 
raised his concerns about the missing money. But he didn't have a receipt for the £200 cash 
deposit, which would have been provided if the cash had been paid in. Mr M says he asked 
several times for a receipt for the £200 deposit but was told the printer had broken. I dont doubt that Mr M is a truthful person, and he believes he has provided an honest 
recollection of events. I can understand that it must be very upsetting for him to think that 
hes paid money into his account which wasnt credited to it. But I note he did not raise his 
concerns about the missing money till several months after the event. So, its quite possible 
Mr M is mistaken in his recollection of what happened. 
Co-op says no cash error was recorded for that day, there were no known printer issues, no 
cash unaccounted for and it had checked other transactions on the day to make sure £200 
hadnt been paid into another customers account by mistake. It has provided this service 
with the terms and conditions of Mr M's account, his bank statements since account 
opening, the branch journal for the day, the cashiers cash balancing record and a statement, 
of the branchs version of events. I also note having reviewed these that except for the 
penny deposit Mr M has never paid cash into this account. So whilst Mr M thinks he 
deposited £200, taking into consideration all the above I find it more likely that hes mistaken, 
and he actually only deposited the penny he found in cash and the cheque into his account 
on that day. 
As Mr M had told us that he believes the cashier stole the money, our investigator did 
ask Co-op whether any similar allegations have been made, either against the cashier or the 
branch in general. Co-op said the cashier, for a number of years, has not had any cash 
inaccuracies nor has the branch received any complaints of this nature. But theft is a serious 
allegation and I hope Mr M understands that it wouldnt be reasonable for me to uphold his 
complaint based solely on what hes told us. Notwithstanding, an allegation, of this nature is 
considered criminal and is a matter for the police. As our investigator explained it isnt our 
services role to investigate crime.
I know Mr M believes if CCTV evidence had been reviewed it wouldve confirmed exactly 
what happened but unfortunately, CCTV is generally only kept for a limited time and by the 
time Mr M reported this matter to Co-op - many months later, its most likely that it wasnt 
available. Additionally, CCTV evidence even where available doesnt always help to resolve 
matters. And for these reasons it wouldn't be fair of me to speculate on what it may or may 
not have shown. I have to base my decision on the available evidence.
With that being said, here, taking all the available information into account, given the length 
of time between the event and when Mr M reported the matter, the fact that he hasnt been 
able to provide proof of deposit, he'd never deposited cash into his account prior to the 
penny and that there is nothing on the member of staff who served Mr M that days record 
which would call into question their honesty and integrity I think its more likely Mr M was 
mistaken that hed taken money to the branch to pay in. So, for these reasons, I cant fairly 
and reasonably uphold his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ms complaint about 
The Co-operative Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2020.
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman