DRN-2312940
The complaint
Miss L is unhappy with the service provided by Savvy Claims Ltd when dealing with her 
payday loan claims.
What happened
In April 2019 Miss L instructed Savvy Claims to deal with potential payday loan claims 
against various lenders. Miss Ls complaint primarily concerns lender Q.
Miss L signed a letter of Authority (LOA) for Savvy Claims to act on her behalf in pursuit of 
payday loan claims against lender Q on 18 April 2019. The ID number on the LOA ended in 
4KVG. Miss L was sent a welcome pack on the same day saying We do work on a No-Win, 
No Fee basis, you will only pay us if your claim is successful and you will never be charged 
more than 35% + VAT on any refund you receive.
On 11 June Savvy Claims sent Miss L a text message including the ID number on the LOA 
ended in 4KVG. The text message said An offer has been received in the sum of 
£1,641.80. The text message provided a further breakdown as follows:
Defendant Offer £1641.80
Write-Off £644.30
Cash in Hand £907.88
Savvy Claims fee £689.55
Your refund due after all deductions is £218.33
Please reply ACCEPT to accept the offer.
Miss L responded accepting the offer. Miss L didnt hear anything more from Savvy Claims. 
She tried to contact them continuously from July- October. She raised a complaint with 
Savvy Claims about their lack of communication with her. Savvy Claims didnt respond to 
Miss Ls complaint, and so Miss L referred her complaint to the Claims Management 
Ombudsman (a Financial Ombudsman service) for investigation. 
The investigator tried to contact Savvy Claims to investigate Miss Ls concerns, But Savvy 
Claims didnt provide any evidence in support of their position on the complaint. As they 
didnt co-operate with our process, the investigator reached findings based on the evidence 
provided by Miss L. The investigator found that Savvy Claim should pay Miss L the £218.33 
referred to in their email of 11 June 2019, plus 8% simple interest for the period from 11 
June 2019 to the date of payment. The investigator also recommended a further £100 for the 
trouble and upset caused to Miss L by Savvy Claims poor handling of her claim.
Savvy Claims didnt respond to the investigators findings. I issued my provisional decision 
on 30 September 2020 saying that I uphold this complaint. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Based on what Ive seen so far, I intend to 
uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. 
If I havent commented on any specific point its because I dont believe its affected what I 
think is the right outcome.
Despite having the opportunity, Savvy Claims havent provided any evidence for Miss Ls 
complaint. Because of this, I have determined the complaint using the evidence provided by 
Miss L, keeping in mind what a fair and reasonable outcome should be. 
I am satisfied that Miss L instructed Savvy Claims to represent her in making payday loan 
claims against lender Q. This is evidenced by the signed LOA Miss L has provided. The 
investigator found that Savvy Claims should pay Miss L the amount referred to in the text 
message sent to Miss L in June 2019, telling her that her claim had been successful. 
In order to ask Savvy Claims to make this payment to Miss L, Id need to be satisfied that the 
information in the text message about Miss Ls claim clearly reflects whats actually 
happened. 
Lender Q appointed an administrator in October 2019. So I can appreciate the difficulty in 
Miss M collecting evidence of her account with lender Q at this time. But the offer from 
lender Q was made in June 2019. I wouldve expected Miss L to have received a closing 
statement from lender Q, or to be able to provide statements of her account showing 
payments made during that period, to evidence what happened to her account after lender Q 
made an offer to settle her claim. But Miss L hasnt been able to provide this. 
Theres also no evidence of Savvy Claims receiving payment from lender Q. So at this time, 
its unclear what work was actually done by Savvy Claims, and whether any payments have 
been made by lender Q, which would trigger Savvy Claims success fee. So, with the 
evidence available, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to direct Savvy Claims to make 
payment to Miss L, as per the breakdown provided in the text message. 
What is evident is that Miss L instructed Savvy Claims to provide a service, and they 
disengaged from the process, without any communication with Miss L. Its not clear what 
work was actually done on the claim against lender Q, but I wouldve expected Savvy Claims 
to have responded to Miss Ls requests for an update, and explained what was happening 
with her claim. I think their failure to clearly communicate with Miss Q caused her undue 
upset and frustration. So I think its reasonable that Savvy Claims pay Miss L compensation 
for putting her through these difficulties caused by their poor handling of her claim. 
I think £200 is fair compensation, and broadly in line with what this service would 
recommend in the circumstances. This amount reflects the lack of engagement with Miss L 
for a prolonged period of time. Miss L has provided evidence of the chasers sent to Savvy 
Claims, which supports what shes explained about the stress and inconveniences caused to 
her.  As the relationship between Miss L and Savvy Claims has broken down, I also consider 
that Savvy Claims should cancel any existing agreements with Miss L, at no cost to her. 
Responses
Miss L accepted my provisional decision. Savvy Claims Ltd didnt respond. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss L accepted my provisional decision. Savvy Claims Ltd didnt respond. I havent seen 
any evidence to change my mind. So my provisional decision remains unchanged.My final decision
For the reasons provided my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
Savvy Claims Ltd is directed to pay Miss L £200 for the trouble and upset caused to her by 
their poor handling of her claims. Savvy Claims Ltd is also directed to cancel any existing 
agreements with Miss L, at no cost to her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2020.
 
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman