DRN-3034412
The complaint
Mrs B has complained about the pricing of the private health insurance policy she has with 
BUPA Insurance Limited.
What happened
Mrs B complains about the increase in the premiums charged to her in 2020 and 2021. She 
has complained too about BUPAs service and attitude towards her. She has complained to 
BUPA, and in turn this service on previous occasions. I cannot address matters that have 
been decided previously and so will focus on the representations made concerning the 2020 
and 2021 premium increases only.
Our investigator didnt find that BUPA had acted unfairly or unreasonably in the calculation of 
Mrs Bs premium. Mrs B appealed. She reiterated how much she was now paying per month 
and the fact that she had not made a claim for years. She felt that our investigator had not 
approached her complaint with a fresh mind.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise that Mrs B will be disappointed with my decision, but I dont uphold her 
complaint. In all the circumstances I dont find that Mrs B has been treated unfairly or 
unreasonably or that BUPA has done anything wrong. I dont find she has received poor 
service with regard to the issues raised or that there is cause for concern regarding what Mrs 
B feels is BUPAs attitude towards her. As the facts regarding the premiums charged arent 
in dispute Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
Transparency in premium pricing
BUPA has explained that it calculates premiums based on a number of factors including the 
cost of the scheme, previous claims made by a member, and location. It also includes 
Insurance Premium Tax which is set by the government. BUPA has said that factors such as 
ethnicity, gender and marital status are not factors that are considered.
BUPA is entitled to decide what factors it takes into consideration when setting premiums. 
Mrs Bs policy confirms that changes can be made to the price of the policy or how 
premiums are calculated. I am concerned only to see that Mrs B hasnt been singled out but 
has been treated in the same way as other members covered by a specific insurance 
product. Ive not seen anything to suggest that this isnt the case. Likewise there is no 
evidence that Mrs Bs ethnicity has been taken into account in setting her premium.
Previous claims
Mrs B was concerned that secret or illegal claims may have been made under her 
membership, which have impacted her premium. She has pointed out that she hasnt made 
any recent claims. BUPA has confirmed that no claims have been made on the policy since 
2015 when the premium increased by 3% because of a claim. Since then there have been 
no claims on the policy and so Mrs B currently receives a 6% discount. I find that that is fair.
Documentation
BUPA no longer has a copy of the original direct debit mandate that Mrs B requested. This 
was completed in 1993 - BUPA are not obliged to maintain records from that time. However 
a schedule of payments and a copy of the direct debit mandate is sent at each renewal. Im 
satisfied that this is fair and gives Mrs B the opportunity to check what payments have been 
taken to pay for her cover.
Mrs B said that BUPA didnt provide notice of the premium increase, but I dont find this is 
so. Renewal documents have been sent each year. Mrs Bs policy renews in February and 
the documents are sent in December. It follows I cant say that Mrs B has been treated 
unfairly or that BUPA have done anything wrong here.
Likewise there is nothing in evidence before which would lead me to conclude that Mrs B 
has received poor service from BUPA.
The cost of cover
I do understand Mrs Bs concerns about the cost of cover and accept what she says about 
her financial situation. I note too that she is single and a senior citizen. However I find it was 
fair of BUPA both to send examples of how the premium could be lowered by post and to 
offer to discuss further ways by telephone. It is for Mrs B to decide whether she wishes to 
take up any of those options or to continue with her policy. She is not bound to do either.
Mrs B complains that premiums shouldnt be rising during a pandemic. BUPA recognised 
that this and pledged to rebate its members any exceptional financial benefit ultimately 
arising as a result of Covid19. It appointed a leading accounting firm to ensure rebates were 
fair and reasonable across all its UK health insurance customers. Mrs B received a total 
rebate of £749.85. Im satisfied that this was fair.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2022.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman