DRN-3606532
The complaint
Mr B complains about advice given by Oaklands Wealth Management Limited (OWM) to 
transfer the value of his deferred benefits in a defined benefits (DB) occupational pension 
scheme (OPS) to a self invested personal pension (SIPP). Mr B says the advice was 
unsuitable and has caused him financial loss. 
What happened
Mr B consulted OWM in October 2017. At the time Mr B was 51 and married with two 
dependent children. He owned his own home subject to a mortgage. 
OWM wrote to Mr B on 16 January 2018. Amongst other things, OWMs initial and ongoing 
annual fees and the services provided were set out. OWM said Mr B had completed a 
personal risk profiling questionnaire and, out of 7 risk groups where 1 is low and 7 is high, 
his risk and investment group was 4, meaning he normally had a moderate attitude to 
investment risk. OWM highlighted some answers Mr B had given which differed from how 
other risk group 4 investors usually responded. OWM said that, after discussion, Mr B had 
agreed he had a moderate attitude to investment risk. It was noted that Mr B had a 
progressive health condition. His objectives were:
Increase the death benefits available to his wife and children.
Retire at age 55 and withdraw an income of £11,500 to supplement part time 
earnings.
Have the flexibility to withdraw tax free lump sums when needed.
A Pension Recommendation Report was enclosed with a Transfer Value Analysis (TVAS) 
from a pension transfer specialist. Mr B had a CETV (cash equivalent transfer value) of 
£379,650.79 which included £2,201 relating to a money purchase arrangement which wasnt 
guaranteed and not included the analysis. Mr Bs OPS benefits were an estimated pension 
of £24,173 pa at age 65 or £9,463 pa at age 55. The critical yield was 9.6% for retirement at 
age 65 and 15.63% if at age 55.
OWM said the TVAS included an analysis of how long the fund might last if Mr B transferred 
and took the same level of income as offered by the OPS at age 55 (£9,493 pa). Assuming 
investment growth of 5% pa, the fund would run out at age 101. If he stayed in the OPS hed 
get a guaranteed income of £9,493 pa which was less than the £11,500 pa he wanted. He 
was keen to gain control over his finances and the level of income he could draw and he was 
willing to accept the investment risk in exchange in return. Transferring would also allow him 
the flexibility to take ad hoc tax free lump sums as needed. 
OWM said that although Mr Bs wife would lose her entitlement to a guaranteed income of 
50% of Mr Bs OPS pension, shed have access to any remaining pension fund and could 
take lump sums and vary the amount of income. And the pension pot could be passed to the 
children. 
Mr B accepted OWMs recommendation and the transfer to the SIPP went ahead. 
 
In March 2021 Mr B, through a complaints management company (CMC), complained to 
OWM. OWM issued an initial response 24 March 2021. The CMC emailed on 30 March 
2021 saying the complaint had been withdrawn. On 14 April 2021 OWM received a data 
subject access request from another CMC. OWM sent the documentation on 11 May 2021. 
On 27 May 2021 that CMC advised OWM it couldnt assist Mr B as hed already complained 
via another CMC. OWM offered to meet with Mr B. During another call on 24 June 2021 the 
CMC confirmed that it wasnt assisting Mr B and OWM again offered to meet him. 
In July 2021 OWM received Mr Bs complaint form from this service. In January 2022 OWM 
got an email from us saying the complaint had been withdrawn. On 26 April 2022 we 
emailed OWM to say the complaint was being reopened. OWM replied on 28 April 2022 
saying the complaint had been closed and it hadnt been given the opportunity to respond. 
On 4 May 2022 OWM chased for a response. We emailed OWM on 9 May 2022 saying Mr B 
wanted to complain. On 18 May 2022 OWM acknowledged the complaint in writing to Mr B. 
OWM received our request for its file on 25 May 2022 and telephoned us to discuss the 
case. The investigator said OWM hadnt responded to the letter of complaint from the 
original CMC. But OWM said it had sent an initial response on 24 March 2021 before being 
told the complaint had been withdrawn. 
OWM sent its business file to us on 14 June 2022. The investigator issued her view on 21 
June 2022. She upheld the complaint. Her main points were:
The benefits Mr B had accrued in the OPS offered a guaranteed income for life and 
would form a significant part of his total pension provision. Mr B had a low capacity 
for loss which wouldve likely meant the security of the guaranteed benefits offered 
by the OPS with virtually no risk wouldve been very important to him. 
The regulator had made it clear that an adviser should, as a starting point, assume 
that transferring would be unsuitable unless it could clearly be demonstrated to be in 
the clients best interests. 
The investigator referred to the regulators discount rates in loss assessments 
where a complaint about a pension transfer was upheld. Although businesses 
werent required to refer to those rates when giving advice on pension transfers, they 
gave a useful indication of what growth rates wouldve been considered reasonably 
achievable for a typical investor. The investment return (critical yield) required to 
match the OPS pension at retirement at age 65 was around 9.96%. The relevant 
discount rate closest to when the advice was given was 2.6% for 13 years to 
retirement. For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time 
was 8%, the middle projection 5%, and the lower projection 2%. 
As well as attitude to risk, capacity for loss was also important. Mr B was transferring 
28 years of service from the OPS. He had no significant assets or anticipated 
sources of income in retirement (other than any state pension). The advice to transfer 
was unsuitable as Mr B was highly unlikely to improve on the benefits he was entitled 
to from the OPS and he had little to no capacity to absorb any losses on the transfer.
The investigator didnt thing the transfer was justified because the SIPP offered more 
flexible death benefits. The purpose of a pension was to provide an income in 
retirement and the OPS was Mr Bs only source of guaranteed income in retirement.
If Mr B transferred hed have more flexible access to his pension. But, at the time of 
the advice, he had no need to take tax free cash and he couldve taken a tax free 
lump sum from the OPS at age 55. 
Although Mr B had a health condition, he could take his benefits from the OPS at age 
55 and hed get a pension of £6,226 pa. Or he could perhaps have applied for ill 
health early retirement  there was no evidence that option had been explored. Mr B 
might receive a lower income than the £11,500 he wanted, but the lower income was guaranteed. Mr B was in fact still working full time as he was concerned he now cant 
afford to retire. 
The investigator also referred to the OPS being underfunded but she said that wasnt 
uncommon and, in any event, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) would match up to 
90% of the OPS income. 
The investigator said, with suitable advice, Mr B wouldve retained his OPS benefits. 
She set out how OWM needed to calculate and pay compensation to Mr B to put him 
in the position hed be in if hed stayed in the OPS.
In response, OWM said it hadnt been treated fairly. OWM said it had asked for further time 
to collate its response. OWM said it didnt know if Mr B had taken any tax free cash from his 
pension or whether it had been invested and if it had grown in value. OWM said it needed 
that information to fully respond to the complaint. And it wasnt OWMs fault that the 
complaint had been with this service for so long. Wed closed the complaint on 23 July 2021 
and reopened it on 26 January 2022. OWM set out a chronology. It said thered been 
confusion and full information hadnt been provided and so OWM wasnt in a position to 
respond fully to the complaint but it would respond as fully as it could. 
OWM said it had at all times provided correct advice to Mr B, treated him fairly and ensured 
he had all the information he required (and that he understood that information) so he could 
make informed decisions and instruct OWM accordingly. OWM had made all efforts to 
understand what Mr Bs requirements were and denied any negligence. OWM went on to set 
out extracts from the investigators view with OWMs comments. Ive read and considered 
everything but what follows is a summary of OWMs main points.  
 
OWM didnt advise Mr B to leave his OPS. When Mr B instructed OWM he was 
already a deferred member. He was 51 at the time of the recommendation. He had a 
health condition and he wanted to be able to retire at age 55 and if necessary do 
some part time work. He had no investment experience but that didnt mean he didnt 
understand the advice. OWM set out some emails from and to Mr B.
Mr Bs objectives were for his wife and children to benefit from the value of his 
pension fund, to be able to take ad hoc withdrawals of tax free cash from age 55 and 
to take a flexible income should he choose to seek alternative part time work. At no 
time did he say a guaranteed income or benefits were a priority. It was wrong to say 
the security of the guaranteed benefits offered by the OPS wouldve been important 
to him when that wasnt consistent with his objectives.
OWM referred to the risk profiling questionnaire completed at the onset of the advice 
process and thereafter every two years. It enables OWM to construct portfolios which 
match the clients attitude to risk, assessed on an ongoing basis. OWM referred to 
what the suitability letter said about the results of the questionnaire and that, 
following discussion, Mr B had agreed he had a moderate attitude to risk. 
The investigator had said Mr B could get a pension of £6,226 pa from the OPS from 
age 55. But Mr Bs income requirement was £11,500 pa. His needs wouldnt have 
been met by remaining in the OPS. At no time did Mr B say his medical condition 
would worsen and make him unfit for work and eligible for ill health early retirement 
from the OPS. Mr B is still working and if his health has deteriorated he should be 
exploring the possibility of buying an enhanced annuity. If hed remained a client of 
OWM as part of its annual review process the continued suitability of drawdown and 
any possible alternatives, such as annuity purchase, wouldve been discussed. 
Early retirement and Mr Bs health condition was only one of the considerations for 
transferring. OWM also took into account the factors set out in COBS 19.1.6G  
including the clients attitude to and understanding of the risk of giving up 
safeguarded benefits for flexible benefits. The value and security of the DB benefits 
was explained and that, if securing the highest pension with the least risk was Mr Bs main objective, hed be better off sticking with the OPS. But Mr B wanted flexibility 
and certainty of income wasnt one of his objectives. Taking tax free cash at age 55 
from the OPS wouldnt have met his priority to leave his fund to his wife and children. 
Mr B was a moderate risk investor. At the time of the advice the regulator was 
reviewing the validity of the TVAS for pension transfers due to the Pensions 
Freedoms and individuals no longer having to purchase an annuity. OWM still 
provided the TVAS and critical yield but, as the investigator had acknowledged, 
OWM wasnt required to refer to those rates when giving advice. 
OWM had to consider the likely impact on the sustainability of the funds over time, 
including whether the retail client would be likely to access funds in an arrangement 
with flexible benefits in an unplanned way. Mr B had no intention of accessing his 
benefits in a conventional way and so the simple comparison of his benefits against a 
critical yield calculation fell short of the regulators expectation. OWM referred to the 
regulators alert issued in 2017. The use of the critical yield calculation remains a 
factor but should not be relied on to the extent the investigator had.
OWM had used three different measures of return to show fund longevity. Those 
comparisons satisfied the regulators guidance and demonstrated fund suitability and 
scope for unplanned payments. Mr B wouldve had a greater income in retirement by 
transferring from the OPS. The income of £6,226 was lower than the £11,500 he 
needed. OWM had improved the benefits Mr B would receive. 
Mr B was categoric about what should happen in the event of his death  he wanted 
the value of the fund passed on to his wife and children. But that was only one of his 
objectives. He wanted to be able to retire at 55 and access his pension flexibly. The 
investigator had referred to funding concerns for the OPS. But that wasnt raised by 
Mr B and the advice to transfer wasnt based on the OPS funding. 
OWM maintained its advice was correct and met Mr Bs objectives. OWM couldnt be 
held responsible if those had since changed. At the time he left OWM he hadnt 
suffered a loss. All of Mr Bs objectives were met by transferring. The only reason to 
remain in the OPS was the critical yield calculation based on buying an annuity which 
wasnt one of his objectives and would result in none of his objectives being met. The 
reliance on critical yields didnt meet Mr Bs objectives or the regulators 
expectations.
In reply the investigator explained that a complaint can be reopened. She said OWMs 
comments hadnt changed her view. She appreciated that Mr B was already a deferred 
member but she still thought transferring was unsuitable for the reasons shed given. She 
confirmed that Mr B hadnt taken any tax free cash. But, even if his fund value had 
increased, that didnt mean he hadnt lost out by transferring. If the complaint was upheld 
OWM would need to ask Mr B for information to carry out the redress calculations.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry if OWM feels it was unfairly treated. I note what OWM says about having been told 
the complaint had been withdrawn and thats why it didnt provide its full final response to the 
complaint. But OWM has since been able to provide its response to the investigators view. I 
note what OWM says about not having details of Mr Bs current position. As far as Im 
aware, hes not yet accessed his pension benefits. But, in any event, whats being 
considered is if OWMs advice was suitable at the time. I dont think what Mr B has done 
since is relevant in deciding that. Although, as the investigator pointed out, details of Mr Bs 
current position will be needed to calculate redress. Im sorry that there were some factual errors in the investigators view, including Mr Bs age 
at the time of the recommendation and the date of the suitability report. But I dont think it 
was wrong to say that Mr B complained to OWM on 12 March 2021. Wed often just refer to 
the consumer having complained, even if the complaint letter was written by a CMC. 
Ive read and considered all OWM has said. I appreciate it feels very strongly that it gave 
suitable advice to Mr B. I dont agree. My reasons are more or less the same as the 
investigators. 
 
As the investigator has acknowledged, Mr B was already a deferred member of the defined 
benefits section of the OPS when he approached OWM for advice. OWM has acknowledged 
that COBS 19.6.1G is the starting point and that a firm should start by assuming a transfer 
wont be suitable. OWM maintains it has demonstrated that the transfer was in Mr Bs best 
interests. OWM has stressed that its advice met Mr Bs objectives. In Mr Bs situation, 
particularly given his health concerns, I can see that accessing his benefits early and flexibly 
wouldve looked attractive. Mr Bs objectives were a relevant consideration and the driver for 
him seeking advice. 
But OWM didnt just have to consider how Mr Bs objectives could be met. OWM had to 
ensure that its advice was suitable for Mr B overall. The benefits offered by transferring cant 
be considered in isolation and have to be weighed up against the advantages of remaining in 
the OPS. I think thats what the investigator had in mind when she referred to the guaranteed 
nature of the OPS benefits and Mr Bs low capacity for loss. Mr B may not have expressly 
said that the guaranteed benefits offered by the OPS were important to him. But those 
benefits were valuable and it was important Mr B was fully aware of what hed be giving up. 
In connection with Mr Bs capacity for loss, OWM has referred to the risk profiling it 
undertakes at the start of the advice process and on an ongoing basis. But a consumers 
attitude to risk is different from their capacity for loss. A consumer may indicate that they are 
prepared to take a certain level of risk but the adviser should consider if that level of risk is 
consistent with the clients circumstances generally. I cant see Mr B had much capacity for 
loss. His OPS benefits represented 28 years service and formed the bulk of his pension 
provision. He had no significant assets or other anticipated sources of income in retirement, 
other than a very modest money purchase fund and his state pension. I dont think he was in 
a position to take a significant degree of risk with the benefits hed accrued in the OPS.  
As to Mr Bs attitude to investment risk, the suitability letter recorded that as moderate. It 
also highlighted answers Mr B had given which differed from what would usually be 
expected from an investor with that risk profile. The suitability letter said that, after 
discussion, Mr B had agreed that his attitude to risk was moderate. Id expect the results of a 
risk profiling questionnaire to be discussed and anything which wasnt consistent to be 
explored. That seems to have happened here. But I think OWM shouldve been cautious in 
proceeding on the basis that Mr Bs attitude to risk was moderate when some of the answers 
hed given indicated that he wouldnt be comfortable with taking more than a small degree of 
risk, that security was important to him and even relatively small falls in investment values 
would concern him. 
Im not sure of the relevance of the emails which OWM has produced as they postdate the 
advice to transfer. But they do show that Mr B was concerned about performance and fund 
losses which would support what Ive said about Mr B not wanting to take much risk and 
being concerned about any falls in value. 
But, that aside and even if Mr Bs attitude to risk had been correctly assessed as moderate, I 
think the transfer represented a higher degree of risk than hed said he wanted to take. The 
TVAS indicated that the critical yield (the rate of return that would need to be achieved to replicate the benefits Mr B was giving up in the OPS) was 9.6% if Mr B took his full pension 
at age 65. That increased to 15.63% if Mr B took his pension at age 55. 
OWM says the critical yield wasnt pivotal and indeed suggests, with reference to the 2017 
regulators alert, that it was obsolete. I dont think theres any suggestion that was the case. 
The alert did warn firms against recommending transfers based solely on whether or not the 
critical yield was below a certain rate set for transfers generally. The regulator made two 
points about that. First, that it expected the firm to consider the likely expected returns of the 
assets in which the clients funds will be invested relative to the critical yield; secondly, that 
the firm should also consider the personal circumstances of the client before making any 
personal recommendation, taking into account specific other factors as they apply to the 
client. I think the regulator was making it clear that the financial viability of the transfer had to 
take into account how and where the transfer value was to be invested and that suitability 
depended on the clients particular personal circumstances. 
I dont agree that the critical yield is irrelevant. It shows the estimated investment return 
needed to purchase an annuity to provide benefits of equal value to the estimated benefits 
that would be provided by the OPS at retirement (ages 65 and 55). Mr B wasnt considering 
buying an annuity. Bu the critical yield values all the benefits given up in the OPS, including, 
for example, spouses pension and escalation. I think it gives a reasonable indication of 
whether the CETV offered represents good value and it helps put into context the risks of 
transferring.  
The TVAS showed the fund required to buy an annuity to provide benefits of equal value to 
those it was estimated the OPS would provide was £1,061,970.72, whereas the transfer 
value on offer was £379,650.79. And a fund of £532,879.84 would be required to purchase 
an annuity assuming no spouses pension, increases in payment and no guarantee. 
As the investigator explained, the discount rate was 2.6%. That wasnt part of the advice 
process and OWM wasnt required to take it into account. But I think it does provide some 
context as to the level of risk the transfer presented at the time and when the required rate of 
return was 9.6% at age 65 or 15.63% at age 55. Further, at the time the regulators standard 
nominal rates of return for projections were 2%, 5% and 8%. Again I think thats indicative of 
the risk that the transfer represented and suggests that it was higher than the moderate 
degree of risk that Mr B had indicated he was willing to take. And, as the critical yield is the 
return required to match the benefit given up, a higher degree of risk would need to be taken 
to improve on the benefits offered by the OPS. 
OWM has said it would generally regard any figure higher than 6% as requiring significant 
investment risk to be taken to reach it on a consistent basis. And that Mr B would likely be 
worse off in pension income terms if he purchased an annuity after transferring. OWM has 
stressed that remaining in the OPS wouldnt have met Mr Bs objectives. But, as Ive said 
above, although Mr Bs objectives were a factor to be taken into account, what he wanted to 
achieve wasnt paramount and it wasnt just up to OWM to advise Mr B how his objectives 
might be met. It was up to OWM to give suitable advice which meant that the transaction had 
to be considered in the whole  including the risks and the benefits that the new 
arrangement might provide. Where the TVAS shows the OPS benefits outweigh those likely 
to be provided by the new arrangement, I think thats a clear indication that the transfer is 
unlikely to be in the clients best interests.
Further and in any event, I dont see that Mr B was compelled to leave the OPS when he did. 
OWM has stressed that the transfer met Mr Bs objectives about accessing benefits flexibly 
at age 55, including, if required, a lump sum to pay off his mortgage. But Mr B was 51 at the 
time of the advice. He wasnt looking to access his pension benefits for another four years. 
In the interim, he couldve remained in the OPS and so not exposed his pension savings to investment risk and then considered his options when he was approaching age 55. I note 
that the investigator referred to Mr B being entitled to a pension of £6,226 pa if he took his 
pension from the OPS at age 55. But I think that was wrong and Mr Bs annual pension from 
the OPS wouldve been, and as OWM recognised, £9,493. 
   
OPS has also cited Mr Bs objective about leaving his pension fund to his wife and children. 
And Mr B did have some health concerns. But I dont think these were unduly serious or 
urgent. Mr B planned to carry on working full time until he was 55. He might then seek part 
time work and access his pension benefits. Again Mr B couldve considered his position 
again when he was closer to age 55, including, if his health had deteriorated, whether he 
might be eligible for ill health early retirement from the OPS, or his prospects of securing a 
part time income. 
I dont think there was any compelling need, as Mr B didnt anticipate accessing his pension 
benefits for some years, to make an unreversible decision to give up the valuable 
guaranteed benefits offered by the OPS. 
All in all I dont think the advice to transfer was suitable or in Mr Bs best interests. I think the 
transfer represented a higher degree of risk than Mr B had indicated he wanted to take or 
shouldve been advised to take. The risk of transferring outweighed the benefits and when 
there was no pressing need for Mr B to transfer at the time and when he couldve waited and 
reassessed his position when he actually wanted or needed to take benefits and so avoiding 
exposing his pension fund to risk in the interim. I think if hed been advised to remain in the 
OPS hed have accepted that advice. 
Im upholding Mr Bs complaint. Ive set out below how OWM needs to calculate and pay 
redress to Mr B. 
Putting things right
What Ive set out below follows what the investigator said in her view and the email she sent 
to the parties on 3 October 2022. As explained, on 2 August 2022, the regulator, the FCA 
(Financial Conduct Authority) launched a consultation on new defined benefit transfer 
redress guidance and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-
calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice. The consultation closed on 27 
September 2022 with any changes expected to be implemented in early 2023.
In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/19 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers 
it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress. 
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 whilst the consultation takes place. 
But until changes take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their 
compensation to be calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that may come into 
force after the consultation has concluded.
The investigator asked Mr B to let us know if he preferred any redress to be calculated now 
in line with current guidance or wait for the any new guidance/rules to be published. He 
didnt make a choice, so, as set out previously, Ive assumed in this case Mr B doesnt want 
to wait for any new guidance.  Im satisfied that a calculation in line with FG 17/19 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr B.   
My conclusion is that a fair outcome would be for Oaklands Wealth Management Limited to 
put Mr B as far as possible, into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable 
advice. I consider hed have remained in the OPS. 
Oaklands Wealth Management Limited should therefore undertake a redress calculation in 
line with the regulators pension review guidance, as updated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable DB pension transfers.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions at the 
date of the actual calculation. Oaklands Wealth Management Limited may wish to contact 
the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Bs contribution history to the 
State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These details should then be 
used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will take into account the 
impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Bs SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If this demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible be paid into Mr Bs 
pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. 
The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr B as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
Oaklands Wealth Management Limited must also pay Mr B £200 for the stress and worry 
hes been caused and the disruption to his retirement plans. 
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect Oaklands Wealth Management Limited to carry out a 
calculation in line with the updated rules and/or guidance in any event.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation to be paid by a financial 
business of up to in this case £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs/ interest on costs that 
I think are appropriate. If I think that fair compensation is more than £160,000, I may 
recommend that the business pays the balance.
Decision and award: I uphold the complaint. I think that fair compensation should be 
calculated as Ive set out above. My decision is that Oaklands Wealth Management Limited 
should pay Mr B the amount produced by that calculation  up to a maximum of £160,000. 
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation is more 
than £160,000, I recommend that Oaklands Wealth Management Limited pays Mr B the 
balance. 
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award.  Oaklands Wealth 
Management Limited doesnt have to do what I recommend. Its unlikely that Mr B can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr B may want to get 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this decision. 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. Oaklands Wealth Management Limited must calculate and pay 
redress as Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman