DRN-2278088
The complaint
Mr L says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 1998 at the same time as Mr L 
applied for a credit card account. He recalls he applied by post or by handing the form in at a 
branch. The banks records show the sale took place in one of its branches. I have reviewed 
the sale on that basis and will explain why later. The PPI gave Mr L protection against 
accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr L disagreed so the complaint was passed to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where is a dispute about what happened (as there is here), I have based my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, on what I consider is most likely given the available 
evidence and what we know about how Halifax sold PPI at the time.
Our approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here. Ive 
decided not to uphold Mr Ls complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr L says the form was never completed in a branch, it couldnt have been due to his 
geographical circumstances at the time, he is convinced it was delivered through the branch 
letterbox early in the morning and they completed it later that day. Also, the cross in the PPI 
box looks odd, he would normally tick such a box. He says he never had a meeting about 
the PPI, it was never discussed with him. 
But the banks records show the sale took place in a branch, and which branch. From what 
we know of the banks branch sales process at the time an advisor would have completed 
the form electronically after discussion with Mr L, and then printed it off for him to sign. This 
is the exact format of Mr Ls application form: as Mr L will be able to see all his personal 
information on the left-hand side of the form was printed, in the same way the cross in the 
PPI box was. This, combined with the box on the bottom left of the form detailing the branch 
name and code, suggests to me its most likely the sale followed Halifaxs standard branch 
sales process. And whilst I cant know how the PPI was presented to Mr L in the meeting, 
Mr L indicated that he wanted the insurance on the application form he signed. 
I have thought about Mr Ls comments carefully, but I havent been able to find other 
evidence to support his recollection of how the sale took place. And I have to consider how 
long ago the sale was and how that might impact what he recalls. On balance, I think its 
most likely Halifax sold the PPI to Mr L in one of its branches, that it made him aware the 
PPI was optional, and he chose to take it.
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr L, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable for him 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. Mr L told us he wasnt entitled to 
sick pay from his employer. And the PPI wouldve paid out for up to 12 months. So overall, I 
think the PPI wouldve been useful to Mr L if he lost his job or was sick and unable to work.
 
Mr L says the application form shows he was given no information on the policy terms. The 
bank says they would have been given to him separately or posted to him. 
I agree its possible the information Halifax gave Mr L about the PPI wasnt as good as it 
should have been. But Mr L chose to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted this 
type of cover. It seems he wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations and the 
policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr L wouldve 
made a different decision if better information had been provided. On balance, I think he 
would still have taken out the policy.
So I don't think the policy was mis-sold. However, Halifax has paid back some of the cost of 
the PPI to Mr L because:
Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) so it should have told Mr L about that. Because Halifax didnt tell Mr L, that 
was unfair.
To put that right, Halifax has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold. So Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) does not have 
to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr L.
But Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) does have to pay back to Mr L any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has 
already done this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2020.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman