DRN-1778455
 
The complaint
Mr M says S.D. Taylor Limited  trading as Loans at Home  irresponsibly lent to him. 
What happened
This complaint is about four home collected credit loans Loans at Home provided to Mr M 
between July 2017 and May 2018. Mr Ms borrowing history is summarised below:
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount
1 27/07/2017 21/02/2018 45 £1,000.00
2 05/10/2017 23/05/2018 45 £500.00
3 23/11/2017 outstanding 75 £800.00
4 22/02/2018 outstanding 78 £1,600.00
5 23/05/2018 outstanding 78 £1,050.00
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Ms complaint and they thought loans 3 to 5 shouldnt 
have been given to Mr M as the repayment costs for these loans would have accounted for a 
significant portion of his income and therefore wasnt sustainably affordable for Mr M. 
Loans at Home disagreed and said the checks it had done before lending to Mr M indicated 
he had enough disposable income to afford the loan repayments alongside his other 
commitments. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Loans at Home needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think 
less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Loans at Home should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Loans at Home was required to 
establish whether Mr M could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint. Having done so, Im partially upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
Our adjudicator didnt think Loans at Home needed to do more checks when it approved 
loans 1 and 2. Mr M didnt respond to the view. As there is no longer appears to be a dispute 
about these loans, I wont be making further findings on them.
Loans at Home says it carried out checks before it lent loan 3 to Mr M and the results of 
these checks didnt raise any concerns. However, I think if Loans at Home had properly 
considered the information it had about Mr Ms financial situation before lending, I think it 
would have seen that Mr M was not in a position to take on this borrowing. 
I say this because for loan 3, Mr M was borrowing £800, which was due to be repaid in 75 
weekly instalments plus interest. This meant that Mr M would be repaying £20 from his 
weekly declared income of around £532. The repayments for this loan in isolation doesnt 
appear to be unaffordable, but at the time of taking loan 3, Mr Ms previous two loans were 
still running. So, the combined weekly repayment for these three loans was £80 and in my 
view, this amount represented a significant proportion of Mr Ms income. 
So, I think Loans at Home ought to have realised this and the potential for Mr M to struggle 
to make the repayment  especially as it needed to be repaid over several months. As the 
balance of this loan and Mr Ms two subsequent loans are outstanding, I think this 
demonstrates that Mr M was unable to sustainably make the repayments and this loan, and 
the following two loans, shouldnt have been given.  So, Im upholding Mr Ms complaint about loans 3 to 5 and Loans at Home should put things 
right. 
Putting things right
If Loans at Home has sold the outstanding debts Loans at Home should buy these back if 
Loans at Home is able to do so and then take the following steps. If Loans at Home cant 
buy the debts back, then Loans at Home should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve 
the results outlined below.
A) Loans at Home should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr M towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including 
anything Loans at Home has already refunded.
B) Loans at Home should calculate 8% simple interest on the individual payments made by 
Mr M which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr M originally made 
the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Loans at Home should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any 
upheld outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Mr M as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Mr M having made 
overpayments then Loans at Home should refund these overpayments with 8% simple 
interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have 
arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Loans at Home should then refund the amounts 
calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in a surplus, 
then the surplus should be paid to Mr M. However, if there is still an outstanding balance 
then Loans at Home should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr M. Loans at 
Home shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up of principal Loans at Home has 
already written-off.
E) Loans at Home should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ms credit file in 
relation to loans 3, 4 and 5. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans at Home to take off tax from this interest. Loans at Home 
must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
My final decision
Im partially upholding Mr Ms complaint. S.D. Taylor Limited should put things right as set 
out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2020.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman