DRN-2841920
The complaint
Mrs J complains that PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA set up a direct debit mandate on her 
bank account without her permission or knowledge.
What happened
Mrs J says that in 2020 she discovered that her payments to PayPal were being made by 
direct debit. She says she had not realised that this was the case, and that she had never 
authorised a direct debit to be set up. She says that until 2020, she had thought that her 
payments were being made by normal debits (by which she appears to mean debit card 
payments). She complained to PayPal and then to our Service. She also complains that 
PayPal ignored her complaint.
PayPal said it was not possible for it to set up a direct debit without its customers consent. 
This could only be done by a customer requesting it and then authorising their bank to do it. 
PayPal pointed out that Mrs J did not dispute that she had linked her bank account to her 
PayPal account. PayPal reviewed its records and found that Mrs J had linked her bank 
account in 2009, and the direct debit had been set up in 2012. It suggested that after so 
much time, it was likely that Mrs J had forgotten consenting to this at the time. It no longer 
had any records of this happening, but said there was no other way in which it could have 
been set up. It noted that there were no other payment methods set up on the account, so all 
of her payments had been made via this method.
Our investigator accepted that explanation, and so she did not uphold this complaint. She 
said she would not expect PayPal to have kept any records from so long ago, but it was 
likely that Mrs J had set up the direct debit herself (although she may have meant to 
authorise card payments instead, and set up the direct debit by mistake). She was satisfied 
that no financial loss had been caused to Mrs J, since the direct debit was not a monthly 
payment but only ad hoc payments for occasional purchases as they were made. The direct 
debit had been cancelled in 2020, so the problem was now resolved.
Mrs J did not accept that opinion. She said PayPal was under a legal duty to retain 
information forever. She asked for an ombudsman to review her case.
This complaint has been brought later than our time limits would normally allow, but PayPal 
has consented to our Service considering this complaint anyway.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do not uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
PayPal is not required to retain data about its customers for longer than six years, so the fact 
that it does not have a record of the Mrs Js direct debit mandate being set up nine years 
ago is not unexpected, nor is there anything wrong with that. Also, if PayPal had something 
to hide, then it could have withheld its consent to me dealing with this complaint, since I have 
no discretion to waive the time limits set by the Financial Conduct Authority. (A complaint 
must be brought within either six years from the event complained about, or, if later, within 
three years of when the complainant ought reasonably to have become aware of it. 
I consider that both of these time limits expired long before Mrs J brought this complaint. So 
my jurisdiction in this complaint derives from PayPals consent to waive the time limits in this 
instance.)
However, I can reasonably infer that Mrs Js bank would not have permitted a direct debit 
mandate to be set up without her consent. I dont think PayPal could have done this 
unilaterally. I think the most likely explanation is that Mrs J authorised the direct debit herself, 
and that either she has since forgotten doing it, or she mistakenly thought she had set up 
payments from her debit card. The latter seems a little more likely, since she expected to be 
able to raise a chargeback dispute on a payment she made in 2020, which led to her 
discovery of how her payments were actually being made. However, since PayPal voluntarily 
refunded that payment as a gesture of good will, I cannot see that Mrs J has been prejudiced 
by the method of payment which was actually used. Nor has she suffered any financial loss, 
since all of the payments under the direct debits were for purchases she had made, and 
which would have to have been made by some other method if they had not been made by 
direct debit.
I think the problem of PayPal not replying to Mrs Js emails in April 2020 is mitigated by the 
fact that she brought this complaint to our Service in that month, and PayPal responded to 
us. It may also have been the result of PayPals normal customer service being disrupted by 
the coronavirus lockdown, which had only recently begun. While I appreciate that Mrs J must 
have found this frustrating, I dont think it is so serious that it merits an award of 
compensation.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2021.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman