DRN-2778688
The complaint
Ms G complains that Lloyds Bank PLC paid compensation from mis-sold payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policies into a joint bank account she held with an abusive ex-partner 
despite her asking for the compensation to be paid to her by cheque. 
What happened
Ms G complained to Lloyds about mis-sold PPI policies.  
In a letter dated 15 July 2020 Lloyds offered Ms G a total of £15,681.68.  
The letter stated the payment would be made direct into bank account ending 0863.
Ms G told us she received the letter on Saturday 25 July 2020.
On  Monday 27 July 2020 Ms G called Lloyds to ask it to send a cheque to her address 
instead of paying the compensation direct to the bank account. 
My understanding is that the payment had already been authorised on 24 July 2020 and was 
credited to the bank account on 28 July 2020.
On 6 August 2020 Ms G contacted Lloyds again and was told the compensation had been 
sent to the bank account. Ms G explained to Lloyds in this call that the account was an old 
joint account held with an abusive ex-partner and she had no access to the account. 
In a further call with Lloyds on 10 August 2020 Ms G was advised to speak to her local 
branch to ask if it could contact her ex-partner on her behalf, presumably to ask for access to 
the compensation.
On 24 August 2020 Lloyds wrote to Ms G to confirm a cheque for the compensation had now 
been sent to her address.
Ms G asked for £5,000 compensation for the distress and inconvenience Lloyds had caused 
her to experience.
Our adjudicator recommended Lloyds should pay Ms G £1,000 for the distress it caused her. 
Lloyds has offered between £250 and £350 compensation.
The complaint has now been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Lloyds has already agreed the PPI was mis-sold Ive not looked at how the PPI came to 
be sold. And I see Lloyds has now paid Ms G fair compensation for the mis-sale of the 
policies. In this decision I am only looking at whether Lloyds need to do anything more 
because of the way it handled the complaint. 
Firstly, it seems to me that Lloyds practice of paying redress compensation owed to a single 
individual into a joint bank account without first asking for confirmation from the consumer is 
likely to lead to situations like this occasionally. Particularly when the consumers address is 
different to the joint account holders address. And I note the Lloyds call handler on 6 August 
2021 wrote, should this have been questioned with the consumer prior to making the 
payment? Also she had requested payment by cheque PRIOR to the FP being paid?.
That being said I am pleased to see Lloyds paid Ms G the compensation by cheque fairly 
quickly.
I have also taken into account that according to the call notes when Ms G called on 27 July 
she didnt mention the reason for wanting a cheque sent instead of a direct bank transfer. 
And it seems Lloyds only became fully aware of Ms Gs situation on 6 August.  
But I note that Lloyds told this service that it was possible to have stopped the payment 
being made to the bank account if Ms Gs call notes from 27 July 2020 been acted upon.
However I find it disturbing that on 10 August Ms G was advised by Lloyds to speak to her 
branch and ask them to contact her ex-partner on her behalf. 
At that point Lloyds had been made aware of Ms Gs history with her ex-partner and it was 
inappropriate to suggest she make contact with him to request the money, albeit via the 
branch. Such a course of action was always likely to cause Ms G considerable distress. 
In addition, at that point Ms G was not only faced with the prospect of having lost her 
compensation to her ex-partner but also having to pay an invoice from the claims 
management company that she used to bring her complaint. 
All this would have caused Ms G considerable upset and distress. Ive thought carefully 
about the level of compensation that would be appropriate and I think the  £1,000 suggested 
by the adjudicator is fair compensation in this case.
I also note that Ms G has mentioned in her complaint for that she cannot have herself 
removed from the joint bank account she shares with her ex-partner without his co-
operation. Ms G has told us she has no access to statements, cheque books or debit cards. 
It seems to me that Lloyds should contact Ms G to explore how she might be able to remove 
herself from the account should she still wish to.   
Putting things right
Lloyds should pay Ms G £1,000 as compensation for the distress and upset caused by its 
errors in this case.
Lloyds should contact Ms G to explore if it is possible for her to remove her name from the 
joint account ending 0863 without involving Ms G having to contact her ex-partner.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Lloyds Bank PLC to pay Ms G 
compensation as set out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2021.
 
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman