DRN-3507266
The complaint
Mr P complained that Loans 2 Go Limited acted irresponsibly when it gave him 
unaffordable loans.
What happened
Mr P took out five loans with Loans 2 Go as follows:
Date 
takenLoan 
amountTerm Monthly 
repaymentTotal 
amount 
payableDate 
loan
repaid
Loan 1 4.12.19 £1,000 18 months £228.56 £4,114.08 3.7.20
Loan 2 7.7.20 £300 18 months £68.57 £1,234.26 12.7.20
Loan 3 28.9.20 £300 18 months £68.57 £1,234.26 31.12.20
Loan 4 15.4.21 £400 18 months £91.42 £1,645.56 24.7.21
Loan 5 18.10.21 £250 18 months £51.39 £925.02 24.10.21
Mr P has brought his complaint to us through his representative, but to keep things 
simpler, Ill just refer to Mr P.
Our adjudicator assessed the complaint and he didnt think that Loans 2 Go shouldve 
provided loans 2,3,4 or 5. He set out his findings in a letter explaining how hed come to his 
view. 
Loans 2 Go disagreed. In summary, it said that Mr Ps credit files didnt suggest he was 
facing financial detriment when these loans were provided. And it didnt agree that his 
pattern of lending suggested he wasnt using the loans as intended as he was entitled to opt 
for early settlement if he chose not to let the loans run for the full term  which mightnt have 
been an option if hed taken out payday loans. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. This should include 
more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that the borrower can 
sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, a 
proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done.
If proportionate checks were done and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think 
about whether theres any other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For 
example, if the lender shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
Ive kept all these things in mind and Ive thought carefully about the information Loans 2 
Go relied on when it decided to lend to Mr P. 
Before providing each of these loans, Loans 2 Go asked Mr P about his income and 
expenditure and also carried out credit checks. Loans 2 Go checked Mr Ps declared income 
using third party data. It also took into account statistical information when thinking about 
what would be likely expenditure for someone in Mr Ps circumstances.  
As far as I can see, Mr P hasnt objected to what our adjudicator said with respect to not 
upholding his complaint about loan 1. So I dont think I need to say more about loan 1 except 
that Ive reviewed this loan and independently reached the same conclusion as our 
adjudicator. I havent seen enough to say that Loans 2 Go shouldnt have provided this loan 
 so thats why Im not planning on upholding this part of Mr Ps complaint.   
Mr P seems to have changed his mind about borrowing loan 2. Within a few days of the loan 
being agreed he returned the money hed borrowed and he didnt incur any costs or have to 
pay any interest as a result of taking out this loan. As he hasnt had to pay anything extra, he 
didnt lose out financially in relation to this loan. So, I dont think I need to consider this loan 
further as there isnt anything Loans 2 Go would need to do to put things right. And the 
position in relation to loan 5 is similar as he also withdrew from that loan within a week of 
taking it out. So Im not planning on investigating the circumstances of loan 5 either or 
upholding it.
For loan 3, Loans 2 Go checked Mr Ps declared income of £2,000. After allowing for the 
cost of the repayments he would have to make for the loan on top of his other monthly 
outgoings, including meeting his existing credit commitments shown in the credit checks it 
obtained, Loans 2 Go  worked out that the repayments should still have been affordable for 
Mr P. 
I cant see that there was anything in the information Mr P provided, or the other information 
Loans 2 Go had recorded, which meant that Loans 2 Go shouldve taken more steps to 
check the information Mr P had declared. He had evidently had some money problems in the 
past. But the payment issues shown in the credit report Loans 2 Go obtained, whilst 
concerning, werent enough in my view to have prompted a responsible lender to have 
declined this loan application. His active accounts appeared to be mostly being well 
managed, he didnt appear to be overdrawn, his overall amount of debt wasnt excessive or 
concerning for someone with his level of earnings. The amount of his total indebtedness had 
gone down during the last couple of months  it had been well over £8.000 and was now just over £7,000. He had more available credit on his revolving credit accounts. He wasnt shown 
as being in bankruptcy or having entered into any formal arrangement with creditors and 
there was no record of any county court judgement. 
It isnt unusual for applicants for this type of high cost loan to have a credit history showing 
other borrowing or even sometimes an impaired credit record  and these things wouldnt 
necessarily be reasons to prompt a responsible lender to decline a loan application that 
otherwise looked affordable. 
I've thought carefully about the fact that Mr Ps payment record on loan 1 showed a number 
of missed payments. Potentially, I think this was concerning. But it looks like the main 
problem was that Mr Ps employer apparently didnt pay him on time  a number of 
automatic missed payment messages were generated as a result. Mr P had told Loans 2 Go 
that he effectively missed a months salary and that hed be paid double the next month. And 
Mr P went on to settle loan 1 early the following month. So I think Loans 2 Go might 
reasonably have thought that his payment problems on loan 1 had been attributable to a 
one-off problem with his pay rather than a sign that Mr P had serious underlying and 
potentially ongoing money problems. And as Mr P decided against taking up loan 2, I can 
see why Loans 2 Go mightve felt reassured that Mr P didnt appear to be in financial 
difficulty.  
Thinking about all these things, I think the checks were enough for Loans 2 Go to agree 
to lend loan 3 and the information Loans 2 Go had gathered reasonably supported its 
lending decision.
So Im not planning on upholding Mr Ps complaint about loan 3.
When he applied for loan 4, Loans 2 Go asked Mr P to update his income and expenditure 
information and repeated the checks it carried out previously to verify his income and ensure 
it was aware of Mr Ps up to date credit situation. 
Mr P was still in the same employment and his financial circumstances were broadly 
unchanged.
I think its fair to say that the credit checks Loans 2 Go did for this loan didnt show any signs 
that Mr P was having trouble managing money problems. And although Loans 2 Go doesnt 
seem to have known what he wanted the loan for, I dont think the lender had enough 
information to have suggested that the reason he needed to borrow again might be to plug 
the gap in his finances caused by paying for his debt.  
There had been a gap of around three and a half months since hed repaid 3. The amount 
he was borrowing wasnt significantly more than the last loan hed repaid  and it was 
significantly less than his first loan with Loans 2 Go. 
The total of all the balances outstanding on his active accounts (£1,604) was now 
substantially less than it had been previously. And it didnt look like Mr P was as reliant on 
using his credit cards as he had been. 
Although there had been a missed payment on loan 3, I dont think this alone was sufficient 
to suggest that loan 4 wasnt likely to be sustainably affordable for Mr P.   
Looked at overall, I think the information Loans 2 Go had gathered suggested the loan 
monthly repayments should be comfortably affordable for Mr P out of his disposable income 
and there wasnt anything else to suggest otherwise. I dont think it was unreasonable for Loans 2 Go to lend without making any more detailed 
enquiries into Mr Ps circumstances as there wasnt anything obvious, in the information it 
had, to suggest he wouldnt be able sustainably to repay the loan. And I think the information 
it had gathered supported the lending decision it made. 
So I havent seen enough to be able to uphold loan 4.
I appreciate that my provisional decision overall will disappoint Mr P. But I hope that 
setting out the reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision. 
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr P hasnt commented on my provisional decision. 
Loans 2 Go has confirmed it has nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint.
As no further comments have been received in response to my provisional decision that 
change what I think about this case, I still think its fair not to uphold this complaint for the 
reasons I explained in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman