DRN-4246168
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O have complained about Amtrust Europe Limiteds handling and settlement of a 
claim they made under their Premier Guarantee New Home Warranty.
What happened
The subject of this complaint is a building comprised of multiple flats. Damage has been 
caused to the common parts of the building, which means other leaseholders have been 
affected, in addition to Mr and Mrs O. However, this complaint has been brought by 
Mr and Mrs O only, and so focuses only on what they are entitled to under their individual 
warranty.
There has been extensive background to this complaint which I dont intend to repeat in full 
here. Instead, Ill summarise the key issues, which form part of this specific complaint, which 
I need to decide. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to either party, rather it reflects the 
informal nature of our service and my role within it.
Mr and Mrs O have raised concerns about their entire claim journey with Amtrust, since 
2017. But Ive issued a separate jurisdiction decision explaining which elements of their 
complaint are within my power to consider and which are not. So, Ill not revisit that here. 
Instead, this decision will only focus on the issues which Ive decided, in that separate 
jurisdiction decision, are within my power to consider as part of this complaint. They are the 
issues covered and answered in the final response letter dated March 2023.
Mr and Mrs O have complained about an incident of water ingress to their property in 
October 2022, following previous repairs undertaken by Amtrust as part of their claim in 
2017. Theyre unhappy with the quality of the previous repairs, and the level of service 
theyve received when reporting this latest incident of water ingress.
Amtrust accepts that there appear to be issues with the previous remedial works. It has 
appointed a new loss adjuster to investigate this and provide an independent opinion. 
Amtrust says following the investigations it intends to put things right, both internally and 
externally, and to cover the costs of interim repairs carried out by Mr and Mrs O. In its final 
response letter, Amtrust set out that it needed information from Mr and Mrs O in order to 
progress those investigations, which to that date had not been received. Amtrust also 
accepted there had been further instances of delays and communication issues since the 
last final response letter. It apologised and offered £300 compensation to put things right.
Our investigator considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. She said 
Amtrusts offer of compensation, for the post October 2021 issues, was fair and reasonable. 
And she said she couldnt provide a finding on the quality of the previous repairs under this 
complaint, as wed need to know the conclusions of the investigations by the new loss 
adjuster. However, she said Mr and Mrs O could raise a new complaint about this, once that 
information was available, should they remain unhappy.
Mr and Mrs O didnt accept our investigators opinion. So, the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and while I appreciate it will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs O, I 
agree with our investigators conclusions. Ill explain why.
Firstly, its important to reiterate that the only issues Im considering as part of this complaint 
are those covered in the final response letter of March 2023. The relevant parts of this final 
response letter are the quality of Amtrusts previous remedial works, and the unreasonable 
delay in them being investigated once reported.
The March 2023 final response letter also addressed a further incident of water ingress 
through a skylight. However, Mr and Mrs O have pointed out that this isnt relevant to their 
flat or complaint.
Amtrust has already accepted that the quality of its previous remedial works was likely 
inadequate, based on a report provided by Mr and Mrs O (or their building management 
company). But it says the level of inadequacy needed to be investigated before it could be 
put right  which doesnt seem unreasonable. Amtrust also confirmed its intention to carry 
out an effective and lasting repair to the damage, and to the defect which caused it, following 
the conclusion of its investigations. It also said it would consider covering the cost of any 
temporary repairs carried out by Mr and Mrs O, subject to evidence of these. 
I think the above offer from Amtrust is in line with its obligations under the contract of 
insurance and is what Id expect it to do. So, I consider that the suggested course of action, 
at the time of this complaint, was a fair and reasonable way to move forward.
Should Mr and Mrs O be unhappy with the conclusion of those investigations, or any of the 
follow up remedial offers or works, they should raise a new complaint with Amtrust, which 
theyll be able to refer to our service  subject to our normal rules  should they remain 
unhappy with its final response to their complaint.
Amtrust has also accepted that more could have been done by the old loss adjuster to 
arrange and commence investigations into the October 2022 ingress of water, when it was 
first reported. Amtrust explained it has now appointed a new loss adjuster to take over 
investigations and oversee the claim moving forward.
Whether the delays were caused by Amtrusts old loss adjuster, or Amtrust itself are 
irrelevant. As far as the contract of insurance is concerned, they are one and the same. So, 
any delays or issues caused by Amtrusts loss adjuster are still the responsibility of Amtrust 
to put right.
Im pleased to see that Amtrust accepts this. It has acknowledged the impact these errors 
and delays will have had on Mr and Mrs O and has made an offer of £300 compensation to 
reflect this. And based on everything Ive seen I think this offer is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.  
I say this because this compensation is to recognise the delays and communication issues 
since the October 2021 final response letter, and particularly the issues around the October 
2022 ingress of water. It is not intended to compensate for issues experienced throughout 
the entire claim journey. While I fully accept the initial lack of communication or investigation into the latest water 
ingress would have been both distressing and inconvenient for Mr and Mrs O, Im mindful 
that the majority of the impact of these issues would have been felt by their tenant, rather 
than them directly. And Im not able to make an award for compensation based on the 
impact to the tenants as they arent the policyholders.
 
In addition, I can see that at least part of the delay in arranging investigations into the water 
ingress was due to Amtrust not being provided with the information it requested in 
January 2023. So, it wouldnt be reasonable to hold Amtrust responsible for the full period of 
delay.
Ultimately, I think the £300 compensation, as well as the offer of further investigations, 
subsequent repairs and reimbursement of temporary repair costs, is sufficient to fairly 
resolve this particular complaint.
My final decision
Amtrust Europe Limited has already made an offer to pay £300 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that Amtrust Europe Limited should pay £300  if it hasnt done so 
already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman