DRN-4195345
The complaint
Mrs H complains about the way Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited has dealt with a 
claim she made under her home insurance policy.
Reference to Lloyds includes its agents and representatives.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill summarise the main points about this dispute:
In September 2022, Mrs H got in touch with Lloyds about damage caused by a leak 
from her neighbours property.
Lloyds accepted the claim and, after the leak had been resolved, agreed to put the 
damage right.
Lloyds arranged to dry, strip out, and repair the damage. I understand this was 
completed in March 2023.
Mrs H has complained about a number of aspects to do with the way Lloyds handled 
the claim. And Lloyds has written a number of final responses. To keep things 
simple, Ill deal with each outstanding issue in turn.
Delays and workmanship
The claim has taken longer than Id usually expect to see given the nature and extent 
of the damage. Whilst there was an initial delay outside of Lloyds control waiting for 
the neighbours leak to be resolved, Lloyds was slow to progress the work after that.
When work did begin, Lloyds contractors were working sporadically, so it was taking 
longer to complete repairs than it should have done. And they caused other 
problems, such as leaving debris, uneven flooring and causing damage. All this 
added unnecessarily to Mrs Hs distress and inconvenience.
Had Lloyds dealt with the claim promptly and fairly, I think its likely the work would 
have been completed prior to Christmas 2022. Instead, Mrs H had to live in 
unpleasant conditions for much longer than that and suffer the frustration of the 
problems noted above.
Lloyds has accepted it caused delays and its workmanship was poor. Its offered 
£550 compensation for that. Im satisfied thats fair in the circumstances.
Repair guarantee
Mrs H has asked about a guarantee for the contractors workmanship. Lloyds says it 
contractor guarantees its work for two years, although it doesnt provide it in writing.
Nonetheless, Lloyds is responsible for the claim and the contractor it appointed. I 
would expect it to ensure that any work carried out by its contractor is lasting and 
effective  regardless of any guarantee the contractor may provide.
So if Mrs H is concerned with the standard of repairs in the future, shes entitled to 
get in touch with Lloyds about it. Id expect it consider what she says. And if its found 
the contractors workmanship wasnt lasting and effective, to put it right.
Outstanding matters
Mrs H has asked Lloyds to reimburse her the cost for a new lounge carpet, £800, and 
for tanking, £500. And to consider a recovery against a third party for the leak.
Lloyds accepts its taken too long to commit to doing these things and has offered an 
additional £200 compensation for that delay. Its also agreed to consider these 
outstanding matters.
Im satisfied Lloyds agreement to consider the matters and pay additional 
compensation is fair in the circumstances. If agreement cant be reached on these 
points to Mrs Hs satisfaction, shes entitled to raise a new complaint.
Overall
To put things right, Lloyds should pay a total of £750 compensation. If its paid any of 
the amounts it offered previously, it only needs to pay the remainder.
It should also consider the outstanding matters and let Mrs H know the outcome  if it 
hasnt done so already.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited to:
Pay a total of £750 compensation.
Consider the costs Mrs H incurred for a new lounge carpet and tanking.
Consider making a recovery against a third party.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman