DRN-3673853
The complaint
Ms S has complained that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BOI) did not inform her that her 
account had been changed from a live account to a dormant account. She is also unhappy 
that this meant that when she attempted to withdraw funds from the account, she was 
unable to do so, until she provided additional verification.
Finally, Ms S is unhappy with the service she received during the complaint process.
What happened
Ms S wrote to BOI to attempt to withdraw some funds that she held in a savings account. In 
response, Ms S was told that as her savings account had not been used in a considerable 
amount of time her account had been marked as dormant. This meant that she would have 
to re-activate the account in order for her to action this transfer. 
Ms S complained about this as she says she was not notified of this. In response BOI 
informed Ms S how she could re-activate her account, but it did not think that it had done 
anything wrong in relation to this. Ms S says she wrote to BOI two further times and did not 
receive a response. Some months later Ms S provided a certified copy of her passport which 
allowed the account to be re-activated and the account was closed and the balance was 
transferred. I note that BOI says it refunded the cost of Ms S certifying her passport.
I issued a provisional decision in which I said the following;
Ive provisionally considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide 
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I note that BOI is perfectly entitled to mark and account as dormant if it is not used for 
a period of time. Indeed, it is a legitimate way to prevent fraud on an account. That 
said though, I believe that it is best practise as set out by the British Bankers' 
Association (BBA) to attempt to contact the account holder at least once prior to a 
dormant marker being added at their last known address. This is to give them the 
option of keeping their account live and continue to receive statements etc. 
In this instance BOI have not provided anything to demonstrate that this occurred 
or that Ms S was given the option of keeping her account as a live account. I 
accept that it wrote to Ms S once a transaction had been made on the account 
informing her that the account had been made dormant. But this is not the same 
as giving Ms S the option to keep her account live before it is made dormant.
Had this happened, I think that its likely that Ms S would have taken this option 
and therefore the transfer wouldve occurred without the need for additional 
verification. I think therefore that BOI caused Ms S a measure of distress and 
inconvenience. This caused her to contact BOI on a number of occasions and led 
her to having to write a number of letters.
 
I note Ms Ss comments in relation to letters that she says she sent to BOI but 
were not responded to. I have looked at BOIs contact log of correspondence 
received by it from Ms S and I cant see that these were received by BOI. I cant 
hold BOI responsible for issues with the mail service, so I dont think that BOI has 
done anything wrong in relation to this.
 
Taking into consideration everything that has occurred, including all the issues 
raised by Ms S I currently think that BOI should pay Ms S £100. I think this is a 
reasonable amount to reflect the inconvenience and frustration caused to Ms S 
because BOI failed to give her prior warning that her account would be made 
dormant.
BOI agreed with my findings. Ms S responded and she disagreed with my findings and said 
in summary that she believed that the letters that she sent in September and October were 
received by BOI.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note Ms Ss comments that she believes that the two letters she sent were received by 
BOI. Ms S has explained that as these letters were sent to different addresses to the first 
address she used, when BOI searched to see if the post had been received, they were not 
looking in the right place. I have carefully considered this, but my understanding is that 
incoming post is not searched for by address, it is added to an online system and is 
categorised by account number. The search that BOI did was under the account number 
provided by Ms S. So overall I am satisfied, albeit on balance, that if these letters had been 
received, they wouldve shown up on the centralised system, regardless of which BOI 
address they were sent to.
Given this and having reconsidered everything I remain of the opinion that compensation of 
£100 fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience BOI caused Ms S, by not warning her that 
her account was to be registered as dormant. 
My final decision
It is my decision that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BOI) pay Ms S £100 for the reasons set out 
above to rectify this matter.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman