DRN-3897356
The complaint
Mr B complains that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited trading as Cashplus blocked his 
account and didnt tell him there could be issues receiving payments from other banks. He 
says he has lost out on work because of this.
What happened
Mr B agreed to do some work for a customer. He says when the customer tried to make 
payment from her bank account the transaction was flagged as possible fraud. The money 
later appeared in his account and so he contacted the customer to commence work but was 
told the funds had been released incorrectly. The customers bank then contacted Cashplus 
to say the payment was fraudulent and a freeze was put on his account. He says that his 
account being frozen meant he lost out on work as he couldnt receive payments. Mr B also 
says the issue with other banks thinking payments to his Cashplus accounts are possible 
fraudulent payments has happened on more than one occasion.
Cashplus said that it was contacted by a bank (Bank 2) on 11 May regarding a payment 
being sent to Mr Bs Cashplus account. The issue was forwarded to is fraud team and a 
restriction applied to Mr Bs account. It says it contacted Mr B that day to ask for proof of the 
disputed payment. It noted that Mr B thought the issue had been resolved on a call on 16 
May, but this wasnt the case as at that point it hadnt received notification from Bank 2. It 
says that on 20 May, the documents Mr B provided were reviewed and accepted and the 
account restriction was removed.
Cashplus accepted that a mistake had been made after the removal of the restriction as 
Mr Bs £250 overdraft limited wasnt reapplied. It apologised and offered to refund him a £15 
direct debit rejection fee which had been incurred. It said its terms and conditions set out that 
it wouldnt be liable for business interruption or loss of revenue, reputation, goodwill, 
opportunity or anticipated savings. However, it did say that further investigation could have 
happened before the restriction was applied and additional to the £15 refund it offered to pay 
Mr B £50 as a gesture of goodwill.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He didnt think that Cashplus actions to restrict 
Mr Bs account were unreasonable. He noted the actions and compensation offered and 
thought this was enough to resolve this complaint.
Mr B didnt agree with our investigators view. He reiterated that people were being told his 
account could be fraudulent and that this situation was losing him money.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
Mr Bs complaint was about the actions taken by Cashplus in freezing his account 
and that Cashplus didnt warn him of potential problems, such as the account being 
flagged as fraudulent. 
Mr Bs account was frozen on 11 May 2022. This was because Cashplus was 
contacted by Bank 2 regarding a customers payment. Given this information 
received I found it reasonable that Cashplus restricted Mr Bs account while the issue 
was investigated. I looked through the contact notes and saw that Mr B contacted 
Cashplus on 16 May to say the customer had removed the complaint and that Bank 2 
should have sent Cashplus an email about this. While I appreciated that Mr B thought 
the issue had been resolved at this point, Cashplus hadnt at that time received 
correspondence from Bank 2 about the complaint being withdrawn. Mr B provided 
documents which were reviewed and based on this the account restriction was 
removed. Mr B was without access to his account from 11 to 20 May but based on 
the information received I do not find that Cashplus acted unreasonably in this case.
When the account restriction was lifted the agreed overdraft wasnt reapplied. This 
was a mistake by Cashplus, and it took a number of days to correct meaning Mr Bs 
overdraft wasnt in place until 31 May 2022. During this period, he incurred a direct 
debit rejection fee. Noting the amount of the rejected payment I agreed that had the 
overdraft been in place this payment could have been made. Therefore, I agreed that 
it was reasonable for the £15 fee to be refunded.
While I didnt find that Cashplus did anything wrong by applying the restriction to 
Mr Bs account, it did make a mistake by not applying the overdraft when the 
restriction was removed, and Mr B had to chase to get this resolved. Cashplus 
offered to pay Mr B £50 as a gesture of goodwill and I found this reasonable given 
the inconvenience he was caused.
Mr B raised a wider concern about how his Cashplus account is viewed by other 
banks. I saw from the contact notes that on 13 June 2022, Mr B was told that an 
issue with payments being blocked may be due to Cashplus not being verified, as it 
isnt part of the payee verification scheme. I understood why Mr B was concerned by 
hearing that customers payments were being blocked, but noted it wasnt my role to 
comment on how other banks and businesses set up their fraud alerts and I couldnt 
comment on how other banks may perceive Cashplus accounts.
Cashplus explained that the comment regarding the payee verification scheme didnt 
mean that Mr Bs customers couldnt make payments. So, it wasnt clear that had an 
impact that meant I could tell Cashplus to take any further action in the 
circumstances here. Nor would it be fair for me to hold Cashplus responsible for 
issues arising with payments from other banks, or for another bank flagging a 
transaction to Mr Bs account as possible fraud in these circumstances.
Based on the above conclusions, I didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint.
No new information was provided in response to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand how frustrating the issues Mr B has experienced have been, but in order for me 
to uphold this complaint I need to be satisfied that Cashplus had done something wrong or 
has treated Mr B unfairly in some way. As I set out in my provisional decision, based on what 
Ive seen, I dont think it has. Cashplus placed a restriction on Mr Bs account following information received from Bank 2. 
Having considered the information Cashplus received I find it acted reasonably by applying 
the restriction and while it took time for this restriction to be lifted, I can see that when Mr B 
provided evidence about the transaction and this was assessed the restriction was removed. 
Therefore, in regard to the restriction I do not find that Cashplus did anything wrong.
A mistake was made by Cashplus not reapplying the overdraft to Mr Bs account when the 
restriction was lifted. But it responded to this issue by offering to refund the fee that had 
been incurred by a returned payment and paying £50 as a gesture of goodwill. I think this 
offer was a reasonable remedy to this situation.
In regard to the wider concerns Mr B has raised, as I have explained it isnt my role to 
comment on how other banks and businesses set up their fraud alerts or to comment on how 
other banks may perceive Cashplus accounts. Cashplus explained that the comment 
regarding the payee verification scheme didnt mean that Mr Bs customers couldnt make 
payments. So, as I set out previously, I do not think it would be fair for me to hold Cashplus 
responsible for issues arising with payments from other banks, or for another bank flagging a 
transaction to Mr Bs account as possible fraud in these circumstances.
As no new information was provided in response to my provisional decision my conclusions 
havent changed, and I do not find I can uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 February 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman