DRN-4120907
The complaint
Mr S complains about the quality of car supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement 
(agreement) with Blue Motor Finance Ltd (BMF).
What happened
In July 2022 Mr S was supplied with a used car costing £8,795 under an agreement with 
BMF. The car was acquired with approximately 53,000 miles on the odometer.
Under the terms of the agreement, everything else being equal, Mr S undertook to make a 
deposit payment of £1,500 followed by 53 monthly payments of £182.71 and 1 final monthly 
payment of £183.71 making a total repayable of £11,367.34 at an APR of 14.9%.
On 12 December 2022 Mr S complained to BMF about a number of faults with the car 
including the auto hold not working. (odometer reading approximately 58,000 miles)
On 30 December 2022, at BMFs request, Mr S obtained (at a cost of £45) a diagnostic 
report which identified 6 fault codes registered in the cars ECU.
On 13 January BMF issued Mr S with a final response letter (FRL). Under cover of this FRL 
BMF said that the supplying dealership had agreed to repair all the faults, an offer which it 
felt was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
On 18 January 2023 Mr S complained to BMF that there were further faults with the car.
On 26 February 2023 the supplying dealership confirmed repairs had been undertaken and 
confirmed in writing:
Carried out full checked on vehicle afterwards found all systems functioning as should and 
warnings extinguished. [sic] (odometer reading approximately 60,000 miles)
On 7 March 2023 Mr S confirmed to our service that there were still faults with the car.
On 9 April 2023 Mr S confirmed to our service that the auto hold was again not working, 
and hadnt been since 26 March 2023, providing evidence in support. (odometer reading 
approximately 62,000 miles)
Mr S complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that it 
should be upheld. In summary, she said that Mr S was supplied with a car that was of 
unsatisfactory quality. She then went on to explain what BMF should have to do to fairly and 
reasonably compensate Mr S which included rejection of the car.
Mr S accepted the investigators view, but BMF didnt. In summary BMF said that Mr S 
shouldnt be able to reject the car on the grounds that he accepted the return of his car fully 
repaired.
The investigator went back to BMF to say that although the car might have been returned to 
Mr S in late February 2023 fully repaired, the auto hold fault had clearly returned in 
March 2023. She also added that it would appear that some of the other (repaired) faults had 
returned along with some new ones.
BMF still didnt agree, so Mr S complaint has been passed to me for review and decision. 
After Mr S complaint was passed to me for review and decision, BMF confirmed to our 
service that Mr S had made all the monthly payments due under the agreement to date and 
Mr S provided evidence that the car had an odometer reading of approximately 66,000 
miles.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the agreement entered into by Mr S is a regulated one this service is able to consider 
complaints relating to it. BMF are also the supplier of the goods under Mr S agreement and 
its responsible for a complaint about their quality.
 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) covers agreements like the one Mr S entered into. 
The CRA implies a term into the agreement that the goods supplied under it are of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a 
standard that a reasonable person would find acceptable, taking into account factors such as 
 amongst other things  the age, mileage and the price paid.
 
In Mr S case, the car was approximately 9 years old and had covered approximately 53,000 
miles when supplied. So, Id have different expectations of it compared to a brand-new car. 
Having said that, and as I say above, the cars condition should have met the standard a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory, given its age, mileage and the price paid.
 
Given the faults that occurred and when I can confirm that like the investigator Im satisfied 
that Mr S was supplied with a car that wasnt of satisfactory quality. But this isnt the issue in 
dispute here.
Whats in dispute here is whether Mr S should be able to reject the car and be compensated 
along the lines recommended by the investigator, with BMF saying that he shouldnt be able 
to reject the car on the grounds he accepted one or more repairs all of which proved to be 
successful.
Now BMF is correct that under the CRA it (or its agents) have one right to repair any faults 
identified with the car that made it of unsatisfactory quality when supplied. But the CRA also 
states that in the event a repair fails, a consumer has a final right to reject. And in this case, 
based on all the evidence that has been provided, Im satisfied that the fault with the auto 
hold that was repaired in February 2023 reoccurred post repair in March 2023. 
Now in my view this is sufficient grounds on its own for Mr S to be able to reject the car. But 
in this case Im also satisfied that some of the other repaired faults may have reoccurred 
post repair and some new faults have developed making the grounds for rejection of the car 
by Mr S even stronger.So, in summary, I can confirm that I agree with the investigator that Mr S should be able to 
reject the car and the agreement should be treated as coming to an end. I also agree with 
the investigator that Mr S should have his deposit returned together with interest. And for the 
avoidance of doubt, I would like to make it clear that Im satisfied that rejection doesnt 
constitute a disproportionate remedy in the particular circumstances of this case.
Im also satisfied that this whole matter has caused Mr S a degree of distress and 
inconvenience for which he should be fairly and reasonably compensated for. And taking 
everything into account I can confirm that I agree with the investigator that £350 constitutes 
an appropriate sum for BMF to have to pay in this respect. Im also of the view that given Im 
satisfied the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied to Mr S, he shouldnt have to 
bear the £45 cost of the diagnostic report he obtained and this sum, together with interest, 
should be refunded to him.
Finally, I can confirm that Im satisfied that Mr S should be refunded any payments he made 
in respect of the five weeks 21 January to 26 February 2023 together with interest (on the 
grounds he wasnt in possession of the car during this time) and 10% of any payments he 
has made since 16 March 2023 together with interest (on the grounds that although Mr S 
has had use of the car since this date, this use has been impaired).
My final decision
My final decision is that Blue Motor Finance Ltd must accept rejection of the car and:
end the agreement with nothing further to pay
collect the car at no cost to Mr S
refund to Mr S his deposit of £1,500
refund to Mr S £28.11 of his 28 December 2023 payment and his 27 January 2023 
payment of £182.71 representing five weeks worth of agreement payments for the 
period 21 January to 26 February 2023, this being the period the car was in for 
investigation and repair with the original supplying dealership
refund to Mr S 10% of the agreement payments made since 16 March 2023, this 
being the date the auto hold fault reoccurred, to reflect the fact that although Mr S 
has had use of the car since this date this use has been impaired
refund to Mr S the £45 he paid for a diagnostic report
pay Mr S 8% simple yearly interest on all the above refunded sums from the date of 
payment (by Mr S) to the date of settlement*
pay Mr S £350 for the distress and inconvenience he had been caused
remove any adverse information it has reported, in respect of the agreement, with 
one or more third party credit reference agencies
*If Blue Motor Finance Ltd considers its necessary to deduct tax from these interest sums 
then it should provide Mr S with a certificate of tax deduction so he may claim a refund from 
HMRC if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2023.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman