DRN-3209350
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complaint that National Westminster Bank Plc wouldnt let them take a new 
fixed rate on their mortgage, because the remaining term was too short.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs C have a mortgage with NatWest. The term of the mortgage expires in 2022. 
They took a two year fixed rate most recently in 2018, which expired in 2020.
Mr and Mrs C asked NatWest for another fixed rate. NatWest said that wouldnt be possible 
because the remaining term of the mortgage was two months less than the minimum length 
fixed rate it had available. And it wouldnt agree to extend the term by the extra two months 
because doing so would take the term of the mortgage beyond Mrs Cs 70th birthday. 
This meant that for the last two years or so of the mortgage term, the mortgage would be on 
NatWests standard variable rate (SVR). And that would mean that Mr and Mrs Cs monthly 
payments would double, from around £500 per month to around £1,000 per month. 
NatWest said it couldnt give them a new fixed rate because they only had 25 months left on 
their mortgage but its shortest rate was for 27 months. And it wouldnt extend the term 
because Mrs C would be over 70, and because the mortgage was on interest only terms. 
That meant the mortgage would have to move onto the SVR.
Our investigator didnt think NatWest had treated Mr and Mrs C fairly. He thought that it 
could have extended the term of their mortgage by two months to allow them to take a new 
fixed rate. He said it should put them back in that position now, and should pay them £500 
compensation.
NatWest said that it was a commercial decision which products it offered, and not something 
that we could consider. And it said it had offered to consider a term extension when 
Mr and Mrs C first asked for a rate, but they had declined. 
As no agreement could be reached, the case comes to me for a final decision to be made. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NatWest offers a range of rates to its customers. But unlike some other lenders, it does not 
offer rates which run for exactly two, three or five years. Rather it offers rates that run to a 
fixed end date  depending on exactly when the rate is implemented on a particular 
mortgage, therefore, a two year rate might in practice be more or less than two years.
In this particular case, when Mr and Mrs Cs previous rate ended, the time to the end of the 
fixed rates NatWest had on offer was 27 months. A fixed rate must end no later than the end 
of the term of the mortgage, and as Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage had 25 months left to run, that 
meant they werent eligible for a new rate.
NatWest says the decisions it makes about what rates it offers to its customers are 
commercial decisions we have no power to consider. But I dont agree about that. We can 
consider whether a lenders decisions resulted in a fair and reasonable outcome in all the 
circumstances, and Im satisfied I have the power to deal with this complaint.
NatWest says it offered to consider a term extension when Mr and Mrs C first asked for a 
rate. But it says it has no documentary evidence to support that. And Mr and Mrs C say that 
didnt happen; they were just told they couldnt have a rate. I find their recollection of what 
happened to be credible  and indeed its the same version of events NatWest itself set out 
in its final response to them.
The reason NatWest said Mr and Mrs C couldnt take a new fixed rate was because the term 
of their mortgage was too short  by two months. And it wouldnt consider a new fixed rate 
because the term of the mortgage would go beyond Mrs Cs 70th birthday.
Ive thought about whether this resulted in Mr and Mrs C being treated fairly. But Im not 
persuaded that it did.
NatWests policy is that 70 is the maximum age for mortgage lending. The term would 
already run two months past Mrs Cs 70th birthday even without a product switch and term 
extension; a term extension to allow a switch would take it to around four months after her 
70th birthday. NatWest had already agreed to lend to Mrs C while she was 70 years old, and 
a term extension wouldnt change that. Even with the extension, the term wouldnt exceed 
the maximum age.
Under relevant equality legislation, lenders are entitled to use age as a factor in their 
decision making. But where they do so on a risk basis, there are particular requirements that 
must be met. And Ive taken that into account.
Ive also thought about the requirements of fairness more widely. NatWest is entitled to 
decide what products it makes available to its customers. Its entitled to have eligibility 
criteria, which some customers will meet and others wont  though as Ive said extending 
Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage wouldnt change its position in relation to the policy in any case.
Even if extending the term too the mortgage outside the policy and outside what had already 
been agreed, NatWest should think about whether that results in a fair outcome in an 
individual case. Very occasionally, as in this case, there will be cases at the margins where 
rigid application of a policy produces an unfair result. 
I find it hard to see that extending the term for a further two months significantly alters the 
risk of lending to Mrs C. And Mr C would remain below the maximum age limit. But not doing 
so has significant consequences for Mr and Mrs C, in that it doubles the amount they have to 
pay each month for the last two or so years of their mortgage. I can understand why that 
came as something of a shock to them  and how this problem wasnt something they could 
have anticipated when they took their previous rate in 2018.
Putting things right
In all the circumstances of this particular case, I think the fair thing for NatWest to have done 
was to have extended the term by two months so that Mr and Mrs C could take a new fixed 
rate for the remainder of their mortgage. So thats the position NatWest should put them 
back in now.
I also think that this decision caused Mr and Mrs C considerable upset. And having to find 
such a significant extra sum of money each month caused them substantial inconvenience. Our investigator recommended £500 compensation and I think thats fair in all the 
circumstances.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct 
National Westminster Bank Plc to:
Apply to Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage the two year fixed rate appropriate for their loan to 
value which was available to them in May 2020, extending the mortgage term to the 
end of the fixed rate if necessary;
Re-work their mortgage so that it is as if that rate and term extension had been 
applied to their mortgage from when it reverted to SVR in 2020;
Give Mr and Mrs C the option of either:
oHaving the resulting overpayments used to reduce their balance month by 
month, re-calculating the interest charged in subsequent months 
accordingly; or
oHaving the resulting overpayments refunded to them, plus simple annual 
interest of 8%* running from the date of each overpayment to date of refund. 
If the selected rate includes a product fee, NatWest may offset the product fee from 
the refund in either case.
Pay Mr and Mrs C £500 compensation.
* If Mr and Mrs C select this option, NatWest may deduct income tax from the 8% interest element of 
my award but should give Mr and Mrs C a statement of the deduction so they can reclaim the tax from 
HMRC if they are entitled to do so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 January 2022.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman