DRN-3328646
The complaint
A charity, which Ill refer to as D, complains about Ecclesiastical Insurance Office Plcs 
decision to turn down a claim under a Charity and Community Insurance policy.
Mr E, who is a trustee of D, brings the complaint on Ds behalf, but for ease of reading Ill 
refer to D directly.
All references to Ecclesiastical include its appointed agents.
What happened
Im aware that D disputes some of the events during the claim, so what follows is my 
summary based on the evidence Ive seen.
In early 2020, the property D is responsible for maintaining flooded following a period of bad 
weather. 
D raised a claim with Ecclesiastical, who confirmed the lower part of the property and 
damage to the bank was excluded from flood damage.
Ecclesiastical agreed to cover the damage to the paving and followed this up in writing to D. 
And it requested photos and an estimate of the repairs costs to support Ds claim.
D requested further assistance from Ecclesiastical so a site visit took place in the summer of 
2020. The contractors report stated the trustees had raised concerns about the structural 
integrity of the property.
Ecclesiastical appointed a loss adjuster to manage the claim and after further enquires a 
structural engineer (T) was appointed to inspect the damage. 
Ts report noted damage to brickwork channels outside the property and concluded, From 
external inspectionfrom the low-level paved area no significant defects, as a result of 
flooding, were observedIn the basement levelno significant defects, as a result of 
flooding, were observedBuilding has been subjected to numerous flood incidents during its 
lifetime, some more severe than the latest event. No remedial work is recommended in the 
[Building]. No defects were observed that could be specifically attributed to the2020 
flooding incident.
T added, The buttress wallmay have been subject to some minor settlement, but this 
cannot be attributed to the most recent event. It is most likely a case of long-term settlement 
as a result of repeated flood events over recent decades.
Ecclesiastical maintained its position to cover the damage to the paving. But it told D the 
damage to the brickwork channels was excluded under the policy. And it couldnt see any 
structural damage to the property building which could be directly attributed to the flood.
D disagreed with Ecclesiasticals decision and complained. In summary, it said:
Ts report hadnt considered that the property could no longer operate in a safe 
manner because of damage caused during the flood incident.
It had taken too long for Ecclesiastical to decide whether to cover the claim.
The policy exclusions effectively render the policy worthless by not covering the 
brickwork channels or associated water damage. And it didnt think this had been 
suitably drawn to its attention when it bought the policy. So, its been mis-sold.
Ecclesiastical requested T complete a second site visit. T attended and concluded, There 
was evidence of a significant amount of historic movement [to the wall]with areas of wall 
repointed and uneven coursingthere was evidence of historic remedial work [to a different 
wall]with patch rendering, repointing and uneven brickwork coursingwe did not observe 
any damage [to the structure] that could be directly attributed to the flood claimThe 
[buildings] have undergone settlement over many decades.
Therefore, Ecclesiasticals position on the claim remained unchanged. Ecclesiastical 
accepted it shouldve made D aware of the exclusion to the brickwork channels once it was 
made aware in autumn 2020 that these were also damaged. And it accepted there had been 
some delays in reaching its decision to turn down the claim. So, it offered D £250 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
D didnt agree and referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator looked at 
everything and recommended the complaint not be upheld. They concluded Ecclesiastical 
had acted fairly in relying on a policy exclusion to turn down the claim. They were satisfied 
this exclusion had been part of Ds policy since it had been on cover, and they couldnt fairly 
conclude the policy was mis-sold. 
Our investigator didnt think Ecclesiastical were responsible for all of the avoidable delays 
that D alleged. But they agreed the service it provided couldve been better. So overall they 
concluded that the £250 compensation offered was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
D disagreed with our investigators findings and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
addition to the points previously raised, D said:
It rejected the notion that it had raised concerns about the structural stability of the 
property  saying this had instead been raised by Ecclesiasticals contractor.
It questioned why, if the claim was to be excluded, a structural engineer was 
appointed and visited the site for a second time.
It says that Ecclesiasticals change in policy wording regarding cover for the 
brickwork channels was so fundamental it shouldve been made explicitly clear when 
the policy renewed in 2019. And as such this change in wording rendered the policy 
unfit for purpose.
The complaint has now been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Ecclesiasticals decision to turn down the claim
Ds position is that the property and brickwork channels have suffered from damage which is 
covered by insured events under the policy. Ecclesiasticals position is that in line with Ts 
reports, apart from an area of paving, the remainder of the damage is either excluded by the 
policy or hasnt been shown to have been caused by an insured event.
The exclusion Ecclesiastical is relying on to turn down part of the claim states:
Buildings
means the buildings at the premises...
Excluding
(ii) natural or artificial
(a) water courses
(b) confines of any body of standing water including but not limited to
(1) dams reservoirs culverts canals moats rivers and lakes
(2) any man-made elements attaching to or forming part of such structures
As Ecclesiastical has relied on this exclusion to turn down part of Ds claim, it needs to show 
the exclusion fairly applies. 
Im satisfied that the brickwork channels fall under the definition above. So, on the face of it, 
its reasonable for Ecclesiastical to apply the exclusion to the claim.
But Ive also considered Ds point that the policy is in effect worthless as it doesnt cover the 
brickwork channels on the premises. 
My role isnt to decide what risks an insurer decides to underwrite. In the circumstances of 
this case, Ive considered that D has been on cover with Ecclesiastical since 2009. And 
during this time, Ecclesiastical has shown that damage to the brickwork channels has always 
been excluded through various definitions and in line with its general underwriting approach. 
So, I dont think the level of cover it offered materially changed for D at the 2019 renewal.
I dont think that the exclusion is particularly significant or unusual compared to other policies 
on the market. So, I dont think Ecclesiastical needed to do any more to significantly draw it 
to Ds attention. In any event, I can see the exclusion wording was on a list of amendments 
within the 2019 policy renewal documents, so Im satisfied there was a further opportunity for 
D to query the level of cover if it considered it to be unsuitable.
To be clear, I dont find Ecclesiastical needed to be more explicit in highlighting the 
exclusions to the Buildings on Ds policy.
Whilst I agree with Ecclesiasticals conclusion that it couldve made D aware of this exclusion 
sooner in the claim, it wouldnt be proportionate to require Ecclesiastical to cover the claim 
because of its mistake. Instead, this would be a matter of compensation for Ds 
inconvenience and mismanaged expectations, which Ill address later.Regarding the remaining damage to the property, Ive summarised Ts findings above, which 
attribute the damage to long-term settlement of the structure. And I think Ts conclusion that 
the site had been subject to multiple floods also carries weight here. 
Ive not seen any evidence which suggests the flood in 2020 was the predominant cause of 
the damage, rather, I am persuaded by Ts conclusion that the flood most likely highlighted 
existing issues which wouldve required repairing or maintaining in any event. So, I find 
Ecclesiasticals decision to turn down this part of the claim reasonable in the circumstances 
too. 
Site investigations
D says there wasnt any explicit discussion about what was or wasnt covered when it told 
Ecclesiastical about the claim. However as set out above, Im persuaded the evidence 
shows that Ecclesiastical wasnt made aware of the extent of the damage at this stage. And 
Im satisfied its initial claims letter to D said it was covering the paving only. 
Ill next turn to Ds point about who raised concerns over the structural stability of the 
property. Ive considered the contractors report from the site visit in summer 2020 which 
specifically states, the trustees who were on site believe the [structure] may have moved 
and affected the structural integrity of the [property]. So, based on this I think 
Ecclesiasticals actions in appointing a loss adjuster and subsequently a structural engineer 
to address Ds concerns was reasonable in the circumstances.
Its certainly unfortunate that none of the trustees was unable to meet T on the date of its 
initial site inspection. And I can see that T rearranged the appointment to try and ensure this. 
Had this happened then its likely the scope of the damage D wanted to claim for wouldve 
been made apparent much sooner  specifically regarding the structural stability of the 
property. And this wouldve prevented the need for a second visit to address Ds further 
concerns. 
So, in the circumstances, I cant fairly conclude Ecclesiastical has done anything wrong in 
how it investigated the claim, or caused any delays linked to Ts appointment.
Claim delays and compensation
Ive considered Ecclesiasticals offer of £250 compensation for the delay in reaching its 
decision to turn down the claim and for mismanaging Ds expectations relating to cover for 
the brickwork channels. 
It appears the main area of delay in the claim concerns the confusion over who was 
responsible for instructing the structural engineer. And I accept that Ecclesiastical wasnt 
aware of the damage to the brickwork channels until the autumn of 2020. It then told D of the 
applicable exclusion in the spring of 2021. So, it couldve provided a better service here too.
Taking everything into account, I agree that the £250 compensation offered is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances, so I wont require Ecclesiastical to do anything further 
here.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Ecclesiastical Insurance Office 
Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E, on behalf of 
D, to accept or reject my decision before 29 September 2022.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman