DRN-1387150
 
The complaint
Mrs C complains about the way UK Insurance Limited (UKI) has handled a claim she made 
on her home insurance policy.
What happened
In August 2019, Mrs C called UKI to make a potential claim for storm damage. UKI 
appointed a surveyor to investigate the likely cause of damage. The surveyors report said 
they thought the property was suffering from a subsidence issue which needed more 
investigation. 
About a week later, Mrs C called UKI for an update. She spoke with one of its call handlers. 
He told Mrs C that if she wanted to go ahead with it arranging for a structural engineer to 
come out, hed need to change her claim from storm to subsidence. He explained the 
implications this would have on Mrs Cs claim excess and would potentially have on her 
ability to get insurance going forward. Mrs C wanted time to think about what to do next. So 
she didnt take UKI up on it arranging for a structural engineer to visit her during the call.
Mrs C employed an independent structural engineer to inspect her home. They found the 
damage wasnt due to subsidence, but another cause. Mrs C had the necessary repairs 
done privately. But she wasnt happy with the service shed received from UKI, so she asked 
us to look into her complaint.
Our investigator thought Mrs Cs complaint should be upheld. He thought UKIs call handler 
had given her misleading information about the claim. He didnt think Mrs C shouldve been 
told her claim would be recorded as subsidence until a second inspection had taken place. 
He thought UKI should reimburse Mrs C with the cost of the report shed paid for, plus 
interest. He also thought UKI should pay Mrs C £100 as compensation for her trouble and 
upset.
UKI disagreed. It said it told Mrs C that if she wanted it to investigate a potential claim, it 
would need to reclassify the claim as subsidence rather than storm. It said Mrs C had 
chosen to obtain her own report which had shown the damage wasnt down to storm or 
subsidence. So there was no cover under the policy for the repairs Mrs C had had done. And 
it said the policy terms state that if a policyholder makes a claim, they must give UKI any 
relevant information at their own expense. 
The complaints been passed to me to decide. 
 
 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive decided to uphold 
Mrs Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
I should start by saying that I dont think UKI did anything wrong by telling Mrs C that if she 
wanted it to further investigate the cause of damage to her home; it would need to reclassify 
the claim as a subsidence claim. UKIs surveyor had found the damage wasnt down to 
storm and had suggested a new cause of damage. That seems to be in line with its usual 
claims process.
Having listened to the call, I dont think the call handler was trying to put Mrs C off pursuing 
the claim, or trying to scare her. I think he was simply trying to explain the possible 
implications a subsidence claim could have on her policy.
But, Ive also thought carefully about the reasons why Mrs C went to the time and expense 
of getting her own structural engineers report. She made a claim for what she thought was 
storm damage. It was UKIs surveyor who, after inspection, suggested the cause of damage 
was subsidence. At this point, Mrs C realistically needed to get this checked out by a 
specialist engineer, even though she clearly told UKI she didnt think the damage was down 
to subsidence. 
So she had the choice to pursue this course of action through UKI, which had told her it 
thought her home was being damaged by subsidence. If shed gone ahead with this option, 
UKI wouldve needed to bear the cost of appointing a structural engineer and paid for their 
attendance and subsequent report. 
Mrs C opted to get her own engineer out. Its possible she paid more than UKI mightve done 
for such a visit and report. But it seems to me that in all cases, a structural engineers report 
was needed to rule out subsidence as a cause of damage.  And nothing Ive seen suggests 
to me that Mrs C got the report as a way of trying to prove the damage was down to storm.  
It seems to have been done to check whether or not the damage was consistent with 
subsidence. 
It seems to me that the fair and reasonable outcome here is for UKI to reimburse Mrs C the 
cost of the engineers report, plus interest, upon her providing it with evidence of the cost 
she incurred for the inspection and report.
Ive also thought about the impact UKIs handling of this claim had on Mrs C. I dont doubt 
how stressful it was for her when the surveyor first told her the damage appeared to be due 
to subsidence. It seems she was told UKI would be in touch, but it took her chasing UKI 
about a week later for her to be given the information she needed to be able to make a 
decision about how to go forward. Its clear she had to rely on support  from family and 
friends when deciding how to proceed with the claim, due to the stress it was causing her. 
So I agree with the investigator that £100 for her trouble and upset would be fair 
compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
I direct UK Insurance Limited to:
Reimburse Mrs C for the cost of her structural engineers report, subject to evidence 
of what she paid. UKI must add interest at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date 
of payment until the date of settlement.Pay Mrs C £100 for her trouble and upset.
 
UK Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell 
it Mrs C accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
*If UKI considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mrs C how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs C a 
certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2020.
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman