The complaint
Mr B complains Clydesdale Bank Plc put negative markers on his credit file.
What happened
Mr B held a current account with Clydesdale until January 2019. When the account closed, 
there was an outstanding balance because Mr B had an unarranged overdraft. Mr B paid this 
off in June 2019.
Mr B realised Clydesdale had reported negative markers to credit reference agencies after 
his account was closed. Mr B was unhappy this happened, so he complained to Clydesdale.
After looking in to Mr B's complaint, Clydesdale issued their final response. In this they 
explained negative markers were on Mr B's credit file because he didn't repay the money he 
owed when the account was first closed - and they hadn't heard from Mr B about clearing his 
balance until it was paid off in June 2019. Clydesdale said they're obligated to report to 
credit reference agencies, so they didn't think they'd treated him unfairly. Mr B remained 
unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator didn't think Mr B's complaint should be upheld. She agreed that Clydesdale 
are expected to report to credit reference agencies. And as there were a number of months 
between the account closing and being paid off, she didn't think Clydesdale had done 
anything wrong.
Mr B disagreed with our investigator, so his complaint was passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, I'm not upholding Mr B's complaint. I know this isn't the 
outcome he hoped for, but I'll explain my reasons below.
It's common for banks to report to credit reference agencies on the way their customers 
manage their accounts. And I'd expect them to take steps to ensure the information recorded 
is accurate. Mr B is unhappy Clydesdale placed negative markers on his file after his 
account was closed. So, for me to uphold his complaint I'd have to be satisfied that 
Clydesdale reported incorrect or misleading information.
I've asked Mr B to send us a copy of his credit report and highlight the markers he feels 
shouldn't be on there. But, I've not received this information. During our investigation, 
Clydesdale has sent us information showing what they reported after Mr B's account was 
closed.
DRN-1141402As mentioned above, Mr B closed his account in January 2019. And his account had an 
outstanding balance that was eventually cleared in June 2019. The credit report information 
from Clydesdale, shows that non-payment markers were reported for the months of March, 
April and May 2019. Mr B doesn't dispute the fact he didn't make payments towards the 
balance he owed until June 2019. So, from what I've seen, Clydesdale didn't report anything 
that reflects unfairly on Mr B.
I appreciate the markers were reported after Mr B's account was closed. But the account 
being closed isn't a reason for reporting on the management of the account to stop. That's 
because between January and June 2019, Mr B owed a legitimate debt to Clydesdale. And 
until that amount was cleared, Clydesdale correctly reported how Mr B's debt was being 
managed.
Clydesdale wrote to Mr B seven times between March and June 2019 about the amount he 
owed. And these letters were sent to the address we have for him on file. So I consider it's 
most likely Mr B would have received them. It also persuades me Mr B would have known 
he had to repay funds to Clydesdale. I've not seen any documents or testimony from Mr B 
that shows he attempted to repay this amount sooner. In the absence of that information, I'm 
satisfied Clydesdale hasn't done anything wrong in respect of this complaint. And because of 
that, I won't be asking Clydesdale to do anything to put things right. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I'm not upholding Mr B's complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2020.
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman