DRN-2820100
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that Scottish Widows Limited (Scottish Widows) significantly 
underpaid them upon maturity of their with-profits endowment policy resulting in a financial 
loss.
Mr and Mrs T would like the amount classed as terminal bonus added to the maturity value.
What happened
Mr and Mrs T took out their with-profits policy on 3 January 1994. The sum assured was 
£36,487.00 and the maturity date was 15 February 2019.
Mr and Mrs T requested a surrender value in May 2017 and again in 2018. Scottish Widows 
issued information on the maturity which included surrender value figures that were 
guaranteed for a short time after the values were calculated.
Mr and Mrs T continued paying the monthly premiums until maturity and the policy ended at 
the maturity date. The maturity value was lower than Mr and Mrs T expected, and Mr T 
contacted Scottish Widows for an explanation and raised a complaint.
Scottish Widows investigated Mr and Mrs Ts complaint but did not think that they had done 
anything wrong. They said that the figures that are quoted on surrender values are not 
guaranteed and the plan value did not grow as expected.
Scottish Widows explained how the maturity value had been calculated and did not uphold 
the complaint.
Unhappy with Scottish Widows response, Mr and Mrs T referred their complaint to the 
service and one of our investigators reviewed the complaint. The investigator agreed with 
the outcome reached by Scottish Widows and didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs T responded to the investigators view with questions and the investigator spoke 
to the business before replying to Mr and Mrs T. The investigators view didnt change, and 
they didnt uphold the complaint.
Unhappy with the investigators view, Mr and Mrs T have asked for an ombudsman to look at 
their complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs T but I agree with the outcome reached by the 
investigator and will not be upholding the complaint. I know that Mr and Mrs T feel strongly 
about their complaint and I will explain why I have reached this decision.
From my reading of the file, I think that the complaint is focused on how the maturity value 
has been calculated and Mr and Mrs T believe that a terminal bonus has been incorrectly 
applied. Both Mr and Mrs T and Scottish Widows have supplied detailed submissions and I 
have used these to make my decision.
The quotation for the surrender value sent to Mr and Mrs T following their request in 2018 
showed a surrender value of £83,120.00 and this amount was guaranteed until 9 October 
2018. Mr and Mrs T did not act to surrender the policy at this point and the policy matured on 
15 February 2019.
In the final response to Mr and Mrs Ts complaint, Scottish Widows showed a breakdown on 
how the maturity value was calculated. This was based on the sum assured and bonuses 
that had accumulated during the term of the policy.
The breakdown showed:
Sum assured £36,487.00
Vested bonus £14,692.18
Interim bonus £  1,270.98
Terminal bonus £28,847.59
Maturity value £81,297.75
In their submission to the service, Mr and Mrs T have said that they expected a higher value 
than what they received based on the following:
Mr and Mrs T believed that markets were rising and that should have meant their policy 
would perform in line with general market performance 
The believe that the terminal bonus was not included in the surrender value quotation 
and should be added to the final maturity value
I have looked at the policy details and there are some key pieces of information that 
determine how the maturity values are calculated. It should also be noted that the surrender 
values are calculated differently and may have contributed to what Mr and Mrs T thought 
they would get when their policy matured.
The terms and conditions of the policy say:
If you choose to surrender your policy before a death claim, youll receive an amount based 
on the policy value. We show the policy value, illustrated as a dotted line on the graph, 
moving up as well as down as the value is dependent on the performance of the assets that 
the with-profits fund is invested in. Market movements may reduce the surrender value of the 
policy. The guaranteed cash benefit and regular bonus represent the amounts shown on 
your bonus notice. However, these only apply at maturity date, a final bonus may be paid out 
over and above your policys guarantees. 
In their submission to the service, Scottish Widows say that surrender values are calculated 
using actuarial rates which are reviewed regularly to ensure that the customer receives a fair 
value for their policy based on the underlying values of the with-profits fund.
Scottish Widows say that the surrender value takes several factors into account including the 
term to surrender, the premiums paid, bonuses already added to the policy and the 
underlying growth of the fund. Crucially, Scottish Widows say that there is no mention of the 
terminal bonus at the surrender value date because it did not apply.They say that the terminal bonus is only paid at maturity and is based on a percentage of the 
accrued bonuses to maturity. The accrued bonuses are only guaranteed at maturity so cant 
be included in any surrender value quotation.
From the documentation that I have seen in the file, I can see why the surrender value and 
the maturity value are two different amounts and I am satisfied with Scottish Widows 
explanation as to how the terminal bonus is not included in the initial surrender quotation.
Mr and Mrs T say that the terminal bonus should be added to the maturity value that they 
received which would take the value to around £110,000. They have referred to a line in the 
final decision letter which says:
What can bring a lot of value to a With-Profits investment is the Terminal Bonus. This is only 
paid at the end of the agreed investment term.'
Mr and Mrs T suggest that this means that the terminal bonus would be paid at maturity and 
in addition to the maturity value, but Im not persuaded by this argument and can see nothing 
in the policy documentation that suggest that it is paid in additional to the maturity value
I think the crucial part of the complaint rests on the timing and how the terminal bonus was 
calculated. It represents the growth of assets over the life of the policy and is only able to be 
calculated at the end of the policy
Mr and Mrs T also say that they cant understand why the maturity value was lower than the 
surrender quotation that they received 5 months earlier. They say that the market was 
favourable and investments were growing and refer to a Scottish Widows report for 2019 
that states a growth of 11.7% was achieved for with-profit funds.
The investigator asked Scottish Widows about this and Scottish Widows said that as the 
fund matured in January 2019, the figure for 2018 would be a better comparison and this 
was -4% gross of tax.
Scottish Widows have suggested that as Mr and Mrs T held both a with-profit policy and a 
unit-linked policy, there may have been confusion about they operated. Im not able to 
answer this on behalf of Mr and Mrs T but I will say that I am satisfied that the maturity value 
has been calculated in accordance with the terms and conditions of the policy.
Mr and Mrs T have also asked to be compensated for the time taken to deal with their 
complaint. Unfortunately, the service is not able to award compensation for delays in 
investigating complaints. I acknowledge that dealing with the complaint may have been 
stressful to Mr and Mrs T but Im unable to award anything here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 July 2021.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman