DRN-3098161
The complaint
Mr A complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc unfairly withdrew a buy-to-let mortgage offer. In 
addition, it sent several letters to an incorrect address. 
What happened
In October 2020, Mr A applied to Bank of Ireland (BOI) for a buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage. He 
confirmed that he was the owner-occupier of his place of residence. BOI accepted the 
application. 
In January 2021, Mr A notified BOI of a change of address. And he was assured this had 
been updated on the system. Shortly after, BOI received a letter from Mr As solicitor to say 
they understood a requirement of the BTL mortgage was that Mr A needed to be an owner-
occupier. They asked whether this requirement could be achieved by a 1% share in his 
parents property, where he now resided. 
BOI responded to the solicitor advising that a 1% share wouldnt satisfy the criteria. But it 
appears this letter wasnt received until March. As such, the solicitor proceeded on the basis 
that the application remained accepted and in February 2021, they asked BOI to release the 
funds. 
In early March 2021, the solicitor called BOI to find out what was happening with the 
mortgage. And BOI confirmed that it wasnt prepared to accept a 1% share as being an 
owner-occupier. As such, it withdrew its mortgage offer. 
Mr A complained about this decision. And on 8 March 2021, BOI issued a final response 
letter which it sent to Mr As previous address. So Mr A raised a further complaint. A week 
later, on 17 March 2021, BOI sent a letter confirming the withdrawal of its mortgage offer and 
this was again sent to Mr As previous address. 
On 24 March 2021, BOI wrote to Mr A to apologise for sending the complaint response to his 
previous address. It offered £150 compensation for what went wrong, along with £20 
towards the cost of registering with CIFAS, which was paid into Mr As account. This letter 
was sent to an incorrect address, which Mr A has never resided at. So Mr A raised a further 
complaint. 
On 29 April 2021, BOI sent a further complaint response  this time to the correct address. It 
offered £75 compensation, which it paid into Mr As account. And it assured him his address 
had been updated. 
Mr A made a subsequent complaint that the letter dated 17 March 2021 confirming 
withdrawal of the mortgage offer had also been sent to his previous address. So BOI issued 
another complaint response dated 18 May 2021 awarding a further £50 compensation, 
which it paid into his account. 
Mr A complains that:
it was unfair to withdraw the BTL mortgage offer as BOI had accepted his application,
his solicitors were enquiring whether a 1% share in his parents property was 
sufficient and this was a hypothetical question. He does, in fact, have a 1/3 share in 
the property. But despite informing BOI, it refused to reconsider its position,
multiple letters containing private and confidential information about his finances 
have been sent to his previous address and an address hes never resided at,
hes asked BOI to correspond with him via email as this is more secure, but it has 
continued to send letters.
BOI has told us that part of its lending criteria is it will only offer BTL mortgages to borrowers 
who are owner-occupiers of their place of residence. At the time Mr A applied for a BTL 
mortgage, he met this criteria. But before the application completed, he moved into his 
parents property which he didnt own. 
BOI says that whilst it doesnt have a specific minimum share of equity it considers 
acceptable, it would expect its customers to have a significant share in the property. It 
considers matters on a case by case basis, and in Mr As case, it didnt think a 1% share 
was sufficient. It says it wasnt until after it had made the decision to withdraw that the 
solicitor informed it that Mr A now had a 1/3 share of the property. By which time, the offer 
had already been withdrawn. 
In regard to the change of address, BOI advise that it updated Mr As details correctly in 
January 2021. But when a complaint was raised, the address has to be manually inputted 
into the complaint record and this was done so incorrectly. After the second complaint was 
raised, it was amended but again incorrectly. From April 2021, the address was updated 
correctly. 
Whilst BOI acknowledge its mistakes, it says its paid a total of £275 compensation for 
whats gone wrong along with £20 towards the cost of registering with CIFAS. So it doesnt 
think it needs to do anything more. 
And finally, it says whilst Mr A has requested that specific correspondence be emailed to 
him, it cant locate a request whereby hes asked for all correspondence to be emailed. In 
any event, it says not all correspondence is email suitable and due to security reasons, 
certain correspondence will be sent by post. 
Our investigator was satisfied with BOIs explanation of whats happened, and he didnt think 
it needed to do anything further to put things right. So he didnt uphold the complaint. As 
Mr A didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator for broadly the same 
reasons. I recognise the strength of feeling Mr A has for this matter, and I know this outcome 
will be disappointing to him. So Ill explain why.
Mortgage offerMr As BTL mortgage application was approved in December 2020. Ive been provided with 
a copy of the mortgage offer which says:
We may also withdraw the offer if there has been a material change in your 
circumstances which is likely to have a material impact on your ability to afford the 
loan, provided: (a) we were not aware of the change before we provided the Offer to 
you; and (b) had we been aware of the change we would not have provided the Offer 
to you or would have provided the Offer to you for a lower amount.
BOI says its a condition of its lending criteria that a borrower must be the owner-occupier of 
their place of residence in order to be accepted for a BTL mortgage application. And from 
the information Ive seen, Im persuaded Mr A was aware of this requirement given the 
nature of his solicitors enquiries after he moved. 
Its not my role to comment on what BOIs lending criteria should be  thats a business 
decision which its entitled to make. My role is to consider whether the lending criteria has 
been applied fairly in the individual circumstances of this complaint. And Im persuaded it 
has. 
I say this because Mr A had a material change in his circumstances between making the 
application and the mortgage being finalised. And that material change is something which 
wouldve caused BOI to decline the BTL application had it been the position when the 
application was made. Under the terms and conditions of the mortgage offer quoted above, 
BOI was entitled to reconsider its position. And as Mr A no longer met its lending criteria, the 
offer was withdrawn. 
Mr A says BOI incorrectly assumed he only had a 1% share in his parents property, but that 
this was a hypothetical scenario proposed by his solicitor. So Ive looked at the 
correspondence BOI received. In the letter dated January 2021, Mr As solicitor says:
We refer to previous correspondence and we understand from our client that a 
requirement of the mortgage with yourselves is that he must be a homeowner with 
residence in the property. Please can we ask you to confirm if this criteria can be 
achieved with a 1% share in the property he is to reside in with his parents.  
The solicitor didnt receive BOIs response, so a further letter was sent in March 2021 which 
read:
Please note that our client is a home owner-occupier as he owns a 1% share in [his 
parents property] and resides there. Please find enclosed copy of transfer 
evidencing the same and confirm that youre happy to proceed.
Whilst I accept this may have been a hypothetical question at first, the second letter is clear 
a transfer of equity went ahead, and Mr As share was 1%. BOI had already confirmed that 
this was insufficient to satisfy its lending criteria. And whilst I appreciate it appears this 
response wasnt received by the solicitors, Im satisfied it was sent. 
It wasnt until after the offer had been withdrawn that the solicitor wrote to BOI to confirm 
Mr A now had a 1/3 share. The solicitor explained that Mr A initially wanted a 1/3 share but 
had changed his instructions to 1%. If was only after BOI confirmed this was unacceptable 
that Mr A instructed his solicitors to increase the share. Whilst the letter confirms the new 
position, I cant see that any proof of the transfer was provided.
From the information Ive seen, Im satisfied BOI made a decision to withdraw the mortgage 
offer based on the information it had available. And that information was clear that Mr A had a 1%, which BOI had confirmed didnt satisfy the lending criteria. So I cant say it acted 
unfairly by withdrawing the offer. 
Change of address
Its not in dispute that BOI sent Mr A letters to both his previous address and an unrelated 
address. So I dont need to decide whether BOI has done something wrong  it has. What I 
need to decide is whether its done enough to put things right. 
I can see that Mr A raised separate complaints each time he became aware that a letter had 
been sent to an incorrect address. And he was paid compensation for each complaint. I 
appreciate he feels the compensation paid doesnt fairly reflect whats gone wrong.
This service can make awards of compensation when the business has made a mistake. But 
when we do so, it isnt intended to punish or fine the business for whats gone wrong. It 
should be a proportionate reflection of the impact a businesss actions has had on the 
customer. So Ive looked at the impact BOIs mistake had on Mr A.
Im in no doubt that Mr A wouldve been stressed and inconvenienced by this mistake. He 
tells us he was worried that his private and confidential information was sent to wrong 
addresses. But Im not aware of any fraudulent activity thats taken place as a result. And 
from what Ive seen, these letters were passed on to Mr A unopened by his neighbours. So 
whilst I acknowledge his concern, our service wouldnt look to award compensation for what 
could have happened or any hypothetical losses. Instead, we take a holistic view of whats 
actually happened and the impact this has had.
Im only aware of approximately three letters that were sent to the incorrect addresses. And 
from April 2021, it appears Mr As address was updated correctly. Based on these 
circumstances, Im not persuaded that Mr A should be awarded any additional compensation 
to the £275 hes already received.  
I also acknowledge that Mr A wants BOI to correspond with him by email. BOI has explained 
that whilst its tried to accommodate the requests for email to date, its not always able to do 
so. This is due to security purposes. Whilst I appreciate Mr As frustration, Im not inclined to 
direct BOI to correspond by email in circumstances where it doesnt consider it appropriate 
to do so. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman