DRN-2518389
The complaint
Mr C complains about Lloyds Bank PLC and their decision to block his account after they 
flagged a transaction as potentially fraudulent. Mr C is unhappy that he had to go into branch 
to complete an additional identification check before they lifted the block on his account.
What happened
On 4 Feb 2020, Mr C attempted to make an online payment of £5,000 to an appeal fund for 
a local football club. The transaction was flagged by Lloyds fraud prevention team and Mr C 
called a member of that team to discuss it further that morning.
Mr C suggested he cancel the payment and make additional checks to ensure he was 
making the payment to the correct account. But Lloyds explained a block had been placed 
on his account and that hed need to visit his local branch to complete an additional 
identification check before it could be lifted.
Mr C made two more calls to Lloyds the same day, where he passed the same checks as he 
did on the first call. And he provided the same information. But on both occasions, Mr C was 
told hed still need to attend his local branch to complete the additional identification check.
Mr C attended his branch the following day and, after he satisfied the additional identification 
check, the block was removed from his account and the transaction was completed. But Mr 
C wasnt happy with the service he received, so he raised a complaint.
Mr C complained about the lengths he was made to go to remove the block from his 
account. He was unhappy that he provided the same ID information and reasoning on the 
calls made on 4 February as he did in branch the following day. He felt it was intrusive and 
unnecessary for Lloyds to ask him to go into branch to provide the same information before 
he was given back access to his account. So, he wanted compensating for the 
inconvenience this had caused him as hed had to turn down client meetings to attend the 
branch.
Lloyds didnt agree. They thought they had a responsibility to prevent their customers from 
being subject to potentially fraudulent activity. And because of this, they explained the terms 
and conditions of the account allowed them to stop or suspend account activity while they 
made the checks they felt were relevant. They thought theyd acted fairly when asking Mr C 
to attend branch to provide suitable identification as sometimes its not suitable to complete 
this solely over the telephone. So, they didnt think theyd done anything wrong. Mr C 
remained unhappy with this, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She recognised the 
inconvenience Mr C felt by needing to go into branch unexpectedly. But she thought Lloyds 
had acted fairly and in line with the terms of the account as they had a duty to ensure Mr Cs 
account was protected from any fraudulent activity. And she explained we were unable to 
say the checks they put in place were unfair as these were part of Lloyds business process. 
So, she didnt think they needed to do anything more.
Mr C didnt agree. He didnt think our investigator had considered the fact he provided the 
same ID information, and reasoning for the payment, in the telephone calls the previous day. 
So, he didnt think it was reasonable for Lloyds to still ask him to attend his local branch and 
thought he should still be compensated for the inconvenience this caused. As Mr C didnt 
agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr C. Ive no doubt it 
wouldve been inconvenient for Mr C when his account was blocked by Lloyds. And I can 
appreciate his frustration when he was asked to attend his local branch unexpectedly which 
may have impacted plans he already had in place. But for me to say Lloyds did something 
wrong, Id need to be satisfied that this request was unreasonable considering the 
circumstances. Or that by asking Mr C to do so, they were acting outside of the terms of the 
account. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
The terms of Mr Cs account explains that Lloyds had the ability to stop or suspend your 
ability to make payments using any device or security details if we reasonably consider it 
necessary because of security and unauthorised or fraudulent use of your security details. 
Because of this, I think Lloyds acted in line with the terms of account when blocking the use 
of Mr Cs account as they had concerns about its security and potentially fraudulent activity. 
So, I cant say they did anything wrong but blocking Mr Cs account.
Ive then considered whether they acted reasonably when asking Mr C to attend his local 
branch to remove the block. Ive seen on the system notes provided by Lloyds that their 
fraud team placed the block and stipulated that it could only be removed after Mr C had 
attended branch with ID.
Mr C called Lloyds on three occasions before he attended branch. And I can appreciate on 
these calls, Mr C passed the security checks and provided information about the transaction 
and his identification. So, I do understand why he feels his visit to branch was unnecessary.
But Lloyds have explained that there are occasions where identification checks needs to be 
made in person. And that their fraud team classified this as one of those occasions. So, 
while I do understand Mr Cs frustrations about the fact he had to provide the same 
information when in branch as he had already done, I dont think I can say this is 
unreasonable. 
The difference between the information Mr C provided on the telephone and in branch on 
this occasion was Lloyds ability to confirm Mr Cs identity against the information he provided 
in person. So, I do think there was a slight difference as a staff member in branch was able 
to provide confirmation that Mr C matched the photographic ID he provided. And once this 
was confirmed, Id then expect Lloyds to ask the same questions and retrieve the same 
information from Mr C as his identity at that point had been verified.I must also take in to consideration the fact Lloyds have a duty to ensure their customers 
accounts are protected from any fraudulent activity. On this occasion, the fraud team of 
Lloyds decided this additional check was required. And I can see once this check was 
complete, the block was lifted from Mr Cs account and the transaction was completed. Its 
not my role to comment on the checks Lloyds should put into place to protect a customers 
account. Only that these checks seem reasonable and are followed correctly. And in this 
situation, I think they were. Because of this, I dont think Lloyds need to do anything more.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr C was hoping for. And I do appreciate this doesnt 
compensate him for the time he took out of his day to attend his local branch. But I think 
Lloyds were acting in his best interests and crucially, I cant say they did anything wrong. So, 
it would be unfair for me to decide they should compensate him for this.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint about Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman