DRN-3386641
The complaint
Mr H complains that the minimum payment on his account with Studio Retail Limited trading 
as Ace wasnt enough to cover the interest owing.
What happened
Mr H purchased an item from Ace. When he received his statement he noticed that he had 
the option to pay a  minimum payment of £24.54 and that his estimated interest was £27.22.
Mr H was concerned that a minimum payment which didnt cover the interest could place 
consumers in a circle of debt. He raised a complaint with Ace.
In response, Ace said that Mr H held a personal credit account and could choose whether to 
pay in full or by instalments. It advised Mr H that if he paid by instalments, interest would be 
charged. Ace said the minimum payment was 6% of the balance or £10, whichever is 
greater. It also said that on this occasion the estimated interest to be charged on the next 
statement was higher than the minimum payments required, but that this would not be the 
case going forward.
Mr H wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that Ace had correctly calculated the 
minimum payment. He also said that , had Mr H decided to pay only the minimum payment 
rather than clearing the balance in full, interest would have been applied to the account. The 
investigator said he understood why Mr H thought that the minimum payment would not be 
paying towards the capital balance outstanding, but said this wasnt the case.
Mr H did t agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed Mr Hs account. I can see that he had a personal credit account, which meant 
he could either pay for the item in full by the due date, or pay by instalments which would 
attract interest. 
The way in which interest is calculated is relevant here. Ace has explained that it doesnt 
charge interest on purchases made during the first statement period if the balance is paid in 
full by the payment due date. If the balance isnt paid in full by the payment due date, 
interest is charged from the date the goods were charged to the account to the date when 
the balance is cleared.
Mr H has said that the estimated interest ion his first statement was more than the minimum 
payment. Hes expressed concern that this means that the capital balance would never be 
repaid.
Ace has explained that the estimated interest on the first statement includes deferred 
interest for the item from 22 September 2021, until the  statement was printed on 20 October 
2021. This means that the interest on this statement is higher than it would be normally 
because it includes almost a  month of deferred interest.
I understand why Mr H was concerned when he received his first statement. However, Im 
satisfied that Ace has calculated the minimum payment correctly. I cant say that theres 
been an error here. So I wont be asking Ace to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im unable to uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman