DRN-2954755
Complaint
Mr H has complained that TSB Bank Plc (TSB) unfairly continued applying charges to his 
overdraft when he was in financial difficulty.
  
Background
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Hs complaint and thought TSB should have realised 
Mr Hs overdraft had become unsustainable for him by February 2017 and so it needed to 
refund all the interest, fees and charges it added to Mr Hs overdraft from this point. 
Despite being provided with an extension to do so, TSB didnt respond and so the complaint 
was passed to an ombudsman for review.   
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
TSB will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I think TSB acted unfairly when it continued 
charging overdraft interest and associated fees from February 2017. By this point, it was 
evident Mr H was in financial difficulty. 
A cursory look at his statements leading up to this period shows that the account hadnt seen 
a credit balance for an extended period of time. And the credits going into the account didnt 
suggest that the facility could be repaid within a reasonable period with interest, fees and 
charges continually being added. 
So I think that by February 2017 TSB should have stopped providing the overdraft on the 
same terms and treated Mr H with forbearance rather than adding even more interest, fees 
and charges on the overdraft.
All of this means that TSB should have realised that Mr H was experiencing financial 
difficulty and offered him assistance. As TSB didnt react to Mr Hs account usage and 
instead continued charging in the same way, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably. 
Mr H ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges at a time when he was already 
experiencing difficulty. So I think that Mr H lost out because of what TSB did wrong and that 
it should put things right.  
Fair compensation  what TSB needs to do to put things right for Mr H
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Hs complaint for TSB to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Hs current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it from February 2017 onwards are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made TSB should contact Mr H to arrange a suitable repayment plan for 
this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr Hs credit 
file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the process of 
taking corrective action on the overdraft in February 2017.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr H along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then TSB 
should remove any adverse information from Mr Hs credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires TSB to take off tax from this interest. TSB must give    
Mr H a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Hs complaint. TSB Bank Plc should put 
things right in the way Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman