DRN-2747531
The complaint
Mrs M and others, acting on behalf of Mr Ms estate, complains that Wealth at Work Limited, 
trading as My Wealth, caused delays to the transfer of her husbands Defined Benefit 
Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS) causing his estate financial loss.
There are three named executors of Mr Ms will but I will refer only to one of these who is 
Mrs M. All references to Mrs M will include submissions made by the other executors. In 
terms of the OPS to which Mr M belonged, all references to the Administrators of that 
scheme will also include its Trustees.
What happened
In July 2018, Mr M contacted My Wealth to discuss his pension options. From the outset, he 
told My Wealth that he had sadly been diagnosed with terminal cancer. Mr M informed My 
Wealth that he had around six months life expectancy.
An appointment was made for Mr M on 28 August 2018. At the initial meeting, amongst other 
things, the adviser collated information including Mr Ms risk profile and his authority to 
enable My Wealth to do a Transfer Value Analysis Report (TVAS). 
A fact find document was finalised on 31 August 2018. This showed that Mr Ms main 
objective was to maximise his death benefits for the benefit of his wife (Mrs M). Following 
this meeting, the adviser had requested that Mr M ask the OPS for another Cash Equivalent 
Transfer Value (CETV) as the one calculated on 30 March 2018, was out of date.
The initial request to the OPS Administrators was issued by My Wealth on 4 September 
2018 and was chased on 17 September. My Wealths initial request included numerous 
questions about Mr Ms pension. It also asked the OPS Administrators to provide: All 
relevant transfer discharge forms should a transfer be required.
On 12 September 2018, Mr M emailed the adviser saying hed probably want to leave the 
final salary element of his OPS with that scheme for as long as it was practical based on his 
ongoing prognosis from his medical specialist. This was unless My Wealth believed it could 
manage the funds and provide better growth rates than the OPS fund. Mr M added: 
Presently I do not see any funding management costs within the [OPS] and any advantage 
in the transfer should bear this element in mind. Mr M ended his email by saying: This is 
obviously quite a large undertaking on my part and at the moment I do not feel I have 
sufficient back up written information to make an informed decision. 
The adviser responded on the same day (12 September) explaining the transfer process. He 
also said that: Regards to the time frame, I had prioritised your case as historically the 
research phase can take time and I had a view to try and speed the process up and have the 
report produced prior to meeting you in October. The adviser went on to say that: 
However, to enable a potential transfer should you look to use us in the future, we need to 
move on to the TVAS Report stage which once produced you do not have to make a transfer 
immediately but has been approved and signed off by our Pension Specialist that a Defined 
Benefit Transfer is suitable for you. And that I would like to stress the decision to and when to 
transfer is in your hands, we just need to ensure the TVAS report has been completed and you 
are in receipt of this which can take a couple of months, hopefully by the end of October.
Mr M paid My Wealths fees on 14 September 2018 notifying the adviser of this in an email 
of the same date. He noted in this email he would arrange to provide outstanding information 
to the adviser on his return to work the following week. 
On 19 September 2018, Mr M wrote to the adviser saying: unfortunately there will be a 
little further delay in me obtaining the outstanding information you require. Mr M went on to 
explain that he had been suffering with ill health requiring hospital treatment.
In a letter dated 20 September 2018, the Administrators provided My Wealth with an 
application pack which included an updated CETV. This was received by My Wealth on 
3 October 2018. The CETV was £1,052,345 guaranteed until 18 December 2018. The 
transfer pack included an application form and referred to a website link that My Wealth 
could go to in order to download all the forms it needed. 
My Wealth continued to gather further information both from Mr M and the Administrators. It 
received the information it requested from the Administrators on 23 October 2018. And on 
that day, My Wealth produced a draft TVAS, which was finalised on 27 October. Amongst 
other things, the following matters happened after this date (all dates in 2018):
2 November  the adviser contacted Mr M to let him know the suitability report was 
being finalised and a meeting was arranged for 26 November.
6 November  the suitability report was sent to the compliance team.
7 November  compliance reviewed the case and provided feedback
7 to 13 November  clarifications and amendments were provided by a Pension 
Transfer Specialist/ paraplanner. Additional queries were raised by compliance.
14 November  compliance approved the case and the suitability report was issued 
to Mr M with a recommendation to transfer.
At the meeting held on 26 November 2018, the adviser went through the suitability report 
with Mr M to ensure he fully understood all the information hed been given and the reasons 
for the recommendation. Due to Mr Ms circumstances, the recommendation was to transfer 
from his OPS to a My Wealth Self Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). 
Mr M agreed he wanted to transfer but said he had also been speaking to his solicitor and 
another Independent Financial Adviser (the other IFA). The My Wealth adviser contacted 
Mr M on 30 November 2018 to check a suitable date for another meeting. 
On 2 December 2018, Mr M responded to the adviser saying that: I have not yet managed 
to pin down the financial advisor recommended to me but will try again on Monday to gain a 
prompt appointment with him. The My Wealth adviser responded on the same day and said 
that: As I suggested I can see you around 4:30pm tomorrow, Monday, if you feel you are 
further in a position to at least complete the forms and I will retain these until I have 
confirmation from you to proceed with processing of the forms. Mr M responded the next 
day saying that the other IFA had been sent My Wealths proposals and that he (the other 
IFA) was in the process of reviewing and advising on My Wealths offer. 
On 12 December 2018, the My Wealth adviser chased Mr M asking if hed heard from the 
other IFA and that he was conscious the CETV was due to expire on 18 December. Mr M 
responded on 14 December saying that the other IFA had advised him to sign the transfer 
documents, but that he (the other IFA) had recommended transferring to a personal pension with another provider rather than the SIPP with My Wealth. The My Wealth adviser 
responded on the same day telling Mr M that if he wanted to transfer to another provider he 
would need to obtain separate advice about this as the recommendation hed provided was 
geared around transferring the funds into a SIPP with My Wealth.  
Following further discussions with the other IFA, Mr M contacted My Wealth on 
17 December 2018 saying that hed been advised that he should go ahead with the transfer 
as recommended by My Wealth, and that he wanted to sign the relevant documents. A 
further meeting was arranged on that day with Mr M signing and completing the transfer 
paperwork provided to him by My Wealth. The My Wealth adviser hand-delivered the 
paperwork to the office of the Administrators on 18 December 2018. 
On 24 December 2018, the adviser wrote to Mr M about the discussions held on 17 
December. In this letter he noted that: [the OPS] have illustrated the disinvestment and 
transfer of the current pension holdings may take up to 15 weeks.
On 31 December 2018, a letter dated 20 December 2018 from the Administrator, was 
received by My Wealth. The Administrator requested additional information which it asked to 
be submitted on a personal pension additional information form. My Wealth completed and 
returned the form on the same day as it was received. The letter from the Administrators 
also said: We have now developed a quick and easy self-serve website where you can 
obtain the discharge forms appropriate to the arrangement the transfer is being paid to. It 
then went on to provide the self-serve website address.
Other events following submission of the transfer documents, included (all dates in 2019):
23 January  email received from the Administrators requesting a Personal Pension 
Scheme Transfer Declaration form (the declaration form). My Wealth returned the 
completed declaration form on the same day.
31 January  Mr M sadly passed away. 
4 February  My Wealth contacted the Administrators for an update and the latter 
confirmed it had all the required paperwork as of 24 January. 
5 February  Mrs M informed the Administrators of Mr Ms death.
5 March  the Administrators notified My Wealth of Mr Ms death. It said it had 
cancelled the transfer effective from 6 February.
7 March  My Wealth was told by the Administrators that the transfer may not be 
cancelled but they needed to review the transfer to see if it could still go ahead. 
13 March  My Wealth spoke to the Administrators. The Administrators confirmed 
that they were happy to transfer if My Wealth wanted to accept the payment. They 
asked My Wealth to confirm 1. was it willing to accept the transfer 2. was Mr M 
already a member of the SIPP prior to his death. This was referred to the My Wealth 
legal team for an answer as no funds had yet been received into the SIPP. It wanted 
to establish whether the signed application form was sufficient to confirm 
membership of the SIPP.
21 March  after liaising with its legal teams, My Wealth confirmed to the OPS 
Administrators that Mr M was a member of the SIPP before his death and that it was 
willing to accept the transfer. 
Following My Wealths acceptance of the transfer, further correspondence ensued between 
all parties involved in the transfer. But on 8 August 2019, Mrs M contacted My Wealth saying 
that the Administrators had provided her with two options which were to draw a pension of 
£36,505 per year from the fund, reducing to £22,688 per year thereafter, or alternatively, to 
transfer her entitlement to a spouses pension. The transfer value offered was £736,000. The Administrators had said as HMRC hadnt confirmed that My Wealth were legally 
authorised to accept the transfer within five working days of receiving the completed 
paperwork and Mr Ms death, it was terminating the agreement. This was because a transfer 
could potentially mean that Mrs M and the OPS fund would face an unauthorised tax-charge.
Mrs M complained to My Wealth saying she considered it had caused delays and this is why 
the transfer had failed. She also said that Mr M was never informed that the transfer needed 
to have taken place prior to his death and this was critical to his decision making given his 
limited life expectancy. She also said that had My Wealth completed all the necessary forms 
correctly the transfer would have gone ahead before Mr Ms death. In this respect, Mrs M 
referred to what the Administrators had told her which was as follows:
 The receiving SIPP was provided a self-serve letter confirming the availability of an online 
facility to download the discharge forms on 20 December 2018. A further email chasing a 
response was sent to Wealth at Work on 23 January 2019. The completed discharge was 
then emailed to [the Administrators] on 24 January 2019.
Mrs M said this was significant and contradicts what shed been told by My Wealth.
My Wealth rejected the complaint. It made several points including:
It had progressed matters within a reasonable timeframe and it didnt think it was 
responsible for the losses to the estate of Mr M. Across the business it said it had 
acted as quickly as possible to action the transfer from the advice provided.
It noted in October 2018, it had contacted the Administrators to request the 
appropriate documentation to process the transfer. The Administrators provided 
My Wealth with a transfer pack explaining its process. But the additional information 
subsequently requested by the Administrator, wasnt covered in this pack.
In terms of advice it gave to Mr M about the transfer not being able to go ahead after 
he died, My Wealth said whilst its adviser didnt specifically confirm this point, he had 
at every opportunity, raised with Mr M how critical time was to the process.
My Wealth said it had always been willing to receive the transfer and to date has not 
been provided with any clear reason for the OPS refusal to do so.
My Wealth said it wouldnt have known of the potential tax charge as its advice was 
based on death benefits that were to be transferred before Mr M passed away. 
Our investigator didnt recommend upholding the complaint. She was satisfied that My 
Wealth had progressed matters within a reasonable timeframe. She noted that between 
26 November and 17 December 2018, Mr M was still considering whether he wanted to go 
ahead with the transfer. And she felt the adviser had kept Mr M reasonably informed 
throughout the process about the timescales involved. 
Our investigator didnt think there was sufficient evidence to show that even if My Wealth 
had submitted all the paperwork in early December 2018, the transfer would have been 
completed due to the Administrators own timescales for completing a transfer.
Mrs M disagreed. In summary, she made the following additional points:
The advice wasnt tailored to Mr Ms wants and needs given his short life expectancy.
There was flaws in the advice in relation to a lack of understanding and knowledge of 
pension laws and around the lifetime allowance.
Given Mr Ms serious health condition the advice shouldve been quicker than it was.
The letter dated 20 December 2018 wasnt delayed  it was sent and would have 
been received by My Wealth on or around this date.The Administrator had to chase for all of the forms to be received which werent 
received by it until 24 January 2019. My Wealth is at fault for these delays.
My Wealth should have known what documents to complete as it has done many of 
these transfers for this particular OPS. 
Theres no evidence that My Wealth expedited the transfer process.
The transfer process should have started from 26 November 2018 as this is when 
Mr M accepted the recommendations by My Wealth.
Its irrelevant that Mr M was told it could take up to three months  he shouldve been 
told the transfer may not have gone ahead if he had died before it had happened.
She does not agree that the delay was due to Mr M not signing the paperwork. He 
was extremely ill at the time and was receiving ongoing treatment. He presented 
earlier dates than 26 November but the delay was due to the advisers diary 
commitments not Mr Ms.
Mrs M has lost out due to the delays caused by My Wealth.
My Wealth didnt tailor its service to Mr M being a vulnerable consumer.
As no agreement could be reached, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill begin by passing on my deepest condolences on to Mrs M and her family. I appreciate 
bringing a complaint at this time must be very difficult, particularly with recent events. I also 
want to note that I understand some of the details mentioned in this report around Mr Ms 
health and his passing may be distressing for the family. I need to mention these matters as 
they are relevant to my decision. 
Based on everything Ive seen, Im not upholding this complaint. Before I explain my 
reasoning Ill just say that whilst Ive carefully noted all the representations made by Mrs M, I 
wont be addressing every single point shes raised. The crux of her complaint is that My 
Wealth had made mistakes which caused delays to the transfer process causing the loss of 
the CETV that Mr M was entitled to just before his death. I know Mrs M has since brought up 
other matters in her submissions, but my decision will focus on her original complaint to the 
business and our service.
I should also note at this stage that where the evidence is incomplete or contradictory, I will 
make my decision based on a balance of probabilities. Or in other words, what I think is 
more likely than not to have happened in light of the available evidence.
I appreciate that Mr M was extremely ill at the time he was being advised. This is something 
he told My Wealth from the outset. But Ive still needed to take into account the regulatory 
regime that exists requiring members transferring out of occupational pension schemes to 
take advice. This exists to safeguard the interests of members, who are often giving up 
valuable protected benefits. The requirement is there to ensure the member can make an 
informed decision. Its not optional. So, I can see why My Wealth wouldnt have considered it 
appropriate to allow this process to be cut short.
From the date the new CETV was received by My Wealth on 3 October 2018 to the advisers 
recommendation, which was first shared with Mr M on 14 November 2018, was less than 
two months. Given all the analysis and careful consideration that needed to be given to a 
transfer of this type, I think this was done within a reasonable time frame, and without 
unreasonable or unnecessary delays. Ive taken on board what Mrs M says about Mr M being a vulnerable consumer. But from 
what I can see, My Wealth did take this into consideration, both in terms of the service it 
provided to him and in its advice. It also made sure it chased up responses from all the 
parties involved, and I think the summarised timelines above demonstrates this.
It should also be borne in mind that during this process Mr M raised a number of concerns 
with the adviser, and I think on each occasion the adviser responded in a timely manner. In 
my view, the adviser was proactively contacting Mr M throughout the transfer process to 
keep him updated and to check on whether he wanted to go ahead with the transfer. In 
particular, Mr M only confirmed he wanted to go ahead with the transfer in an email dated 
17 December 2018 and the adviser arranged for the forms to be signed on that day. So, it 
took Mr M three weeks following the meeting with the adviser on 26 November 2018 to make 
a firm decision about the transfer. 
When Mr M was given the advice to transfer by My Wealth, whilst he did say he wanted to 
transfer, he also said he was consulting with another adviser and that he (Mr M) was 
considering taking another course of action. I can see when Mr M informed the My Wealth 
adviser about this, he was told that hed need to get further advice as the recommendations 
My Wealth had issued were based on its SIPP product. 
So, whilst I know Mr M could have gone ahead with the transfer much earlier, its clear that 
up until 17 December 2018, he was unsure whether he wanted to go ahead with the transfer 
as recommended by My Wealth. I make no criticism of Mr M for this. He was clearly 
considering his options carefully, and despite his serious health condition, it was important 
he was completely happy with the decision he made.
I appreciate Mrs M takes exception that Mr M is being held responsible for any of the delays. 
But from what I can see, Mr M did say that he wanted time to think before making his 
decision to proceed with the recommendations made by My Wealth. He was considering 
other advice hed received from the other IFA. So, this did add to the time taken to reach a 
decision about whether he wanted to accept the advice hed been given by My Wealth.
Mrs M says Mr M wasnt advised about the transfer not being able to go through if he died 
before it was completed, and that the estate might be subject to an unauthorised tax-charge 
if this did happen. She says if Mr M had been told this, he wouldve taken steps to transfer 
sooner. But Mr M was taking advice from the other IFA unconnected with My Wealth. So, Im 
not persuaded that any further advice from My Wealth would have made Mr M decide to 
accept its recommendations any more quickly than he did. As the My Wealth adviser told 
Mr M, the decision to transfer was in his (Mr Ms) hands.
All in all, looking at the timeline of events up to the time the documents were delivered to the 
Administrators office, I dont think My Wealth caused any unreasonable delays to the 
transfer process. Based on all the available evidence, Im satisfied it acted reasonably and 
fairly by making reasonable efforts to progress things against a relatively tight timescale. 
And I think it acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr M in its communication, such that he 
could make an informed choice. Ill turn now to the issues that arose after the transfer 
documents were delivered to the Administrators. 
In terms of the additional information it requested, I think My Wealth returned this promptly to 
the Administrators, I know the Administrators letter was dated 20 December 2018 but 
probably due to the Christmas period, it wasnt received by My Wealth until 31 December 
2018. My Wealth returned it with all the requested documents on the day it was received. 
So, I dont think My Wealth caused any unreasonable delay in this regard.
 In respect of the declaration form, looking at the additional information document sent to My 
Wealth by the Administrators this said: please provide ALL of the information and 
supporting documents detailed below. I cant see any reference to the declaration form that 
was later requested. The Administrators sent this document as an attachment to an email 
dated 23 January 2019. But I can see the Administrators had said in its letter dated 20 
December 2018 that all necessary forms could be found at a weblink it had referred to in this 
letter. And having checked this link, I can see the declaration form could be found there.
But even if I accept My Wealth made a mistake by not submitting the declaration form with 
the transfer pack on 18 December 2018, on balance, I dont think I have sufficient evidence 
to say that, but for its mistake, the transfer would have gone ahead prior to Mr Ms death. 
This is because even if My Wealth had submitted everything correctly, the process was still 
reliant on the Administrators processing timescales. 
According to the Administrators timeline in its transfer pack, which included time to check 
the documents (two weeks), disinvest investments from the scheme (up to six weeks) and to 
send the funds to the receiving scheme (one week), the process may still not have been 
completed until after Mr Ms passing which was on 31 January 2019. It should also be 
remembered that, as our investigator had pointed out, this was during the Christmas and 
New Year period and delays may well have happened due to the bank holidays that fell 
around that time.
I take on board what Mrs M says about how quickly the Administrators could have processed 
things. And its timeline does say to disinvest the investments could take as little as two 
weeks. But, I must also take into account the three week delay in terms of Mr M deciding 
whether he wanted to go ahead with the transfer. As Ive said, I make no criticism for him for 
that. But My Wealth were acting against an extremely tight timescale. I think, overall, it acted 
reasonably when Mr M said he wanted to go ahead with the transfer. It ensured the 
paperwork was hand-delivered to the Administrators office so that Mr M didnt miss out on 
the CETV that was due to expire. And when the Administrators asked for additional 
information, it responded promptly.
Ive also considered Mrs Ms point about My Wealth doing other similar transfers for clients 
belonging to the same scheme. But I dont think it follows that My Wealth should have 
reasonably known the process that would have applied in Mr Ms particular case. Amongst 
other things, the OPS process could have changed at any point. This is why My Wealth 
asked the Administrators in its letter of 4 September 2018 to confirm what documents were 
required to complete the transfer.
All in all, taking all of My Wealths conduct into account and the surrounding circumstances, I 
dont think I can fairly or reasonably uphold this complaint. I appreciate this will be a 
disappointing outcome for Mrs M and her family.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman