DRN-3620263
Complaint
Miss A is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) registered a fraud prevention marker 
against her.
Background
In December 2020 and January 2021, Miss As account received payments of £15 and £920. 
Around £600 of the funds were withdrawn in cash. Monzo subsequently received a 
notification from the bank responsible for sending the payments to Miss As account stating 
the payee of the funds had reported being a victim of fraud. Monzo reviewed Miss As 
account and as a result of its investigation, it decided to close her account and record a 
fraud prevention marker.
After learning of the fraud prevention marker, Miss A complained that this was applied 
unfairly. Monzo looked at Miss As complaint and didnt uphold it. As Miss A remained 
dissatisfied she referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss As concerns. She didnt think that Monzo had done 
anything wrong or treated Miss A unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Miss A disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that Monzo has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of facility 
 relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a marker, it 
isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Miss A is guilty of fraud or a financial 
crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or concern. The 
relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that Monzo must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
entered Miss As account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. Secondly, 
Monzo also needs to have strong evidence to show that Miss A was deliberately dishonest in 
receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment. This 
can include Miss A allowing someone else to use her account in order to receive an 
illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was 
unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Miss As complaint, I need to decide whether I think Monzo had 
enough evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Miss As account and that her actions 
suggest she was complicit in this. And having considered everything, I find that Monzo did 
have enough to record a fraud prevention marker here. Id like to explain why in a little more 
detail. 
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that the funds in question, which entered Miss As 
account, did so as a result of fraudulent activity. So the only matter which remains in dispute 
here is whether Miss A was complicit in allowing her account to receive the illegitimate 
payment. 
Miss A says that she opened this account for crypto-currency trading. But her friend then 
asked to use her account and she provided them with her card, email details and passwords. 
Miss A says she didnt know anything about the activity as she had no access to the account 
once she handed over all of the details.
Ive thought about what Miss A has said. But Im afraid that Miss As version of events simply 
isnt plausible. I say this because Miss A transferred funds from another one of her accounts 
and then on to a crypto-currency account in between the fraudulent payments being credited 
to her account. Miss A has confirmed that she made this transfer and payment in early 
January 2021. And as the account had a zero balance prior to this and the fraudulent activity 
taking place, I think its reasonable for her to have noticed that the first of the payments had 
credited her account at this stage. 
As Miss A ought to have noticed the payment and didnt take any action, I cant reasonably 
conclude that she was an unwitting participant here. Instead, I think its more likely than not 
she was complicit in her account receiving fraudulent funds. 
So overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that Monzo did have sufficient 
evidence to show that fraudulent funds entered Miss As account. And it was also reasonably 
entitled to conclude that it was more likely than not that Miss A was complicit in this. As this 
is the case, I dont think that it was unfair for Monzo to record a fraud prevention marker in 
the circumstances that it did. And Im not upholding Miss As complaint.
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Miss A. But even taking into account the 
impact Miss A says the marker is having on her, I cant ignore the fact that the available 
evidence appears to indicate that its more likely than not she was complicit in fraudulent 
activity. So I hope that Miss A will understand the reasons for my decision and that shell at 
least feel her concerns have been listened to. Furthermore, Miss A might find that shes able 
to open an account with another bank as long as she applies for a Basic Bank Account, 
rather than a full Current Account or any such equivalent. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 September 2022.
 Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman