DRN-1752591
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1992. Mr G and Mrs G say Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold them the 
PPI.
background
Mr G and Mrs G took out an MPPI policy alongside a mortgage in April 1992. They say they 
did this in a meeting with Nationwide. The MPPI policy covered Mr G against accidents, 
sickness and unemployment. Mr G and Mrs G took out a further advance in August 1995 
and then another further advance in August 1998. They then cancelled the policy in 1999 
and the mortgage ended in 2003.
Mr G and Mrs G say that at no point during the sale in 1992 was PPI mentioned to them. 
They say it was not explained and was attached to the mortgage without their knowledge. 
They add that when they took out a further advance, at that stage Mr G was self employed 
and wouldnt have been able to claim, reiterating their point that they didnt know they had it.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr G and Mrs Gs complaint. Mr G and Mrs G didnt agree with 
this so as their complaint is not resolved, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to make 
a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr G and Mrs Gs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and will explain why I have come to that conclusion.
Mr G and Mrs G have said they didnt know MPPI had been added to their mortgage. 
Nationwide says that having the MPPI was a condition of getting the particular mortgage that 
Mr G and Mrs G took, which was at a fixed rate for an initial period. Nationwide wasnt 
prevented from making PPI a condition of applying for the mortgage  as long as it made this 
clear to Mr G and Mrs G. It would then be up to Mr G and Mrs G to decide whether to accept 
that offer, including taking out PPI, or explore getting a different mortgage  with Nationwide 
or someone else  without the PPI, if they wanted.
Ive seen screen prints from Nationwide that show Mr G and Mrs G did take this particular 
mortgage with an advertised fixed rate that also included PPI. Nationwide say a mortgage 
offer would have shown that PPI must be taken out for the duration of time that the relevant 
fixed interest rate applied. Although I havent been able to see the original sales 
documentation, based on what I have in front of me, I think its more likely that Mr G and Mrs 
G applied for the mortgage knowing that the PPI was compulsory and a condition of taking out this particular mortgage. And I think its more likely that they chose to go ahead with this 
particular mortgage because of the preferential rate of interest it offered.
On balance, based on everything Ive seen and been told, I think Nationwide made it clear 
that the policy was compulsory on this mortgage and Mr G and Mrs G agreed to this as a 
term of the mortgage (to obtain the preferential rate).
Based on what Ive seen, I think thats likely Nationwide didnt give a recommendation to Mr 
G and Mr G to have the MPPI policy. This means Nationwide didnt have to check if it was 
right for them. But it did have to make sure Mr G and Mrs G got the information they needed 
to decide if it was right for them.
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr G and Mrs G about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. But they chose to take out the mortgage knowing they would have to 
take out the PPI  so it looks like they wanted this type of cover or that they felt the 
preferential rate of the mortgage meant they were still better off even if they were paying this 
premium.
And based on what Ive seen of Mr Gs circumstances at the time (as the sole policy holder) 
it doesnt look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  so 
it would have been useful for him if something went wrong. From what Mr G has told us he 
would have received statutory sick pay if he was unable to work due to illness and he had no 
other means with which to pay his mortgage if he was to lose his job. But this policy would 
have paid out the monthly benefit for up to two years. And it would have covered the same 
length of term if he was to become unemployed. So I dont think better information about the 
PPI would have put him off taking out the cover.
Ive thought about everything Mr G and Mrs G have said including that at later point Mr G 
became self employed and wouldnt have been able to claim on the policy. I acknowledge 
what Mr G and Mrs G have said but this point doesnt change my decision. The MPPI policy 
wasnt amended and they didnt take out a new policy when they took out their further 
borrowing, so it was up to them to inform the insurer of Mr Gs change in circumstances. And 
as I have already concluded I think it was more likely they were aware they had MPPI and 
chose to take it, to obtain the preferential rate. 
I know it will be a disappointment to Mr G and Mrs G but I cant find a reason to uphold their 
complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons stated above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 May 2020.
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman