DRN-3174386
The complaint
Mr L complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) deactivated his bank 
account without any notice and breached his confidentiality.   
What happened
Mr L moved abroad in 2014 and says he wrote to Halifax letting them know of his change of 
address and contact details. Mr L also arranged a mail forwarding service. Mr L says he then 
received a letter from Halifax in June 2015 which was addressed to his old address in the 
UK. Mr L then contacted Halifax and they changed his address. Mr L says over the next few 
years he received letters from Halifax addressed correctly. Mr L says in November 2019 he 
was unable to log into his account online so he contacted Halifax and was told his account 
had been partially deactivated. Mr L then spoke with Halifax and they explained the steps he 
needed to take to reactivate his account. In line with what Mr L had been told, he sent 
Halifax a request to reactivate his account together with certified copies of documents 
showing his identification and address. Mr L also complained.  
Mr L then chased over several months but was told nothing could be done over the phone or 
online as it wasnt Halifaxs policy. And, unless he could visit a Halifax branch in the UK to 
sort out the issue he would have to wait for a reply by post. Mr L says he continued to check 
online to see if his account had been reactivated but it hadnt. Then in August 2020 Mr L 
noticed from his online notification records that Halifax had posted a letter that month but it 
had been sent to his old address in the UK. Mr L complained again. 
Halifax then sent a final response and said, as Mr Ls account hadnt been actively used for 
a period of three years, with no credits or debits during this period, the account had become 
dormant. So, before Mr L could use the account again, the dormancy needed to be lifted. 
Halifax acknowledged Mr L had sent in documentation which was received in January 2020 
but the proof of address supplied and who certified the documentation was deemed not 
acceptable in line with their policy. Halifax said a letter was issued to Mr L in January 2020 to 
inform him about this decision. Halifax said, in order to have the dormancy lifted, Mr L will 
need to supply a certified copy of proof of identity and proof of address  Halifax then listed 
examples of acceptable identification. Halifax said the documents would need to be certified 
by an Embassy, Consulate or High Commission of the country issuing Mr Ls passport or a 
Lawyer, Barrister, or Accountant or notary public. Halifax then provided instructions on 
where Mr L will need to send the documents to have the dormancy lifted.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr L. She thought Halifax had breached Mr Ls 
confidentiality and also not kept him updated following his request for his account to be 
reactivated. 
Our investigator recommended Halifax pay compensation of £200 as well as reimbursing Mr 
Ls call costs. Halifax agreed but Mr L disagreed so the matter has come to me for a 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. And, I think the investigators 
recommendation is a fair way to resolve matters. If I havent commented on any specific 
point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.   
Account dormancy 
 
I can see Mr L first becomes aware theres an issue with his account in November 2019.    
Mr L speaks with Halifax and its clear from this conversation, hes shocked that his account 
has been partially deactivated particularly as he received no advance notification of this. 
Halifax say Mr Ls account was dormant and this is why theyve taken this action. So, Ive 
looked further into Halifaxs reasons and whether any notification shouldve been sent to    
Mr L about this.  
Halifax have provided their dormancy policy. This sets out the process and says it applies to 
accounts where there hasnt been customer initiated transaction for three years. This says a 
dormancy mailing is sent to a customer whose account could fall within the dormancy policy 
 this gives the customer an opportunity to use the account within the allocated response 
period set out in the mailing. The policy says, if a customer doesnt get in touch with Halifax 
or doesnt use their account within the response period, then the account will be marked 
dormant. Halifax say they dont have a copy of the actual letter sent to Mr L but they have 
provided a template of the letter. This says its been over three years since the customer has 
used the account and theres still a balance in the account. The letter asks if the customer 
wishes to keep the account open and, if they do, they need to let Halifax know by a specified 
date. The letter says, if Halifax dont hear back then they will place restrictions on the 
account which will prevent money being added or taken out of the account.   
Ive looked at Mr Ls transactions on his account and his statements show, prior to the 
account being marked as dormant, there wasnt any activity for at least three years. So, I 
think Halifax have acted in line with their dormancy policy in marking Mr Ls account as 
dormant. I cant see Mr L was sent any advance notification of this or being given an 
opportunity to initiate some activity on his account to prevent the dormancy marker. But, the 
dormancy policy says customers who hold an account which has been inactive for three 
years, and with a balance of less than £25, wont be included in the dormancy mailings but 
may still have had their account marked as dormant. So, while I do understand Mr Ls 
frustration at not receiving advance notice, given the balance on his account, they didnt 
need to include Mr L in their dormancy mailing. So, I cant say theyve acted unfairly here. 
The next point Ive considered regarding the account dormancy is the steps Halifax took in 
relation to reinstating the account in line with Mr Ls request. I understand the dormancy 
marker has now been removed from Mr Ls account but Ive considered their actions after  
Mr L first became aware of the issue. During a call with Halifax in November 2019, Mr L 
explains he lives overseas and when attempting to log into his account online he saw a 
message asking him to contact Halifax. It was then on contacting Halifax that Mr L was told 
his account had been partially deactivated. 
The call handler explains, given the status of the account  which at that point isnt fully 
deactivated  she cant take Mr L through the necessary security questions so the amount of 
information she can give is very limited. The call handler then registers a complaint for Mr L. 
The call handler then explains Mr Ls account isnt closed, its been deactivated but can be 
reactivated. The call handler explains there are two options, the first is by visiting a branch 
which she understands isnt possible for Mr L. The second option is writing to Halifax with a 
request to reactivate his account and enclosing identification and verification documents and 
the timescale for reactivating Mr Ls account is about 42 days. The call handler explains the identity and address documents can be certified by the High Commissioner or Embassy of 
the country where Mr L is based  or a lawyer.       
A few days after the call, Mr L then sends certified documents to Halifax  these documents 
were certified by an overseas police service. Mr L then chases over a period of around eight 
months to find out whats happening and during this time he also continued to check to see 
whether he could log into his online account. Its understandable Mr L wouldve become 
increasingly frustrated on the occasions he tried to log into his account online as he was 
given a timescale of 42 days to reactivate his account. And, while this was of course 
dependant on Halifax receiving suitably certified documents, I cant see Mr L was told until 
he received Halifaxs complaint response, that the proof of address supplied by him and who 
certified the documentation was deemed not acceptable in line with their policy. So, during 
that eight-month period, Mr L wouldve continued to assume his account would be 
reactivated as he hadnt heard to the contrary. Halifax say a letter was sent to Mr L in 
January 2020 letting him know the documents he had sent werent suitable. But, Ive seen 
no evidence of this letter being sent. I should add, I dont think Halifaxs decision to decline 
reactivation of Mr Ls account was unfair as Ive seen their Guidance on identification 
documents and the documents sent by Mr L hadnt been certified in line with Halifaxs 
policy. But, the issue here is that Mr L wasnt told this in a timely manner.   
Taking this into account, I dont think Halifax kept Mr L updated on the position with his 
account following his request for it to be reinstated. Its clear from Mr Ls correspondence, he 
was very upset and frustrated during this time and was inconvenienced by having to 
continuously chase Halifax. And, the calls Mr L made to Halifax during this time couldve 
been avoided had Halifax notified Mr L of the position following his original request to have 
his account reactivated. So, I think its reasonable that Halifax should pay Mr L 
compensation for this as well as reimbursing his call costs.     
Breach of confidentiality 
I note Mr L says he first notified Halifax of his change of address in 2014. I can see Halifax 
sent Mr L a letter in June 2015 thanking him for letting them know of his change of address. 
This letter is addressed to Mr Ls old address and says Halifax have put the new details on 
their files. System notes provided by Halifax show Mr L contacted them in April 2015 to 
change his address and this is updated by Halifax in June. Mr L did put in place a mail 
redirection service but this ended in June 2015. I can see, from this point, letters have been 
sent by Halifax to Mr Ls new address but correspondence has also been sent to his old 
address.   
I can see Halifax sent a letter in August 2020 to Mr Ls old address. This letter says Mr Ls 
debit card is due to expire soon and theyve noticed he hasnt used this card over the last 12 
months. They say, it might be that Mr L no longer wishes to have a card on this account so 
they wont send him a new replacement card when his current card expires in January 2021. 
Halifax say, if Mr L does still want a card then he can request one before his current card 
expires by logging onto his online banking or by calling them. 
Halifax say Mr Ls old address was retained on their system as a correspondence address 
and this is why some mail would still have been sent to his old address which included 
communication about a new debit card or cheque books. Halifax say regulatory 
communications would still be sent out which includes changes to terms and conditions and 
annual age ability statements. Halifax say the letter in August 2020 appears to have 
defaulted to the old address due to it being about a new debit card.   
The evidence shows Halifax still retained Mr Ls old address on their system after they 
confirmed the system had been updated and theres evidence Ive seen of at least two 
letters which have been sent to Mr Ls old address. Therefore, and in light of Halifaxs explanation of the type of letters which wouldve been sent to Mr Ls address, I believe its 
more likely than not that other letters will have been sent to Mr Ls old address between 
2015 to October 2021  which is when his old address was removed from Halifaxs system. 
While I cant say what information any correspondence will have contained, whats important 
here is that Mr Ls upset and worry is understandable and justified given that there is the 
possibility someone else might have information relating to his account. 
I note Mr L is very worried someone else may have stolen his identity and/or mightve 
committed fraudulent activity using his details. I do acknowledge this, but Ive seen no 
evidence of this so I cant factor this into any compensation I would look to award. That said, 
I do acknowledge the worry this will cause Mr L. I also note Mr L says the issue around 
sending correspondence to his old address mightve been happening since 2014 as that is 
when he moved abroad. While this might well be the case, the mail redirection was in place 
until June 2015 so I think its more likely than not any correspondence will have been 
forwarded to Mr Ls new address. So, the issue appears to have impacted only the letters 
sent from June 2015. So, I uphold this part of Mr Ls complaint and I think Halifax should pay 
compensation for the upset and worry to Mr L.  
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that Halifax have acted unreasonably by not keeping Mr L updated 
following his request for his account to be reactivated and by breaching his confidentiality by 
sending correspondence to his old address. So, Halifax should pay Mr L compensation of 
£200 for the upset, worry and inconvenience caused. Mr L had to contact Halifax on a 
number of occasions to find out whats happening with his account  these were costs 
directly incurred by Mr L as he didnt receive updates. So, Halifax should also reimburse    
Mr Ls call costs of £6.66. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax must 
pay Mr L compensation of £200 and reimburse his call costs of £6.66. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2022.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman