DRN-2965310
The complaint
Miss S complains that Santander UK Plc have made false allegations about her and feels 
that she is being watched while she transacts in the branch.
What happened
Miss S was told by a branch manager at Santander that she had been rude and had upset 
staff with conversations she has had. Miss S says that the branch manager threatened to 
close her account. Miss S says the branch manager is making things up about her. Miss S 
thinks its to do with a visit three weeks prior to when she had the chat with the branch 
manager.
Miss S made a complaint to Santander. Santander did not uphold her complaint. They said 
the branch manager advised that on occasion Miss S has been rude to her and some staff 
members in the branch, there has also been a complaint made by another customer about 
Miss S to the branch manager. Santander also said that due to the customer complaint the 
branch manager felt she had to address the issues with Miss S. Santander said that as Miss 
S had an aggressive tone towards the branch manager and was irate then the branch 
manager informed her that they would close her accounts down if this behaviour continued. 
Miss S brought her complaint to our service and said that she thinks that the branch staff 
now watch her when she transacts in the branch, which makes her feel uncomfortable. Our 
investigator did not uphold Miss Ss complaint. She said that she believes its the 
conversation which Miss S had with her friend that made people uncomfortable. 
Our investigator explained that the branch manager was helping a customer who was 
informing them of a bereavement and the customer wasnt happy with the crude 
conversation that she could hear involving Miss S. Our investigator said that she had looked 
at three witness statements from Santander branch staff and Miss Ss friends witness 
statement. She said that the conversation could be viewed as inappropriate. Our investigator 
said that although Miss S feels she is being watched in the branch now, she feels Santander 
are trying to improve the relationship with Miss S as they didnt close down her account 
when the terms and conditions of the account could have allowed them too. Miss S asked for 
an Ombudsman to review her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties dont agree on the events of the complaint, so Ive looked at all of the
information available to me in order to decide what is likely to have happened. As our
investigator explained to Miss S, Closed Circuit Television (CCTV) would not be available 
here. So while this would have given an indication of what happened, I wont be able to rely 
on this here. I know Miss S has said that the branch manager told her that they had the 
CCTV, but Santander confirmed this is not available.
When it comes to complaints where its one word against another, I have to consider the 
evidence available to me. I then have to weigh the evidence against the balance of 
probabilities, that is, whats more likely to have happened in the circumstances. Having done 
so here, Im not persuaded that Santander did anything wrong and Ill explain why.
Ive looked at the statement that Miss Ss friend has sent us. This shows that the nature of 
the conversation which Miss S and her friend had. Im persuaded that this could be 
inappropriate or offensive to some people. I know Miss S has said that this was a private 
conversation between Miss S and a friend, and a member of staff joined in. But Ive 
considered if other customers could hear that conversation and one of them has complained 
to the branch manager, then I would expect the branch manager to investigate this issue. 
The branch manager has said that other staff had complained about Miss Ss behaviour 
also. So although Miss S feels that the branch manager is making stuff up about her, there is 
evidence in the form of witness statements from two other members of staff which detail 
Miss Ss perceived behaviour also.
Im satisfied that Santander were entitled to invite Miss S into a private room with the branch 
manager to discuss her perceived conduct and to make her aware of what could happen if 
the conduct continued.
I know that Miss S feels that she is now being watched in her transactions by the branch 
staff and this makes her feel uncomfortable. But I agree with our investigator that as 
Santander havent closed down her account when they may be entitled to based on the 
terms and conditions of the account, then Im persuaded that Santander want to improve 
their relationship with Miss S. So it follows I wont be asking Santander to do anything 
further.
My final decision
I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 September 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman