DRN-4220249
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC caused delays to their mortgage offer, 
because it didnt amend the property and solicitors from a previous offer when asked. Mr and 
Mrs G want Barclays to pay compensation, plus extra costs they say they incurred. 
What happened
Whilst this complaint is brought by both Mr and Mrs G, as the mortgage is in both their 
names, our dealings have been with Mr G. So Ill mainly refer to him in this decision. 
Mr G said hed applied for a Barclays mortgage in 2021 and was approved. The house he
was interested in buying was then withdrawn from sale, and Mr G looked elsewhere. But in
early 2022, Mr G said the sellers of that house approached him again, and he agreed to buy.
He said hed agreed a completion date of 25 March, which should be achievable because
Barclays had already made an offer for the same borrowing amount, and some of the legal
work had already been done before the property was withdrawn from the market.
Mr G said all Barclays needed to do was just to change the property address, and send a
new offer. But Barclays caused delays, which meant Mr and Mrs G nearly lost their dream
home. Mr G said first Barclays sent the revised offer to the wrong solicitor and named the
wrong property. Then Barclays sent the offer with the right property, but still to the wrong
solicitor. Then Barclays did send the offer to the right solicitor, but reverted to the wrong
property. So it took a long time to get the right offer to the right place.
Mr G said hed asked his broker to make changes to his Barclays mortgage application,
amending the property and the solicitors firm he was using, on 21 February. But he said it
took until 24 March for Barclays to finally issue the correct offer, and to send it to the right
solicitors.
Mr G said that because the wrong solicitors (whom hed used previously) were tipped off that
he was using someone else to complete his purchase, they then refused to return money
hed already paid as a deposit for legal work.
Mr G said the sellers withdrew, because their onward purchase was aligned to 25 March,
and theyd lost trust in Mr G when his offer didnt arrive. But Mr G said that he kept working
with all the parties, and managed to agree a completion date of 5 May 2022.
Mr G said he needed to pay rent for much longer than he expected, until 20 May. He wanted 
Barclays to refund him for the rent hed had to pay between the original completion date of 
25 March, and then.
Mr G said Barclays had offered him £400. Hed later sent more evidence, but when Barclays
said it wouldnt reconsider, he asked us to look into things.
Mr G told us about the impact that missing the planned completion date had on him and his
family. He wanted Barclays to pay £2,769 for his rent for April and May, £350 for solicitors
costs which hed otherwise expected to be refunded to him, plus compensation for the
emotional trauma, and the time taken to get the purchase back on track.
Barclays said it accepted that it caused a delay by sending the offer initially with the wrong
property, but it said it hadnt received the new solicitors details until 17 March.
Our investigator didnt think Barclays had to do more than it had offered. He said Mr G had
told us his sale fell through around 16 March because his sellers purchase wasnt going
ahead, by which time our investigator thought Mr G did have an offer. And our investigator
thought Barclays didnt have the right solicitors details until 17 March.
Our investigator thought Mr G could have completed by 16 March. He said Barclays couldnt
be blamed if the onward chain had fallen through, so he couldnt ask it to pay Mr Gs rent
during this time. And he said Mr G had chosen to move to a new solicitor, so he couldnt ask
Barclays to pay the £350 he didnt get back from his old solicitor. Our investigator thought
Barclays offer of £400 was fair.
Mr G replied to say that wed got some dates wrong. Hed asked his broker to amend the
solicitors and property details on 21 February. He sent us documentation showing that the
goal then was to complete on 25 March.
But Mr G sent us an email from his solicitor, saying he didnt have a mortgage offer by 23
March. That finally arrived on 24 March.
Mr G said if Barclays had done everything correctly, he had no doubt that the property would
have exchanged on 25 March as envisaged in the memorandum of sale, and all the extra
costs he needed to bear would have been avoided.
Barclays had claimed that it didnt receive details of Mr Gs new solicitors until 17 March. But
Mr G sent us information from his brokers, claiming that the new address and new solicitors
details were both sent on 23 February.
Our investigator then wrote again, to repeat that Mr G had previously told us that the chain
collapsed around 16 March, because the sellers purchase wasnt going ahead. So he said
Mr G couldnt have completed on 25 March, and that wasnt Barclays fault. Or alternatively,
Mr G could have exchanged and completed on 24 March, when he received the offer. Our
investigator still thought Barclays offer was fair.
Mr G still didnt agree. He said whilst it was his choice to use a different solicitor, it wasnt his
choice to send mortgage documents to the old solicitor, and that was why he didnt get his
£350 back. Mr G also said he still thought the reason why the sale didnt go through on 25
March was because of Barclays delays. Mr G said the sale did fall through on 16 March,
and he had to work very hard to get things back on track. Mr G repeated that Barclays hadnt
sent the right paperwork to the right place (his new solicitor) until 24 March.
Because no agreement was reached, this case then came to me for a final decision. I then 
reached my provisional decision on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did not propose to ask 
Barclays to do more than it had already offered to do. This is what I said then: 
I think there may have been some confusion in this case, so I will set out what I think
happened, and when, noting relevant evidence as I go.On 21 February 2022, Mr G agreed to buy a property hed previously been interested in.
Exchange was to be as soon as possible, and completion on 25 March. Mr G showed us 
that hed asked his broker to amend his Barclays mortgage application on the same 
date, changing both the solicitor and the property.
On 23 February, Mr Gs broker sent revised details to Barclays. Barclays said this only
included changes to the property Mr G wanted to buy, not also to the solicitor he wanted 
to use to make his purchase.
Mr G has shown us a letter from his broker, which asserts that the change to property 
and to the solicitor were both sent at the same time. The broker attaches excerpts from 
its communications with Barclays, which it says shows this. Unfortunately, these 
excerpts are partial, and there doesnt seem to me to be any confirmation there that Mr 
Gs brokers had sent the revised solicitors details to Barclays before Barclays accepts it 
received these on 17 March.
A mortgage offer issued on 9 March did go to the wrong solicitors, and included the 
wrong property purchase.
Offers were then issued on 14 March, 17 March (which Barclays says was a mistake) 
and 23 March. All of these are in respect of the right property. Only the last one was 
sent to the right solicitors.
I also note that Mr Gs solicitor told Mr G on 23 March that he hadnt received any 
mortgage paperwork, and Mr G said then that Barclays had confirmed it had sent things 
to his old solicitor.
For those reasons, I dont think Barclays did send its third offer to the right solicitors, but 
with the wrong address, as Mr G suggested.
I know there was initially a mistake about the property Mr G was buying, and Barclays 
has accepted responsibility for this. But I havent been able to see that it also made a 
mistake about Mr Gs solicitors. The evidence Ive seen to date makes me think it is 
more likely that Barclays was only told about Mr Gs new solicitors on 17 March, and it 
actioned this change shortly after this, producing an offer on 23 March. So I dont think 
that Barclays could be held responsible for delays caused because it didnt have Mr Gs 
new solicitors details.
I would also note that the information Barclays has shared with us indicates that the
mortgage offer documentation was also sent directly to Mr G, and to his broker, each 
time it was issued. So Mr G was aware that he had a mortgage offer, and could 
demonstrate this, even if his solicitor didnt yet have the paperwork.
Mr G told us his old solicitors had agreed to use the money hed paid against a future 
purchase if he used them for that purchase, or refund the money if he wasnt going 
ahead with a purchase. That firm then received documents from Barclays, by mistake, 
and found out Mr G was buying with someone else. But I dont think I can fairly and 
reasonably ask Barclays to pay costs incurred when those solicitors found out about Mr 
Gs purchase, as it doesnt appear that Mr Gs old solicitors had ever agreed to refund 
money if Mr G was buying elsewhere, but had just decided to use a different solicitors 
firm. So it doesnt appear as if, in this situation, any refund was due.
Mr G also said he wanted Barclays to pay him the rent hed had to pay for April and 
May. But Mr G would always have needed to pay either rent for this time, or his 
mortgage, which was considerably more each month than the rent he was then paying. I know that Mr G ended up with some overlap of rent and mortgage. But it appears that 
his original planned completion date of 25 March would have left a rather longer overlap, 
based on his rent being due on the 20th of each month. So Mr G wasnt worse off 
because of this.
Mr G also told us it was extremely stressful to have his completion date delayed. He has 
told us the seller of his new home pulled out on 16 March, because their purchase 
wasnt going through. He also said the problem was that he didnt yet have an offer. But 
the paperwork that Barclays has sent to us suggests Mr G would have been sent his 
offer each time it was generated, so he did have an offer, and could demonstrate that to 
other parties, even if his solicitor hadnt yet received it.
So I havent been able to see that the failure to exchange and complete on this property
purchase in line with Mr Gs original intentions, was related to previous delays with 
Barclays putting the right property details on Mr Gs offer, or delays in sending these to 
the right solicitor (however those were caused). Unfortunately, if his seller had difficulties 
with their own sale on 16 March, then I dont think its likely that Mr G could ever have 
completed by 25 March. And I note in Mr Gs email of 23 March to his solicitor, no 
exchange or completion date had been confirmed, and the solicitor said none could yet 
be set.
I realise Mr and Mrs G were both very much affected by the delays to completion, but
unfortunately I dont think a completion date of 25 March was possible in this case. I 
also dont think that date was missed solely, or even mainly, because of what Barclays 
did. So, although I know Mr and Mrs G will be very disappointed, I dont think Barclays 
has to do more than it has offered, to pay Mr G £400.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Neither side has replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side has offered any further evidence or argument, and I havent changed my mind. 
Ill now make the decision I originally proposed.My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC must pay Mr and Mrs G the sum of £400 
which it previously offered in settlement of this complaint, unless it has already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 July 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman