DRN-2626787
The complaint
Mr T says U K Insurance Limited (UKI) wrongly declined a claim he made on his motor 
insurance policy and then cancelled it as it thought the claim was fraudulent. 
What happened
Mr T told UKI that on 7 May 2020 a car in front of him had stopped suddenly at a junction 
and his car collided with its rear bumper. Initially, he said he didnt know the other driver 
(who claimed for the damage to his car and for personal injury), but later Mr T admitted that 
they knew each other. UKIs investigation included an independent forensic engineers 
inspection. The engineer said there was no consistency in the damage to the two cars and 
that the alleged accident could not have taken place as reported. UKI also noted that Mr T 
had produced an invoice from his brother for the recovery of his car - but his brother said he 
hadnt charged for it or issued an invoice. UKI had other concerns about the circumstances 
of the claim, and it didnt accept the explanations Mr T gave it. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Ts complaint. He noted that UKI had found several 
inconsistencies in his account of events and that it had accepted the findings of the forensic 
engineer. In his opinion, UKI had applied the policys terms and conditions correctly. 
Mr T queried whether the other drivers medical report had been considered and asked for a 
copy of the forensic engineers report. He then challenged that report, partly on the basis 
that UKI didnt tell the engineer about pre-existing damage to his car. He said hed told UKI 
about that when he took out the policy and had sent it photos. UKI said it doesnt ask for 
such details at inception - and that Mr T had bought the policy online, where there was no 
option to provide them. It also pointed out that the engineer had noted the old damage on 
Mr Ts car in his report. UKI said it would be defending the other drivers personal injury 
claim (despite his medical report) as it didnt think the reported incident was genuine. 
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy requires policy holders to be honest in their dealings with UKI at all times. It says 
that if someone has attempted to deceive UKI, or has made a claim thats false, fraudulent or 
exaggerated, it may reject the claim and cancel the policy.
We dont decide whether a consumer has acted fraudulently or not, as thats the role of the 
courts. Instead, we look at whether the insurer has acted fairly and reasonably in the way it 
has dealt with the issue. Fraud is a serious matter, so we expect an insurer to have carried 
out a full investigation and to have found sound evidence before concluding that a consumer 
has acted in a dishonest or fraudulent way. 
In this case, I think UKIs investigation was thorough. It instructed a claims inspector to 
interview Mr T. He raised concerns about Mr Ts account of the accident and the surrounding 
facts. The inspector established directly from Mr Ts brother that he hadnt charged Mr T for 
the cars recovery and said that was because Mr T was his brother. UKI later found that Mr T 
had misled the inspector by telling him he didnt know the other driver, when that wasnt true. 
The independent forensic engineer appointed by UKI provided an extensive report of his 
findings. He concluded that there was no consistency at all between the damage to the two 
cars and gave a detailed explanation for his view. He also said that in his opinion, the paint 
transfer from Mr Ts car wasnt caused by contact friction, but was deliberately introduced to 
the other car, in order to support Mr Ts account of the incident.  
UKI gave Mr T the chance to comment on the concerns that had emerged during its 
investigation. I think it was reasonable for it to decide that it wasnt satisfied with what he 
said. Mr T told UKI that hed misled it about not knowing the other driver because he thought 
giving the correct answer might affect his claim. I think it was fair for UKI to consider that to 
be an admission of dishonesty, which affected Mr Ts overall credibility. Mr T said the invoice 
from his brother was for the diesel hed used in the two recovery trips hed made. But his 
brother made no reference to getting any payment at all from Mr T, for diesel or otherwise, 
and Mr T has provided no evidence that shows his brother was mistaken.  
  
Mr T has suggested that that the forensic engineers report cant be relied on, as the 
engineer wasnt aware of the pre-accident damage to his car - despite the engineer having 
commented on the old damage. Mr T told our investigator that he didnt accept the reports 
findings in general. He suggested that the engineer couldnt be independent if hed worked 
for UKI before. As far as I can see, Mr T didnt raise this issue with UKI. But whether the 
engineer had carried out work at UKIs request previously or not, his duty as an expert is to 
the court, not to UKI. In line with standard industry practice, the engineer signed a 
declaration to that effect at the end of his report. 
Although Mr T may not agree with the engineers findings, he told us that he has no relevant 
technical qualifications. The forensic engineer has extensive technical qualifications and 
substantial relevant experience, as set out in his report. His specialist field is collision 
investigation and incident reconstruction. I think it was entirely reasonable for UKI to give 
great weight to his findings and to decide (on the balance of probabilities) that it was far 
more likely than not that the cars didnt come into contact. That meant it was fair for it to 
conclude that the incident didnt happen in the way Mr T said it had, or at all. 
Our investigator made it clear to Mr T during calls with him that he was entitled to provide an 
independent report of his own, so any conflicting opinion about the accident damage could 
be considered. At one stage Mr T said he intended to do so, but that didnt happen. 
 
When Mr T complained to UKI about the tone of its letters, UKI said they were based on 
standard templates. I dont think the tone of them was inappropriate. And I havent seen any 
evidence that UKIs advisors were extremely rude and pushy, as Mr T suggested when he 
complained to us. I think when robust enquiries are made and a consumer is challenged 
about numerous issues, it can often feel to the consumer that an insurers advisors and 
representatives are being rude or aggressive, even when that isnt the case. 
In March 2021, well after our investigator had issued his view of Mr Ts complaint, Mr T sent 
him a copy of a very brief incident report dated 7 May 2020 from a female witness. In it, she 
simply said shed seen a brown car at the junction where Mr T said the accident took place - 
and that a red car had crashed into the back of it. Mr T says UKI didnt contact her. The file 
notes show that UKI tried to contact a male witness in 2020 without success. If UKI was also aware of a female witness, I think it should have tried to contact her, too. But Ive seen 
nothing on the file to show that UKI had her details.
In any event, although witness evidence can often be crucial to the outcome of a claim, in 
my opinion, its very unlikely that an eye-witness account of Mr Ts car crashing into the 
other car would have made any difference in this particular case. Thats because the expert  
evidence UKI has about the absence of consistent crash damage to the cars is highly 
persuasive. I think the forensic engineers in-depth testimony about why the cars could not 
have come into contact with each other as reported would have trumped any witness 
evidence to the contrary. So even if UKI made an error in not trying to contact a witness (and 
theres no evidence of it) I think its far more likely than not that it didnt prejudice the case. 
Having taken everything into account, I think UKI acted fairly and reasonably in making its 
decisions. I think it considered the relevant evidence carefully and adhered to the policys 
terms and conditions. In these circumstances, I cant uphold Mr Ts complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman