DRN-3796767
The complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard did not honour an 
agreement to accept a reduced payment in settlement of the outstanding debt on his credit 
card accounts. 
What happened
The details of this complaint as well known to both parties and the key facts are not in 
dispute, so I wont repeat them in full here. The key facts are:
- Mr S held three credit card accounts with Barclays.
- Mr S representative asked Barclays to accept a reduced payment in settlement of 
the outstanding balances of the credit card accounts.
- During a phone call in February 2021 Barclays told Mr S representative that it would 
accept that offer.
- Mr S representative then wrote to Barclays to ask it to confirm it would accept the 
amounts Mr S was offering as settlement for each account.
- In May 2021 Barclays confirmed it had been wrong to tell Mr S representative it 
would accept the offer - it said that the offer was too low.
Barclays has offered £150 to Mr S to recognise the distress and inconvenience caused to 
him by the incorrect information he was given, but Mr S and his representative do not feel 
this goes far enough. Mr S representative maintains that Barclays should honour what it 
agreed to in February 2021.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened here, and they agreed that Barclays 
had given Mr S incorrect information about accepting his offer, and considered that Barclays 
should increase the payment for distress and inconvenience to £300. But they didnt 
consider it would be fair to ask Barclays to accept the repayment offer Mr S representative 
had made. 
Mr S representative disagreed with the investigator; he still feels that Barclays should be 
obliged to accept the offer of repayment. As no agreement could be reached, this complaint 
has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only summarised the findings and arguments above, I would like to reassure 
both parties that I have read and considered everything provided. Having done so, I agree 
with the conclusions reached by the investigator.
Mr S representative was told by Barclays in a phone call on 11 February 2021 that Barclays 
was willing to accept Mr S offer to repay a reduced sum in full and final settlement of his 
outstanding credit card account balances. Barclays notes show that this was incorrect; the 
offer had been marked as declined on 14 January 2021 as it was too low given the level of 
debt. I appreciate that Mr S representative has some concerns about the accuracy of this 
note, but there is a further note from 30 January 2021 where Barclays spoke with Mr S 
representative about the offer being declined, this was also the conversation where Mr S 
representative stated he would be resending the income and expenditure information. And 
Mr S representative has referred to this conversation in his submissions. So given that its 
clear the 30 January 2021 note reflects what both parties say was discussed at that time, 
and this note supports the record on 14 January 2021 that the offer had been declined, I see 
no reason to doubt that the notes Barclays has sent us are an accurate reflection of what 
was on record when Mr S representative spoke with Barclays in February 2021. So its clear 
to me that the staff member Mr S representative spoke to gave him incorrect information, 
namely - he should not have been told that the settlement offer had been accepted. 
But from listening to this conversation between Mr S representative and Barclays its also 
clear to me that there was at least some reticence on Mr S representatives part about 
whether Barclays acceptance of the offer could be relied on. As a result, he said he would 
write to Barclays setting out the offer in full and wait for Barclays to respond in writing to say 
the offer had been accepted before taking any further action. This is what Mr S 
representative then did, and as he did not receive any written confirmation that the offer had 
been accepted, no payment was made to settle the debt.
It then took several months for Barclays to properly explain its mistake to Mr S I can see that 
it wasnt until May 2021 that Barclays fully explained what had happened and set out what 
Mr S next steps could be. And I appreciate that first the delay and then the disappointing 
answer that the offer had not been accepted would have caused Mr S distress and 
inconvenience at an already difficult time.
But where a business has given incorrect or misleading information I would generally look to 
compensate the affected party for the loss of expectation, i.e. for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by being told the wrong thing. I would not generally find that a 
business should be required to honour something it said in error. I understand that Mr S 
representative feels there is a legal obligation on Barclays to honour what it said in February 
2021, and Ive thought carefully about this, but in the individual circumstances of this 
complaint Im satisfied that it would not be fair and reasonable to require Barclays to accept 
the settlement offer.
And Barclays has also set out what it would need to see if it was to reconsider accepting the 
offer Mr S has put forward, and suspended interest on his accounts to ensure his debt didnt 
increase. So even though Barclays has rejected the offer of partial settlement at this stage 
Im still satisfied that it has offered appropriate suggestions for a way forward in light of Mr S 
financial difficulties. 
I also acknowledge the additional points Mr S representative has raised about how the 
complaint was handled overall. In particular that Barclays wrote directly to Mr S rather than 
to his representative, that the call recording sent to Mr S was difficult to access, and that 
Barclays did not explain that there was a deadline for referring the complaint to our service 
until very near the expiry of the deadline. But Im satisfied Barclays didnt act inappropriately 
regarding these issues. Its clear that Mr S representative was kept in the loop, either by 
Mr S himself or directly by Barclays, throughout the complaint. Banks are required to be 
careful with personal data  such as call recordings  so I would expect this to have been 
encrypted, and Mr S and his representative were able to access and listen to the call 
recording. And Barclays clearly explained the six-month time limit for referring a complaint to our service in the final response letter it sent to Mr S in May 2021; its letter of 22 October 
2021 was simply reiterating the deadline it had already explained.
Overall, I do agree that Mr S has been caused distress and inconvenience by the incorrect 
information he was given and by Barclays delay in explaining its error, but Im satisfied that 
the figure of £300 suggested by our investigator is fair and reasonable compensation in all 
the circumstances of this complaint.
Putting things right
Barclays should put things right by paying Mr S £300.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard should put things 
right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman