DRN-1888994
The complaint
Mrs J complains that Zurich Assurance Limited (Zurich) changed the address it held for her 
on file without her permission. She says that, as a result, her personal information was sent 
to her previous address and accessed by the new occupant.
What happened
Mrs J decided to transfer her pension plans with Zurich to another provider. During the 
process the new provider used Mrs Js previous address when posting the transfer details on 
the electronic transfer system. So Zurich, believing it held an incorrect address updated the 
one it held for Mrs J. As a result, it sent four letters to the previous (incorrect) address, one 
of which was opened by the new occupant before the letters were forwarded to Mrs J. 
Zurich said that, as part of its security process, it also sent one letter  about the change of 
address, to her correct address. So Mrs J contacted Zurich to discuss what had happened 
and found about the other letters. Mrs J complained and said that shed suffered distress 
from knowing that her personal information had been sent to someone else and was 
concerned that her funds might have been accessed.
Zurich apologised for the matter and explained that it had noticed her new provider 
submitted a different address on the electronic pension transfer system. It called the provider 
who confirmed the address was correct, so it updated the one it held for Mrs J. It became 
aware of its error when Mrs J called having received a change of address letter at her new 
address. But it said it had made the change in good faith and didnt think a data breach had 
occurred. So it didnt uphold her complaint.
But Mrs J had also complained to the other provider, who accepted it had made an error and 
paid her compensation of £225. The other provider also said that it believed Zurich shouldnt 
have changed Mrs Js address without her express permission and felt Zurich had also 
made an error. Mrs J pointed that out to Zurich  but it didnt change its view, so Mrs J 
brought her complain to us. 
One of our investigators looked into the matter and said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
He said it was a matter for the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) to determine if a 
breach of General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) had occurred. But he did consider the 
impact of Zurichs actions and thought that as Mrs J hadnt suffered any financial loss or 
been the victim of financial crime, Zurich didnt need to do anything  and that its apology 
was sufficient. 
He also thought it was reasonable for Zurich to have updated Mrs Js address when it 
discovered a discrepancy and that it updated the address in good faith and followed its 
security process. 
Mrs J didnt agree with that outcome. She said:
Although the investigator had said that he wasnt able to look into the matter of a 
GDPR breach  he did state that Zurich had acted reasonably in updating the 
address and had followed its security process. She didnt think it was fair to take into 
account the information Zurich had provided about its processes  as the investigator 
wasnt able to comment on the matter.
She said the letters that were sent to her previous address contained significant 
personal information and it wasnt fair to say, none of the letters contained enough 
personal information for someone to access your account with Zurich. She asked if 
the investigator had considered the wider issue of identity fraud. She also explained 
that identity fraud can take some time to come to light and could be difficult to prove 
in the future.
Shed always followed guidance on how to keep her accounts safe following a 
previous incident  and would now have to do so for some time to come in light of 
this error. In that context she didnt think Zurichs apology was sufficient. 
Shed reported the matter to the other provider involved who investigated, accepted 
responsibility and compensated her. But it was that provider who said Zurich 
shouldnt have changed her address without her authority. She questioned whether 
Zurich operated under different security rules taking into account what the other 
provider had said.
The investigator reiterated his position. He said:
He wasnt commenting on whether Zurich had complied with GDPR. Simply whether 
it had acted reasonably and what impact its actions may have had. In this case he 
believed it had updated the address based on the information provided by another 
business and also updated Mrs J with that information as a security precaution. 
He had considered the possibility of identity fraud and financial crime but was 
pleased to see that Mrs J hadnt been affected in that way.
In this case  and he couldnt consider issues Mrs J may have had with other firms  
he thought the information accessed by the third party wasnt highly sensitive and 
thought the impact on Mrs J was relatively low. So he thought Zurichs apology was 
sufficient compensation.
He couldnt recommend compensation where there hadnt been any financial loss.
He wasnt able to consider the other providers part in this matter as it wasnt part of 
this complaint. But he felt that Zurich had followed its procedures in updating Mrs Js 
address and by writing to her to confirm whether that was correct.
Mrs J responded with the following points:
Shed always followed general advice to protect her accounts and thought it was 
wrong that she was being punished for acting so diligently.
There was no deadline imposed on the pension transfer, so she didnt understand 
why Zurich didnt contact her or her adviser to confirm the address the other provider 
had added to the online transfer system. She said Zurich could also have checked 
its own records to confirm her previous change of address.She didnt agree with the investigator that Zurich had apologised for its actions. She 
says Zurichs position is that it hadnt done anything wrong and had acted in good 
faith.
The other provider involved in this matter had apologised and compensated her for 
the concern she suffered. She was surprised that Zurich could come to a completely 
different conclusion and she thought the Financial Ombudsman Service should take 
this into account when deciding on its outcome. 
She didnt agree with the outcome and wanted her complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman  so its been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so I agree with the investigator and for largely the same reasons.
GDPR is the new legislation that protects how peoples data is used. But I agree with the 
investigator that its not our role to decide if a business has breached data protection laws. 
Thats for the ICO to decide. Although we can consider whether its fair and reasonable to 
tell a business to pay compensation or take any other action to recognise the impact of 
whats happened on the consumer as a result of any breach.
In Mrs Js case her pension fund hasnt been affected by this issue, and I havent seen any 
evidence of any direct financial costs Mrs J has suffered purely as a result of the letters 
being sent to her previous address. So the only matter to consider is whether the impact of 
Zurichs actions warrants the award of a compensatory payment. 
I can certainly understand why Mrs J might be concerned here at a time when financial crime 
is more prevalent than ever. She says the information contained in the letter that was 
opened contained her name and previous address, her advisers details and details of the 
transfer of funds from one company to another. She said identity fraud can take some time 
to materialise and therefore her concerns have carried on during this process.
Whereas Zurich says it updated the address in good faith, following information it was 
provided with by the new provider on the electronic transfer system  which it then confirmed 
verbally. It says it amended the address soon after Mrs J contacted it, which was around 12 
days after the original letters had been sent out.    
So, its clear that letters were sent to the wrong address. Three of them were unopened but 
Ive carefully considered the contents of the opened letter as part of Mrs Js concerns. The 
letter confirmed that Mrs Js pension had been transferred to another provider, so any plan 
numbers referred to the account with Zurich which no longer existed. There were no details 
of the new plan with the other provider. So, I dont think the information that was accessed 
by the third party would have so sensitive as to cause concern around the accessing of 
Mrs Js new pension plan. 
I know Mrs J has referred to the possibility of other financial crime and identity fraud, but I 
think its unlikely that someone looking to commit such fraud would have forwarded the 
letters onto her at her correct address. So I think the likelihood of Mrs J being the victim of 
financial crime here was quite limited and by the time shed received the letters from the old 
address unlikely to occur.Of course, that doesnt mean that the letters should have been sent to the previous address 
 or that it wasnt perfectly reasonable for Mrs J to be concerned  especially in light of a 
previous similar occurrence with another business. But as Ive said I cant comment on 
whether the letters being sent to the previous address was a GDPR breach, I can only 
consider the impact that had on Mrs J, which I think, based on what Ive seen, wasnt 
significant.
I was pleased to learn that Mrs Js correct address was updated soon after she made Zurich 
aware of the incorrect address it held. And Ive considered whether this caused Mrs J a degree of 
distress and inconvenience. By the time Mrs J had contacted Zurich the letters had already been 
sent out so Zurich couldnt undo those actions. But Ive seen that Mrs Js address was changed 
quickly afterwards and theres no suggestion that any further letters went astray, so I think the 
address update resolved the situation. Of course, Mrs J had to make that telephone call to Zurich 
and would have been concerned to hear what had happened. But, from time to time we all 
experience some inconvenience when dealing with financial firms but not to the extent that 
compensation is warranted.
But I am conscious of the fact that Mrs J hasnt done anything wrong here, and simply found out 
when she received a letter from Zurich that her address had been updated incorrectly and some 
information about her pension had been sent to that address. She then discovered that one of 
those letters had been opened before being forwarded to her. So, I have some sympathy for Mrs 
J and the position she found herself in. 
But Ive also borne in mind that Mrs J has already received £225 compensation for the impact this 
matter has had on her. That doesnt mean that I cant tell Zurich to pay further compensation, as 
Im not considering any complaints against other parties here. But I think that any further 
compensation would, in my view, be likely to overcompensate Mrs J for the overall distress and 
inconvenience caused as a result of this error related to her address being incorrectly updated. 
I appreciate that Mrs J feels upset about what has happened. But I dont think Zurich needs 
to do anything further here. I understand that no financial loss or crime has subsequently 
occurred, and I hope this is of some reassurance to Mrs J. 
In addition, as has been already stated by the investigator, Mrs J can also take her complaint 
about whether GDPR was breached to the ICO.
My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given I dont uphold Mrs Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2020.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman