DRN-4424590
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) unfairly declined a 
claim under a home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S contacted RSA to make a claim for storm damage to his home. RSA assessed the 
claim and declined it. It said there werent storm conditions around the time the damage was 
found and no storm damage was found. When Mr S complained, RSA maintained its 
decision to decline the claim. However, it offered £50 compensation because of some 
customer service issues if had identified.
So, Mr S complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said 
there werent storm conditions around the time the damage was found and the damage 
wasnt covered by other parts of the policy. He said it was reasonable for RSA to decline the 
claim.
As Mr S didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When we look at a storm claim complaint, there are three main issues we consider:
1.    do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
2.    is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Were only likely to uphold a complaint where the answer to all three questions is yes.
Ive looked at the weather conditions around the time the damage was found. This didnt 
show wind or rain levels that would be considered storm conditions. Im aware Mr S has said 
he thought the damage was caused by snow. Looking at weather reports, these showed 
snow levels of up to 2cm, which wouldnt be considered a storm and the policy didnt cover 
what might be termed as simply bad weather. So, I think the answer to the first question is 
no. This meant RSA didnt need to deal with the claim.
Im aware Mr S particularly highlighted his builders report. Ive considered this, and RSAs 
report, and this doesnt change my view. The builders report said the issue was possibly 
caused by a compromised gutter system and explained the reasons for this. RSAs survey 
report found evidence of water entering for some time. This was due to the roof being in poor 
condition and having reached the end of its life. Neither report found evidence of storm 
damage or another peril covered by the policy. 
Im also aware of an email from Mr Ss builder that said there was a lot of moss on the roof, 
which he didnt consider unusual, there was still some snow on the roof and a gutter which 
didnt seem to be connected correctly. The builder said he suspected the weight of snow, as 
well as severe weather conditions, caused the felt roof to crack and caused the leak. 
However, the weather around that time wouldnt be considered severe enough to be a storm 
and 2cm of snow wasnt enough to show evidence of heavy snow. In addition, RSAs 
surveyor found that water had been entering the property for some time, which would 
suggest that the damage to the roof wasnt a one-off event caused by the recent snow.
Im aware RSA thought some, but not all, of the internal damage was a one-off. However, 
Ive looked at the policy and Mr S didnt have cover for accidental damage. So, I havent 
considered this any further, as there was no relevant cover available under the policy.
Based on everything Ive seen, I think it was reasonable for RSA to decline the claim. As a 
result, I dont uphold this complaint or require RSA to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman