DRN-4104000
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund money he says he lost as a result 
of a scam.
What happened
Mr J was looking for a sofa to purchase. He found a business, that Ill call S, online. He 
visited its premises and paid a £300 deposit for a new sofa. He paid the balance (£1,199) a 
few days before the sofa was due to be delivered. 
 
He didnt receive the sofa. Initially he was told that the delivery van had broken down and, 
later, after speaking to one of the employees of S, he was given the impression that it was 
going out of business.
Mr J reported the matter to Barclays, but it thought that he had a civil dispute with S. And, as 
hed paid by bank transfer, rather than card payment, it couldnt raise a dispute for him. 
However, it did contact the bank which received Mr Js money, but no funds were returned. 
Mr J referred the matter to our service, but one of our Investigators didnt uphold his 
complaint. They agreed with Barclays that the matter was a civil dispute, so it had no 
obligation to provide a refund to him.
Mr J disagreed, in summary he said:
- There had been a number of other victims, as reported in the media. 
- Other victims, including some who paid by bank transfer, received refunds from their 
banks.
- Both Citizens Advice and Trading Standards have advised that S is in breach of its 
contract. 
- Barclays investigation was poor and it should have done more to demonstrate S was 
acting fraudulently.
- Hed acted correctly at all times and it isnt fair that S can behave in the way it did 
and get away with it.
- The experience has been very stressful and exhausting for him and his family and 
left them without a sofa for a significant period of time.
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry that Mr J has paid money for goods and not received them. I can see hes tried 
very hard to get his money back and I understand this has been a very stressful experience 
for him.
Its clear that Mr J is in the right in his dispute with S. It breached its contract with him. But 
Im not deciding a dispute between Mr J and S, Im deciding a dispute between Mr J and 
Barclays. It didnt offer to sell the sofa to him and cant be held responsible for S breach of 
contract.
In law Mr J is responsible for payments hes made himself and, Im afraid, theres little 
protection available for payments, like this one, made by bank transfer. 
The Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) does provide 
some protection to victims of authorised push payment (APP) scams. But it excludes civil 
disputes. So, the question I need to decide is whether S was acting fraudulently and 
deceived Mr J into giving his money. Or, whether this is simply a matter of S breaching its 
contract with Mr J.
Its important to note that it isnt for Barclays to investigate S, neither does it need to prove 
that S wasnt operating fraudulently. It is for Mr J to provide evidence to support those 
allegations. 
There were clearly a number of other people that paid S, but didnt receive what they paid 
for. But, that doesnt necessarily indicate that S was acting fraudulently. Its unfortunately 
common that when a business fails, it will do so with outstanding customer orders and 
unpaid debts. 
The evidence suggests that S had provided goods in the past and was not set up entirely to 
defraud people. It had a retail premises that Mr J visited on two occasions and the media 
article, as well as mentioning people who didnt receive goods at all, also describes a 
customer receiving goods that were faulty and later rectified (though only partially). 
I also note that, unusually, the owners family provided a statement for the media article 
which claimed that S ceased trading due to a variety of reasons, including the owners 
declining mental health. I dont know whether this is true, but its clear that the owner has 
made no attempt to disguise his identity and S still remains active on Companies House.
So, Im satisfied S has operated legitimately and that means I need to decide whether there 
is enough evidence that, at some point prior to Mr J making one or both of the payments, it 
stopped being a legitimate business and began to take customers money without having 
any intention of providing goods. 
Im afraid there simply isnt enough evidence to support that finding and, I think, only a police 
or other formal investigation (for example by a liquidator) would be able to demonstrate that 
was the case (or otherwise). I understand Mr J reported the matter to Action Fraud, but 
neither it, nor the police, seem to have taken any action.
Im unable to comment on why other banks might have refunded customers in similar 
circumstances and, Im afraid, it doesnt have any impact on my decision. 
Overall, while Im sympathetic to Mr J and I know this will be very disappointing for him, the 
evidence doesnt support a finding that S was operating fraudulently. And that means that 
Barclays arent responsible for Mr Js loss and had no obligation to try and recover his 
money. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman