DRN-4048737
The complaint
Mrs S and Mr S complain about how Fairmead Insurance Limited handled a claim they made 
on their home insurance policy.
Reference to Fairmead includes its agents.
What happened
Mrs S and Mr S are joint policyholders of a policy with Fairmead - for ease of reading, at 
times. Ill refer to them both as Mrs S. When their home was damaged by a fire, they made a 
claim to Fairmead for the damage. Fairmead accepted the claim.
Mrs S complains about Fairmeads handling of that claim. The complaint is essence, that its 
taken far too long to resolve and there are aspects still outstanding. Mrs S says the impact of 
the claim going on for so long has been significant.
Shes said they were in different alternative accommodation over the life of the claim, and 
that being out of their home for over a year affected both hers and Mr Ss health. Shes said 
on a number of occasions they were led to believe the claim would be settled shortly, only to 
have it delayed and the alternative accommodation extended, at times, at very short notice.
Shes said this affected her childrens health too, that her young son has had to spend much 
longer than planned in a cot bed and that both, especially her daughter has missed having 
the garden and became unsettled at school due to the time away from home. Shes said 
being left to source the contractors for the final bits of snagging are adding to the already 
distressing experience of this claim.
Fairmead offered a total of £1,500 compensation  it acknowledged Mrs S and her family 
were out of their home and in alternative accommodation for longer than expected. Mrs S 
and Mr S declined this and brought their complaint to us.
One of our investigators recommended it be upheld. She thought the distress and 
inconvenience caused warranted more compensation and recommended Fairmead pay Mrs 
S and Mr S a total of £5,000. She also recommended Fairmead take ownership and control 
of the remaining snagging issues.
Mrs S and Mr S accepted this recommendation. Fairmead didnt and asked for an 
ombudsmans decision. It said Mrs S had chosen some the alternative accommodation they 
spent around 12 months in and had confirmed they were happy there. So, it thought £2,000 
was a fairer amount of compensation in this case. They also said they couldnt confirm they 
were able to take ownership and control of the remaining snagging items.
I issued a provisional decision explaining that I was planning on upholding the complaint, but 
recommending a different amount of compensation. That decision said:
In summary Im planning on requiring Fairmead to pay Mrs S and Mr S £3,500 
compensation. I understand this is less than our investigator recommended, and as such 
may come as a disappointment to them. But, while determining a monetary figure to place 
on the distress and inconvenience anyone has suffered can at times be difficult, I think this 
amount is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint.
The delay, and the length of it arent in dispute here. Fairmead acknowledge the claim took 
far longer than it should have done. Had the issue with the gutters been spotted early, as it 
should have been, its unlikely the issue regarding the damp would have occurred and Mrs S 
and Mr S and their family wouldnt have been out of their home for so long. So, this decision 
doesnt focus on that, it focusses on the impact of that error. While everything might not be 
mentioned here  everything raised by both parties has been considered.
In short, its meant Mrs S and her family have been out of their own home, unnecessarily, for 
over a year. And in that time, theyve experienced distress and inconvenience, to the point 
that its affected Mrs Ss health, Mr Ss health, and their young sons health, as well as 
having an effect on their daughter.
Some of the alternative accommodation they were placed in didnt suit Mr Ss needs being 
physically disabled. Some accommodation was being closed for refurbishment, but this 
wasnt realised until very late in the day leading Mrs S to source alternatives herself at very 
late notice during a time when Mr S needed rest after a medical procedure. One alternative 
accommodation was dirty and unclean and while Mrs S and her family were staying there 
suffered a rodent infestation causing her young son to contract diarrhoea.
The accommodation Mrs S and her family stayed the most amount of time in - roughly a year 
 was further away from school and nursery, was smaller than their home and didnt have a 
garden. While saying here, their young son had to stay in a cot bed longer than necessary  
sleeping longer with Mrs S and Mr S instead of in his own room. He ultimately had to sleep 
on a mattress on the floor. I can imagine this being distressing for any parent.
Mrs S said the lease agreement prevented them from putting up decorations for Christmas 
and that their daughter found the presents  due to the smaller place they were staying in  
and discovered Father Christmas wasnt real as a result. Finding this out is something most 
children eventually do, but Im persuaded the circumstances at least contributed to it. That, 
and the lack of decoration would have been a distressing time for the family at a time when 
they would usually have been celebrating.
Mrs S said her daughter has been unhappy at school too due to the lengthy time being out of 
their home. Quite how much of this can be contributed to the accommodation is debatable. 
But Im persuaded that a lengthy time away from home will have played a significant part in a 
child feeling settled. And having an unsettled unhappy child is likely distressing for a parent.
Being in alternative accommodation meant family werent able to visit and offer support as 
they normally would and that they felt removed from their support network, again adding to 
the distress especially with two children (one very young) involved.
Mrs S explained they missed two planned holidays because they clashed with dates they 
were given by Fairmead for moving back into their home. They didnt move back to their 
home on either of these two dates, so the missed holidays felt even more distressing as a 
result.
Mrs S says the continued distress affected her health leading her to be admitted to hospital 
for stress induced conditions. And shes said Mr Ss health has also been affected by the 
length of time this claim has been ongoing leading to depression.
I take on board Fairmeads point that Mrs S chose the property they spent the most time in. And that she confirmed in an email that they were happy there as a family. Ive seen that 
email, and Mrs S does say shes happy there. But its also clear that she expects to be there 
for around eight weeks, not 12 months.
Mrs S did choose this property, but this should be considered in context. It was only 
expected to be for a short period of time, and it was following previous bad experiences with 
alternative accommodation chosen by Fairmead. Considering theyd been moved from a 
hotel that needed refurbishment and a property that was dirty and had a rodent infestation 
and an escape of water, I can see why theyd be happy in the property they were in at that 
time and not want to move again. But being happy to be in a property for eight more weeks 
and being happy in that property for 12 months are two very different things. Im happy 
Mrs S confirmed the first, Im not persuaded she confirmed the latter.
Some degree of distress and inconvenience is to be expected following a fire. Especially if 
the damage or remedial work means you need to leave your home. But in this case, Im 
satisfied that Mrs S and her family were out of their home for much longer than needed. And 
during that time, they have experienced significant distress and inconvenience outlined 
above. For that, I think a total of £3,500 compensation is a fair and reasonable amount. So, 
without further evidence, thats what Im likely to require Fairmead to pay.
I also agree with our investigators finding that Fairmead should take control over the 
outstanding snagging issues. Ultimately it is Fairmead as the insurer that needs to take 
ownership and resolve this claim  it shouldnt be left to Mrs S and Mr S to sort. Its feasible 
that the longer Mrs S and Mr S are tasked with trying to resolve their own clam, the longer 
theyll continue to suffer distress and inconvenience. For clarity, if the following things remain 
unresolved, Fairmead needs to take ownership and control of rectifying and resolving:
Removal of a concrete slab
Work to the burglar alarm
Fixing the outside light
Replacing the loft insulation
Repairing/replacing the loft hatch
Rectification to the front door
I recommended that to put things right, Fairmead needed to:
Pay Mrs S and Mr S a total of £3,500 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Take control over and rectify the outstanding issues set out above.
Mrs and and Mr S replied saying they were disappointed that the compensation was less 
than what our investigator recommended. But, ultimately they said they accepted the 
decision set out above.
Fairmead also accepted the recommendations set out in my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional decision set out above explains reasoning and redress to put this complaint 
right. Because both parties have agreed to its recommendations, I see no reason to depart 
from either its findings or outcome.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To put things right, I require Fairmead 
Insurance Limited to:
Pay Mrs S and Mr S a total of £3,500 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Take control over and rectify the outstanding issues set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman