DRN-2669214
Complaint
Mr T is unhappy that Barclays Bank Plc is holding him liable for a series of transactions he 
says he didnt authorise.
Background
In January and February 2020, a series of transactions were made from Mr Ts account to a 
gambling account that had been set up in the name of his fiance. The total value of those 
payments was over £30,000. In the course of our investigation into his complaint, it has also 
come to light that there are other transactions on the account which Mr T says he didnt 
authorise  but the bulk of the payments in dispute are to the gambling website. Mr T told us 
that he does have a historic relationship with this company. However, he had contacted the 
gambling company some time ago to ask that he be prevented from placing bets in the 
future. This is a process known as self-exclusion.
Mr T says that these payments werent authorised by him. At the time he referred the 
complaint to us, he thought the payments might have been a result of an iPhone he sold in 
late 2019. He says this phone had enough information on it to enable a fraudster to set up a 
gambling account in the name of his fiance and make payments to it. However, he has 
since provided screenshots of a text message exchange between him and his fiance in 
which she concedes that it was her who carried out the transactions. 
Mr T first noticed the suspicious transactions on his account in January. He called Barclays 
and explained that, as hed self-excluded - the payments mustve been a mistake. There 
were further payments to the bookmaker a few days after this call. Around two months later, 
he called Barclays to say that he was a victim of fraud and that the transactions should be 
refunded.
Mr T didnt tell Barclays that hed been a victim of fraud in this first call. He assumed that this 
was most likely a mistake on the part of the bookmaker. He didnt tell Barclays what had 
happened until April, but he says that in reality many of the payments had gone unnoticed 
because hed not checked his bank account on his online banking app during the period of 
disputed account activity. Hed logged on to the app  but hed only done so to check his 
business accounts, not his personal one. 
Barclays is holding Mr T liable for the transactions because it thinks its likely he authorised 
them. It says that the Internet Protocol (IP) address from which Mr Ts online banking app 
was accessed was the same one from which payments were made to the gambling website. 
It also thinks the fact that Mr T took so long to notify it of the disputed transactions suggests 
that he had intended to make them after all.
Evidence provided by the bookmaker suggested the account was created in the UK  or at 
least via an IP address that was in the UK. However, Mr Ts fiance was overseas 
throughout the period.
Mr T was unhappy with Barclays response and so he referred his complaint to this service. 
It was looked at by an investigator who didnt uphold it. In summary, the investigator thought 
that:
Mr Ts phone didnt leave his possession throughout this period. But some of the 
transactions were authenticated using ApplePay. This was set up for Mr Ts account 
in mid-January and was associated with a phone with his number. As part of the 
registration process, the fraudster wouldve needed access to Mr Ts phone to get a 
One-Time Passcode (OTP). The investigator felt that this showed that it was his 
phone that had been used in connection with the transactions.
There were transactions made from the account which the investigator thought were 
likely legitimate payments made by Mr T. The technical evidence provided by 
Barclays showed that these payments were carried out using the same device as the 
disputed transactions. The investigator concluded that this meant it was likely that 
whoever made the payments mustve been in possession of his phone.
There were additional payments made in London on things such as food and taxi 
fares. This coincided with a time that Mr T was in London. However, the geolocation 
of the IP address from which the gambling payments were made suggested they 
were made in a town over fifty miles from London which was close to where Mr T 
lived. The investigator thought that it was unlikely that a fraudster whod acquired 
Mr Ts phone wouldve made the same journey before making any gambling 
payments.
The gambling company had told us that only one device had been used on Mr Ts 
account. 
Barclays provided evidence showing regular log-ins to Mr Ts online banking app 
throughout the period of disputed activity. The investigator thought it was likely that 
Mr T wouldve seen the transactions on his account. And if hed done so, he wouldve 
told Barclays about them much sooner if theyd been unauthorised.
It wasnt clear why a fraudster whod come into possession of Mr Ts account details 
would choose to set up a gambling account, since any winnings would necessarily be 
repaid into his account. The investigator didnt think it was obvious why a fraudster 
would be motivated to do this, rather than (for example) using the account details to 
purchase goods online.
Overall, the investigator concluded that it was more likely than not that Mr T had authorised 
these transactions. 
Mr T disagreed with the investigators opinion. He said:
He didnt immediately think that the payments were fraudulent because he had been 
a genuine customer of this business in the past. It was still possible that they related 
to genuine bets hed placed before his self-exclusion or perhaps they were the result 
of an administrative error on the part of the bookmaker. 
Its not true that, in order to register a Barclays account with Apple Pay, an OTP 
needs to be sent to the phone number associated with the account. He says that its 
possible to register without this validation process taking place. 
The gambling websites claim that only one device was used for these transactions is 
false. Furthermore, he didnt log on to that site at all in March or April. If the IP 
address evidence suggests otherwise, someone must have done so without his 
knowledge.The disputed transactions were not made from his IP address. The IP address is for 
a shared wi-fi facility. He doesnt know who it was who authorised these transactions, 
but hes certain that it wasnt him. 
He didnt notice the suspicious activity on his account for two reasons. First, the 
email notifications that were sent by the gambling firm didnt go to his main email 
address. It was an email account that hed set up to receive junk emails. And 
although he might have logged in to his online banking during this period, this was 
only to check his business accounts  he didnt check the account these payments 
were made from and so wouldnt have had any reason to think anything was wrong. 
His historic betting pattern with this gambling company suggests its highly unlikely 
that these bets were placed by him. He also says its not obvious why he would go to 
such lengths to create an account with this particular website. As hed excluded 
himself from using their services, it would be simpler for him to just register with a 
different bookmaker entirely rather than attempt to circumvent the self-exclusion in 
the way that has been suggested. 
Since then, Mr T has provided us with screenshots of a text message exchange between 
him and his fiance in which she admits to being responsible for the transactions. He says 
that this evidence shows that he didnt authorise the transactions and so Barclays shouldnt 
hold him liable for them. 
Because Mr T has disagreed with the conclusions of the investigation, the complaint was 
passed to me to consider.
I issued my provisional findings in December 2020 and said the following:
The basic position is that Barclays can hold Mr T liable for the disputed payments if 
the evidence suggests its more likely than not that he made them or authorised 
them. For each transaction, Barclays has been able to provide evidence to show 
these payments were appropriately authenticated but that isnt enough to hold Mr T 
liable. I also need to consider whether the evidence suggests he consented to these 
transactions. 
The evidence I must consider has changed quite significantly since the investigator 
issued her view. At that time, Mr T had speculated that these transactions were 
carried out by an opportunistic fraudster who had used data found on his old phone. 
He now says that they were carried out by his fiance and has provided text 
messages from her as evidence. Ive considered this explanation carefully and Im 
afraid Im not persuaded by it.
At the time Mr T made this complaint, he still believed that the sale of his old phone 
may have been the way that the security of his account had been compromised. Its 
now clear that the transactions were made using his iPhone. Each payment to the 
gambling website was authenticated using Apple Pay. Information provided by 
Barclays shows that the type of device used for the transactions was a mobile phone 
and that the facility was connected to a specific phone with Mr Ts number. This is 
also supported by records provided by the gambling website. These show that each 
device used to access the online account is assigned a unique ID and that the same 
device was used to place each bet.
Mr Ts fiance was overseas at the time and in a country where access to gambling 
websites is prohibited. However, hes told us he had a paid subscription to a Virtual 
Private Network (VPN) provider and gave her access to it. This enabled her to 
bypass local restrictions. He says he set this up to allow her to use various streaming services and social media that is prohibited in that country. But he says it would also 
enable her to access banned gambling sites. Hes also told us that the bookmaker 
confirmed to him that it had spoken directly with his ex-fiance and that she claimed 
that she was placing bets with her own money, but hes not provided any further 
information about this.
It might have been possible for Mr Ts ex-fiance to access the internet via his local 
internet connection. Mr T says that this would mean that the IP address would match 
his own and it would appear that the transactions had taken place in the same 
geographic location as Mr T. But this wouldnt explain how she was able to gain 
control of the device that was used to place the bets.
The transactions were made using an iPhone running the iOS operating system. In 
the exchange of message with his ex-fiance, he mentions the Remote Desktop 
Protocol (RDP) which wouldve enabled her to access and remotely control a 
Windows computer. Im not aware of any straightforward way of using this technology 
to remotely control another persons phone. And to manage to do so without their 
knowledge is even more unlikely. There may be more esoteric ways of remotely 
controlling an iPhone, but I understand that these would only work if the iPhone had 
been jailbroken and Mr T has already confirmed that was not the case here.
I also think its significant that there was a series of other transactions around the 
time, including taxi fares, payments for food and so on. Mr T didnt initially dispute 
these. The evidence suggests they were made using the same device as the 
gambling transactions. However, hes since claimed that they were carried out by his 
ex-fiance. She was out of the country at the time, but Mr T says that she couldve 
made these payments online. 
I dont think there is a straightforward way of paying an Uber fare or a restaurant bill 
remotely  and Im not sure why Mr Ts ex-fiance wouldve felt it necessary to take 
control of his phone in order to do so. I also understand that these payments were all 
made in London and that Mr T was in London at the time. This is too much of a 
coincidence and, on balance, I think its likely that these payments made in London 
were authorised by Mr T.
I also find it significant that, in the first call Mr T had with Barclays, he didnt suggest 
that these payments were unauthorised. Instead, he focused on the fact that hed 
self-excluded from placing bets with this particular bookmaker and so thought it 
shouldnt have allowed the payments to go through. I find it unlikely that Mr T 
wouldve placed his focus on that if he genuinely believed these transactions were 
fraudulent.
If Mr Ts ex-fiance had intended to place these bets without him being aware of it, I 
think its unlikely that shed have registered the account with his email address as the 
main point of contact. This seems like too great a risk for someone who wanted to 
avoid detection. Its also not clear what benefit she could expect to receive from 
placing these bets. I say that because the bookmaker has been clear that any 
potential winnings could only be paid into Mr Ts account. 
I know Mr T has since said that the bookmaker confirmed theyd spoken directly with 
his ex-fiance about the bets and that shed claimed they were being placed using 
her own earnings but Im afraid Ive not seen any evidence to suggest this 
conversation took place.
Mr T responded to explain that he disagreed with my provisional findings. In summary, he 
said:He never suspected his fiance because he still trusted her at that point and naturally 
assumed it must have been someone else. 
Its not true that an iPhone needs to jailbroken in order for it to be accessed and 
controlled remotely. The most important point is that Mr Ts fiance knew the 
password for his banking app.
He didnt question the smaller payments made from his account because they often 
appear on statements later than the date the service is provided and he trusted the 
merchants that had billed him.
He also mentioned correspondence from the bookmaker explaining that it had been 
in contact with Mr Ts fiance. A letter it sent to Barclays said that she was 
registered as a priority client and frequently contacted her account manager seeking 
free bet tokens. We also have contacted with [her] over the phone 
The bookmaker shouldnt have accepted any of these bets, and Barclays shouldve 
carried out further security checks before allowing any of the payments to go through.
Barclays didnt respond to my provisional decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not persuaded to change from the position I set out in my provisional 
decision. Mr T has said that its possible to place an app on an iPhone to allow it to be 
accessed and controlled remotely, and that this can be done without first jailbreaking the 
phone. Ill take that claim at face value. Mr T hasnt specifically claimed that his fiance was 
able to access his phone in this way. Furthermore, he shared messages between them in 
which she appears to concede having accessed his account using the Remote Desktop 
Protocol  a specific application used for remote access to a PC using the Windows 
operating system. It wouldnt have enabled her to access his iPhone. So overall, Im not 
persuaded thats what happened here.
I understand that why Mr T might not have queried the smaller transactions that were made 
to businesses in the UK from his account. But I still cant see any plausible explanation for 
how his fiance wouldve been able to authorise these payments remotely. I also find it an 
unlikely coincidence that she wouldve done so throughout the same period Mr T was visiting 
the city in which those payments were made. 
Finally, I accept what Mr T has said about the correspondence from the gambling company. 
This does suggest that there was some contact between the company and his fiance. It 
doesnt, however, suggest that she said that shed been spending Mr Ts money.
Its impossible for me to know with complete certainty what happened here. With many of the 
cases that come to this service, the evidence is unclear, incomplete or contradictory. And 
when that happens, I must decide the case on the balance of probabilities. And with Mr Ts 
case, the overwhelming weight of the evidence suggests that he authorised these 
transactions.
Im sorry to have to disappoint Mr T, but I think its fair and reasonable for Barclays to hold 
him liable for these disputed transactions.
Final decisionFor the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman