DRN-3648310
The complaint
Ms H complains Financial Administration Services Limited (FASL) wrongly encashed a fund 
as part of an instruction to transfer some of her funds to another provider as a result she had 
no access to these funds for some time. She asks to be compensated for the error and for 
the lack of communication and access to her funds.
What happened
Ms H made an in-specie transfer request with Vanguard in January 2021. She says her 
instructions were to transfer three funds and leave her existing ISA in situ.
FASL says it received an information request from Vanguard on 22 January and sent he 
requested information the same day but did not receive any further instructions from them. 
On 26 May 2021, FASL received a valuation request, which was also sent the same day. On 
28 May 2021, it received an instruction to transfer three funds in-specie and to sell the funds 
held within Ms Hs ISA and send the cash to Vanguard. The instruction was processed on 9 
June 2021 and the funds were sent to Vanguard by way of a cheque.
Vanguard rejected the cheque and FASL attempted to contact them on four separate 
occasions in June to query the rejection and to gain further instruction. When they were 
unsuccessful on the fourth attempt, FASL contacted Ms H via its secure messaging service.
On 25 July 2021, Ms H contacted FASL having received the secure message and raised a 
complaint as she had not given any instruction to encash her ISA.
On 8 September 2021, Vanguard responded saying it would not accept the cash and so 
FASL reinvested the cash into Ms Hs ISA on 13 September 2021.
Ms H then sent a secure message on 25 September 2021, essentially asking FASL to 
correct the error, reinvest her cash back in the same funds and provide redress by 
backdating the investment to the date it was encashed, in other words as though the 
transaction had not occurred.
In response to Ms Hs complaint, FASL said it had correctly acted upon the instruction it was 
given. It did, however, acknowledge its service could have been better. It said the complexity 
of the partial transfer, which it would not usually accept, meant that a sign off from senior 
management was required to accept the funds back and this mean a delay in Ms H being 
able to access her funds. It re-calculated the redress back to the first opportunity following 
Ms Hs contact in late July 2021, that being 02 August 2021 and offered £100 in recognition 
of those delays. 
It also acknowledged that it could and should have communicated matters to Ms H more 
swiftly and offered a further £150 in recognition of this. As it had also offered £25 in a secure 
message sent in August 2021, FASL offered a total of £275 to compensate Ms H for poor 
service.
Dissatisfied Ms H brought her complaint to his service.
An investigator looked into matters for Ms H, in his view he found that although the secure 
messages Ms H received from Vanguard claim a full transfer was not requested, the Altus 
(instruction to FASL) screenshots show conflicting information. The three in-specie transfers 
and excluded transfer were rejected, however a later transfer in full was accepted. As the 
complaint was brought against FASL, the investigator explained he thought it had acted fairly 
and reasonably and found the compensation offer to be in line with awards this service 
would suggest, and so he didnt ask it to do anything further.
Ms H disagreed; she feels she is stuck in the middle between two parties both of whom say 
the other is at fault. She asked for an ombudsman review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same outcome as the investigator, Ill explain why.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Ms H and by FASL. 
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. My role here is to consider if FASL followed the regulations and its own policies 
and procedures fairly and if not what it should do to put matters right.
I sympathise with Ms H feeling as though she is the middle of two parties both of whom say 
it is the other who has made the error. But I am only looking at the merits of the complaint 
against FASL.
I have seen the instruction FASL received from Vanguard, and it very clearly instructs FASL 
to transfer three funds and encash the other. I appreciate Vanguard has told Ms H 
something different, but I can only act upon the evidence I have seen, so on that basis I cant 
say FASL did anything wrong in acting upon the instruction it was given.
When it didnt gain a response from Vanguard it used the secure messaging platform to 
contact Ms H, so whilst she didnt pick up that message until 25 July 2021, again I cant fairly 
say it did anything wrong in using the agreed communication system to contact Ms H.
That said, there were issues that caused a delay, due to the need to find a workaround to an 
unusual set of circumstances and FASL has acknowledged that, and the poor service Ms H 
received as a result, and this is reflected in the compensation offer it made.
I appreciate Ms H feels this doesnt reflect the worry this matter has caused, and I dont want 
to underplay the concern here, but its fair to say the awards this service makes for trouble 
and upset are relatively modest, again reflecting the fact this is a free service and alternative 
to the courts. Because FASL, attempted a number of times to minimise the impact here and has acknowledged the delays and poor service, I find £275 to be reasonable compensation 
and so Im not going to ask it to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint and I make no further award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2023.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman