DRN-4042066
The complaint
Mr W complains Starling Bank Limited hasnt refunded money he lost to a scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
here. In brief summary, in January 2022 Mr W was tricked over the phone by scammers 
impersonating Starling into sending a debit card payment of £3,400 to Binance.
Mr W reported matters to Starling afterwards. Starling ultimately didnt reimburse Mr Ws lost 
funds. Mr W therefore referred his complaint about Starling to our service. One of our 
Investigators looked into things and didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She was 
sorry Mr W lost this money but explained why she couldnt hold Starling responsible. Mr W 
disagreed, so the case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint for materially the same reasons as our Investigator. 
Ill explain why. 
Mr W has said other people who were scammed in identical circumstances got their money 
back. However, I must decide this case based on its own individual merits. Im sorry Mr W 
lost money to this scam but this doesnt automatically entitle him to a refund from Starling. It 
would only be fair for me to tell Starling to reimburse Mr W if I thought it reasonably ought to 
have prevented the payment or it unreasonably hindered recovery of the funds.
Prevention
Im satisfied Mr W authorised the relevant payment. Starling would generally be expected to 
process a payment a customer authorises it to make. And under the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the account, Mr W is presumed liable for the 
loss in the first instance, in circumstances where he authorised the payment. That said, as a 
matter of good industry practice Starling should have taken proactive steps to identify and 
help prevent transactions  particularly sufficiently unusual, uncharacteristic or suspicious 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. However, there are many 
payments made by customers each day and its not realistic or reasonable to expect a bank 
to stop and check every payment instruction. Theres a balance to be struck between 
identifying payments that could potentially be fraudulent and minimising disruption to 
legitimate payments. 
Here Im satisfied Starling didnt seek to intervene in Mr Ws payment instruction before 
processing it. And Im satisfied that the payment instruction wasnt sufficiently unusual, 
uncharacteristic or otherwise suspicious, to say it was unreasonable for Starling to process it 
without questioning Mr W about it first. It wasnt like Mr W made payments for this amount all 
the time; but he had made at least one payment previously for a similar amount. And I dont 
think it would be fair to say Starling ought to have been obliged to intervene just because 
where the payment was going. So, bearing in mind the balance Ive mentioned that needs to 
be struck, I dont think I can reasonably say Starling ought to have been obliged to have 
paused the payment pending enquiries with Mr W before letting the payment through. I am 
not persuaded, therefore, that I can say Starling unreasonably missed an opportunity to 
prevent the payment nor, therefore, Mr Ws loss of the payment to the scam.
Recovery
Mr W recalls the payment showing as pending when he spoke to Starling straight afterwards. 
In a case like this though, at that stage, the only potential avenue for recovery of the 
payment would have been through the chargeback scheme. But here Mr W paid a genuine 
company (Binance) and the chargeback could only therefore have been brought against 
Binance (and not the scammers). I think Binance would have been able to show it had acted 
legitimately (unlike the scammers), so I dont think there would have been a realistic 
prospect of a successful chargeback through Starling against Binance. I therefore dont think 
the payment was recoverable by Starling once it had been made. I also dont think Starling 
gave Mr W false hope of recovery. The information and evidence Ive seen and heard 
suggests Starling was clear with Mr W, when he called to report the scam, that it couldnt 
guarantee recovery of the funds. 
I realise this means Mr W is out of pocket. I appreciate hes said the scam was really 
convincing. And Im really sorry hes lost money. However, I think this is ultimately the fault 
of the cruel and callous scammers. I cant reasonably tell Starling to reimburse him in 
circumstances where I dont think it ought reasonably to have prevented the payment or 
been able to recover it. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 July 2023.
 
Neil Bridge
Ombudsman