DRN-2985432
The complaint
Mr S complains about the refurbishment charges hes been asked to pay by Lex Autolease 
Ltd (Lex).
 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr S acquired his car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The terms of the finance agreement held Mr S responsible for keeping the car in 
good condition. He would be responsible for any damage if the car wasnt returned in 
the correct condition.
The industry guidelines for what is considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are 
returned at the end of their lease, is provided by the British Vehicle Rental and 
Leasing Association (BVRLA).
Mr S doesnt dispute that the damage listed in the inspectors report is beyond what 
the BVRLA would consider fair wear and tear. But he says the charges that have 
been made are unreasonable. He says:
ohe was quoted between £550 and £650 to have the same work completed 
before he returned the car;
ohe called Lex before he returned the car and was told the charges theyd 
apply wouldnt be much different. Mr S says it was this call that encouraged 
him not to carry out repairs before returning the car.
The quote Mr S has provided doesnt cover all the damage that was identified on the 
inspectors report. Theres no quotation for the damage to the boot and a door. Once 
those charges are taken into account I dont think theres much difference between 
the charges being levied by Lex and the quote provided by Mr S.
Unfortunately, whilst I can see Mr S has explained the date and time of the call he 
made to Lex, its not been possible to locate the call. I dont think it would therefore 
be fair to suggest that Lex promised charges wouldnt exceed the quoted amounts 
and, as Ive explained, I dont think there was that much difference anyway.
Mr S had the opportunity to repair the car before it was returned and as he didnt do 
that I cant say Lex have been unfair charging him for refurbishment and, having 
considered the charges theyve made, I think theyre reasonable and broadly in line 
with other charges Ive seen levied by their competitors in similar situations. 
Im therefore not asking Lex to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman