DRN-4251558
The complaint
Mr M complains that Creation Financial Services Limited closed his account, didnt credit his 
points, a free night stay voucher or refund the annual fee. Hed like his benefits credited and 
compensation for the impact caused to him. 
What happened
Mr M had a rewards club premium credit card account with Creation which included an 
annual fee of £99. The card included the ability to earn reward points, which could be 
redeemed for hotel stays or experiences, and a hotel voucher for a free night stay.
On 30 September 2021 Creation sent a letter to Mr M informing him that his credit card 
account would be closed on 3 December 2021. They later informed Mr M that they wouldnt 
be crediting him the points for the last statement period, his free night stay voucher or a 
refund of the unused annual fee.
Mr M complained to Creation. But Creation didnt uphold his complaint. They thought theyd 
acted fairly in closing his account, not refunding the annual fee, crediting the points or the 
free night stay voucher.
Mr M wasnt satisfied with Creations response so complained to our service.
After Mr Ms complaint was brought to our service Creation made an offer. They offered 
Mr M a pro-rata refund of his annual fee, the uncredited points and the free night stay 
voucher.
Mr M didnt accept the offer. He complained that hed lost out on the opportunity to use his 
card during the notice period. Mr M advised he phoned Creation on 3 November 2021 to ask 
if hed earn points during the notice period  and they advised him he wouldnt. So he 
stopped spending on the card. And he also argued he was disadvantaged by not being able 
to use the voucher for stays hed booked. Overall, he thought £500 was fair compensation. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ms complaint and thought Creation needed to do 
more. She acknowledged that the voucher and the points had already been awarded to 
Mr M. But she thought Mr M should be awarded additional compensation. She thought 
Creation misadvised Mr M over the phone and hed not been able to make full use of the 
card during the notice period. Due to the late awarding of the voucher hed also missed out 
on using it for a hotel stay hed booked. She recommended that Creation, pay the pro-rata 
annual fee and an additional £100 compensation. 
Creation didnt accept our investigators recommendation  in response Creation argued 
theyd offered to issue points, the voucher and a pro-rata refund of the annual fee and this 
was sufficient compensation. 
Mr M accepted our investigators recommendation, but had some additional points he 
wanted considered, including:
The inconvenience in not being able to use the voucher in March 2023 is worth more 
than £100.
The 15 month delay in Creation awarding his points, the voucher and pro-rata refund 
caused him inconvenience.
Bringing the complaint to our service caused him inconvenience.
As Creation didnt accept our investigators response, its been referred to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account closure
Creation can only close accounts in certain circumstances and if its in the terms and 
conditions of the account. Creation have relied on the terms and conditions when closing 
Mr Ms account. The terms explain that Creation can close an account for any reason by 
giving 60 days notice. I understand this is disappointing for Mr M however, by providing the 
full notice period here I cant say Creation have acted unfairly
Withholding of points, the free night stay voucher and annual fee
Creation have offered to reimburse Mr Ms points, award him the free night stay voucher and 
give a pro-rata refund. Im satisfied that Creation shouldnt have deprived Mr M of access to 
the points, voucher and pro-rata refund when initially closing his account. But, Im pleased to 
see that theyve now agreed to rectify this.
Mr M informed our investigator that he contacted Creation on 3 November 2021 during 
which he was advised he wouldnt earn points in the notice period. And therefore he stopped 
spending on the card. Creation havent disputed this claim, so I think on balance this likely 
happened as Mr M described. Ive thought about Creations actions, and Mr Ms argument. I 
agree that Creation misinformed him and Mr M was caused inconvenience in not spending 
on his card and earning additional points.
Mr Ms provided evidence that in March 2023 he stayed in a hotel where, if hed been 
awarded the voucher at the correct time, hed have been able to use it to pay for a free 
nights stay. Ive considered the evidence Mr Ms provided, and I agree he was 
inconvenienced by Creations failure to correctly award him the free night stay voucher 
nearer the time of his credit card being terminated. 
Ive thought about Mr Ms response to the view. Hes argued that he experienced 
inconvenience in bringing a complaint to our service and the delay in Creation awarding his 
points, voucher and pro-rata fee. Ive considered Mr Ms additional points however our 
service doesnt award compensation for the inconvenience caused in raising a complaint  
and Im satisfied the inconvenience hes experienced in Creations failure to initially award 
him the points, voucher and pro-rata refund is fairly compensated by £100. 
Putting things right
Im satisfied that Mr M has suffered additional inconvenience in being unable to use the free 
night stay voucher in March 2023, and being misinformed about his ability to earn points 
during the notice period. I think Creation should pay him an additional £100 compensation 
for the impact caused. My final decision
My final decision is I uphold Mr Ms complaint and direct Creation Financial Services Limited 
to:
Pay Mr M £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused
Pay Mr M £29.84 for the unused part of the annual fee
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2023.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman