DRN-3938434
The complaint
Miss S complains about National Westminster Bank Plcs (NatWest) handling of her 
request to recover funds which were sent to an incorrect account. 
What happened
Miss S made an online payment of £5,000 to an account but later realised shed sent it to the 
wrong account. She contacted NatWest and asked them to recover the funds. At first, 
NatWest sent a claim to recover the funds, but this was for a separate transaction for 
£367.15  and was one which Miss S intended to make. NatWest then made a claim to 
recover the £5,000. Miss S was unhappy with the service provided by NatWest in relation to 
the recovery of the funds, so she complained. 
NatWest responded and explained the payment of £5,000 was successfully credited to the 
intended beneficiarys account so the claim was rejected. NatWest accepted though theyd 
provided Miss S with incorrect information and credited her account with £50 as 
compensation. Miss S then raised a further query about the payment as NatWest appeared 
to have referred to incorrect account details when suggesting the £5,000 had been sent to 
the intended beneficiary. 
NatWest then accepted their final response letter was incorrect. They explained theyd made 
a separate claim for recovery of the £5,000 but the recipient bank were unable to protect the 
funds as they were no longer available in the recipients account. NatWest explained the 
recipient had offered to repay Miss S back at £200 per month. NatWest also offered a further 
£150 compensation for the incorrect information in their final response letter. During our 
investigation, NatWest arranged with the recipient bank for the recipient to set up a 
repayment plan of £200 per month. The recipient bank then informed NatWest they hadnt 
received any response from the recipient to set up the repayment plan, so the funds couldnt 
be recovered.  
After considering all of the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to     
Miss S and NatWest on 3 January 2023. In my provisional decision I said as follows:      
      
Firstly, Ive looked at the service given to Miss S. The key facts about the complaint 
arent in dispute. NatWest have admitted they got things wrong when they initially 
tried to recover the £367.15 payment and not the £5,000 payment. This led to delay 
in attempting to claim the funds Miss S instructed NatWest to recover. NatWest also 
accept their final response letter was incorrect and they gave Miss S incorrect 
information. The only issue I have to decide is whether their offer to put things right is 
fair and reasonable.
I think its right that NatWest should take steps to put things right. To help decide 
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances, Ive looked at the errors by NatWest 
and what the impact of those errors have been. 
The main dispute here relates to the £5,000 which hasnt been recovered from the 
recipient. The details of the claim say Miss S was trying to transfer money to her own 
account but accidentally selected the account of a payee she had transferred money 
to previously. Ive listened to Miss Ss first call to NatWest to report the issue on 27 
February. Miss S explains she has made a payment of £5,000 but she thinks she has 
made it to the wrong account. She explains the account its been sent to is her own 
account but it no longer exists. The agent explains if the account no longer exists the 
funds should come back automatically. The agent explains there isnt much they can 
do about it yet as Miss S has only just made the payment. The agent says if the 
funds arent returned automatically within 24 hours then Miss S should call them back 
and theyll do a faster payment recovery. 
The agent then checks details on the system and explains this shows successful 
receipt of the payment so it must mean the account is open. The agent explains the 
system shows youve sent it to a payee with the name *****, is that your own 
account? and Miss S confirms it is. The agent explains that, while Miss S might not 
use the account, the recipient account does still appear to be open. Miss S again 
confirms that the recipient account should be closed and the agent explains it could 
well be that the funds are being held in the recipient banks suspense account and 
should be returned within 24 hours, but if not, she can call back and NatWest will do 
a payment recovery. 
Miss S then calls back on 1 March and explains the £5,000 hasnt been returned. 
During this call the agent reads out the payment particulars, and Miss S confirms its 
correct and again confirms its been sent to her own account. The agent reads out 
the bank sort-code the funds have been transferred to and it appears Miss S is still 
unclear about the account the funds have been transferred to as she still believes its 
her own account. During the call  Miss S and the agent discuss the intended recipient 
account details and establish that Miss S wanted to send the funds to an account 
with the sort-code *****9 but has sent it to *****8. I can see NatWest then start the 
process to recover the funds  but in this case it was the incorrect transaction funds 
they were attempting to recover. When NatWest realised their error and started the 
recovery process for the correct transaction, the funds had already been withdrawn 
by the recipient. While the withdrawal was out of NatWests control, Ive thought 
about when I think it wouldve been reasonable for NatWest to have started the 
recovery process and what difference this wouldve made. 
Miss S makes the incorrect transfer on 27 February and calls NatWest the same day. 
Its clear she believes she has incorrectly sent the funds to her own account which is 
closed and the information the agent then provides is on the understanding this is the 
case. But, its clear the agent accessed Miss Ss details on their system as they 
discuss the details of the transaction. During this call though, unlike the later call, the 
agent doesnt read out the account details the funds have been sent to. Given that 
the agent had Miss Ss information open on their screen  combined with the fact that 
the transaction related to a significant sum  I think the agent shouldve made these 
checks with Miss S in the same way the agent in the second call did. I think the agent 
should also have read out the account number the funds had been sent to. Had they 
done so, I see no reason why this call wouldnt have brought to light the fact that the 
funds hadnt been sent to Miss Ss closed account with another bank  but instead to 
a third party. 
So, I think there has been an error here and NatWest shouldve started the recovery 
process on 27 February. Ive then gone on to consider what difference, if any, this 
wouldve had. The Payment Services Regulations say that a payment service 
provider should take "reasonable steps" to recover funds that have been mistakenly 
applied to an account. What constitutes reasonable steps will depend on the 
circumstances. But in January 2016, Faster Payments announced new procedures to 
help customers who make payments in error. These set out timeframes both for investigating mistakes and for returning payments. When theyre told about a 
mistake, the sending payment services provider must contact the receiving payment 
services provider within two days. If the mistakes clear, they should ask the receiving 
payment services provider to prevent the money being spent. 
In this case, I can see Miss S called NatWest again on 1 March and NatWest then 
started the recovery process the same day and contacted the recipient bank on 2 
March. So, this shows that, from starting the process, NatWest were able to send the 
recovery request by close of business the following day. In their request, NatWest 
ask the recipient bank to protect the funds. Ive explained above why I believe 
NatWest shouldve sent the recovery request after the first call. So, in following the 
same process theyve followed and sequence of events, I think its more likely than 
not NatWest wouldve submitted the recovery request at least by close of business 
on 28 February. 
I can see the recipient bank have provided our service with information showing the 
funds were withdrawn by the recipient on 1 March. So, had NatWest started the 
recovery process on 27 February, the recipient bank wouldve been in receipt of the 
request to protect the funds prior to the funds being withdrawn. Thereafter, even if 
the recipient was able to withdraw the funds on 1 March, NatWest wouldve been 
able to demonstrate they acted promptly and in line with the Faster Payments 
procedures. But, in this case, during the call on 27 February, NatWest didnt go into 
the detail I would reasonably expect given the nature of Miss Ss issue and this led to 
a delay in submitting a recovery request. While the first recovery request on 2 March 
related to the wrong transaction, I dont think thats material to my findings here 
because by this point the funds had already been withdrawn. So, even if this 
recovery request was for the correct transaction of £5,000, these funds were no 
longer available in the recipient account in any event. 
Taking this all into account, I think NatWest have missed the opportunity to submit 
the recovery request prior to the withdrawal of the funds and ask for the funds to be 
protected. So, I think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances for NatWest to 
reimburse Miss S the £5,000 which she has lost. In addition to this, Miss S has 
experienced significant worry and inconvenience by NatWest attempting to recover 
the wrong transaction, Miss S having to clarify this for them and then providing 
incorrect information in their final response. There is also the impact of the delay Ive 
identified here and NatWest not going further with their questions and therefore not 
making the recovery request on 27 February. 
So, as well as the £200 NatWest have already paid, they should pay an additional 
£100 to bring the total compensation to £300.  
So, subject to any further comments from Miss S or NatWest, my provisional decision was 
that I was minded to uphold this complaint.   
Following my provisional decision, both parties have confirmed they accept the decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and with both parties accepting the decision, I see no reason to depart from 
my provisional decision. So, Ive decided to uphold the complaint for the reasons set out in 
my provisional decision and copied above.Putting things right
Ive taken the view that NatWest have made errors by delaying the recovery request and 
also providing incorrect information to Miss S. So, NatWest should reimburse Miss S the 
£5,000 together with 8% simple interest from 1 March 2022 (this being the date the funds 
were withdrawn) to the date of settlement. And, in addition to the £200 compensation 
already paid by NatWest, they should pay a further £100, bringing the total to £300. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. National Westminster Bank Plc must take the 
steps in accordance with what Ive said under Putting things right above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 March 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman