DRN-2580348
The complaint
Ms C complains that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Ms C took out PPI alongside a mortgage that started in 1998. 
The PPI covered Ms C for accident, sickness and unemployment and protected her 
mortgage monthly repayments. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Ms C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint has been passed to me. 
Ms C feels the policy was mis-sold for a number of reasons. In particular, she said she was 
advised this insurance was necessary for peace of mind and it wasnt explained that having 
savings, sickness cover and critical illness insurance meant it may not be required. 
She also told us that PPI wasnt something she needed as she had secure employment and 
good sick pay benefits as well as other ways to pay the mortgage if she wasnt working.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Cs complaint. Ill explain my reasons.
Nationwide couldnt provide any documents from the time of sale so Ive seen nothing signed 
by Ms C from then. But this isnt a reason for me to uphold the complaint. Its not surprising, 
given how long ago this sale happened, that paperwork isnt still available. I wouldnt 
reasonably expect Nationwide or Ms C to have kept this. 
And I cant know exactly what was said when Ms C arranged her mortgage. She told us 
shed taken out the PPI over the phone. But it wouldnt be reasonable to expect her to recall 
exactly what was discussed at the time. This means that what Ms C says now isnt enough 
on its own for me to be able to uphold her complaint.
In order to uphold Ms Cs complaint Id have to find it likely that she wasnt given a fair 
choice about PPI or that it was added to her account without her proper consent. 
I must look at all the available information and take into account the wider circumstances. 
I have to be impartial. 
I appreciate that Ms C is certain about what shes told us. But based on the information Ive 
seen, I cant fairly say that the policy wasnt presented as optional or that it was added to 
Ms Cs mortgage without her consent. 
I say this because her mortgage was a major financial commitment which she signed up to 
pay back over 25 years. Ms Cs home wouldve been at risk if the mortgage payments 
werent kept up to date. PPI provided dependable cover and it looks to me as if Ms C 
couldve found PPI useful if shed needed to claim. 
So I can see why she mightve felt that having PPI was worthwhile for her with this 
mortgage.  
I've taken into account that Ms C told us she felt the way PPI was sold to her during the 
phone call made her feel uncomfortable if she didnt have it. 
But overall, I dont find the evidence is strong enough for me safely to say that Nationwide 
didnt make it clear that it was open to Ms C not to choose PPI if she didnt want to have it. 
On balance, I think its likely that she understood it was up to her to choose if she wanted 
PPI and it was added to her mortgage account at her request. 
Looking at what Ms C has told us she recalls about the sale, and what Nationwide has said 
about how it sold PPI, I think its likely that Nationwide didnt recommend PPI to Ms C. In 
other words, it didnt personally advise her that PPI was suitable for her circumstances. But it 
still had to make sure that it gave Ms C enough information so she was able to make a 
proper decision about whether PPI was right for her. 
And if this didnt happen, I need to think about whether it makes any overall difference to the 
outcome of the complaint.
Ms C told us her employer wouldve paid her 6 months full sick pay followed by 6 months on 
half pay. But I think PPI still couldve been useful. It wouldve paid out in full for up to 
12 months per claim in the event of accident and sickness. So the PPI provided better 
protection than she couldve relied on getting through her employer. And it wouldve paid out 
on top of sick pay providing Ms C with a useful benefit at a difficult time  especially if she 
had some extra costs as a result of being sick or disabled. 
PPI wouldve also paid out for up to 12 months for any one claim if Ms C lost her job and 
became unexpectedly unemployed. 
Ms C mentioned having other insurance cover set up  but this doesnt mean that the PPI 
duplicated benefits she already had. Income protection policies arent the same as PPI. 
And PPI provided a different sort of benefit and paid out in different circumstances to critical 
illness cover  which pays out in the event of long term, serious, life changing or life limiting 
conditions. 
Ms C also told us that it was only a matter of time before she could reasonably expect to 
receive her share of an inheritance. But this wasnt money that was available to her when 
she took out her mortgage  and it wasnt clear exactly when the inheritance would be 
available. So I dont think this is a reason for me to uphold her complaint. Ive taken into account that Ms C had a significant amount of money in savings. But it looks 
like Ms C preferred not to spend savings since she took out this mortgage rather than draw 
on money she had saved to reduce the amount of her borrowing and keep down the overall 
cost of her mortgage. 
Having PPI meant Ms C could also keep savings secure in the long term as she wouldnt 
have been forced to use this money to pay the mortgage. 
This meant Ms C could rely on her savings continuing to be available to spend on other 
things or to provide her with financial security  even if she wasnt able to work. So I think 
the policy offered her a useful extra benefit in this respect.
This mortgage was in Ms Cs sole name so she alone was responsible for making the 
mortgage monthly repayments  even if she wasnt able to work. Relying on other people to 
help out in the event of money problems isnt as dependable as taking out PPI as everyones 
circumstances can change unexpectedly. 
Ms C says her circumstances have nothing to do with whether the PPI was mis-sold. But 
I can see why she mightve felt that this was a worthwhile policy to buy because I think it 
offered her potentially useful benefits in her particular circumstances. 
Its possible some of the information Nationwide gave Ms C about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been. There were some things the policy didnt cover. But it doesnt look as if 
those applied in Ms Cs case. So, I dont think having more information about things the 
policy didnt cover wouldve affected her decision to take it out. 
It looks to me like Ms C chose to take out the policy and so she appears to have wanted this 
type of cover. She was eligible for the policy given her circumstances and the PPI terms and 
conditions that applied. (I've thought about this point because if she wasnt eligible for the 
policy that would make a difference to my decision). 
Ms C hasnt said anything to make me think the policy wasnt affordable for her  so thats 
not a reason for me to uphold her complaint. This was a policy she paid for monthly. So if 
she didnt want to pay to keep it running Ms C couldve cancelled the policy any time at no 
extra cost. 
The purpose of this insurance was to protect her in the event of unforeseen events. The fact 
Ms C didnt ever need to rely on the policy doesnt mean it was mis-sold. 
Overall its possible there may have been some failings in the way this policy was sold. But 
I think Ms C still wouldve decided to buy the policy if shed been better informed as the 
policy gave her useful protection in her particular situation. I dont think having clearer 
information wouldve stopped her buying it.
In coming to my decision, Ive taken into account everything Ms C told us, and dealt with all 
the main points that have a bearing on the outcome of her complaint. On balance, I dont find 
theres enough information for me to say that Ms C has lost out as a result of anything 
Nationwide did wrong. So it doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
I appreciate that what Ive said will come as a disappointment overall. And Im sorry that its 
taken such a long time to issue a final decision. But I hope that setting out the reasons as 
Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my conclusions.
My final decisionFor these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman