DRN-4155946
The complaint
Mr Y complains HSBC UK Bank Plc unfairly closed his account and failed to tell him why. He 
wants his account reopened, to know why it was closed, and compensation.
What happened
The facts that led to Mr Y bringing this complaint are not in dispute. Mr Y believes HSBC 
closed his account unfairly in 2021 and thinks their decision was because they previously 
closed accounts he held with them in 2013. HSBC refused to tell him why his account was 
closed in 2021 and say they acted fairly.
Mr Y also complained about HSBCs decision to close his accounts in 2013. I addressed this 
complaint in a different decision and found it was outside our services jurisdiction. Im not 
revisiting that complaint again here.
Our investigator concluded HSBC acted fairly when closing his account in 2021. They found:
HSBC initially approved Mr Ys application for an account in December 2021, and 
they provided him with account details. They then carried out secondary checks a 
few days later and decided not to proceed with the account. They were entitled to do 
this.
HSBC dont have to provide their reason(s) to Mr Y about why his account closed. 
They had correctly followed their process.
Mr Y was unhappy with the outcome our investigator reached. He says he should be told 
HSBCs reason, particularly if it was because they realised they had closed accounts of his 
in the past. He says they have no right to demoralise, criminalise and dent his reputation. He 
referred to a complaint he brought against a different bank about the closure of an account 
which resulted in the account being reopened. He says this should be the same outcome for 
this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ys complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr Ys thinks his account shouldnt have been accepted only for it then to be closed. And he 
believes this happened because HSBC realised they closed his accounts in 2013. I 
appreciate his sentiment, but HSBC dont have to provide their reasons for closing his 
account to him, whether or not they relate to their decision in 2013.
HSBC can review an account at any time, which includes carrying out a further review before 
they permit an account to be used. After they completed their review they reversed their 
original decision, which they are allowed to do - they have the freedom to both open and 
close accounts. Ive considered the basis of their decision and it represents a legitimate 
exercise of their commercial discretion. I dont find they made an error. 
Mr Y must have been frustrated not to be able to use his account, and he must have been 
concerned about why his account closed. I dont doubt he has been caused offence by 
HSBCs decision. But I dont find HSBC needed to go on to allow him to use the account just 
because they initially approved it. So, Im not compensating him for how this made him feel.
Mr Y referred to another complaint about the closure of an account with a different bank, 
where following our services involvement, the bank decided to reopen the account. He 
thinks the circumstances of both complaints are the same. But my role is to decide the 
complaint before me and based on the information Ive available for this complaint, Im 
satisfied HSBC dont need to reopen his account or do anything further.
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ys complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2023.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman