DRN-2973040
The complaint
Mrs H complains about how Fairmead Insurance Limited handled and settled a claim she
made under her home insurance policy for storm damage to her roof.
What happened
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 6 July 2021  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained why I thought Fairmead had acted reasonably and 
fairly. And I outlined the reasons why I wasnt minded to uphold Mrs Hs complaint. I said:
What happened
Mrs H held a household insurance policy, which is provided by Fairmead. She said that, on 
9 February 2020, a storm caused damage to the roof of her property. She was away on 
holiday at the time the damage was sustained. So, on her return, Mrs H contacted 
Fairmead to make a claim under her policy for storm damage.
Fairmead appointed a surveyor, C to attend Mrs Hs property and determine the cause of 
damage to her roof. After the surveyor inspected Mrs Hs roof it told Fairmead it thought the 
damage had been caused gradually due to age-related wear and tear of the roof mortar. 
And it said the recent weather conditions had highlighted the poor condition of the roof.
Fairmead repudiated Mrs Hs claim based on the surveyors opinion. It explained that 
damage that had been caused gradually was excluded by her policy.
Mrs H wasnt happy with how Fairmead proposed to resolve her claim. She obtained a report 
from a building contractor which stated that the roof was in good condition and that the wind 
had removed six hip tiles from two separate hips on the main house roof, which had then 
damaged 100 tiles on the extension roof below. Mrs H therefore felt, as thered been strong 
winds at around the time the damage occurred, a storm had caused the damage to her roof. 
So, she complained that Fairmead wouldnt meet her claim.
Fairmead investigated Mrs Hs concerns. But it maintained its stance that the damage wasnt 
caused by a one-off storm event as was required by her policy. It therefore didnt uphold her 
complaint about the way it had settled her claim.
Being dissatisfied with how Fairmead had dealt with her complaint Mrs H referred it to our 
service. Our investigator looked into what had happened and recommended upholding this 
complaint. She wasnt satisfied that C had properly inspected Mrs Hs roof. And she didnt
think Fairmead had acted fairly in determining that the damage had been caused by wear 
and tear. She therefore recommended it meet Mrs Hs claim and pay her £100 
compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience shed experienced while her claim 
had been declined. But Fairmead disagreed with our investigators view of this complaint 
and requested an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, 
I must base my decision on the balance of probabilities. Ive read and considered all the 
information provided by Mrs H and Fairmead, but Ill concentrate my decision on what I 
think is relevant to decide the complaint. If I dont comment on any specific point its not 
because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it, but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
I understand that Mrs H is unhappy with how her home emergency cover provider dealt 
with her claim. However, this cover is not provided by Fairmead. So, the service issues 
Mrs H has raised with our service about her home emergency cover arent things I can 
address or consider as part of this complaint.
My role, here, is to assess whether I think Fairmead made a mistake, or treated Mrs H 
unfairly, such that it needs to now put things right. And, having thought carefully about 
everything she and Fairmead have said, Im departing from the conclusions our 
investigator reached when she assessed this complaint. Ill explain why.
Theres no dispute that damage occurred to Mrs Hs roof. However, theres 
disagreement between her, Fairmead and its appointed agent about the cause of the 
damage and the correct outcome of this claim.
Mrs H would like Fairmead to cover the damage to her roof because she feels it was 
caused by adverse weather. Her policy with Fairmead provides cover for damage caused 
by a range of perils that might happen. These are specific one-off events and include storm, 
for example. But, for a claim to be successful, Mrs H would have to show that the damage 
shes claiming for was caused by one of the perils listed in her policy.
There are three conditions that need to be met before this service would say a claim 
for storm damage should succeed. Those are:
1. Is there evidence that there was a storm around the date of the damage?
2. Is the damage consistent with what we would normally consider storm damage?
3. Was the storm the main cause of the damage?
I have re-assessed Mrs Hs complaint and all the evidence with these three questions in 
mind. And I should also clarify that all three questions must be answered affirmatively for 
this service to be able to recommend that a storm complaint is upheld.
In weighing up the first question, I can see that Mrs Hs policy doesnt define the word 
storm. This isnt unusual. And, in that scenario, this service takes the view that a 
storm generally involves violent winds, usually accompanied by rain, hail or snow.
When looking a wind speed, we generally consider wind speeds of 47 mph or above to 
be consistent with a storm. So, this is what Ive thought about when deciding whether 
there were storm conditions on or around the date of Mrs Hs claim.Ive checked the weather reports relevant to Mrs Hs locality for storm conditions on the 
day she says her roof sustained damage. These show that wind speeds of 63 mph were 
recorded on 9 February 2020. There was also heavy rainfall. Based on the weather 
reports Ive seen, Im satisfied there was a storm on the date the damage occurred. I can 
therefore answer question one affirmatively.
Turning now to the second question, Ive carefully thought about whether the damage 
caused is consistent with what we would normally consider to be storm damage. In this 
case roof tiles were dislodged. Im satisfied, overall, that this type of damage is something 
that could be expected following a storm. So, Im able to answer this question affirmatively.
As regards the third question I have to address, C said that, during its inspection, it 
observed areas of missing and cracked mortar. It believes the mortar had reached the end 
of its serviceable life. And it thinks this deterioration happened gradually. Specifically, C 
said:
On external inspection of the roof from ground level at the front, side and rear of the 
property there is no evidence of storm related damage. However, there is visible 
deterioration of the roof mortar which has allowed the hip tiles to be dislodged from the 
roof causing further damage to the lower roof covering when falling.
Mrs H disagrees with Cs opinion. She said her roof was in good condition prior to the storm 
and told our investigator that her husband had cleaned and maintained the roof annually 
and undertaken minor repairs as required. Shes also provided our service with a cause of 
damage report from a building contractor, which she believes undermines Cs report.
The report from Mrs Hs building contractor estimated the necessary repairs to be £1440 
and stated:
The wind removed 6 hip tiles from two separate hips on the main house roof, which in 
my opinion was in good condition. The falling hip tiles proceeded to smash 
approximately 100 reclaimed rosemary tiles on extension roofs below.
Its clear that Mrs H disagrees with Cs opinion and is unhappy that Fairmead has relied 
on its report to decline her claim. However, C is a recognised organisation that regularly 
assesses property damage on behalf of insurers. So, it isnt unreasonable for Fairmead to 
use Cs expertise in assessing a claim for damage.
I can see that our investigator was critical of Cs inspection. She thought a more thorough 
inspection ought to have been undertaken. But I dont agree as, based on the evidence 
Ive seen, there were a large number of close up detailed photographs available for C to 
use to reach a conclusion on the cause of damage, which showed the condition of Mrs Hs 
roof. 
Furthermore, it isnt always necessary for a surveyor to ascend a roof in order to properly 
inspect it. Im satisfied, overall, that C undertook an appropriate independent inspection of 
Mrs Hs roof. And Im persuaded it had sufficient information on which to determine the 
cause of damage here.
The photographs of Mrs Hs roof demonstrate significant age-related deterioration of the 
mortar  its weathered, cracked and missing entirely on some parts of the roof  as C 
stated in its report. The photographs Ive seen support Cs opinion that the roof is in poor 
condition with mortar that has been deteriorating for some time. Im afraid I dont agree with 
the opinion of Mrs Hs building contractor that the roof is in good condition.Im persuaded that the roof mortar deterioration has been occurring gradually and that this 
has caused the hip tiles to dislodge. Mortar deterioration doesnt happen due to a one-off 
storm event. If its been correctly applied and maintained it should be weather resistant and 
unaffected by storm related weather  although it will deteriorate over time when exposed 
to extremes of weather.
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs H but Im persuaded by Cs opinion that the damage was 
predominantly caused by the gradual deterioration of the roof mortar. Based on the 
evidence Ive seen, I think its most likely that the adverse weather that Mrs H experienced 
in around early February 2020 exposed the pre-existing condition of the mortar and caused 
it to worsen. I dont think the roof would have suffered the damage it did had the mortar 
been in good condition. And Im not persuaded the damage was caused by a one-off storm 
event as Mrs Hs policy requires.
Under the terms of Mrs Hs policy loss or damage caused by wear and tear is specifically 
excluded. This is in common with most home insurance policies because insurance is 
intended to cover the unforeseen. And something wearing out or requiring maintenance 
isnt unforeseen.
In the overall circumstances of this complaint, Ive seen cogent evidence that shows the 
cause of damage was wear and tear. It follows that I cant fairly find that Fairmead acted 
unfairly in relying on a wear and tear exclusion clause to repudiate Mrs Hs claim. And, as 
the damage Mrs H claimed for isnt covered under her policy, I cant fairly ask Fairmead to 
settle her claim under the storm peril.
Ive thought about whether Mrs Hs claim could be met under any other sections of her policy 
 such as accidental damage. But accidental damage is usually damage which is caused 
suddenly and unexpectedly. And, as Ive already explained, the mortar deterioration has 
happened gradually. So, I cant fairly find that the damage to Mrs Hs roof falls within the 
accidental damage clause of her policy. I also cant say the damage should be covered by 
any other parts of her insurance policy.
I know Mrs H will be disappointed with this provisional decision. Shes already incurred 
expense in paying for the repairs to her roof and I know she feels very strongly about the 
issues raised in her complaint. But for the reasons outlined, my provisional opinion is that
Im not persuaded Fairmead acted unfairly in declining this claim.
In my provisional decision, I invited both parties to respond with any additional information 
they wanted me to consider before I made my final decision, which is our service's last word 
on the matter.
Fairmead responded to confirm it agreed with my provisional decision and had nothing 
further to add. Mrs H didnt respond. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and in light of the fact neither party has presented any new evidence or 
arguments for my consideration, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions set out in 
my provisional decision. I still dont think Mrs H's complaint should be upheld.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2021.
 
Julie Mitchell
Ombudsman