DRN-2369177
The complaint
Ms L and Mr O complain about Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limiteds handling of their 
claim for damage from an escape of water at their home under their home insurance. They 
also complain that Lloyds contractors caused another leak during the repairs.
What happened
Ms Ls original claim was made in 2013. Lloyds accepted the claim and after some delays 
extensive repairs were carried in Ms Ls home including the re-fitting of her bathroom. Ms L 
contacted Lloyds again in 2018 and 2019 concerning damp and staining and said this was 
due to Lloyds contractors removal and installation of her cistern. Ms L said Lloyds should 
pay for the repairs to be re-done.  
Ms L has said that the work carried out by Lloyds in response to the claim hasnt been 
completed properly. Ms L has raised the same issues with Lloyds on a number of occasions. 
Ms L believes that there are still matters outstanding that Lloyds said it would fix. 
Lloyds sent its loss adjuster to inspect the repairs and sent its contractors back to carry out 
some snagging work. Lloyds sent its loss adjuster to Ms Ls home in October 2019 who 
reported that all the snagging issues had been fixed with nothing outstanding. 
Lloyds apologised to Ms L for belatedly dealing with the snagging issues related to kitchen 
units and sealant around windows and paid her £200 compensation. Lloyds said Ms Ls 
cistern wasnt removed by its contractor, so it wasnt responsible for any leak. Lloyds 
rejected Ms Ls suggestion of poor workmanship and said the damage she reported was due 
to wear and tear. Lloyds said Ms L could make another claim concerning the further escape 
of water that she reported from the cistern.  
Ms L didnt agree with Lloyds that its contractors hadnt touched the cistern, and said she 
has a report from a utilities engineer confirming there was a fault. Ms L said Lloyds told her 
at the end of 2019 that it would carry out further repairs but hadnt done so. Ms L says her 
home is damp because Lloyds hasnt fixed all the issues and left it in a poor state of repair.   
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld, saying that the evidence 
showed that the work had been completed and identified issues fixed. She said the utilities 
engineer didnt attribute the cistern fault to Lloyds contractors and fixed the problem in 
March 2019. The investigator said that Lloyds had sent three different contractors in 
response to her complaints and only declined to do any further work after a further 
inspection. 
Ms L disagreed with the investigator. She said there was still repairs that havent been 
completed and her report showed the cistern had been damaged by Lloyds contractors. Ms 
L requested an ombudsman review her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms L has raised a separate complaint concerning the non-payment of disturbance allowance 
and lack of access to her cistern. This has been addressed separately by Lloyds and it has 
paid some food allowance and compensation for not being able to use the kitchen. Lloyds 
has said there was nothing to show an access hatch needed to be installed. Ms L can bring 
a further complaint about these issues to our service if she wishes. 
Ms L has made many points in support of her complaint. I hope she doesnt take it as a 
discourtesy that I have concentrated on what I take to be the main issues. 
When deciding about the presence and cause of damage, we have to rely on the available 
evidence and generally on expert reports about this. Ms L said Lloyds contractors caused a 
leak from her cistern when carrying out repairs. Unfortunately, Ms L hasnt provided any 
evidence that the cistern was removed or even touched as part of the repairs. Lloyds loss 
adjuster and its contractors said that the contractors did no work or had no interference with 
the cistern. 
Ms L said she has a report from a utilities engineer confirming there was a fault. Ive looked 
at the report, but the engineer didnt attribute the fault to the contractors and said he had 
fixed the problem in March 2019. Any issue with the cistern after this wouldnt have fallen 
within Ms Ls claim. 
From what Ive seen there is no evidence the cistern was removed or interfered with by 
Lloyds contractors. Lloyds said its contractors wouldnt have removed the cistern as its 
boxed in and it didnt interfere with the tiling of the walls. Lloyds said that from its report of 
May 2019 it was confirmed the leak is a result of failed sealant due to lack of maintenance.
Unfortunately for Ms L there is nothing to suggest Lloyds contractors were responsible for 
any damage to her cistern and so I am unable to direct Lloyds to make any repairs to the 
cistern.  
Ms L says that Lloyds hasnt fixed all the issues and left her house in a poor state of repair. 
The investigator has asked Ms L for any information she might have in support of this, but 
nothing has been forthcoming. Ive looked at the report from Lloyds contractors and the 
work it carried out following that of the previous contractors. The reports Ive seen indicate 
that the work was completed, and the identified issues fixed. We havent been provided with 
another opinion from an expert that shows that Ms Ls home was left in a poor state of repair 
due to the work by Lloyds contractors or not undertaken. 
Lloyds has reports that show further issues raised by Ms L are to do with wear and tear. All 
insurance policies include an exclusion for wear and tear because insurers want to 
distinguish a contract of insurance from a maintenance contract. The former is for one-off 
perils specified in the policy, and the latter concerns the maintenance we all have to carry 
out to our homes.
I agree with Lloyds that it was fair for it to give no further consideration to the issues raised 
by Ms L under her previous claim. However, I note that it will consider a new claim about the 
escape of water that Ms L said occurred from her cistern should she choose to make one. 
Im pleased Lloyds paid Ms L £200 compensation for its belated work on snagging issues 
and I think this was fair. 
My final decisionFor the reasons I have given it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L and Mr O to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 March 2021.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman