DRN-1975026
The complaint
Mrs M and Mr M have complained that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) has 
changed the wording on the annual statement of their whole of life policy, which they believe 
means the policy will now pay out less than they had initially agreed to.
What happened
In 1986 Mrs M and Mr M took out a whole of life policy with Aviva, sold to them by an adviser 
tied to Aviva. They have said that over the years the statements theyve received from Aviva 
explained that the payment under the policy upon a successful claim would be made up of 
the sum assured and the value of the units held in the policy. However, they feel this 
changed in 2019 when they received a statement which set out that the policy would pay out 
either the sum assured or the value of the units. 
Mr M has said he was told by the adviser who sold him the policy that both the sum assured 
and the unit value upon a successful claim. So they believe that Aviva has changed the 
payment terms of the policy and that it will now pay less upon a successful claim.  Theyve 
stated that if they had known this at the outset they wouldnt have taken the policy.
The complaint was assessed by one of our investigators who felt it couldnt be upheld. She 
was of the view that while the previous statement wording wasnt very clear the paragraph in 
question still had the same meaning  that only one of the options would be paid out if a 
claim was made.
Mrs M and Mr M didnt agree with the assessment.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think he complaint can be upheld.
Firstly its important to make clear that in this decision I am looking at the wording on the 
statements Mrs M and Mr M received and whether this has changed the contract which they 
agreed to. I cant comment on what may or may not have been said to them at the time they 
took the policy out.
For clarity the policy statement received before 2019 set out the following:
The amount we [Aviva] would pay if either life assured dies, would be the higher of:
a) The guaranteed minimum death benefit. This is the amount shown on the contract 
schedule which is part of the documentation we sent you when you took out the 
policy:
And
b) The value of the units held in the contract.
And the statement from 2019 states:
If one of the lives assured die. Well pay out the larger amount of either:
£50,000 (this is the life cover sum assured), or
Your fund value including any bonuses.
Mrs and Mr M is correct in saying the wording of the statements, and this paragraph in 
particular has changed between 2016 and 2019. Significantly the word and has been 
replaced by the word or. However, in making my decision I need to consider whether the 
wording change has materially changed the terms and conditions of the contract that Mr M 
signed and agreed to in 1986.
Looking at the statement from 2016 as a whole, the use of the phrase the higher of indicates 
that one of two options would be paid out. It doesnt state both will be paid  it means that if 
the value of the death benefit is higher than the value of the units then that would be paid, or 
vice versa. The use of the word and in this context doesnt make sense. I also think its 
reasonable when considering the overall meaning of this paragraph that the interpretation of 
it would be that only one of the options would be paid, depending upon which one was 
higher in value. And I think this overall meaning would be obvious from the outset.
The amended wording in the 2019 statement does make the paragraph clearer but I dont 
think it changes what sort of payment would be made under the policy. Its also not 
unreasonable this change was made given the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA), reviewed Avivas customer communications and directed that the annual statements 
for these products needed improving in look and feel and in the amount of information that 
was being provided.
Overall I am satisfied the terms and conditions of the policy havent changed and the use of 
the word or instead of and hasnt materially changed the contract. I must look at the overall 
meaning of the paragraphs and in my view both statements say the same thing - that only 
one of the options would pay out - all be it the later statement communicates this in a much 
clearer way.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 June 2021.
 
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman