DRN-3921120
The complaint
Mr A has complained that British Gas hasnt done enough to repair damage he says was 
caused by an error when an engineer attended to repair his boiler. 
Mr A sought assistance under a home care policy.
What happened
In July 2022 Mr A reported to British Gas that he had no hot water, so it arranged for an 
engineer to attend. Later the same day Mr A found water had leaked from the boiler onto the 
floor of his basement. He called British Gas and an engineer attended that evening and 
repaired the leak. 
Mr A said the leak had caused extensive damage. To put things right, he wanted British Gas 
to damp proof the basement. 
But British Gas didnt agree. It accepted the engineer had caused a leak in the basement. 
But it said the basement had pre-existing damp damage which it wasnt responsible for. For 
the inconvenience it had caused by its engineers error, it paid Mr A £70 compensation. 
British Gas increased this sum to £100. 
Our Investigator thought British Gas had properly considered Mr As concerns and the 
compensation it had paid was fair for the inconvenience caused. 
Mr A didnt agree. So the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that due to an error by an engineer, water leaked into the basement of Mr 
As home. This was repaired on the same day. 
In response to Mr As complaint, British Gas arranged for an assessor to visit and inspect the 
damage. The assessor reported the following:
"Visited the above address in relation to the damage caused from a leak from the 
boiler onto the basement floor. The customer explained around a month ago the 
boiler was leaking causing water to go onto his concrete floor of the basement on 
inspection the basement looks like it suffers from damp issues already, the walls 
were flaking where the salts were coming through.
The floor itself looked fine as it has dried out but I imagine it wouldve read high due 
to it being in the basement anyway.
"I explained that this is not British Gass liability and with crossflow ventilation of both 
windows in the basement being open this would adequately dry out the water that 
came from the boiler. There were no remaining damp spots noted following the leak.
British Gas said it was for Mr A to provide evidence to show the leak from the boiler had 
caused the damage he claimed. Alternatively it said Mr A might be able to make a claim 
under his home insurance policy. However if - as British Gas says - the damp was pre-
existing, Mr As home insurance policy will not cover pre-existing issues - only sudden 
unforeseen insured events. 
Mr A told us he had other complaints about British Gas. He said he complained that shoes 
and carpet had been damaged by the leaking water. British Gas notes show Mr A raised this 
with it in a call on 8 September 2022. The agent asked Mr A if he brought this to the 
attention of the assessor. Notes say it wasnt clear from Mr As reply, but Mr A told the agent 
that these items were now dry. So the agent said as there was no damage it wouldnt 
consider the issue further. 
Mr A said he had to pay an excess of £40, so in real terms the compensation is worth £60. 
And he told us that the assessor offered a dehumidifier but this didnt materialise. 
Our Investigator explained that if Mr A is unhappy with the excess he paid and not being 
offered a dehumidifier, he will need to raise these issues with British Gas first to give it an 
opportunity to investigate and reply before we can consider. Mr A said he has now done this. 
I think British Gas properly considered his complaint and on inspection of the basement, 
didnt agree there was ongoing damage caused by the leak. It gave Mr A the option to obtain 
an independent report and if this showed British Gas was responsible for damage, it would 
reconsider. I think this was a reasonable approach for British Gas to take. 
I havent seen any evidence from Mr A to show British Gas caused damage to his basement 
as a result of the leak in July 2022. So I think the compensation British Gas paid to Mr A of 
£100 for the inconvenience caused by the leaking water was reasonable.
Mr A is unhappy with the way British Gas handled his complaint. The Financial Conduct 
Authority say we can deal with complaints about regulated activities. As the Investigator 
explained, complaints handling isnt a regulated activity and so this service isnt able to 
consider Mr As dissatisfaction about this. I can see that British Gas sent Mr A updates about 
his complaint. 
Mr A asked to speak to me about his complaint before I issued my decision. In light of the 
information he has provided, I dont think it is necessary. I believe Ive been provided with 
sufficient information from both parties to fairly decide the outcome of this complaint. 
I understand Mr A will be disappointed with my decision. But this means Im not asking 
British Gas to do any more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 March 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman