DRN-4169633
The complaint
Miss H complains Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk 
(MoneyBoat) provided her with loans without carrying out appropriate affordability checks. 
What happened
Miss H was granted three loans by MoneyBoat, and Ive outlined her borrowing history in the 
table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
instalmentshighest 
repayment per 
loan
1 £800.00 30/05/2022 18/07/2022 6 £249.51
2 £950.00 18/07/2022 31/07/2022 6 £316.67
3 £1,100.00 31/10/2022 outstanding 6 £339.72
An outstanding balance remained due on loan two as of February 2023. 
MoneyBoat considered the complaint and concluded it had made a reasonable decision to 
provide these loans because it had carried out proportionate checks. Unhappy with this 
response, Miss H referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator, who didnt uphold it. He said MoneyBoat 
had reasonable grounds to believe Miss H could afford the loans and that it had carried out 
proportionate checks. 
Miss H didnt agree. She said she had used other payday loans in order to repay MoneyBoat 
and this will be shown in her credit report.  Finally, Miss H said that as a result of MoneyBoat 
(and other short-term lenders), she is now under the terms of a Debt Management Plan 
(DMP).
As no agreement could be reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
MoneyBoat had to assess the lending to check if Miss H could afford to pay back the 
amounts shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. MoneyBoats checks could have taken into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, 
and Miss Hs income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest MoneyBoat should have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss H. These factors include:
Miss H having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Miss H having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Miss H coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Miss H. The adjudicator didnt consider 
it reached the point in the lending relationship where this applied and I agree, as there were 
only three loans with a small gap between loans two and three. 
MoneyBoat was required to establish whether Miss H could sustainably repay the loans  
not just whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having 
enough money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Miss H was able 
to repay her loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised, that a borrower wont be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further, then it follows that it should conclude those 
repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Miss Hs complaint.
Before each loan was approved, MoneyBoat asked Miss H for details of her income, which 
she declared as being £2,250 per month for loan one, £1,800 per month for loan two and 
then £2,550 a month when loan three was advanced. MoneyBoat says the declared income 
figures were checked by cross referencing information through a third-party report provided 
by a credit reference agency.   
In addition, and to be clear, I dont think that MoneyBoat needed to do this. But if it had 
checked Miss Hs income possibly through using bank statements or payslips it wouldve 
likely seen that her income for each month was at least what she had declared at loan one. 
In July 2022 for example when she declared a lower income, she actually received £2,838. 
So even if MoneyBoat had done further checks into Miss Hs income only  which I dont 
think it needed to do, it wouldve likely discovered she received at times, more than she had 
declared. 
Miss H also declared monthly outgoings as low as £1,080 when loan two was advanced and 
as high as £1,460 when loan three was granted. As part of the application, MoneyBoat used 
information from its credit searches to adjust the declared expenditure Miss H had provided. 
As a result, of this check, Miss Hs monthly expenditure wasnt increased for any of the 
loans. 
After carrying out these checks, Miss H had sufficient disposable income to be able to afford 
the repayments she had to make. Before each loan was approved MoneyBoat also carried out a credit search and it has 
provided a copy of the results it received from the credit reference agency. It is worth saying 
here that although MoneyBoat carried out credit searches, there isnt a regulatory 
requirement to do one, let alone one to a specific standard. But what MoneyBoat couldnt do 
is carry out a credit search and then not react to the information it received  if necessary.  
Having reviewed the credit check results, there isnt anything in any of the results that 
wouldve indicated that Miss H was having current financial difficulties, for example it knew 
there were no current insolvency markers, County Court Judgements or debt management 
plans. And for each loan it knew that Miss H hadnt defaulted on any account within the last 
three years. 
MoneyBoat did know that Miss H had a number of credit cards that were close to their limits 
 but she was making repayments and didnt have any adverse information recorded against 
them. In addition, there were some other high-cost loans, but again these had been serviced 
well and had been open for a number of years  from 2018 and 2019. So, there wasnt any 
indication that Miss H was using other payday loans (or high-cost credit loans) in an 
unsustainable manner or that she was using other lending to repay these loans. 
In addition, loans one and two had been repaid earlier than contracted for. So, there wasnt 
anything solely from the way these loans were managed, which wouldve shown MoneyBoat 
that Miss H was having or likely having financial difficulties. 
Overall, there was also nothing in the information that Ive seen that wouldve led MoneyBoat 
to believe that it needed to go further with its checks  such as verifying the information 
Miss H had provided. So, while Miss H has provided copy bank statements, in this case, it 
wouldve been disproportionate for MoneyBoat to have considered them. 
Given the evidence provided, I think it was reasonable for MoneyBoat to have relied on the 
information Miss H gave about her income and expenditure to show she had sufficient 
disposable income to afford the repayments she was committed to making. I also consider 
the checks it carried out to be proportionate. Finally there wasnt anything to suggest that 
Miss H was having financial difficulties, or these loans would be unsustainable for her. 
Im therefore not upholding Miss Hs complaint. I appreciate this will come as a 
disappointment for her. There appears to be an outstanding balance and I would remind 
MoneyBoat of its obligation to treat Miss H fairly and with forbearance. 
My final decision
So, for the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Miss Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 October 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman