DRN-2433702
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclays) blocked his 
card when he was out of the UK on a holiday.
What happened
Mr C said that he has held a banking relationship with Barclays for more than 25 years. In 
October 2019, he called Barclays to let them know that he was going on holiday the 
following day, outside of the UK. He explained where he was going and the dates that he 
would be away. Mr C told Barclays that he would be using his card to make payments during 
his trip and wanted to make sure that they were aware and there wouldnt be any problems. 
Barclays noted this within their systems.
During Mr Cs trip, he continued to use his card without problem. Towards the end of his trip, 
he attempted to use his card to pay a restaurant bill. The restaurant waitress told Mr C that 
his card payment had been declined despite repeated attempts. A friend, who was travelling 
with Mr C, agreed to pay his bill for him. At this point, Mr C was not too concerned and 
assumed it was just a problem at the restaurant.
The following day, Mr C travelled, with his friends, to another city. Upon arrival, he attempted 
to check in to a hotel that had been booked in advance. He was asked to provide a credit 
card to complete his check in. When he gave them his card, the payment authorisation was 
declined. The hotel tried to authorise the card again without success. Mr C decided to 
contact Barclays to find out what was wrong.
Mr C wasnt successful calling Barclays on a land line at the hotel so borrowed a friends 
mobile phone to make the call. Barclays explained that they regularly receive information 
from various sources when the details or security of a card may have been placed at risk. 
They told Mr C that his card had been identified as one of these. They said that they hadnt 
seen any unusual or suspicious transactions yet but, to protect the security of his account, it 
was necessary to block the card and issue a replacement. Barclays told him that a new card 
had been issued and sent to his home address. This had been ordered and despatched 10 
days before.
Mr C explained to Barclays that he was out of the UK and couldnt collect the new card. He 
also said that he had limited cash and no other way to make payments. Barclays asked if 
someone at home could open and take a photo of his new card to send to him. Mr C said 
that this wasnt possible as he lived alone. Mr C asked if the block on his card could be lifted 
but Barclays explained that this was not possible. Barclays did offer to arrange for Mr C to 
collect some emergency cash locally. Mr C declined and told them that his friends had 
agreed to help him.
Mr C was unhappy with Barclays decision to block his card and said that he wanted to raise 
a complaint. Barclays confirmed that they would do this and offered £30 compensation for 
the inconvenience and to cover the cost of his call. Mr C accepted this offer.
When Mr C returned to the UK, he contacted Barclays about his complaint. Barclays looked 
into the circumstances but didnt agree that an error had been made. As a gesture of 
goodwill, Barclays offered Mr C a further payment of £50 to reflect the stress and 
inconvenience caused. Mr C declined this offer and decided to take his complaint to this 
service.
One of our investigators has looked into all the circumstances of Mr Cs complaint. However, 
he didnt agree that Barclays had made a mistake here. So, Mr C has asked that his case be 
referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C had called Barclays before he left the UK to tell them he would be using his card 
outside of the UK. This was the right thing to do so that Barclays knew that he would be 
using his card in circumstances that were different to his normal spending habits.
 
But that doesnt mean that Barclays couldnt, or wouldnt still have cause to, act in relation to 
a customers account where it has reasonable grounds to do so. The main issue here 
appears to relate to why Barclays made the decision to block Mr Cs card while he was away 
on holiday. Mr C has said that he believes that this card was blocked merely because it was 
being used in the country he was visiting. He wasnt happy that Barclays wouldnt provide 
more information to explain why the card was blocked.
All UK banks receive information from various sources in order to protect their customers 
from becoming victims of fraud. These sources can include other banks, card processing 
companies, local authorities and fraud protection agencies. Warnings and alerts from these 
sources can be for a variety of reasons. Banks then make decisions and act upon the 
information in a way that best protects their customers.
During Mr Cs first call with Barclays, they explained that information had been received to 
suggest that the details of Mr Cs card may have been compromised. This meant that Mr 
Cs card and account could potentially be at risk to fraudulent activity. Although the nature of 
the compromise wouldnt necessarily mean that the threat was immediate, Barclays believed 
that the threat was serious enough to act. I have looked at Barclays terms and conditions in 
respect of their Barclaycard products. These say that We may refuse to authorise a 
transaction if any of the following applies. The list includes where:
We reasonably suspect Fraud or illegal activity
We reasonably consider this is necessary to protect the security of your account
They then go on to say that We may prevent or limit the use of your account:
To protect the security of your account
Because were worried there may be unauthorised or fraudulent use of your 
account.
Barclays told Mr C that they had not seen any potential fraudulent transactions. But, given 
information they had received, they clearly believed that Mr Cs card details were at risk. 
Barclays have explained to this service why they were concerned here. It wouldnt be right to 
share that information in detail with Mr C - as Barclays has asked us not to, where it wants 
this to be kept confidential  but Im satisfied that, based on what theyve said, that they were 
entitled to block Mr Cs card and that they did so fairly here, with his best interests in mind. 
Barclays normal procedure, in these circumstances, is to advise the customer that the card 
will be blocked in ten days using the contact details they hold. They would normally continue 
to monitor the account during this time. They then issue a replacement card to the address 
registered with them. In normal circumstances, this would make their customer aware so that 
they could make other arrangements, if necessary. In Mr Cs case, these messages were 
sent by automated SMS to the phone number that Mr C had registered against his account. I 
have seen Barclays records which confirm that these were sent to Mr Cs phone.
 
Mr C told Barclays, when he rang them, that he didnt have his phone with him on holiday as 
it wouldnt work outside of the UK. This meant that he did not receive any of the SMS 
messages sent by them. I can understand why Mr C was frustrated because he hadnt 
received any messages. But I dont believe that Barclays can be held responsible for this in 
the absence of any alternative contact details being provided to them. Ultimately, they were 
trying to get in touch with Mr C using the only details they had.
Mr C said that he was unhappy that Barclays refused to provide more information about why 
they were blocking his card. I can appreciate why this might be frustrating. It is quite normal 
for the source of the banks information and the exact cause of the risk to be confidential. 
Thats what Barclays has told us here, so it wouldnt be right to share what Barclays has told 
us with Mr C  as much as hed like to see this. But I hope he is reassured that Ive been 
able to take these reasons into account impartially when reaching my decision here.
Mr C asked Barclays what he would have done had he not been travelling with friends who 
had agreed to help him. Mr C also had a debit card for his current account with him, but he 
said that he did not have funds available through this source. Barclays offered to arrange for 
Mr C to collect some emergency local cash. Mr C declined this offer, but I think this was a 
helpful suggestion to have made. And, it wouldnt be fair for me to tell Barclays that it needs 
to do anything to address things that didnt actually happen  even if I understand why Mr C 
has made this point.
I completely understand that Mr C will be disappointed with my decision. Taking all of the 
circumstances into account, I dont think that Barclays have acted unfairly. I see that 
Barclays have also offered Mr C a payment of £50 as a gesture of goodwill, although he has 
declined this. He is free to contact them if hed now like to accept this, but I wont be telling 
Barclays that it needs to do any more here.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2021.
 
David Morgan
Ombudsman