DRN-2188714
Complaint
Mr H has complained that Advancis Limited (trading as Buddy Loans) provided him with an 
unaffordable guarantor loan. He says Buddy Loans would have realised that hed be unable 
to make his payments if it had checked properly.  
  
Background
Buddy Loans provided Mr H with a loan of £7,500.00 in April 2019. This loan had an APR of 
49.9% and a 60-month term. This all meant the total amount repayable of £17,861.21 was 
due to be repaid in a first instalment of £368.55 followed by 59 monthly instalments of 
approaching £300.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint and thought that Buddy Loans had unfairly 
provided Mr H with this loan. So he recommended the complaint be upheld. Mr H disagreed 
with our investigator and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive
referred to this when deciding Mr Hs complaint.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr Hs complaint. These two
questions are:
1. Did Buddy Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself
that Mr H would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way?
o If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
o If not, would those checks have shown that Mr H wouldve been able to do 
so?
2. Did Buddy Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did Buddy Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that
Mr H would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way?
Buddy Loans provided this loan while it was authorised and regulated by the Financial
Conduct Authority (FCA). The rules and regulations in place required Buddy Loans to
carry out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of Mr Hs ability to make the
repayments under this agreement. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an
affordability assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Buddy Loans had to think about whether
repaying the loan would cause significant adverse consequences for Mr H. In practice this
meant that Buddy Loans had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt
cause Mr H undue difficulty or adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Buddy Loans to simply think about the likelihood of
it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr H. The 
existence of a guarantee and the potential for Buddy Loans to pursue the guarantor instead 
of Mr H, for the loan payments doesnt alter, lessen, or somehow dilute this obligation.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an 
extended period); and
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances.
Ive carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.Were Buddy Loans checks reasonable and proportionate?
Buddy Loans says that it carried out an income and expenditure assessment with Mr H prior 
to providing him with his loan. It also carried out a credit check. Mr H confirmed that he was 
earning around £2,200.00 a month, had expenses of £1,419.15 and would have to make 
payments of £407.44 to creditors each month once this loan was approved. 
The credit check Buddy Loans carried out showed that Mr H had two relatively recent 
defaulted credit card accounts, two more credit cards with balances close to the credit limit 
and had 14 separate searches carried out on him by credit providers in the months leading 
up to this application. Buddy Loans says Mr H had enough left to make the required monthly 
loan payments, when the living costs and the monthly payments left needed to meet the 
credit commitments shown on the credit check once they were consolidated by this loan, 
were deducted from Mr Hs monthly income. 
 
Ive carefully thought about what Buddy Loans has said. But simply requesting information 
from a borrower doesnt, on its own, mean that a lender will have carried out a borrower 
focused assessment of the borrowers ability to sustainably repay a loan. The credit check 
Buddy Loans carried out indicated that Mr H had significant difficulties with credit in the past, 
other accounts which were showing signs of potential difficulty and that hed made a 
significant number of other applications for credit in the months leading up to this application. 
Ive seen that Buddy Loans has said as a sub-prime lender it expects its customers to have 
credit commitments that have at some stage fell behind. Be that as it may, bearing in mind 
the regulatory rules place an obligation to carry out a borrower focused check, where 
previous repayment difficulties are apparent, I would expect a lender to take additional steps 
to verify that a consumer can take on an additional commitment before providing it.  
In this case Buddy Loans appears to have simply accepted Mr Hs explanation for his 
difficulties at face value. This is despite the fact that hed also declared a disposable income 
which was clearly at odds with what his credit file was displaying. 
Bearing all of this in mind, I think that Buddy Loans needed to take steps to verify Mr Hs 
income and expenditure instead of choosing to rely on an over optimistic calculation of his 
monthly disposable income based on data and declared income. As I cant see that this 
Buddy Loans did do this, or in fact take any steps at all to address the inconsistencies, I 
dont think that the checks it carried out before providing Mr H with his loan were reasonable 
and proportionate.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have indicated to Buddy Loans that Mr H
would have been unable to repay this loan?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before this loan was provided, 
I cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So I need to decide whether it is more likely 
than not that a proportionate check would have told Buddy Loans that Mr H wouldve been 
unable to sustainably repay this loan.
Mr H has now provided us with evidence of his financial circumstances at the time he 
applied for this loan. Of course, I accept different checks might show different things. And 
just because something shows up in the information Mr H has provided, it doesnt mean it 
wouldve shown up in any checks Buddy Loans mightve carried out.
But in the absence of anything else from Buddy Loans showing what this information would 
have shown, I think its perfectly fair, reasonable and proportionate to place considerable weight on it as an indication of what Mr Hs financial circumstances were more likely than not 
to have been at the time.
As Ive already explained, Buddy Loans was required to establish whether Mr H could 
sustainably make his loan repayments  not just whether the loan payments were technically 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation, or simply proceed on the basis that it, in 
any event, had a second bite of the cherry in terms of being able to recover payments from 
the guarantor. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence basis might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make the repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. And as a borrower shouldnt have to borrow further in 
order to make their payments, it follows a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, a borrower wont be able to sustainably make their repayments if it is 
on notice they are unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered the information Mr H has provided in light of all of this.
The information provided shows that Mr H was already struggling to manage the credit 
commitments he already had. His monthly expenditure significantly exceeded his income 
and he was using credit in an unsustainable attempt to make ends meet. In my view, this 
clearly demonstrates that Mr B was in no position to have been able to make the repayments 
to this loan without borrowing further or experiencing significant adverse consequences.
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would 
more likely than not have demonstrated that Mr H would not have been able to make the 
repayments to this loan. 
Did Buddy Loans act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr H in some other way?
Ive carefully thought about everything provided. Having done so, Ive not seen anything here 
that leads me to conclude Buddy Loans acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr H in 
some other way.  
So I find that Buddy Loans didnt act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr H in some other 
way.  
Did Mr H lose out as a result of Buddy Loans unfairly providing him with this loan?
As Mr H has paid or is being expected to pay interest and charges on a loan that he
shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that he has lost out as a result of what
Buddy Loans did wrong.
So I think that Buddy Loans needs to put things right.
Fair compensation  what Buddy Loans needs to do to put things right for Mr H
Having thought about everything, I think its fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
Mr Hs complaint for Buddy Loans to put things right by:
refunding all the interest, fees and charges Mr H paid on this loan;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded payments from the date
they were made by Mr H to the date of settlement; HM Revenue & Customs requires Buddy Loans to take off tax from this interest. Buddy 
Loans must give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Hs complaint. Advancis Limited needs to 
put things right in the way set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman