DRN-3890917
The complaint
L, a limited company, complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc blocked their account, leaving 
them unable to access the funds in the account.
What happened
L is represented by a director, Mr B.
In February 2021 Mr Bs personal accounts with Barclays closed, and the funds transferred 
to Ls account. But Mr B discovered he couldnt access Ls account either. He attempted to 
resolve this with Barclays but couldnt do so. He raised a complaint with the bank, who then 
arranged for a new online banking membership to be set up to allow him to access the funds 
in the account.
L referred their complaint to our service. One of our investigators looked into what 
happened, and felt it was an error to cut off Ls access to the account. They thought it would 
be fair for Barclays to pay 8% simple interest for the period L was without access to the 
account, and also pay L £350 for the disruption to the business.
Barclays accepted this. But L disagreed. As no agreement could be reached the complaint 
has been passed to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill clarify here that Im only considering Barclays actions in relation to Ls account  rather 
than any actions on Mr Bs personal accounts. Any issues with the personal accounts has 
been dealt separately by our service.
Im satisfied it was a mistake to cut off access to Ls account when Mr Bs personal accounts 
were closed  especially as his personal funds were transferred into Ls account as part of 
that closure. There doesnt seem to be any expectation, or warning, that there would then be 
problems for Ls access. 
From what Ive seen this appears to be a technical oversight, rather than a deliberate choice. 
But its reasonably clear to me this outcome could have been anticipated, and Barclays 
should have taken steps to avoid this.
From what Ive seen the access was removed on 2 February 2021, and a new profile set up 
on 1 March 2021 which will have allowed mobile app and debit card usage. So, Im satisfied 
at this point L had access to the funds in the account. But for the period when L didnt have 
access to the funds its appropriate that Barclays pay 8% simple interest on this.
I can also see that L contacted Barclays by phone but couldnt gain access to the account on 
his call. It still then took a couple of days to resolve after this. I accept that L will have been 
inconvenienced by not being able to access the funds in the account, and it would be 
appropriate for Barclays to pay some compensation for this. But, Im also mindful that the 
situation was resolved within a month, so there wasnt any significant ongoing disruption. 
Taking all this into account, £350 is a reasonable amount to reflect the disruption to the 
business.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Barclays Bank UK Plc must:
Pay 8% simple interest per annum on the balance of Ls account from 2 February 
2021 to 1 March 2021. If Barclays consider that MRC requires tax to be deducted 
from this amount, Barclays should provide L a certificate showing how much is 
deducted. 
Pay L £350 compensation for the disruption.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2023.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman