DRN-1592047
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy at the way in which National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) calculated 
the early repayment charge (ERC) on his mortgage account. To settle the complaint, Mr M 
would like NatWest to reimburse £747.74  which is the amount of the ERC Mr M says hes 
been overcharged.
What happened
In December 2015, after taking advice from an independent financial adviser, Mr M took out 
a mortgage with NatWest. He borrowed £440,995 on a capital repayment basis, over a term 
of 25 years. The mortgage was initially on a fixed interest rate of 2.23%, which was due to 
expire on 31 December 2020.
The mortgage terms provided that if the mortgage was repaid in full or in part before the end 
of the fixed rate period, an ERC would be charged, on a sliding scale, starting at 5% in the 
first year, down to 1% in year five. The mortgage conditions also allowed Mr M to make 
overpayments of no more than 10% per year without incurring an ERC.
In March 2019 Mr M redeemed the mortgage in full. NatWest charged an ERC of 2% of the 
balance repaid, in line with its terms and conditions. Mr M thinks hes been overcharged by 
£747.74. Thats because Mr M says NatWest should take into account the overpayment 
allowance, which allowed him to repay up to 10% of their mortgage balance without incurring 
an ERC. NatWest said the terms for the 10% overpayment allowance were separate from 
the redemption terms and so they couldnt be applied at the time of repaying the mortgage in 
full.
Dissatisfied with NatWests response, Mr M complained to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. 
An investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think NatWest had done anything wrong in 
the way it had calculated the ERC. Mr M disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review 
the complaint. Hes made some further arguments, which I summarise below:
the mortgage offer doesnt make it clear that if he redeemed the mortgage in full he 
would not qualify for the 10% overpayment allowance;
this was also not made clear from conversations he had with NatWest when hed 
previously made overpayments;
reading the contract as a whole, he believes any reasonable man would interpret it as 
he has;
because the contract is unclear, interpreting it in NatWests favour is unjust and so he 
looks forward to an ombudsman finding in his favour.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted all the points Mr M and NatWest have made, but where there are hypothetical 
arguments put forward which do not relate to the specific circumstances of the complaint, I 
have disregarded these, as I am entitled to do; my review of the complaint relates to the 
evidence which is pertinent to the events giving rise to the complaint.
The provisions of Mr Ms mortgage contract that relate ERCs and overpayments are sections 
10 and 11 respectively. 
Section 10 is entitled What happens if you do not want this mortgage any more? and starts 
by saying: 
If you repay all or any part of your mortgage on or before the end of the fixed rate 
term, you will have to pay an Early Repayment Charge on the amount repaid. Unless 
permitted under the terms of any Incentive set out in Section 12 of this Offer 
(The incentives referred to all relate to porting the mortgage, and do not apply in this case.)
Section 11 is entitled What happens if you want to make overpayments? and goes on to 
say:
You can overpay by a maximum of 10% of your outstanding mortgage balance in 
each repayment period without incurring an Early Repayment Charge . A repayment 
period is each 12 month period commencing on the initial completion of your 
mortgage product and continuing from each anniversary of that date until the end 
date applicable to that product. If your mortgage is made up of more than one part 
you can overpay up to a maximum of 10% of the outstanding balance of each part. 
and 
An Early Repayment Charge will be incurred on any overpayment that exceeds the 
annual 10% limit.
The questions I have to decide are whether the annual 10% overpayment allowance should 
be used despite the mortgage being redeemed all at once  and if NatWest should have told 
Mr M the 10% allowance wouldnt apply on full redemption of the mortgage.
In reaching my decision, Ive considered whether the partial repayment provisions can apply 
to full repayment. On this point, I think the terms are quite clear. Section 10 is, as per the 
title, intended to apply when the mortgage is repaid. It says an ERC is payable if all or part of 
the mortgage is repaid during the product term. By definition, if a mortgage is redeemed in 
full, the customer no longer wants that mortgage.
Conversely, section 11 is intended as a concession for customers who intend to keep their 
mortgage during the period when an ERC will apply and simply wish to make overpayments 
from time to time, either in lump sums or by making monthly overpayments. This section 
applies to customers who are not redeeming their mortgage during the fixed interest rate 
term, but it grants them some flexibility in making overpayments where their circumstances 
permit. That is a very different situation from the customer deciding they want to repay the 
mortgage in full during the fixed rate period. 
The section on overpayments says that Mr M could overpay by a maximum of 10% of the 
outstanding mortgage balance per year without incurring an ERC. Within this section, there 
isnt any mention of using the allowance to reduce the ERC that would be payable on redemption of the mortgage. So I dont think NatWest gave Mr M incorrect information about 
how it would calculate the ERC if he repaid his mortgage early, or how the overpayment 
allowance worked. 
Mr M says the terms dont explicitly state that the overpayment allowance couldnt be used 
to reduce the ERC. But I dont think this is information that NatWest was required to provide. 
The 10% provisions are not intended to apply to a situation where the mortgage is repaid in 
full, as Mr M suggest. The terms and conditions draw a distinction between overpayments 
where the customer intends to keep the mortgage and repayment where the customer does 
not want the mortgage any more.
 
Mr M strongly believes the 10% allowance should be used at redemption as there is nothing 
in the terms to say that it shouldnt. Ive considered what hes said, but the silence in the 
terms on this point doesnt automatically mean what Mr M says is correct. 
The legal position is that ambiguity in a contract should be determined in favour of the 
disadvantaged party (the contra proferentem rule). But I dont think there is ambiguity in the 
mortgage terms and conditions, and so the contra proferentem principle doesnt apply in this 
case.
Im satisfied the respective terms are clearly set out separately from each other, which to me 
is persuasive that they are not linked. NatWest has confirmed there is no intention for the 
two terms to be considered together. 
I think that the mortgage terms and conditions are clear in distinguishing the sections on the 
annual overpayment allowance and payment of an ERC on redemption of the mortgage. 
This means that Im satisfied that there is no basis on which I can reasonably find that the 
10% overpayment allowance should be used at the point of redemption of the mortgage.
Mr M says that when he made overpayments previously, NatWest didnt tell him that these 
would affect any ERC on a future redemption of the mortgage. But I dont think NatWest was 
required to give Mr M advice about how the ERC would be calculated on redemption when 
he was making an overpayment  because overpayments are different from repayment of 
the full outstanding balance of the mortgage. 
When Mr M repaid the mortgage in full, he wasnt making an overpayment  he was 
making a one-off payment to settle the account in full, and so the overpayment allowance 
wasnt in play. In the circumstances I think NatWest calculated the ERC correctly and in line 
with the terms of Section 10 of the mortgage contract.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr M was hoping for. If he rejects my decision, Mr M will 
be free to pursue his grievances against NatWest in court, should he wish to do so. Mr M 
may want to take advice from a solicitor before embarking on any legal proceedings.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2020.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman