DRN-3202344
The complaint
Ms G has complained that the advice she was given by Executive Benefit Consultancy 
Limited to transfer the benefits from her defined benefit occupational pension scheme to a 
personal pension plan was unsuitable.
What happened
Ms Gs complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She sent both parties her 
assessment of it in which she set out the background and circumstances to the case. 
In summary, Ms G met with Executive Benefit Consultancy Limited (which I will refer to as 
EBCL) on a number of occasions prior to it recommending that she transfer her occupational 
pension scheme (OPS). It had previously advised Ms G and her husband on other pensions 
and investments. At the time of the advice Ms G:
Was in her mid-fifties, with no financially dependent children
Had retired from her previous employment
Jointly owned a business with her husband. It provided a joint income of about 
£12,000-£15,000 per annum
Had invested an inheritance of approximately £230,000
Owned her home worth approximately £420,000, with no outstanding mortgage
Owned a holiday home worth approximately £160,000
Had no other financial debts
Had an attitude to risk recorded as balanced
Had a preserved pension in a defined benefits pension scheme with her former 
employer. The scheme provided a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of 
approximately £92,000.
A transfer value analysis (TVAS) report was completed which showed the growth
required (critical yield) on the transfer value to match the benefits that would otherwise have 
been provided by the OPS. The TVAS indicated that for retirement at age 65 the personal 
pension would need to grow by 13.4% per annum to match the OPS, assuming no tax-free 
cash was taken. If a tax-free lump sum was taken the required rate was 10.96% per annum.
EBCL recommended that Ms G transfer her pension, and having accepted that advice 
approximately £92,000 was transferred to a personal pension in 2015.
Our investigator thought that Ms Gs complaint should be upheld. She said the main issue to 
determine was whether the advice given to Ms G to transfer her OPS benefits was suitable.
The investigator referred to the Financial Conduct Authoritys rules in the Conduct of 
Business Sourcebook (COBS). COBS 19.1.6 said that when advising a retail client who was 
a member of a defined benefits OPS about whether to transfer, a firm should start by 
assuming that a transfer wouldnt be suitable. It said a firm should only then consider a 
transfer to be suitable if it could clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the 
transfer was in its clients best interests.
The investigator said that the transfer of the OPS took place during the period when the 
Financial Ombudsman Service was publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss 
assessments where a complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. She said 
whilst firms weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice, she considered they 
provided a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably 
achievable at the time the advice was given in this case.
The investigator said that the relevant discount rate for the OPS was 4.3%. This compared 
to the investment returns (critical yields) required to match the OPS at age 65; as noted 
above  13.4% per year, or 10.96% if tax free cash was taken. She said the new plan 
needed to grow at more than double the 4.3% just to match the benefits available from OPS 
at age 65.
The investigator said this meant Ms G would have had to take on a much higher level of risk 
than she was willing to take with her pension. The investigator didnt think that sacrificing 
guaranteed retirement income that the personal pension was unlikely to match, or improve 
on, in order to gain flexibility, was suitable.
The investigator went on to consider whether there were other reasons that clearly 
demonstrated that the transfer was in Ms Gs best interests. 
She noted that EBCL had recorded that Ms Gs main objective wasnt to have a guaranteed 
income, but rather the flexibility to drawdown sums as and when she needed them. This 
complimented how her husband was utilising his pension fund as he had recently retired. 
The investigator noted that Ms G had said this (flexibility) sounded more like a nice to have 
(when making her complaint). The investigator said she hadnt seen any evidence to indicate 
that Ms G had a genuine need to access her pension through drawdown. Ms G had stopped 
working in 2013 and the household income came mostly from her husbands salary, their 
business together, and her savings (inheritance). 
EBCL had said the income from Ms Gs OPS alone wouldnt have been enough to meet Ms 
G and her husbands income requirements. The investigator agreed that the OPS potential  
income along with Ms Gs husbands pension income would not have met their stated £1,650 
a month expenses. However she said the income generated from their business and from 
Ms Gs investments was enough to comfortably meet their needs. They had also said they 
were considering selling their holiday home worth £160,000 which, when added to their 
savings, could have generated extra income.
The investigator said the suitability report confirmed Ms G had no immediate need for a lump 
sum from her tax-free cash allowance. And ultimately, the investigator didnt think the advice 
to transfer from the OPS was justified. She hadnt seen evidence that showed it was in Ms 
Gs best interests to transfer to the new personal pension plan. She thought Ms G would 
likely have remained in her OPS if she had been advised to do so. 
EBCL didnt agree with the investigators findings. It said, in summary:
Advice had been given to Ms G and her husband, and their overall circumstances 
were considered. They had been used to a lifestyle supported by a high level of 
family income.
Ms Gs husband had given notice to resign from his employment and this reduced 
the level of reliable income to zero. Ms G had inherited £230,000 which had been 
invested. They were both taking an income from the business. Although they still had their business the work wasnt regular and didnt provide a stable flow of income. So 
income was required from the pension and savings on a flexible basis.
The intention from the initial meeting was for Ms G and her husband to retire from 
work. They were moving to fund their income through pension and savings.
Their income requirement was recorded as £1,650 per month, plus £8,000 per 
annum to meet the cost of holidays. Ms G and her husband had drawn £11,000 from 
tax free cash available through Ms Gs husbands personal pensions. They were 
considering selling their holiday home to free up additional capital.
Ms G was concerned that the possibility of transferring out of her OPS may be 
removed after 1 April 2015  so she would lose this option.
It provided a table of Ms G and her husbands objectives/needs which recorded the 
personal pension was suitable in term of gaining control over the pension funds; 
provided maximum flexibility to draw income from a range or pension and non-
pension investments; enabled switching of income sources to minimise tax payable; 
they didnt require a lump sum and wanted to phase tax-free cash payments to 
support income; enabled annual income to vary and draw on additional lump sums 
where required; allowed the balance of the pension funds to be passed on.
Taking all the above into account, it thought the guaranteed income from the OPS 
wouldnt have met these objectives, whereas it thought its advice had provided the 
improved benefits referred to by the investigator. It met the requirements for a higher 
income to meet Ms G and her husbands initial needs and their retirement ambitions 
and stated objectives. It said this wasnt possible by staying in the OPS.
It provided a summary of events that happened after the transfers had been 
arranged. It said these showed Ms G and her husband would otherwise have 
depleted the value of their cash reserves.
It said neither Ms G or her husband had ever expressed a wish to have a secure 
guaranteed fixed income. It thought it was critical to the complaint to clarify their 
future intentions in term of continuing with their flexible arrangements or buying an 
annuity.
It said the advice given to Ms G was balanced and appropriate to her circumstances. 
Ms G signed declarations to confirm her understanding of the content of the reports, 
risks and possible consequences of transferring her OPS.
It thought its advice file clearly showed that its advice to transfer from the OPS to a 
personal pension was best advice in the particular circumstances, and was in Ms Gs 
best interests.
As the parties couldnt agree the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator, and largely for the 
same reasons.EBCL considers the transfers were in Ms Gs best interests because it met Ms G and her 
husbands particular needs and objectives at the time (as set out above). Whilst I accept that 
there were benefits in transferring, the transfer had to be considered in the context of their 
overall circumstances, and weighed up against all the advantages and disadvantages of 
staying in the OPS.
Ms G and her husband were losing the income from him leaving his part time employment. 
They were taking 5% withdrawals from the inheritance that had been invested  largely in 
Ms Gs name, to utilise her personal income tax allowance. They had the income from their 
business  albeit it wasnt a regular income. And they were thinking about selling their 
holiday home. Ms Gs husband also had personal pension provision. Its value included 
benefits that had been transferred into it from another OPS.
Ms G and her husband already had an income providing a significant proportion of their 
£1,650 net a month income need from their investments and business. They had access to a 
sizeable sum in liquid assets, and they could also sell their holiday home to add to those 
assets. In my view, even excluding that part of the personal pension that was built up from 
Ms Gs husbands OPS pension transfer, they already had a lot of flexibility, and were able to 
top up their existing income and any need for cash sums from their existing arrangements.
The critical yield required on the transfer value to match the OPS benefits at age 65 was 
13.4% per year (or 10.96% if tax free cash was taken). These were very high critical yields 
for the time. 
As the investigator noted, the discount rate was 4.3%. The firm wasnt required to consider 
the discount rate. But I think it can be used to provide some context to the prospects of the 
transfer value, if invested, matching the benefits that would otherwise have been provided by 
the OPS at scheme retirement age. The critical yields werent just slightly above the discount 
rate. They were more than double, and treble where no tax-free cash was taken. The firm 
itself acknowledged in its suitability letter that in regard to the critical yields:
This, in my opinion, is not an achievable return, based on your balanced risk profile and 
term to scheme normal retirement (age 65).
The suitability report said that Ms Gs OPS would have provided an immediate income of 
around £4,182 per annum if benefits were taken at that time. The TVAS recorded that the 
OPS was estimated to provide a pension of £8,168 when Ms G reached age 65.  So by 
transferring Ms G was giving up largely guaranteed benefits, which would very likely be 
materially higher as she got closer to or at the OPS retirement age, than those she would 
obtain by transferring to a personal pension.
I accept that there were a number of advantages to the transfer, but the main driver behind 
the recommendation appears to be the flexibility provided and the ability to drawdown sums 
as and when Ms G needed them. However, this flexibility came at a cost.
Whilst in the OPS, the transfer value was effectively expected to achieve a largely risk-free 
return equivalent to the critical yields I have described above. It was highly unlikely the funds 
would achieve the equivalent of the critical yield once transferred out of the OPS and 
invested  as acknowledged by the firm. And as I have explained above, Ms G and her 
husband could have met their additional income requirements from their existing provision, 
which also wasnt likely to achieve the equivalent investment return that she was effectively 
receiving by remaining a member of the OPS. So if the income provided by the OPS wasnt 
sufficient to meet their additional needs at that time, it made financial sense to use those 
other resources first - at least for a period - rather than invest a transfer value that wouldnt 
achieve the equivalent to what it was effectively getting in the OPS. In my view the advice to transfer wasnt suitable given the alternative options available to 
provide income/lump sums at that time. Ms G may have been concerned about losing the 
option to transfer, but I think if the firm had explained all the alternative options and the 
advantages of remaining a member of the scheme, she would have recognised a transfer 
wasnt the best option. She could have taken benefits from the OPS sometime prior to the 
scheme retirement date if her income requirements couldnt continue to be met from her 
other financial provision at that time. And effectively have obtained the equivalent of the 
critical yield on those benefits during that period without risk.
The firm has said that neither Ms G or her husband had ever expressed a wish to have a 
secure guaranteed fixed income. That may have been the case. But I dont think it was 
appropriate to advise them to take significant risks when there was no need to take those 
risks to meet their objectives  they could have been achieved through using their other 
provision and securing the guaranteed income provided by the OPS when required.
Taking everything into account, in my view there were financially more favourable options 
available to Ms G and her husband to meet their immediate income and lump sum 
requirements. Like the investigator, I dont think there was any genuine need for them to 
transfer and take on the significant risks it presented. I think they could have met their 
objectives at that time by utilising their other existing financial provision and taken the 
benefits from the OPS as and when required.
Executive Benefit Consultancy Limited had a regulatory obligation to provide suitable advice. 
As I have said above, COBS 19.1.6 provided that the starting point here was to assume that 
a transfer wouldnt be suitable. And that EBCL should only then consider it to be suitable if it 
could clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transfer was in Ms Gs best 
interests. 
For the reasons I have outlined above, in my view the advantages of remaining in the OPS 
far outweighed the benefits following the transfer, and I dont consider that the advice to 
transfer the OPS was suitable in all the circumstances of the case. Im not persuaded that 
the recommendation to transfer was in Ms Gs best interests.
 
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In deciding on fair compensation, my aim is to put Ms G, as far as its possible, into the 
position that she would likely have been in if but for the unsuitable advice.  I think Ms G 
would have remained in her OPS if suitable advice had been given. I therefore intend to 
order that Executive Benefit Consultancy Limited calculates and pays compensation to Ms G 
on the following basis. 
Executive Benefit Consultancy Limited should undertake a redress calculation in line with the 
regulators pension review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its 
Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB 
pension transfers.  
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Ms Gs acceptance of the decision.
Executive Benefit Consultancy Limited may wish to contact the Department for Work and 
Pensions (DWP) to obtain Ms Gs contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These details should then be used to include a SERPS 
adjustment in the calculation, which will take into account the impact of leaving the 
occupational scheme on Ms Gs SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Ms Gs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Ms G as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20% here. So making a notional deduction of 15% 
overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Ms G within 90 days of the date 
of Executive Benefit Consultancy Limited receiving notification of her acceptance of my final 
decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per 
year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in 
excess of 90 days, that it takes Executive Benefit Consultancy Limited to pay Ms G.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90-day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90-day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
I dont know the amount of compensation payable through the calculation as described
above. However, if the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation is more
than £160,000, I recommend that Executive Benefit Consultancy Limited pays Ms G the
balance.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award.  Executive Benefit 
Consultancy Limited doesnt have to do what I recommend. Its unlikely that Ms G can 
accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Ms G may want to get 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Gs complaint.
I order Executive Benefit Consultancy Limited to calculate and pay compensation to Ms G as 
I have outlined under Putting things right above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2022. 
David Ashley
Ombudsman