DRN-3237603
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as J has complained that Aviva Insurance Limited refused to 
renew its commercial insurance policy. 
Mrs B, a director of J, has brought the complaint on Js behalf.  
For ease of reading, reference to Aviva includes anything done by its agents.   
What happened
J held a commercial insurance policy with Aviva. Aviva have explained that the policy was a 
Scheme Policy which means that it was supplied by a firm acting with delegated authority 
from Aviva.
Js policy was due for renewal on 28 August 2020 however, Aviva let Js broker know they 
werent going to offer a renewal. J was unhappy about this as the broker indicated it was 
because of Js claims history. Aviva had also provided the broker with a list of claims made 
by J and previous companies Mrs B had been director of.
J complained to Aviva about their decision. J said it had become a limited company in 
August 2019 and had only made one previous claim. J said the other claims listed related to 
separate legal entities and therefore werent relevant to J. 
J also said it hadnt been given enough notice of the renewal being declined and hadnt been 
able to find alternative cover.
Aviva said the decision not to offer a renewal was due to them withdrawing this type of policy 
from the market under this scheme and not because of Js claims history. 
J didnt think this was accurate and said Aviva still sold this type of policy. It repeated that 
Aviva had recorded the incorrect number of claims against J, as the list they had provided 
included claims by separate companies. As J wasnt satisfied with Avivas response it 
brought its complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into Js complaint. She originally thought it was fair for Aviva to 
refuse to renew Js policy as they had decided to withdraw this type of policy from the 
market. However, she thought Aviva had caused confusion when explaining why the policy 
wouldnt renew and this had caused J some inconvenience. 
Aviva was unhappy with this as they said the information was clearly communicated to the 
broker and they couldnt be held responsible for the brokers interpretation to J of why the 
renewal hadnt been offered. Our investigator subsequently accepted Avivas point and for 
this reason didnt recommend the complaint be upheld.
J asked for an ombudsmans decision. It said Aviva should have offered one of the other 
policies they sold for similar types of business. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
J has made a number of detailed points. While I have considered all of the information 
provided, Im going to focus my decision on what I see as the central issues to this 
complaint. 
Avivas decision not to renew the policy
The terms and conditions of Js policy say:
We are not bound to offer renewal
Aviva is entitled to decide which policies they want to make available on the market. My role 
is to ensure that they have treated J fairly and reasonably when coming to their decision not 
to offer renewal. 
I can see that on 13 August 2020 Avivas agent let Js broker know that Aviva wouldnt be 
offering cover. They said that these types of policy were performing badly and in view of the 
loss ratio and number of incidents, they wouldnt be offering a renewal.
Aviva have explained that Js Scheme Policy was adopted by Aviva from a different insurer 
at a point when Aviva took on all of the policyholders for this type of policy from that insurer. I 
understand the reference to loss ratio and number of incidents in Avivas email to Js 
broker to be in relation to all of the policies Aviva had taken on under this scheme rather 
than to Js individual claim history.
Aviva have confirmed that they withdrew this type of policy from the market and didnt offer 
cover to any of the holders of the policy. That was a choice Aviva can make, and Im 
satisfied they didnt treat J unfairly or any differently to other of the holders of the same 
policy when refusing to renew it. 
J says that Aviva still offer a similar type of policy on their website, but Aviva have explained 
that these policies arent offered under the scheme Js policy was with. I dont think Aviva 
had an obligation to offer J a policy through a different scheme and I havent seen anything 
to indicate that Js broker approached Aviva about a policy under a different scheme. 
Ive also looked at the information provided to Js broker by Aviva at renewal. Im satisfied 
from this that the renewal was declined on the basis of Avivas decision to withdraw the 
product from the market rather than because of Js claims history. So Im not persuaded that 
Aviva have treated J unfairly in not offering to renew its policy.  
Notice period for not offering renewal
J said that the notice period given by Aviva was less than it should have been. Avivas terms 
and conditions dont specify the amount of notice that Aviva will give if they decide not to 
offer renewal  although they do say they can cancel the policy with 14 days notice. 
The Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook says that a firm should provide information 
about the renewal to a consumer in good time. J is a commercial customer, rather than a 
consumer, so these rules dont apply but I still think its fair and reasonable for an insurer to 
give adequate notice to a policyholder if they dont intend to offer a renewal. This is to 
provide the policyholder with enough time to source a policy elsewhere. 
I can see that Aviva let Js broker know that they wouldnt be offering a renewal on 15 August 2020. As the policy was due to renew on 28 August 2020 this was 13 days notice. 
While I can understand why J would have liked more notice, in order for me to uphold this 
part of the complaint I would need to be persuaded that the shortness of the notice period 
had caused J a loss. In this case, even if I accepted that it would have been helpful for Aviva 
to have given slightly more notice, I dont think it would have made a difference. I say that 
because J told us that it still hadnt been able to obtain cover much later. So even if Aviva 
had given J 21 days or even a months notice, I dont think the outcome would have been 
any different. For this reason, any shortness in the notice period hasnt caused J a loss. 
Information on previous claims  
I can see that when Js broker asked for a list of previous claims, Aviva sent a list of four 
claims, the first of which was in 2018. I understand J doesnt think these are all relevant as 
some were made by a separate limited company. However, I think it was reasonable for 
Aviva to include these as theyre claims which Aviva thought might be relevant to J and    
Mrs B. 
I appreciate that Mrs B thinks Aviva have recorded information that is preventing J from 
obtaining cover elsewhere, but I havent seen anything other than Js comments to support 
this. So, Im not persuaded that Aviva providing Js broker with information about claims 
made in a separate company name has caused J any detriment. 
I recognise that this isnt the outcome J was hoping for but, having considered the matter 
very carefully, Im not going to require Aviva to do anything further.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman