DRN-3125202
The complaint
Mr L complains about how Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax has reviewed his overdraft
on his current account. Mr L says he wasnt given information on how to minimise the
overdraft reductions, which would have saved him interest costs.
What happened
Mr L said that Halifax had been writing to him periodically about the overdraft on his current
account, telling him he had to reduce the limit. He said Halifax had told him his overdraft was
use it or lose it so hed chosen to use it, to try to avoid it being removed. But Halifax kept
writing to him, and telling him if he wanted to keep the overdraft, hed have to apply again,
and have a credit check.
Mr L said that hed now found out there was another option. Each time a review happened,
he could choose to make a reduction of only £10 in his overdraft. That way, he would keep
most of the lending, and not have to go through a credit check.
Mr L was very angry that he hadnt been told this sooner. He said hed incurred fees, from
keeping his overdraft artificially high, and he wanted Halifax to pay that money back.
Halifax said Mr Ls overdraft limit had been reduced. It had previously been £10,000, in
October 2017 it was reduced to £5,000. Then in April 2019 it was again reduced to £3,150,
but in September 2020 the reduction only took it down to £3,140.
Halifax first responded a complaint from Mr L about this in March 2019, when it said it didnt
think it had done anything wrong. It then responded to a further complaint in October 2020.
Halifax said then that it shouldve referred his application and overdraft request to its
overdraft department to manually review if it couldve kept this to an amount higher that that
offered in its letter. It paid a total of £312 to Mr L, made up of £200 in compensation, £12 to
cover call costs, and £100 towards the overdraft fees that Mr L has paid. It did that to say
sorry that it hadnt given him this information before.
But Halifax didnt think the reviews were a mistake. And it didnt accept that it shouldve
given Mr L the advice he would have liked, about making a very small reduction in his
overdraft to avoid having to reapply, much sooner than it did.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He thought the reason given by
Halifax for reviewing Mr Ls overdraft was reasonable. Halifax was seeking to be a
responsible lender. Our investigator said Halifax would have been likely to look to reduce the
overdraft, if Mr L hadnt been using it. And even if Mr L had been offered a manual review,
he may not have been able to keep his previous limits.
Our investigator said that the charges for Mr Ls overdraft were properly applied, within the
terms of his account. So our investigator wouldnt ask Halifax to pay those back.
Mr L didnt agree. He repeated that he had kept his overdraft artificially high, because hed
been told it was use it or lose it. And he wouldnt have had to do that, if Halifax had told him
earlier that he didnt need to have a credit check, to keep most of this lending. Its systems
would be satisfied by a reduction of only £10 in the existing overdraft. So he still thought
Halifax should refund all the fees that hed paid for using his overdraft during this time.
Our investigator didnt change his mind. He said that the letters hed seen didnt definitively
say that a credit check would be required to maintain the overdraft. They just said an
application would need to be made. He repeated that Halifax was reasonable in reviewing
Mr Ls previous limit.
Mr L said that if we had listened to calls around the time, we would have realised that he had
been told quite categorically that a credit check would be required.
Because no agreement was reached, this case was then passed to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did not propose to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
Mr L says that the key issue here is that he was told his overdraft would continue to 
be reduced, if he wasnt using all the lending. And he would be credit checked, if he 
contested a decision to reduce his overdraft. But he didnt have to do this. He feels 
he should have been told much sooner that there was another option, namely to 
reduce his overdraft by only £10.
Our investigator didnt think that Halifaxs letter said Mr L would be credit checked, 
but Mr L said he was told this clearly and unequivocally over the phone. He thought 
that we should listen to those calls, so we could see what had been said to him.
I havent requested these calls. Thats because I accept that it was likely Mr L was 
told this over the phone. And I dont read the letter that Mr L was sent in quite the 
same way as our investigator. I think that the statement in the letter If youd like us to 
reconsider our decision  we will treat this as a new application does suggest quite 
strongly that Mr Ls financial situation would be checked. And it seems to me that it 
was reasonable for Mr L to infer from this letter that this would mean a credit check. 
Especially if this was confirmed on his calls, which I think is likely.
But I dont think that this is key to this case, in the way that Mr L suggests. Ill explain 
why I think that.
Firstly, I should note that our service doesnt look at issues like this in isolation. We 
have to consider whats happened against the background of the regulatory duties on 
banks. So I have to bear in mind the responsibilities that Halifax has, to make sure 
its being a responsible lender.
And I should also note that overdrafts are intended for short term borrowing. They 
are repayable on demand. Halifaxs terms say that We can ask you to pay back the 
full amount of your arranged overdraft at any time.
Mr L had, in 2016, an exceptionally high overdraft on his ultimate reward current 
account, at £10,000. Halifax wrote to him saying that it intended to reduce this, and 
the limit was then reduced to £5,000 in Oct 2017. Mr L said that he was told then that 
an overdraft was use it or lose it and if he wanted to contest this reduction, he 
would have to have a credit check.Mr L didnt want a credit check. He hasnt explained why not.
After Mr Ls overdraft limit was reduced, I can see from his statements that he began 
to make much more use of his overdraft. Mr L told us he has been keeping this 
artificially high, to avoid it being further reduced. But he said he had other funds at 
the time, so he didnt need this lending.
Halifax wrote to Mr L again, and in April 2019 his limit was further reduced to £3,150.
Mr L discovered around September 2020 that if he agreed to a reduction of only £10 
in his overdraft, then Halifaxs system would note a reduction had been made, and no 
credit check would be required. Mr Ls limit was reduced to £3,140 in September 
2020.
I think that it is reasonable for Halifax to want to be sure that what is still a very high 
amount of overdraft lending remains appropriate for Mr L. Particularly as this lending 
is repayable on demand. So I dont think that Halifax has done anything wrong by 
seeking to review Mr Ls existing overdraft.
Mr L says, in effect, that hes being pressured into reducing his overdraft each time, 
so he should have been told there was an alternative. I understand that Mr L is self-
employed, and he wants to keep the overdraft facility to tide him over when his 
income fluctuates. But that wouldnt be a reason for Halifax to maintain lending to Mr 
L, if it thought his existing overdraft limit wouldnt be affordable for him.
So what Halifax has done is to give Mr L a choice, of either agreeing to a reduction in 
his overdraft, or to a review (which I accept, he was told would be likely to involve a 
credit check).
I think Halifax was trying to make sure it wasnt offering to lend Mr L money that he 
couldnt afford to repay. I dont think thats unreasonable or unfair.
Mr L has now discovered that if he agrees to a very small reduction in his overdraft, 
then most of his existing lending remains in place, and he doesnt have to go through 
a fresh application. In this way, Mr L has been able to retain most of his previous 
lending without any check on its affordability.
Halifax, as a responsible lender, will wish to make sure that this overdraft lending 
remains affordable for Mr L. I think thats the purpose of this review. But it isnt clear 
whether, by simply agreeing to a very modest reduction in Mr Ls lending, Halifax has 
actually achieved the purpose of its review on this occasion. And because of that, I 
dont think Halifax made a mistake by not telling Mr L sooner that he could avoid the 
effect of its review in this way. 
Halifax has said it shouldve been clearer with Mr L that he could have a manual 
review, and that any request to maintain his existing limit could start with that. For 
that, it has paid Mr L a total of £312 in compensation.
I know that Mr L wants Halifax to refund all the overdraft charges he has paid in the 
last few years, when he chose to make more use of his overdraft in an effort to stop it 
from being removed. But I dont think that Halifax is responsible for that decision. So I 
dont think it has to pay Mr L back the remainder of the fees hes been charged.For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think Halifax has to do more than it has 
already done. I know that Mr L will be disappointed, but that also means that I dont 
think this complaint should be upheld.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Mr L replied, Halifax didnt.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L said that his background meant he knew how an overdraft works, but he said that in 
practice, as long as a customer has kept within the strict parameters set by the bank, its 
unlikely that a debt such as an overdraft would be withdrawn unless in default. He said that 
in all the years that hed had an overdraft, he had never gone over his limit or missed paying 
a fee for the facility.
Mr L said he was self-employed, and his income arrived sporadically. His work has a long 
lead-in time, and doesnt always result in income. So he said his overdraft gave him a buffer, 
in the form of a flexible borrowing facility. Mr L said hed been in this position for years. 
Thats why his overdraft was there, and he shouldnt have to worry about it not being there. 
Mr L said the exceptionally high overdraft of £10,000 had been in place for around eight 
years. He explained the particular circumstances which led to this being agreed, and said his 
ability to repay that sum was fully checked at the time that the lending was agreed. 
Mr L said he had savings or investments which could have been cashed-in, instead of using 
this overdraft, but he was forced to use the overdraft by Halifaxs use it or lose it policy. 
Mr L said Id asked for an explanation about why he didnt want a credit check in October 
2017. He said he was then in the process of buying a new home, and changing a family car. 
Credit checks affect his credit score, so he wanted to make sure that only the most important 
credit checks were carried out at the time. He said thats why he didnt want an additional 
check for his overdraft. 
Mr L said hed spoken to a number of bank staff about his overdraft, and been repeatedly 
told that, without a credit check, the bank would suggest a reduction in his overdraft to the 
means average of usage over time. So he said the reduction to £3,150 was suggested 
because that was his average usage at the time. And that in turn meant the overdraft might 
no longer cover some of his previous usage. 
Mr L said that in September 2020 a different agent at the bank explained that he could 
reduce his overdraft by £10, without any formal credit check. Mr L repeated that if hed 
known this earlier, he would have simply made this modest reduction each time. 
Mr L also said Id referred to affordability in the provisional decision, and said Halifax would 
want to be sure that what is still a very high amount of overdraft lending remains appropriate 
for him. Mr L said that if Halifax doubted his ability to repay, it wouldnt have put this lending 
in place for around ten years. Mr L said hed never defaulted. So he said that if he could 
afford to maintain a £10,000 facility, then a much smaller overdraft would never be an issue. 
Mr L said Id explained I was considering what had happened against the background of the 
regulatory duties on banks. He said if a bank has a duty under FCA regulation to disclose to a client all options regarding a lending facility, then Halifax had failed in this duty, because it 
hadnt told him about the option to make a minimal reduction to his overdraft. 
Mr L pointed out that Halifax had paid £312 in compensation. Mr L believes that Halifax 
wouldnt have offered any sort of a refund if it hadnt done anything wrong. 
Mr L repeated that he had the means to clear his overdraft, and wouldnt have been using it 
if he hadnt been under the impression that this was the only way to keep it. And he said 
because Halifax reduced the available borrowing without informing him of every option to 
maintain it, Halifax had acted both inappropriately and unfairly. So he still thought Halifax 
should give him back most of the interest charges incurred at the time.
Ill now respond to Mr Ls further comments. 
Since this lending was originally agreed, there have been a number of changes to how 
overdrafts are regulated. This has resulted in an increased focus by banks on this lending. 
So I cant agree with Mr L when he says its unlikely an overdraft would be withdrawn unless 
this was done reactively, because of a default. Im aware that a number of banks have now 
put in place proactive systems to reduce the amount of overdraft lending by their customers.
Mr L also referred to the obligations on Halifax to tell him about all the options for lending. 
But Halifax isnt giving Mr L financial advice, and its not under the same sort of obligations 
as an independent financial advisor. I dont think Halifax was under an obligation to tell Mr L 
that he could largely avoid the effect of its periodic lending reviews, by agreeing to a minimal 
reduction in his overdraft.
Mr L has set out the reasons why this lending was originally agreed, and said checks were 
done then. I havent questioned whether this lending was appropriate for Mr L when it was 
made. I had assumed, as Mr L has now told us, that Halifax had carried out appropriate 
checks when it originally made its decision to offer Mr L such a large overdraft facility. 
I also understand that Mr L finds this lending convenient, and would prefer to maintain the 
facility. But I dont think that in itself means that its unreasonable for Halifax to want to check 
whether this lending remains appropriate for Mr L. It would be, after all, possible for Mr Ls 
financial situation to have changed in the last ten years. 
Mr L said Id asked why he didnt want a credit check in 2017, and he has set out the 
reasons for that. 
I did also note that having a credit check to maintain his existing lending does always appear 
to have been an option for Mr L. So, although Mr L tells us he didnt want a credit check in 
2017, he also had the option to have a credit check when Halifax suggested a reduction in 
his overdraft in early 2019, and late 2020, as well. That may have reassured Halifax on the 
issue of whether a high level of lending remained appropriate for Mr L. 
Finally, Mr L said that he thought Halifax must realise it had done something wrong, because 
it had made a refund of fees to him. I dont think that follows. Its not at all uncommon for a 
bank to make a modest payment of compensation or a refund of fees, when it doesnt think 
its done anything wrong. This can be done perhaps as a gesture of goodwill, or possibly in 
the hope that this may resolve a complaint. I dont know why Halifax chose to make a refund 
in this particular case, but I dont think that I can infer from the payment here, that Halifax 
thinks it has done something wrong.
I know that Mr L will be disappointed, but Ive considered his additional points, and I havent 
changed my mind. Ill now make the decision I originally proposed.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman