DRN-2331898
The complaint
Mr V and Ms S complain AXA Insurance UK Plc have partly declined their buildings 
insurance claim.
All references to AXA also included their agents.
What happened
Mr V and Ms S said their roof had been damaged following a storm and this caused a leak 
which damaged bedrooms inside their home. They contacted AXA to make a claim in 
February 2020. 
AXAs surveyor attended Mr V and Ms S property shortly after. They said the damage in the 
bedrooms was covered under the policy but the damage to the roof had occurred as a result 
of a natural breakdown of materials  so wasnt covered under the policy.
Mr V and Ms S said the damage had been caused by the storms  as there had been three 
in the week the damage occurred. So, they didnt agree with the Surveyor. 
In June 2020 Mr V and Ms S had work completed to repair the roof  which included 
removing loose mortar around the chimney stack, repointing the chimney stack and re- 
bedding loose bricks on the chimney. They provided AXA with photos, an invoice of the work 
completed and a letter from their builder  who said strong winds caused the damage. A 
formal complaint was also raised around this time with AXA.
AXA didnt change their decision to decline the part of the claim relating to the roof. They 
agreed there were storms conditions at the time but maintained the damage to the roof was 
not due to a one-off storm event but a deterioration over a period of time.
Mr V and Ms S were unhappy with AXAs response, so they brought the complaint to our 
service.
Our investigator didnt recommend we uphold Mr V and Ms S complaint. She said she was 
more persuaded by what AXA said, that the damage was gradual deterioration, and the 
storm wasnt the main cause of the damage.
Mr V and Ms S didnt agree with our investigator. They said AXA have provided no proof the 
damage to the roof was due to deterioration. They said when the surveyor attended, they 
only took photos and didnt look at the damage closely by getting up on the roof. They said 
their builder looked at the damage up close and provided photos of this. Mr V and Ms S have 
also said they were unhappy AXA failed to contact them directly, as they had been told in 
correspondence they would.
The complaint has now passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr V and Ms S have strong views about what happened. Ive read and 
considered carefully everything theyve said. However, I hope they wont take the fact my 
findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not all the points raised, as a 
discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point the parties have 
raised or to answer every question asked. My role is to consider the evidence presented by 
Mr V and Ms S and by AXA and reach what I think is a fair and reasonable decision based 
on the facts of the case.
When we consider storm damage, we ask three questions;
 Has it been proven, on balance, there were storm conditions on or around the date 
the problem occurred?
 Is the nature of the damage consistent with storm damage?
 Were the prevailing storm conditions the main or dominant case of the damage?
Theres no dispute storm conditions were present at the time  and the weather reports at 
the time support this. And its reasonable the damage described by Mr V and Ms S, could 
have occurred due to a storm. Im pleased to see AXA have accepted the claim for internal 
damage to Mr V and Ms Ss property so whats left for me to consider is whether the damage 
to the roof should similarly be accepted. 
Having reviewed everything, Im not persuaded storm was the dominant cause of the 
damage to the roof.  Ill explain why.
AXA said the damage to the roof was due to a deterioration of materials. Ive looked at the 
reports from their surveyor and Mr V and Ms S builder  including all of the photos provided 
by both parties. 
The invoice provided by the builder reports the work carried out was focussed on the 
propertys chimney. Their report also mentions several issues relating to the mortar work 
around the chimney.
But the report also says all mortar work is an issue, and that the mortar work around the 
ridge tiles are also starting to lose their mortar in places. The photos provided by the builder 
also show cracking in the mortar around the chimney. 
So I think the mortar across the roof was not in good condition  and the storm conditions 
have served to highlight those issues. Taking this into account, Im more persuaded by what 
AXA have said.
The policy documents say it will cover the cost of unexpected loss or damage but does not 
cover wear and tear, maintenance costs or damage that happens over time. Based on what 
Ive said above, Im satisfied the exclusion has been applied by AXA fairly.
Ive also considered the other issues Mr V and Ms S have raised. I can see one of AXAs 
agents told Mr V and Ms S that AXA would be in contact with them, but the next time they 
heard from AXA was when receiving their final response. I appreciate why Mr V and Ms S 
believed this meant AXA would contact them to discuss the complaint directly, and why it 
would have been frustrating for them when they didnt, but the letter doesnt promise direct 
contact. So I dont think AXA have acted unreasonably here.Overall having considered everything, I wont be interfering in AXAs decision to decline 
Mr V and Ms Ss claim and I wont be asking them to do anything further here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr V and Ms S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V and Ms S to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 December 2020.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman