DRN-4120553
The complaint
On Ms behalf, Mr H complains about a business review carried out by Ulster Bank Ltd. 
What happened
Mr H holds a number of personal and business accounts with Ulster Bank. One of the 
accounts held is in Ms name. In late 2021 Ulster Bank contacted Mr H and explained it was 
carrying out a review of his holdings with it and requested various documents relating to his 
identification and address as well as information about Ms status. 
Mr H has explained that he found the process of dealing with Ulster Banks review time 
consuming and inconvenient. Mr H has explained that staff members appeared to be 
working from home and that there was no way of speaking with the same person when he 
called back. In particular, Mr H has advised that Ulster Bank requested a utility bill in Ms 
name at its registered address. But because Mr H works from home and doesnt use a 
registered business address he was unable to provide a utility bill from M. 
Ulster Bank says that on 13 January 2022 a member of staff that had visited Mr Hs home 
agreed to contact the reviews team to confirm it was Ms trading address. But the 
confirmation wasnt forwarded as agreed and Ms address verification remained outstanding.
In March 2022 Ulster Bank restricted access to the accounts held by Mr H, including Ms 
account. Mr H has explained this led to several cheques going unpaid, including one hed 
used to pay for a car. Mr H has advised he was able to resolve the issues that arose but was 
caused a substantial level of embarrassment and inconvenience. 
After Mr H contacted Ulster Bank the account blocks were removed. The review process 
was completed a short time later and Mr H went on to raise a complaint. 
Ulster Bank issued a final response on 6 June 2022 and upheld the complaint. Ulster Bank 
explained a member of staff had failed to confirm Ms business address which had led to 
account blocks being put in place in March 2022. Ulster Bank confirmed the reviews process 
had been completed and offered Mr H £500 for the inconvenience caused. Ulster Bank also 
refunded fees incurred as a result of the restrictions applied. 
Mr H referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They agreed 
Ulster Bank had made mistakes when completing its review but thought its offer was a fair 
way to resolve the complaint. Mr H asked to appeal, so this complaint has been passed to 
me to make a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under. 
Mr H has explained he found the process of completing the review complicated and 
inconvenient as he was asked to provide documents that simply werent available. I can see 
that Ulster Bank accepted Mr H wasnt able to supply a utility bill in Ms name back in 
January 2022 and a member of staff agreed to confirm its trading address to the review 
team. Had the step been taken, Im satisfied the review process wouldve been completed 
far sooner - without the need for any account blocks. I agree that errors by staff at Ulster 
Bank led to the account blocks being put in place. 
Mr H has advised that six cheques were returned unpaid and that hes concerned about the 
reputational damage caused. I take Mr Hs point and I dont doubt that having cheques 
declined as a result of Ulster Banks mistake was embarrassing. Ive taken this into account 
when deciding how to fairly resolve Ms complaint. 
I can see that Mr H had to spend a reasonable amount of time and effort trying to comply 
with Ulster Banks requests for information about his various accounts. And I dont doubt Mr 
H had to supply detailed information and documents, requiring professional assistance. But I 
think that reflects the number of accounts Mr H holds and the businesses he operates in 
part. Although, I do accept Mr Hs point that the review process appeared disorganised at 
times and that it did cause some inconvenience to Mr H. 
I need to decide how to fairly resolve Mr Hs complaint and whether Ulster Banks existing 
offer is fair. Mr H has asked for a payment of £1,000 for each of the six cheques that 
bounced. But Im not persuaded that a payment of £6,000 is reasonable in the 
circumstances Ive seen. Whilst I dont seek to detract from Mr Hs experience, in my view 
the existing offer of £500 is a fair reflection of the level of inconvenience caused to Mr H by 
the way the review was handled. 
To put it another way, Ulster Banks offer is very much in line with what I wouldve told it to 
pay hand no settlement been offered. Im sorry to disappoint Mr H but having read and 
considered everything on file, including his comments about how the review impacted him, 
Im satisfied Ulster Bank has already agreed an offer that is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. As a result, Im not telling Ulster Bank to increase its offer or take any further 
action. 
My final decision
My decision is that Ulster Bank Ltd has already made an offer that is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 July 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman