DRN-2626422
The complaint
Mr M complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc rejected his claim under S75 Consumer Credit Act 
1974 for the consequential costs of faulty radiators.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. Section 75 offers protection to customers who use certain types of credit to make 
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer providing the goods or services, if there has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part.
For section 75 to apply, the law effectively says that there has to be a:
Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and
A clear breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
Our investigator has addressed the issue of the debtor-creditor-supplier chain and confirmed 
that the invoice being in the name of Mr Ms wife does not undermine the claim.
That leaves the issue of whether the radiators were faulty and the cost of replacing them. 
The radiators were sourced from two companies which I will call B and W. When Mr M 
contacted both B and W they agreed to refund the purchase price and asked that the 
radiators be thrown away. 
The bank has suggested these responses were gestures of goodwill rather than an 
admission of faults. However, it has subsequently taken a different view on the ones 
supplied by W. While B may have made a goodwill gesture, but given they offered to do so 
without challenge suggests they recognised there were issues with the radiators.
In the circumstances it is unreasonable to suggest that further proof is needed not least 
because both merchants asked that the radiators be thrown away. That would leave Mr M in 
an invidious position of having to prove items which no longer exist were faulty.
On balance, I am satisfied that the radiators were faulty and this brings me on to the cost of 
fitting the replacement ones. Like the bank my initial reaction was that £1,314 was a large 
sum for fitting a few radiators. However, I have reviewed the invoice and the other estimate 
provided by an alternative installer and Mr Ms detailed explanation of the reasons for the 
high cost. 
Firstly, I am satisfied that the invoice is both genuine and comes from an unconnected party 
and reflects the work needed to install the new radiators. I have noted the other estimate 
was lower, but it was heavily caveated about potential additional work being required. 
Secondly, I have noted the fact that Mr M was unable to source identical replacements 
because they were either discontinued or the originals were not to the specification which 
had been requested. This has resulted in the fitting costs being higher than one might 
expect. I have also noted the building was listed and the cost of any alterations are usually 
higher than one would expect, say in a new build. As such I am satisfied that the claim for 
consequential costs is fair and reasonable. 
Putting things right
 Mr Ms claim should be upheld.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Clydesdale Bank Plc to pay the 
consequential loss of £1,314. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman