DRN-4176133
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with the way in which Great Lakes Insurance SE handled two claims made 
on two separate travel insurance policies, which it underwrites.
 
Mr M says Great Lakes Insurance SE has unfairly delayed progressing the claims and has 
failed to make reasonable adjustments by insisting that he be interviewed either by 
telephone or in person as part of its investigations into the claims made, instead of making 
further enquiries of him by email. 
References to Great Lakes also includes it agents who its appointed to investigate the 
claims made by Mr M.
What happened
Mr M took out an annual travel insurance policy in June 2022, underwritten by Great Lakes 
(the first policy). Shortly after he travelled abroad and says his bag was stolen with personal 
possessions inside. He made a claim under the first policy to cover this loss (the first claim).
He previously raised a complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service about the way in 
which Great Lakes handled that complaint. An Ombudsman issued a final decision in 
January 2023 partially upholding his complaint that on occasions Great Lakes hadnt 
provided good service and there were times when his complaint couldve been more 
promptly progressed. The Ombudsman recommended Great Lakes pay Mr M £250 
compensation. However, she also concluded that Great Lakes is entitled to assess and fully 
investigate the claim Mr M made in respect of his stolen possessions. And there was no 
basis on which she could direct Great Lakes to pay the claim without completing its 
investigation.
Mr M bought a second annual travel insurance policy in September 2022, also underwritten 
by Great Lakes (the second policy). Whilst travelling abroad and after taking a flight 
between two countries, Mr M says his suitcase was damaged. He made a claim under the 
second policy to cover this damage (the second claim). 
Around this time, Great Lakes asked its agents to investigate the first claim and in early 
October 2022, the agents emailed Mr M to arrange a time to call Mr M to further assist its 
enquiries. Mr M replied that he was overseas and couldnt be reached for three months. He 
said he would be happy to answer any questions by email. The agents said it needed to 
speak to him and were happy to call an overseas number. When Mr M said he was unwell 
and on a remote island, the agents replied that they would hold off investigating until he was 
either back in the UK or available to discuss by telephone.
Subsequently, Great Lakes informed Mr M that its agents would also be making enquiries 
with him about the second claim.
In January 2023, Mr M emailed Great Lakes raising the complaints about both claims but in 
two separate emails. He wanted both complaints to be dealt with separately. He was 
concerned that:
- despite being aware of his medical conditions and prognosis, Great Lakes agents 
werent making adjustments to the way in which it was conducting its enquiries. He 
was unhappy that they were insisting on talking to him face to face or over the phone 
rather than emailing its questions to him.
- the claims were being unnecessarily delayed.
Great Lakes provided Mr M its final response letter in March 2023, relating to both claim 
numbers. It didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. It said a face to face or telephone interview was 
required so that certain aspects of his claims could be clarified. And that it was unable to 
progress the claims until the interview had taken place. It said it was mindful of his 
circumstances and had made efforts to accommodate these. 
Unhappy Mr M complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our investigator 
concluded that Mr M concerns related to the same issues in respect of both claims and so 
should be considered together. He didnt uphold Mr Ms concerns. Mr M disagreed so this 
complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outside I want to clarify that I wont be commenting on anything already determined by 
the Ombudsman earlier this year, in respect of the way in which the first claim was handled 
by Great Lakes. 
Ive considered whats happened after Great Lakes provided its final response to the issues 
relating to that complaint at the end of September 2022 up to March 2023 when Great Lakes 
issued its final response in respect of the complaint Im determining.
Im also satisfied that although the concerns raised by Mr M relate to two claims, for two 
separate incidents, under two travel insurance policies, its right for the concerns to be 
considered together in the circumstances of this case. The first and second policies are both 
underwritten by Great Lakes and its agents want to make related enquires about both 
claims. Further, the complaint points raised by Mr M in respect of both claims are the same.
When considering whether Great Lakes has acted fairly and reasonably, Im required to take 
into account a number of things including relevant regulations and relevant law. 
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS). 
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with
the best interests of their customers. It also says they should handle insurance claims 
promptly and fairly.
Mr M also says Great Lakes has failed in its duty to make reasonable adjustments. Only a 
Court can determine whether theres been a breach of the Equality Act 2010 (the Act), but 
Im required to take the provisions of the Act into account, if its relevant law, when deciding 
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of a complaint.
Here the Act is only relevant if Mr Ms medical conditions amount to disabilities as defined by 
section 6 of the Act. For the purposes of this decision, even they do (and I make no finding 
on this issue), and the provisions of the Act are relevant, I dont think Great Lakes has acted 
unfairly or unreasonably in this case. So, I dont uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.Great Lakes is entitled to assess and fully investigate the claims made. And I dont 
think its unreasonable for it to make further enquiries in this case.
Mr M is willing to respond in writing to any enquires made by email. However, he 
says given that hes abroad, his state of health, the effects of the medication hes 
taking and the medical prognosis, he wouldnt be able to engage in a face to face or 
telephone interview. Hes also said his hearing has been impaired, hes experienced 
memory loss and feels drowsy.
I dont think Great Lakes has acted unfairly or unreasonably in the circumstances of 
this case by putting on hold its investigation until its been able to speak with Mr M to 
discuss questions it has surrounding the first and second claims. 
Taking into account Mr Ms personal circumstances, Great Lakes gave Mr M various 
options including offering to call him on a local telephone number abroad, sending a 
representative to the country hes currently staying in to interview him face to face or 
awaiting his return to the UK to do so. 
Mr M has been able to call our Service to raise his concerns about Great Lakes and, 
having listened to that call, Im satisfied hes been able to articulately set out his 
complaints and recall information. That call took place around the same date as 
Great Lakes final response letter setting out its response to the complaints Im 
determining, explaining that it was unable to progress the claims until the interview 
took place. So, Im satisfied that there are times when Mr M is still able to use the 
phone to talk and so, I dont think the options put forward by Great Lakes as at the 
date of the final response letter were unreasonable. 
I dont think Great Lakes has unfairly delayed progressing Mr Ms claims since the 
end of September 2022. Although the first and second claims have yet to be 
assessed, until Great Lakes has been able to complete its enquires, I think its fairly 
concluded that its unable to determine whether to accept the first and second claims 
or not.  
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman