DRN-4087166
The complaint
Miss H complains that MotoNovo Finance Limited (MotoNovo) irresponsibly granted her a 
hire purchase agreement she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In April 2019, Miss H acquired a new car financed by a hire purchase agreement from 
MotoNovo. Miss H was required to make 59 monthly repayments of £224.90 followed by a 
final payment of £225.90 if she wanted to own the car at the end of the agreement. She also 
paid a deposit of £100. The total repayable under the agreement was £13,595.
The agreement was settled in December 2021. Miss H didnt miss any payments or incur 
any late charges for fees. 
Miss H says that MotoNovo didnt complete adequate affordability checks. She says if it had, 
it would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. MotoNovo didnt agree. It said that it 
carried out a thorough assessment which included checking her income and whether she 
could afford the monthly payments. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought MotoNovo didnt act 
unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
Miss H didnt agree, questioning whether MotoNovo had relied on correct information about 
her income and credit record. 
The complaint has therefore been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
MotoNovo will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
Before granting the finance, I think MotoNovo gathered a reasonable amount of evidence 
and information from Miss H about her ability to repay. I say this because in addition to the 
information she included in her application, it obtained information from credit reference 
agencies before reaching its lending decision and seeing that she had a credit score that 
met its own credit criteria. MotoNovo hasnt been able to give us its credit check. But Ive 
seen that it checked Miss Hs income, the length of time shed been in her job, the level of 
her rent and her committed expenditure - she had a bank account, loan and a telephone 
account. There was no indication of problems in her recent credit history, with no defaults or 
adverse records on her credit file. However, just because I think it carried out proportionate 
checks, it doesnt automatically mean it made a fair lending decision. So, Ive thought about 
what the evidence and information showed. 
Ive reviewed the information and evidence MotoNovo gathered. Having done so Im 
satisfied that the checks that were completed showed that the agreement was likely to be 
affordable to Miss H. I say this because, based on her income, MotoNovo had calculated 
that Miss H was earning net pay of around £1,900 per month and that, after paying her 
monthly living costs and existing credit, she would be left with a disposable income of around 
£1,000 per month. Ive reviewed bank statements Miss H sent us for the five months before 
she took out the agreement. These show she was generally managing her financial situation 
well, with her account remaining in credit. And broadly speaking, it looks likely she would 
have the level of disposable income estimated by MotoNovo and so would be in a position to 
meet the monthly repayments that were required under the agreement. 
It follows that I dont think MotoNovo acted unfairly when approving the finance application.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 June 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman