DRN-3778179
The complaint
Mr P complains about the way QIC Europe Ltd handled a claim under his home insurance 
policy after a burglary.
What happened
Mr P has a home insurance policy underwritten by QIC which covers his buildings and 
contents. Very sadly, Mr Ps home was burgled in February 2022. He made a claim to QIC 
for the damage caused and for the loss of some contents and cash.
The background to the complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont give a detailed 
description of the events here.
Suffice to say, Mr P wasnt happy with the time it took to handle the claim. He didnt think 
QIC should have declined the claim for some items on the basis that he couldnt prove 
ownership. And he thought it was unfair to decline the claim for stolen cash (well over 
£1,000). He was also unhappy with the valuations QIC put on some of the jewellery items 
that had been stolen.
Mr P complained about this to QIC, and when they maintained their stance, Mr P brought his 
complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into it. She thought QIC were entitled to decline the claim for the 
items for which Mr P had been unable to provide proof of ownership. And she thought it was 
reasonable for QIC to rely on their experts jewellery valuations, in the absence of any 
evidence to the contrary. 
But she thought QIC should pay the claim for stolen cash, up to the policy limit of £250. And 
she thought QIC should pay Mr P £100 compensation for his trouble and upset.
Mr P disagreed with this outcome and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. He 
thinks the jewellery should be valued independently. And he still takes the view that the 
claim should be paid for the outstanding items. 
QIC also disagreed. In their view, Mr P hasnt provided any evidence that the cash was in his 
home at the time of the burglary. They dont think its fair that they should be asked to pay 
Mr P the £250  or the £100 compensation our investigator recommended.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Proof of ownership
The terms of Mr Ps policy are reasonably clear and straightforward. QIC say they may 
require information and evidence from the policyholder to investigate a claim, including proof 
of ownership and value. 
In various places, they advise policyholders to keep receipts, invoices, bank or credit card 
statements, guarantee cards, instruction booklets and/or photographs.
It is sometimes difficult  particularly with older or inherited items or gifts  to meet this 
requirement. But if items, such as jewellery items for example, have been owned for some 
time, its not unreasonable to think there might be some photographic evidence to 
substantiate a claim.
What is clear is that its not reasonable to expect insurers to settle claims where there is 
absolutely no proof of ownership. It is a general principle in insurance that its for a 
policyholder to establish that theyve suffered a loss or damage due to an insured event. And 
thats very clearly reflected in the terms of Mr Ps policy.
So, I dont think QIC have acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining the claim for items for 
which Mr P hasnt been able to provide proof of ownership.
Of course, if Mr P can provide any further evidence or information to substantiate the loss, 
Id expect QIC to take that into account and re-consider the claim. But I cant reasonably 
conclude at present that QIC have acted unfairly towards Mr P in declining the claim for 
those particular items.
The stolen cash 
Mr P says there was substantial amount of cash in the house at the time of the burglary and 
this was stolen. There isnt any real dispute that the policy terms limit a claim for cash to 
£250 for each separate insured event. So, I cant ask QIC to reimburse Mr P for all of his 
losses.
However, I agree with our investigator that Mr P has given a credible explanation of how the 
cash came to be in the house. He says some of it was cash gifts given to his children. And 
some of it was cash payments made to his wife, who runs her own small business.
QIC say theyd expect to see receipts, bank statements or tax returns to evidence where the 
money came from. But on balance, I dont think thats reasonable in this particular case, 
given Mr Ps explanation of how the cash came to be in the house.
For those reasons, I agree with our investigator that QIC should settle this part of the claim. 
And I agree that £100 is fair and reasonable compensation for Mr P given the trouble and 
upset caused by QICs refusal of this part of the claim to date. 
Jewellery valuations
QIC had Mr Ps jewellery assessed and valued by an expert. Theyre entitled to rely on that 
experts view unless and until theres any evidence to suggest the valuation is incorrect.
There is no such evidence at present. And theres no reason at all to suspect the expert has 
undervalued Mr Ps jewellery. 
If Mr P wishes to get a different expert to value the jewellery, from the evidence available, 
hed be entitled to do that. And if that expert came to a different view about the valuations, 
then Id expect QIC to take that into account and review their position. But I dont think its 
fair to ask QIC to obtain and pay for a second, entirely independent valuation. 
DelaysLooking at the evidence we have on file, the majority of the delays in this claim appear to 
have been caused by disagreements  and/or discussions  between Mr P and QIC. I cant 
see any real evidence of any substantial delays caused by QIC not responding in a 
reasonably timely manner to Mr P requests or queries and/or failing to progress the matter 
internally or with their own contractors.
Putting things right
Im very sorry that Mr P and his family suffered the break-in at their home. That must have 
been a very upsetting and unsettling experience. 
But I cant reasonably ask QIC to settle a claim for items for which Mr P has been unable to 
provide any proof of ownership. Nor am I going to require QIC to pay for a further valuation 
of Mr Ps jewellery items.
However, I do think it would be fair and reasonable for QIC to settle the claim for stolen 
cash, up to the £250 limit set out in the policy. 
And Im satisfied that its fair and reasonable to ask QIC to pay £100 compensation to Mr P 
for the trouble and upset hes suffered as a result of their refusal of that claim for stolen 
cash. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Ps complaint in part.
QIC Europe Ltd must:
settle Mr Ps claim for stolen cash at the policy limit of £250; and
pay Mr P £100 in compensation for his trouble and upset.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2022.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman