DRN-2266846
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain about how The Society of Lloyds dealt with their claim against their 
travel insurance policy following curtailment of their trip. For ease of reference, Ill refer to 
The Society of Lloyds as Lloyds and this will include reference to its agents.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs F live in the European Economic Area. They intended to take road trips of three 
months in North America no more than twice a year for approximately five years. 
In December 2018, Mr F took out an annual, multi-trip travel insurance policy with Lloyds. 
In early March 2019, Mr and Mrs F flew to the USA and began their road trip. In June 2019, 
they booked return flights from Canada to the UK. They intended to leave Canada for the UK 
on 2 September 2019 and return to Canada from the UK on 1 April 2020. Mr and Mrs F say 
that they were aware that the trip would be above the policys trip limit of 120 days, so they 
bought top-up cover. 
In July 2019, Mr and Mrs F were told that Mrs Fs grandfather had passed away. So, they 
curtailed their trip. On 30 July 2019, they flew to the UK to attend the funeral. I understand 
that they travelled onward to their home in the European Economic Area. 
As Mr and Mrs F didnt use the outbound  Canada to UK - flight on 2 September 2019, the 
airline cancelled the return part of that journey  UK to Canada. So, Mr and Mrs F couldnt 
use the flight in April 2020. 
Mr and Mrs F made a claim for the curtailment of their trip. Lloyds asked Mr and Mrs F to 
provide a medical certificate. It settled part of their claim and paid one half of the cost of the 
return flights between Canada and the UK, the cost of coach tickets, less the excess due 
under the policy. Lloyds didnt agree to reimburse Mr and Mrs F for the cost of the UK to 
Canada flights in April 2020. It said that the April 2020 flights fell outside the period of 
insurance.  
Mr and Mrs F want Lloyds to settle their claim in full by reimbursing the cost of the top-up 
cover they bought and their April 2020 flights, which they lost when the airline cancelled 
them. They say that it wasnt necessary for Lloyds to ask for a medical certificate and it was 
upsetting for Mrs F to deal with that. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He thought that Lloyds hadnt acted 
unfairly. The investigator didnt think that it was unfair for Lloyds to ask for a medical 
certificate, as it would wish to know whether the reason for the curtailment was known to    
Mr and Mrs F when they booked their trip. He said that Lloyds cant be expected to 
reimburse Mr and Mrs F for top-up cover and the April 2020 flight. 
Mr and Mrs F accepted the investigators position in relation to the top-up cover but didnt 
agree in relation to the April 2020 flight. Mr and Mrs F say that the April 2020 return flight 
was cancelled by the airline when they didnt take the outbound flight in September 2019. 
They say that they renewed their travel insurance policy, so one of the policies should cover 
this.   
The investigator considered what Mr and Mrs F said but it didnt change his view. Mr and   
Mrs F didnt agree. They said that the April 2020 flight was cancelled as a direct result of the 
curtailment. Mr and Mrs F said that the fact that the flight is in 2020 is irrelevant, as the 
curtailment occurred in 2019. They said that they are reluctant to make a new claim against 
the later policy for the 2020 flights, as theyd have to pay another excess and it would be 
bureaucratic. As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to 
me, an ombudsman, to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant parts of which say as 
follows:
Section A  CANCELLATION OR CURTAILMENT CHARGES
What is Covered
We will pay an insured person up to the amount shown in the Validation Certificate 
Schedule of Cover for any irrecoverable unused travel and accommodation costs, pre-
booked excursion costs, and other pre-paid charges which an insured person has paid or is 
contracted to pay, together with any additional travel expenses incurred if cancellation of the 
trip is unavoidable or the trip is curtailed before completion as a result of any of the 
following events:
Specified Events
1. The death [] of
[]
d) an insured persons close relative
Curtailment / Curtail means either:
abandoning or cutting short the trip by direct early return to an insured persons home 
area
Home area means
[]
For residents of the European Economic Area, an insured persons country of residence in 
the European Economic Area.
Trip means
any holiday, business or pleasure trip or journey made by an insured person within the area 
of travel shown in the Validation Certificate which begins and ends in an insured persons 
home area during the period of insurance.
 
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that Lloyds has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly.Im sorry for the circumstances that led to Mr and Mrs Fs claim but Im not upholding their 
complaint because I dont think that Lloyds treated them unfairly. I say that because:
In the circumstances that arose here, Lloyds acted within the policy terms and fairly 
in asking for a medical certificate. Lloyds would wish to establish that the reason for 
the curtailment wasnt known to Mr and Mrs F at the time they booked their trip. So, I 
dont think that Lloyds was at fault in asking for a medical certificate, although I  
appreciate that the process was upsetting for Mrs F.
The definition of curtailment in the policy refers to cutting short the trip by direct, early 
return to the home area. Thats not what happened here. Mr and Mrs F cut short their 
trip and went to the UK, not directly to their home area. Nevertheless, Lloyds agreed 
to treat the UK as Mr and Mrs Fs home destination. In doing so, I think that it acted 
fairly.  
The definition of trip provides that it must be within the period of insurance. The 
period of insurance here is from 20 December 2018 to 19 December 2019. So, the 
April 2020 flight isnt within the period of insurance.  
There are no grounds to direct Lloyds to reimburse Mr and Mrs F for the cost of the 
April 2020 flight. Thats because that flight would be part of a new trip and isnt part of 
the trip that Lloyds treated as curtailed. 
If Mr and Mrs F want to ask Lloyds to deal with the cancelled April 2020 flight under 
the new policy, they should take that up with Lloyds directly in the first instance. If 
they are not satisfied with its response, they can refer the matter to this service. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 February 2021.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman