DRN-2645832
complaint
Ms S complains that Nationwide Building Society wont refund money she lost when she 
fell victim to a scam.
background
Ms S had some jewellery she wished to sell so placed an advert online. She was 
contacted by an individual who claimed he wanted to buy the jewellery for £6,400 and 
asked if Ms S would accept a bank transfer, which she agreed to.
On 2 June 2020 Ms S checked her account balance online and saw the £6,400 credit. 
She therefore agreed for the buyer to collect the jewellery from her home that same day. 
Ms S explains that the money was still in her account until 4 June 2020, but it was then 
removed again. Ms S called Nationwide who explained that the payment had in fact been 
made by cheque - not bank transfer - and that the cheque had bounced, meaning the 
money had been removed from Ms Ss balance.
Ms S raised the matter with the Police and made further attempts to contact the buyer, but 
he stopped answering her calls. At this point Ms S realised shed been the victim of a scam. 
During subsequent conversations with Nationwide, the sending bank in question and the 
Police, shes also uncovered that the cheque the scammer used belongs to a closed 
account and that the cheque book was stolen.
Ms S also spoke with her local branch manager, who she said has told her the cheque 
would not have been accepted in their branch without further questioning. Ms S has also 
said that she was told a customer authentication tool (CAT) wouldve been used.
Ms S complained to Nationwide  she said she doesnt think the cheque shouldve 
been accepted in branch and that she doesnt think the correct checks were 
completed.
Nationwide issued its final response letter to the complaint on 18 June 2020. It said its not 
possible for branch staff to know whether a cheque is cashable and that the cheque 
clearing process takes up to two working days.
Ms S was unhappy with Nationwides response and spoke to a complaints manager by 
phone. She explained the conversation shed had with her local branch manager and that 
she wanted to know if the correct verification process had been followed when accepting 
the cheque. Ms S has provided a copy of this call - she considers Nationwide 
acknowledges it didnt complete its verification processes before accepting the cheque. As 
Nationwide was unable to resolve Ms Ss complaint, Ms S brought the complaint to our 
service.
An investigator looked into things but didnt think Nationwide could have done anything to 
prevent the scam  he didnt think there was anything suspicious about the cheque for it 
to have raised concerns. He said there were no notes to confirm whether the
cashier asked questions when accepting the cheque or not, but that its possible 
the scammer wouldve had plausible explanations if asked.
The investigator said that the CAT was a way for Nationwide to verify its own customers 
who visited a branch without a token (such as a bank card or passbook). He didnt consider 
its use would prevent a stolen cheque from being accepted.
When considering Ms Ss call with the complaints manager, he considered the 
manager couldve been clearer, but that the manager was offering an apology if the 
cashier hadnt followed the correct procedure  rather than confirming that this was the 
case.
Ms S didnt accept our investigators view. She disagreed with the investigators 
interpretation of her call with the complaints manager and maintained that Nationwide 
should have used the CAT. She also said that the cheque on which the account was being 
drawn was opened in 2005 and didnt think it shouldve been accepted for this reason.
As Ms S didnt accept our investigators view the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Ms S, and I can understand entirely why she feels so 
strongly that this money should be returned to her. But having thought very carefully about 
Nationwides actions, I think it did act fairly and reasonably in accepting the cheque and I 
dont think the branch missed an opportunity to identify that this payment was part of a scam.
So, having considered everything, Im not going to uphold Ms Ss complaint. I do appreciate 
how disappointing this will be for her, but I dont think I can fairly say Nationwide should 
reimburse her the £6,400 she has sadly lost to fraudsters. Ill explain why.
Ive first considered whether Nationwide acted reasonably by accepting the cheque paid in 
by the fraudster. As the cheque wasnt issued by Nationwide (and therefore not linked to a 
Nationwide account) there was no way for Nationwide to verify in branch the status of the 
account the cheque was being drawn on to, whether it was open or whether funds were 
available. The only checks Nationwide couldve completed at this point were ensuring the 
cheque was written in a valid format without any signs of tampering, the name on the 
cheque and its intended recipient matched, and that Ms Ss account was able to accept 
cheques. As with all deposits or withdrawals, I would also expect Nationwide to satisfy 
itself that there were no signs of Ms Ss account being used for money laundering.
Having reviewed the cheque paid in, I dont think there were any reasons for Nationwide to 
refuse it on face value  it was fully completed, recently dated and provided the correct 
account name for the account details provided. As Ms S had only received this one 
payment by cheque, I also dont think there was any reason for Nationwide to be 
suspicious of money laundering on the account.
Ms S has said that further questions shouldve been asked in branch when the cheque 
was deposited, including why the scammer wasnt making a bank transfer instead. Its not 
stated in Nationwides notes whether questions were asked when the cheque was 
deposited  but Ive considered that this was a payment into an account  so I wouldnt 
expect the same level of questioning by Nationwide as someone trying to remove money 
from an account.There arent any specific requirements in place for Nationwide to ask questions unless it has
concerns  cheques are a valid method of payment and, due to the lower risk level 
associated with deposits, cheques can even be deposited into branch ATM machines 
without any staff interaction at all. So even if Nationwide didnt ask questions at the time, Im 
not persuaded that this was unreasonable.
Even if Nationwide had asked questions regarding the nature of the deposit, Im aware the 
scammer had defrauded other individuals in the same way previously and I think its more 
likely than not that hed have had a plausible explanation for paying by cheque and for the 
value of the deposit.
Ms S is concerned that the cheque showed the corresponding account had been open since 
2005 and that this shouldve raised concerns for Nationwide. I dont think its unusual for an 
account to be open for this length of time  or for a chequebook to date back this far either. 
So I dont think Nationwide shouldve rejected the cheque on this basis.
I understand Ms S thinks Nationwide shouldve implemented its CAT  but I dont think this 
was relevant for this type of transaction. The CAT is intended for Nationwide to identify its 
own customers who dont have a token available (such as their bank card, or account 
details), to ensure the customers account exists and that there are no blocks on the account. 
The CAT could not have been used to identify or verify the scammer, as he was not 
Nationwides customer. And as the scammer had Ms Ss account details, there was no 
reason for Nationwide to use this process to identify her account.
Ive also listened to the conversation our investigator had with Ms Ss branch manager 
regarding the CAT. He said he explained to Ms S that this tool was one of the methods 
available to Nationwide to identify a customer and their account, but that it wouldnt prevent 
a cheque being accepted.
Lastly, Ive thought about whether Ms S was advised by the complaints manager that 
Nationwide had failed to correctly verify the scammer (and that this had resulted in her loss). 
Having listened to the entire call for context, I understand the complaints manager explained 
that he wasnt the individual who investigated Ms Ss complaint. He also acknowledged he 
wasnt familiar with the CAT. I think its therefore apparent from the conversation that the 
complaints manager had limited information available about whether Nationwide had or 
hadnt made mistakes when accepting the cheque in branch.
I do agree that the complaints manager couldve been clearer in explaining hes sorry if 
Nationwide had made a mistake, but that he couldnt comment on whether a mistake had 
been made. However I also dont think he gave Ms S assurances that Nationwide was 
responsible for her loss, or that it would reimburse her.
Its very unfortunate that Ms S has lost this money to what is a cruel and sophisticated scam, 
and I understand the experience has been very upsetting for her. But in the circumstances, I 
dont think I can fairly say Nationwide should have done more to prevent her losing this 
money. So I dont think it would be fair to ask Nationwide to refund the loss.my final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2021.
 
Kirsty Upton
Ombudsman