DRN-4474759
The complaint
Mr J has complained that Freeway UK Insurance Services Limited failed to tell him his Taxi 
Insurance policy was not going to renew and that this led to him having to stop working as a
taxi driver for nearly a month.
What happened
Mr J renewed his policy with an insurer, who Ill refer to as S, through Freeway in January
2023. It was due to start on 20 January 2023. He made a claim just before 20 January2023  
under his previous policy with S. This meant S was not willing to renew his policy and it 
informed Freeway of this. Freeway intended to send an email to Mr J on 19 January 2023 to 
let him know this but, due to a system issue, this email was not sent. The policy didnt renew 
and this meant Mr J was driving his taxi uninsured. The taxi company Mr J worked for found 
out Mr J was uninsured. It switched Mr J off its platform and this meant Mr J couldnt work for 
it.
The taxi company queried with Freeway whether Mr J would have been aware he was
uninsured. Freeway informed them on 26 January 2023 that Mr J had been sent an email 
saying his policy would not be renewing on 19 January 2023. This led to the taxi company 
refusing to reinstate Mr J on its platform even though hed arranged a new policy. Mr J asked 
Freeway to provide proof that it had emailed him on 19 January to say his policy would not 
be renewing. It was unable to provide this proof and it wasnt until the taxi company queried 
the issue with Freeway again later in February that it finally admitted Mr J would not have 
received the email telling him his policy was not going to renew. When the taxi company was 
told this it immediately allowed Mr J back on its platform, so he could start working for it 
again.
Mr J complained to Freeway and mentioned in at least two emails that he had not been able
to work and he even said the following in an email dated 22 February 2023:
. Im out of work last 4 weeks its very difficult for me I dont have any earnings so its a
(sic) urgent matter I need this ASAP Im suffering because of your companys fault
Freeway issued a final response to Mr J dated 24 February 2023 in which it apologised for
the fact its email of 19 January 2023 was not sent to him. But it didnt offer Mr J any
compensation.
Mr J asked us to consider his complaint. He said he was unhappy that Freeway hadnt
informed him that his policy wasnt going to renew and pointed out this had meant he had
been unable to earn any income from his taxi business for around four weeks.
One of our investigators considered Mr Js complaint. She asked him to provide evidence of
his earnings as a taxi driver in the period up to when he had to stop working and evidence to
show he hadnt earned anything in the period hed been switched off the taxi companys
platform. He provided this evidence and the investigator issued her first view on Mr Js
complaint. In this she said Freeway should compensate Mr J at £82.31 per day for 26 days
loss of earnings as a taxi driver. This was on the basis it had failed to make it clear to the taxi
company it had not sent the email of 19 January 2023 to Mr J when it first queried whether
Mr J should have known he was uninsured.
Freeway didnt accept the investigators view. Initially, it argued it had responded to the taxi
companys request for information on 26 January 2023 and couldnt be held responsible for
delays beyond this point. Our investigator explained that its error was not failing to respond
at this time, but failing to realise it hadnt sent the email to Mr J and let the taxi company
know this.
This led to Freeway accepting it was responsible for Mr J not being able to work for a period
of 26 days. However, it argued hed never complained about his loss of earnings and so it
had not had the chance to consider these. Our investigator offered Freeway the chance to
consider this aspect and it said it needed a copy of Mr Js tax return to enable it to do so.
The investigator asked Mr J to provide his tax return and he eventually provided this for the
period April 2022 to March 2023. This showed he earned £1,327 net after the deduction of
expenses as a taxi driver in this period and led to Freeway offering a total of £94.53 for Mr
Js lost earnings, plus £100 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Our investigator did a second view on the complaint. In this she said she was satisfied the
£100 in compensation for distress and inconvenience was fair. However, she said Freeway
should pay £20 per day for loss of earnings for the same 26 day period, i.e. £520 in total.
Mr J thanked the investigator for her help. But Freeway didnt accept the view and asked for
an ombudsmans decision. It said it could not accept the investigators recommendation
when Mr Js tax return showed he only earned a total of £3.64 per day net on average for the
tax year 2022 to 2023, as her recommendation of £20 per day was more than five times this
amount. It re-iterated its point that it never had the chance to deal with Mr Js complaint
about loss of earnings. It also said Mr J tried to claim reimbursement for a number of
expenses, such as his taxi rental cost, which he could not provide evidence of. And that he
was also unable to provide evidence of his petrol costs.
I issued a provisional decision on 17 November 2023 in which I set out what Id provisionally 
decided as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should say first of all that I am surprised by Freeways assertion that it didnt have the
chance to deal with Mr Js complaint about loss of earnings, when it is clear he raised this
issue at least twice with it before it issued its final response. This was  in my opinion 
something Freeway should have considered before issuing its final response letter. And it
should have at the very least, checked with Mr J whether he wanted it to consider
compensation for loss of earnings.
I do share Freeways concern that any compensation Mr J receives for loss of earnings has
to be based on his average net earnings as a taxi driver in the period either side of the 26
days he couldnt work due to Freeways error. And it does seem strange he only earned
£1,327 net after expenses like fuel costs were deducted in the whole tax year 2022 to 2023.
Our investigator asked Mr J about this and he has said he didnt work as a taxi driver for a
further six weeks and that he had time off when his wife gave birth and to look after his other
two children. And I can see he earned between about £580 and £900 per week in the period
up to when he was turned off the taxi companys platform. However, I cant know what hours
hed have worked in the period he was switched off the taxi companys platform. And  all I
really have to go on for this period that is a reliable indication is his tax return. I say thisbecause I have nothing compelling to show hed have worked the same hours as he did in
the period leading up to when he was switched off the platform. And, even allowing for what
Mr J has said, I cant see he could have had enough time off to have earned £20 per day on
average for the year. Its also difficult because it seems he earned a significant part of his
income for this tax year in December 2022 and January 2023. And this suggests he didnt
earn much on average in the rest of the year. And  even if I allow for the fact he could have
had a further 10 weeks off across the year on top of the 26 days he lost due to Freeways
error, this only means he didnt work 96 days in the tax year 2022 to 2023, i.e. hed have
worked 269 days in total. This means he earned around £5 per day on average in the year
net. But I also need to factor in that he earned a significant amount more than this in the
period December 2022 to January 2023. In view of this, I dont think Freeways offer of £82
is far off. But, as were an informal service, Ive decided to keep it simple and award £100 for
loss of earnings, on the basis I think it is likely Mr H lost at least this net.
Ive also considered the impact that Freeways error would have had on Mr J emotionally
and the distress not being able to earn anything at all from his taxi business for 26 days
would have caused him. It must have been extremely disturbing and frustrating for him
knowing he hadnt been told his policy hadnt been renewed, with Freeway insisting he had
and not providing the copy of the email he was asking for to prove this. This coupled with the
embarrassment of the taxi company thinking hed knowingly driven uninsured and the
inconvenience of having to arrange new insurance at very short notice and liaise with the
taxi company on the issue, would have been very inconvenient and distressing for Mr J.
In view of this, I do not consider that £100 in compensation is anywhere near enough to
compensate Mr J for the level of distress and inconvenience he experienced, especially
when considered against the guidance on our website for the sort of awards we make for
distress and inconvenience. Ive thought carefully about this and because I think the level of
distress and inconvenience was significant for Mr J, Ive provisionally decided to award him
£400.
During the course of our investigation of his complaint Mr J has suggested he lost out in
other ways financially. He seemed to be suggesting at one point he had to rent his taxi
without being able to use it. Although, he later clarified he was just saying what it would have
cost to rent one. So this wasnt an expense Mr J actually incurred. He also thought he had to
pay more for his new insurance policy due to having to get it at short notice. But I suspect
this was actually because hed made a claim and lost his no claims bonus. So I dont think
there is anything else it is appropriate for Mr J to be compensated for as a result of
Freeways error.
In summary, I think the fair and reasonable outcome to Mr Js complaint is for Freeway to
pay him £100 as compensation for loss of earnings and £400 in compensation for distress
and inconvenience.
I gave both parties until 1 December 2023 to provide further comments and evidence in 
response to my provisional decision. 
Mr J has said he is happy with my provisional decision and accepts it. Freeway has it has 
nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party wishes to provide any further comments or evidence, I see no reason to depart from the outcome I set out in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision, as repeated above, Ive decided to 
uphold Mr Js complaint and make Freeway pay him £100 for loss of earnings and £400 in 
compensation for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Js complaint about Freeway UK Insurance Services Limited and order it to do 
what Ive set out above in the Putting things right section. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman