DRN-4481379
The complaint
Mr P and Mrs P complain about Advantage Insurance Company Limiteds (Advantage) 
handling of their claim under their car insurance policy. 
Mr P has acted as the main representative during the claim and complaint process. So, for 
ease of reference, I will refer to any actions taken, or comments made, by either Mr P or  
Mrs P as Mr P throughout the decision. 
What happened
Mr Ps car was involved in an accident while he was travelling to the airport to go on holiday. 
Mr P reported the accident to Advantage and also called again the following day to discuss 
the next steps. Mr P says he understood from the calls that, on his return from holiday, 
Advantage would, on the same day, arrange to have his car collected and be provided a 
courtesy car to enable him and his family to get home that day. 
Mr P says, on his return, he contacted Advantage and they instructed a company  who Ill 
refer to as company E  to deal with the recovery of his car and also to provide a courtesy 
car. Mr P says he was then informed company E couldnt guarantee a courtesy car that day 
and another company had to collect his car. Mr P then incurred travel costs of £200 for him 
and his family to travel home. Mr P complained about being misinformed about the collection 
of his car and being given a courtesy car, and about call times and being passed between 
different companies. 
Advantage responded and explained, during the calls prior to Mr P going on holiday, their 
call handlers didnt provide incorrect information in relation to the collection of his car or 
about when a courtesy car would be provided. They said, at no point did either call handler 
confirm a courtesy car would be provided on the day Mr P returned. Advantage explained 
their call handlers also referred to the section of the policy which covered Mr P for travel 
expenses in the event a courtesy car couldnt be provided on the day. They accepted Mr P 
was left on hold for lengthy periods of time and was passed back and forth during calls. They 
upheld this part of the complaint and paid £50 compensation for the frustration caused.   
Our investigator looked into things for Mr P and Mrs P. She didnt uphold the complaint 
about Mr P not receiving a courtesy car on the day he returned from holiday. She also 
thought the £50 compensation paid was reasonable for the time spent by Mr P on calls. Mr P 
and Mrs P disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr P and Mrs P will 
be disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
Collection of Mr Ps car and providing a courtesy car
I understand Mr P says he was clear during the calls about his familys situation  he says 
he explained the accident happened on his way to the airport to go on holiday and he would 
be returning in a week with no way of getting home as his car was damaged. Mr P says he 
understood from the calls that, on his return, Advantage would, on the same day, arrange to 
have his car collected and theyll provide a courtesy car to enable Mr P and his family to get 
home. 
Ive listened to call recordings where Mr P first informs Advantage of the accident, and then 
a later call to discuss the next steps in more detail. In the first notification of loss call, Mr P 
explains he has been involved in an accident and describes the circumstances. He explains 
hes about to go on holiday for a week and his car is parked at the airport car park. The call 
handler explains, based on the accident circumstances described, they would be treating it 
as a non-fault accident, and they expect a full recovery. The call handler explains theyll be 
looking at sorting things out. Mr P then explains he needs to leave the call as his flight will be 
boarding soon. The call handler asks if Mr P can call back the next day as they need to 
discuss instructing their services and to instruct recovery of Mr Ps car. The call handler 
explains theyll email Mr P to confirm all the information they need and then, when Mr P calls 
back, theyll get everything instructed.    
 
Mr P calls back the following day and explains he returns in a week, and hell need to move 
his car from the car park, and he wants to discuss the next steps and how hell get home. 
The call handler says, What youd have to do though, because we couldnt instruct services 
now because youd have to be with the car to come and get the car. The call handler then 
explains, as soon as Mr P returns, to give them a call so they can instruct company E to 
collect his car and also give Mr P a courtesy car. Mr P explains he returns very early in the 
morning, and he has a hotel booked. He queries how long it will take to get a courtesy car 
and whether a courtesy car will be dropped off to him that day. Mr P asks if its something 
that can be arranged now, and the call handler explains they cant arrange it for a future 
date. They explain the recovery works on a here and now basis so they cant book it for a 
date a week in advance. 
The call handler confirms their opening hours and says Mr P will need to call them and 
company E will collect his car and also supply a courtesy car. The call handler says, When 
youre on the phone with us, once weve instructed services, we then pass you straight 
through on the phone to [company E] to sort the car out. Mr P asks, Will they drop a hire 
car off to our location, is that correct? and the call handler says, Yes, theyll sort you out 
with a hire car, because its a non-fault claim. The call handler then explains he needs to 
make some further enquiries as the third partys registration wasnt appearing on his system, 
and if thats the case company E wont handle the matter. The call handler explains theyll be 
looking into the registration issue, but Mr P will need to call them when he returns. The call 
then ends with the call handler informing Mr P not to worry and when you come back it 
will get sorted on that Friday.
Mr P then returns from holiday and makes several calls to Advantage for arrangements to be 
made for his car to be collected and to be provided a courtesy car. Mr Ps car is then 
collected by a recovery agent that day. But, during these calls, the call handlers explain they 
cant guarantee a courtesy car that day. A courtesy car was then provided three days later. 
I acknowledge Mr P says he was led to believe a courtesy car would be supplied on the day 
of his return, but I cant say the evidence suggests this information was given by the call 
handlers. During the first call, the call handler isnt able to take all details due to Mr P 
needing to board his flight. During this call though the call handler does explain theyll be 
treating this as a non-fault accident and will need to instruct their services. The following day, when Mr P calls back, I agree Mr P did make it clear he returns in a week and will need to 
travel home. But, while the call handler explains the process theyll follow on Mr Ps return, 
they dont provide any definite timescales or guarantee that Mr P will receive a courtesy car 
on the day of his return. 
During the call, I acknowledge Mr P does seek clarity and asks whether a courtesy car will 
be delivered to his location when he returns, and the call handler does say yes and follows 
this up by saying company E will sort out a courtesy car. But the call handler doesnt at any 
point commit to a timescale or confirm the courtesy car will be provided on the day Mr P 
returns. The call handler does say, at the end of the call, things will get sorted on the Friday 
Mr P returns. But earlier in the call, the call handler does explain the process - with the next 
steps being Advantage instructing services once Mr P calls them on his return. So, I think 
the call handlers reference to getting things sorted on the Friday was in relation to 
instructing services  and not supplying Mr P with a courtesy car that day. I accept it 
mightve helped if the call handler here had clarified at this point that theres no guarantee a 
courtesy car will be provided on the same day Mr P returns. But I dont think this, in itself, 
means Advantage acted unreasonably. I say this because, the call handler didnt give a 
guarantee a car will be provided the same day. 
I understand Mr P is concerned about why the arrangements for the collection of his car and 
provision of a courtesy car couldnt be made sooner so that things were already in place on 
his return. During Mr Ps second call, the call handler explains they cant arrange the 
recovery now as Mr P will need to be with his car when its recovered  and I cant say this is 
unreasonable. I can see Mr P also queries why the courtesy car couldnt be arranged in 
advance. Advantage say their expectations are for company E to provide a courtesy car 
within 48 hours of the instruction being sent, if they have the third-party insurance details. I 
acknowledge Mr Ps point about why the instruction couldnt be sent to company E following 
his second call, but its clear there were enquiries being made by Advantage around the 
third-partys registration  and this was discussed during that call. So, I cant say it was 
unreasonable for no instruction to have been given at that point. I can see company E were 
then able to locate the UK handling agent for the foreign third-party vehicle and Mr P was 
then provided a courtesy car the same day. So, I cant say Advantage have acted 
unreasonably here.   
Travel expenses 
I can see Mr Ps policy terms and conditions allow up to £50 per person, up to a maximum of 
£250, for travel expenses. During the calls Mr P makes to Advantage on his return, the call 
handlers explain they cant guarantee Mr P will receive a courtesy car that day as its 
arranged through company E, and not them. Its clear Mr P is frustrated by this, and two call 
handlers do then refer to the travel expenses section of the policy. I think it was reasonable 
for the call handlers to refer to this as it provided Mr P with an alternative option should a 
courtesy car not be supplied that day. 
I understand Mr P incurred expenses of £200 to travel home, and I can see Advantage have 
offered to reimburse this on receipt of proof of costs. I understand Mr P says he doesnt have 
any evidence of this, but I cant say its unreasonable for Advantage to ask for evidence of 
any expenses incurred. 
Call times
Theres no dispute in relation to this part of the complaint. Advantage accept they got things 
wrong when Mr P was left on hold for lengthy periods of time and also being passed 
between different companies. Its clear Mr P was becoming frustrated when call handlers 
were asking Mr P to contact company E, particularly as Mr P was explaining to the call handlers he had already contacted them and theyd referred him back to Advantage. There 
were also calls where, although the call handlers explained they were seeking guidance from 
a colleague, Mr P was left on hold for unreasonable periods of time. So, taking this all into 
account, and given this all happened over a relatively limited period of time, I think the £50 
compensation paid is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
I understand Mr P and Mrs P will be disappointed, and I do acknowledge their worry and 
frustration when, on returning from their holiday and their car being collected, they were left 
with no courtesy car to travel home. But, for the reasons Ive mentioned, I cant say 
Advantage provided any guarantees that a courtesy car would be provided on the same day 
Mr P returned from holiday. I wish to reassure Mr P Ive read and considered everything he 
has sent in, but if I havent mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because 
I havent seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain 
my decision. This isnt intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of the informal nature of 
our service. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 January 2024.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman