DRN-2932469
The complaint
A company which I will refer to as C complains that TSB Bank Plc didnt do enough to 
prevent it losing out financially as a result of an authorised push payment (APP) fraud.
What happened
The background to the complaint is known to both parties and so I wont repeat it at length 
here. Briefly, in July 2019, the finance director of C received an email purportedly from the 
managing director, asking that their salary be paid into a new account with TSB. There was 
nothing suspicious about the email and so the finance director carried out the instruction and 
made two payments to the new account  one for £7,200 and a day later another for about 
£700. 
The fraud came to light two days later and Cs bank contacted TSB. It appears that TSB had 
blocked the second payment by then and that was returned to C. However, the first payment 
of £7,200 was taken out of the recipients account through multiple transactions on the same 
day it was received into the account, and so wasnt available to be returned. 
C complained to TSB that it failed to prevent the fraud. C noted that TSB was able to block 
the second payment going out of the recipients account even before Cs bank alerted TSB. 
So it questioned why TSB wasnt able to do anything about the first payment which 
happened just the previous day.  TSB said that it hadnt made any mistake and that the 
matter had been dealt with correctly by it. 
One of our investigators said that TSB could have done more to prevent the loss to C.  He 
said that he wasnt able to conclude that TSB did anything wrong or missed something when 
its customer (the recipient) opened the account with it. However, he noted that the relevant 
transaction and the outgoing payments following it were unusual activities to the recipients 
account. So he was of the view that had TSB held the first large payment out of the account 
and looked into things, it would have had an opportunity to prevent further losses to C. But it 
failed to do so and therefore it is fair that TSB compensates C for the losses. He worked out 
the total amount to be refunded to be £6,950.
TSB didnt agree. It said that it employs transaction monitoring systems that are the same as 
the majority of the industry. It utilises a number of fraud detection and prevention tools in 
addition. These measures strike the right balance it needs to achieve between allowing its 
customers to transact business and questioning transactions to confirm they are legitimate. 
The bank said that though Cs bank contacted it only a few days later, TSB had already 
flagged a transaction that took place from the recipients account as suspicious and 
investigated it within the same day which ultimately led to blocking of the account.  It said 
that its response on this occasion was proportionate and in line with the industry standards.
Recently C informed us that in April this year, TSB has returned about £3,650 to it. This sum 
was returned by another bank to which the TSBs customer transferred about £4,000 out of 
the £7,200. C confirmed to us that to date it hasnt received any payment from any other 
source in relation to the £7,200.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that its customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. And I have taken that into consideration when deciding 
what is fair and reasonable in this case. However that is not the end of the story. A bank also 
has an ongoing obligation to be alert to various risks in relation to the accounts with it. 
Specifically, Im mindful that a bank:  
must conduct their business with due skill, care and diligence (FCA Principle for 
Businesses 2);
have a longstanding regulatory duty to take reasonable care to establish and maintain 
effective systems and controls for compliance with applicable requirements and 
standards under the regulatory system and for countering the risk that the firm might be 
used to further financial crime (SYSC 3.2.6R of the Financial Conduct Authority 
Handbook, which has applied since 2001);
must fairly and reasonably been monitoring accounts and any payments made or 
received to counter various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the 
financing of terrorism, and preventing fraud and scams. At the material time, those 
requirements included maintaining proportionate and risk-sensitive policies and 
procedures to identify, assess and manage money laundering risk, e.g. through 
customer due-diligence measures and the ongoing monitoring of the business 
relationship (including through the scrutiny of transactions undertaken throughout the 
course of the relationship
must have systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might 
indicate risk of fraud (among other things). This is particularly so given the increase in 
sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, which banks are generally more familiar 
with than the average customer.
Ultimately, its a matter for TSB as to how it chooses to configure its fraud detection systems 
and strike a balance between allowing its customers to transact business and questioning 
transactions to confirm they are legitimate.  But where it is alleged that TSB didnt do enough 
to prevent a loss which resulted from an alleged APP fraud, I will look into the circumstances 
of the case and decide, based on what I have seen, whether in that case it could have fairly 
and reasonably done more.
Taking all of this into consideration, I think in this instance TSB had reason to have done 
more. I will explain why. 
Once Cs payment arrived into the recipients account, essentially all of it was withdrawn or 
spent from the account within 24 hours. The first payment to leave the recipients account 
was an ATM withdrawal for £250. I dont think this was an unusual payment or something 
that I could reasonably have expected TSB to have intervened in.
The second payment to leave the account was a debit card payment for a large amount and 
it appears to be a foreign currency exchange transaction. Taking into account the historical activities on the account, this was not only unusually large, but also was an unusual 
transaction. It represented a sudden and uncharacteristic increase in spending. In the 
circumstances, I consider that the payment was one that TSB could and should reasonably 
have made additional checks with their customer before it processed the payment. 
I cannot be certain as to what would have happened had TSB contacted its customer at this 
point. However I note that after this payment, its customer attempted another debit card 
payment. This time the payment was blocked and TSB investigated the matter. At that time 
TSB attempted to contact its customer but the customer did not respond, which ultimately 
led to TSB deciding to close the account. 
Given this, I think that had TSB blocked the first large unusual payment that went out and 
attempted to contact its customer (which I consider it should have), it is more likely that they 
wouldnt have responded to the banks attempts at contact. And even if they had, I dont 
think they would have been able to convincingly explain the context of the payment they 
were making and why they had recently received such an unusually large credit, particularly 
where the incoming payment had a beneficiary name that was different to that of the account 
holder.  
I consider that this in turn would have led TSB to block the account and carry out further 
investigation, and Cs funds would have been intact when the payers bank contacted TSB. 
TSB told us that even if it blocked one channel of payment for investigation, say payments 
through debit card, it need not automatically block the other channels. 
As I said earlier, I appreciate that TSB needs to strike a balance and it is up to the bank to 
decide what sort of measures it needed to take when a suspicious activity was flagged. 
However, I think on this occasion, had TSB blocked the first debit card payment and looked 
into things closely, it could have quickly reached a conclusion  for the reasons I have 
already explained  that there are causes for concern in relation to the account activity, 
which in turn ought to have prompted it to block the entire account pending investigation. 
However TSB didnt do so and as such I consider it missed an opportunity to prevent C from 
suffering a financial loss. Nevertheless, on this occasion, it appears that the bank to where 
the funds were transferred identified the transfer as suspicious and contacted TSB 
straightaway querying the nature of the transfer. It appears that it may have taken action to 
withhold the funds at the time as it was ultimately able to return most of the amount 
transferred.
In this regard, TSB told us that it would chase the payment service provider to whom their 
customer transferred the funds (the second generation funds) on a best endeavours basis. 
So it is unclear why on this occasion the funds were not chased immediately when it was 
advised of the scam, and when in fact the receiving bank contacted it straightaway. TSB 
tried to secure the funds only after our involvement and more than a year later. As I 
mentioned earlier, after TSB contacted that bank recently, most of the funds that were 
transferred out were recovered. I consider that had TSB chased the funds early on, this sum 
could have been returned a lot sooner to C. 
For completeness, Ive also considered whether C should bear some responsibility for their 
loss (or a proportion of it) due to any contributory negligence. But in the circumstances of 
this complaint, I dont think they should. C was going about its business in the usual way 
without knowledge or awareness of the scam and there was nothing suspicious about the 
email the finance director received. So I dont think its actions can fairly be described as 
negligent.Putting things right
I appreciate that TSB needs to strike a balance in the extent to which it intervenes in 
payments, against the risk of unduly inconveniencing or delaying legitimate payment 
requests. I acknowledge the perpetrator here is the fraudster. But overall, I think TSB failed 
to recognise the unusual behaviour on the receiving account or respond to it appropriately, 
which ultimately resulted in an avoidable loss to C. Had it intervened and questions been 
asked, as I think they ought to have been, it wouldve prevented a sizeable proportion of Cs 
loss.
So I consider that TSB should compensate C for its failure. As I said earlier, it should have 
intervened when the second payment was made from the account (the one made after the 
cash withdrawal of £250). This means I consider the loss to C due to TSBs failure to be 
£6,950 (£7,200 less £250). However, TSB has ultimately recovered about £3,650. So the net 
loss to C remains just under £3,300. TSB should return this sum to C. 
I also think that 8% simple interest should be added to compensate for C being without funds 
they otherwise would have had. Rounding off the sum C received to date, the interest should 
be paid as follows: On the £6,950 from the date C raised its fraud claim with TSB until the 
date TSB paid £3,650 to C. And then on the balance of £3,300 from that date to the date of 
settlement. 
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint for the reasons given. In full and final 
settlement of the complaint, TSB should pay £3,300 to C together with interest as I have set 
out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2021.
 
Raj Varadarajan
Ombudsman