DRN-3759240
The complaint
Mr G complains that U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line (UKI) mishandled his 
claim on a commercial vehicle insurance policy.
Where I refer to UKI, I refer to the above-named insurance company and I include claims-
handlers, repairers and others insofar as I hold UKI responsible for their acts or omissions. 
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a van. For the year from late October 
2020, Mr G had the van insured on a comprehensive policy with UKI.
In late September 2021, Mr G reported to UKI that someone had broken into his van, 
damaging a rear door. UKI didnt repair the van, for reasons I will have to explore.
For the year from late October 2021, Mr G and UKI renewed the policy. Mr G agreed to pay 
the yearly premium of about £520.00 by direct debit instalments of about £48.00.
UKI wrote to Mr G on 31 December 2021, saying that his payment had failed. UKI gave 14 
days notice that it would cancel the policy. 
UKI wrote to Mr G in mid- January 2022, confirming that it had cancelled the policy.
Mr G complained to UKI that it hadnt met his claim, it hadnt warned him of the cancellation, 
and it was refusing to insure his van.
By a (first) final response dated late January 2022, UKI turned down the complaint about 
cancellation.
Mr G brought the complaint to us without delay.
By a (second) final response dated late January 2022, UKI partly upheld the complaint about 
the claim. UKI accepted that it had given incorrect information about doing the repair in two 
days in January 2022, and about the timing of its payment of cash in lieu. UKI said it was 
paying Mr G £200.00 compensation. Mr G wrote a reply to that response.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that it 
was fair for UKI to cancel the policy and it had followed a correct process. He thought that 
UKIs payment of £200.00 compensation was fair and reasonable.
Mr G disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
UKI shouldve repaired his van in a timely manner.
He tried to speed the process up by taking his vehicle in and had all the parts 
delivered.
He wasted hours on telephone calls and e-mails to get dates for the vehicle to be 
repaired.
The vehicle was booked in on numerous occasions prior to January 2022 but the 
repairer couldnt guarantee the work being undertaken in two days, until January 
2022.
For four and a half months, the van was insecure and uninsurable but UKI allowed 
him to use it.
He had been working away. UKIs letter dated 31 December 2021 didnt say 14 
calendar days. He found that letter it when he returned home on Wednesday 19 
January 2022. He contacted UKI that day, which was within 13 working days. UKI 
said it had cancelled the policy due to late payment.
UKI contradicted themselves by saying that they would not reinsure the vehicle 
because it was insecure and uninsurable.
The repairer was refusing to do the work on the vehicle. 
In January 2022, he lost his work contract because he couldnt use the van. 
In late January 2022, UKI made a cash in lieu payment of about £2,800.00 after 
deducting the excess. So as far as he was aware, he didnt owe any debt.
UKI paid £200.00 into his account without his knowledge. He tried to return the 
£200.00. 
In about February 2022, he got another garage to complete the work.
UKI caused him stress. 
The van was on finance. He couldnt keep up repayments. He had to sell it to pay off 
the finance.
He now has an older and less valuable vehicle. This now costs him £1,200.00 to 
insure due to UKI having cancelled his policy.
£200.00 compensation is not acceptable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Winter is Mr Gs busiest time at work. He didnt want to be without his van for any longer 
than necessary.
Some of what Mr G has described, such as making phone calls and taking his van in for 
inspection, is the sort of inconvenience to be expected in an insurance claim.
From his reply to the final response, I accept that  after the break in -  Mr G had fitted a high 
security deadlock to the rear door of his van. Mr G had a discussion with UKIs assessor in late September 2021. As the assessor hasnt 
given direct evidence, I prefer Mr Gs statement that the assessor told him that the repairer 
could do the repair in two days - once it had got the parts.
The renewal schedule dated October 2021 said that the fee for a cancellation would be 
£50.40.
I accept Mr Gs statement that he had numerous calls from the repairer. In late November 
2021, the repairer said it was ready to do the repair. It said it could do the work in two days-  
if Mr G waited until January 2022. So Mr G agreed to wait until then.
The policy terms included a section headed If you miss a payment. That said that UKI 
would write a letter giving a deadline for payment, before giving 14 days notice of 
cancellation. Im satisfied that this meant 14 calendar days, not 14 working days.
From UKIs records, I see that it wrote to Mr G on 14 December 2021. It said that his 
payment had failed, and it would try again to take the payment on about 24 December 2021. 
It said that if that payment failed, then it would give notice of cancellation. So Im satisfied 
that UKI had given a deadline for payment and a warning that it might give notice of 
cancellation.
But the payment didnt go through on about 24 December either.
UKIs letter dated 31 December 2021 gave 14 days notice of cancellation.
I accept Mr Gs statement that he was working away and didnt see the letter of 31 
December in early January. I havent seen any evidence that Mr G had expressed a 
preference for email. 
I consider that it wouldve been best practice for UKI to send the notice by email as well by 
post. But UKIs letter of 14 December had given a deadline and a warning. And UKI had no 
reason to think that Mr G hadnt received that letter or that he wouldnt receive the letter of 
31 December. So I consider that the notice of cancellation was not only in line with the policy 
terms but also fair and reasonable.
I accept Mr Gs statement that, in January, the repairer said it couldnt do the repair in two 
days.
Mr G still hadnt paid the missed instalment. So, as I would expect, UKI wrote to Mr G to 
confirm cancellation in mid- January 2022. That was about three and a half months after the 
break-in.
Mr G contacted UKI on 19 January 2022. He was willing to make payment. But the notice 
had expired, and the cancellation had taken effect. So UKI had to decide whether or not to 
cover Mr Gs van by reinstating the policy or by quoting for a new policy.
UKI decided not to cover Mr Gs van. I accept that it gave a reason that the van was 
unrepaired and insecure. And Mr G held UKI responsible for that.
However, UKI sent its first final response within a couple of days. It said that the missed 
payment was reason enough not to offer cover. I agree with that, and I dont consider that 
UKI treated Mr G unfairly by declining to offer cover.I have no reason to doubt Mr Gs statement that he lost a job on about 24 January 2022. He 
attributes that to UKI. However, I havent found that UKI did anything wrong by cancelling the 
policy and declining to offer further cover. So I dont hold UKI responsible for Mr Gs loss of 
earnings.
Mr Gs claim dated back to the policy year that ended in October 2021. And in January 2022, 
the repairer didnt want to do the repair. So UKI offered  and Mr G accepted - about 
£2,800.00 cash in lieu. For a few days, there was conflicting information about the timing of 
the payment  but it was made in late January 2022.
UKIs file contains later notes that Mr G owed a balance of about £124.00. But I havent seen 
any evidence that UKI has pursued Mr G to pay any balance  or that he has complained to 
UKI about that. So I dont think that was part of the complaint Mr G brought to us, and I dont 
consider that I should make any finding about any balance owed. 
I have no reason to doubt Mr Gs statements that he got a garage to repair the van, he later 
replaced it with another van, and he had to pay a higher premium to a new insurer. However, 
Ive found that Mr G accepted cash in lieu or repair. And I havent found that UKI did 
anything wrong by cancelling the policy and declining to offer further cover. So I dont hold 
UKI responsible for those consequences.
I have seen some shortcomings in the communication for which UKI was responsible, 
particularly around timescales for the repair and the payment of cash in lieu. I dont doubt 
that this caused Mr G extra distress at an already difficult time for him. However, UKI tried to 
put this right with a prompt payment of £200.00. Overall I conclude that this was fair.
I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct UKI to pay Mr G any more compensation or to do 
anything further in response to this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line to do any more in response to this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2022. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman