DRN-3713072
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) declined their home insurance 
claim. For ease of reference, Ill only refer to Mrs H throughout.
What happened
In April 2021 Mrs H contacted AXA to raise a claim. During the call, she explained that since 
the beginning of the year, she had noticed granules on the floor which had come from the 
roof tiles. However, the problem was more drastic recently. She also raised her suspicion 
that there could be a fault with the tiles. She noticed that the company that provided the tiles 
was no longer trading and said she had seen reviews from other unhappy customers about 
problems with their roofs. Lastly, she explained that a decorator had started work on her 
property and said she may have a damp problem. So, she was concerned the roof tiles 
could be causing a water ingress.
The adviser explained there was no cover available for any wear and tear or installation 
problems with the tiles. However, as he could see her property was subjected to storm 
conditions on 17 February 2021, he arranged for an inspection to take place. AXA then 
declined the claim as they said the report concluded there wasnt any storm damage.
Mrs H then arranged for her own report to be completed by a local contractor. This report 
said all the tiles on the roof extension needed to be replaced as they had become loose and 
this may have happened due to the strong winds in February. AXA discussed the report with 
the contractor and then explained that their decision remained the same. In reaching this 
conclusion, they said they found it unusual the contractor thought all the roof tiles for the 
extension needed to be replaced, rather than a specific section which they said is typically 
the case following a storm. They were also unconvinced the contractors findings meant all 
the damage had been caused in February.
Mrs H didnt accept AXAs final response, so she escalated the complaint to our service.     
In 2022 she provided two additional reports which were forwarded to AXA. In response, they 
said they didnt find these reports persuasive given the time that had passed and the 
potential for further bad weather to have impacted the condition of the roof. AXA also raised 
the dates Mrs H gave them when the claim was first logged and said this meant at least 
some of the damage must have taken place before the February storm. They also 
highlighted the fact the claim wasnt made until April. 
Our investigator issued two opinions, but ultimately concluded AXA had acted fairly by 
declining the claim. She reached this outcome as she didnt think it was likely the damage 
had been caused by a one off storm event. In reaching this conclusion, she gave significant 
weight to the comments and dates mentioned in the call recording where Mrs H logged the 
claim. 
Mrs H didnt accept our investigators opinion. She said the damage was caused by the 
storm and denied ever raising a concern about the quality of the tiles. She didnt explain the 
inconsistency surrounding the date she first noticed the granules, but she did say the delay 
in making the claim was because she didnt spend much time in the patio area during the 
winter months. 
She also repeated a concern about the name and qualifications of the person that completed 
the report AXA arranged. She said he was just a claims handler and it wasnt fair he based 
his conclusions on photographs taken from a ladder.
Our investigators opinion remained the same, so Ive considered the complaint afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why. 
Mrs H has raised several points in response to our investigators opinion. I have carefully 
reviewed each of these, but I wont address all of them in my decision. Ill focus on the points 
I think are central to the outcome of the complaint.
Not all damage a home sustains will be covered by home insurance. Only damage caused 
by one of the one-off perils (or events) listed in the policy will be covered. If the damage can 
be shown to be caused by such an event, then the insurer must pay the claim unless it is 
able to rely on one of the policy exclusions to decline it. As such, although Mrs H has a 
home insurance policy, this doesnt mean every claim she attempts to make will be 
successful. 
In this case, AXA agreed to consider if the damage to Mrs Hs property had been caused by 
a storm as this was the closest possible insured peril. 
The policy defines a storm as follows: 
A period of violent weather with wind speeds of at least 55mph, or rainfall of at least 
25mm per hour, or snowfall of at least 30cm in 24 hours, or hail of such intensity that 
it damages hard surfaces or breaks glass.
When considering complaints about storm damage claims, I must consider three questions:
 Is there evidence of a storm event on or around the time the damage was caused? 
 Is the damage claimed for typical of damage that would be caused by a storm? 
 Was the storm the main cause of the damage? 
The answer to all three questions needs to be yes to enable me to conclude a storm claim 
was declined unfairly.  
AXA have said there were storm conditions present on 17 February 2021 as the wind 
speeds reached 58mph. I see no reason to dispute this. However, as Mrs H first noticed 
granules on the floor at the beginning of the year, Ive checked the weather reports from 
around that time, and I havent identified any storm conditions.
I also note there was a delay in Mrs H reporting the claim, as while the storm took place in 
February, she didnt contact AXA until April. Mrs H has said the delay was because she 
didnt spend much time in the patio area during the winter months and the weather was bad. 
This is understandable, but it does also conflict with her comments in the call recording 
where she first logged the claim. As during this call, she said the granules were first noticed          
 Literally at the beginning of the year and the problem had become worse over recent 
months. I also note that the first person to highlight the potential for the damage to have been caused by a storm was AXAs adviser. I appreciate Mrs H disputes this, but during the 
same call recording she also said she believed there could be a fault with the tiles. So, I 
think AXA have acted reasonably by concluding the delay in raising the claim is a relevant 
factor here.
Turning to the remaining questions, most well-maintained homes can sustain the types 
of storm we see in this country. Often, whilst the damage manifests itself after a storm, it 
is typically the case that the storm has highlighted some existing damage rather than 
directly caused it. This is relevant here as when Mrs H first made the claim, she said the 
amount of granules had increased recently. So, this could reasonably correspond with 
the high winds her roof was subjected to in February.
As Mrs H is aware, AXA arranged for her property to be inspected and the conclusion of 
that report was there was no internal or external storm damage. I appreciate Mrs H feels 
strongly that the inspection was completed by a claims handler rather than a buildings 
specialist. I also note that the report isnt signed. However, having reviewed the name 
and job title that were later provided by the inspection company   I see no grounds to 
conclude AXA acted unreasonably by relying on the report.
I also appreciate that Mrs H feels a physical inspection of the roof should have taken 
place instead of a visual inspection from a ladder. However, inspections of this nature 
arent unusual due to safety concerns. Im also satisfied it was reasonable for the 
inspector to rely on the photographs he took as they are considerable in number and  
clear. I also note that while the photographs show bald patches on some of the tiles, 
they appear to support the inspectors conclusion that none of the tiles had fallen off or 
moved place.
Ive also reviewed the brief report Mrs H provided from her own contractor. This report 
concluded the roof tiles were loose and said this may relate to the high winds that took 
place in February. However, no supporting photographs were provided. Ive also 
listened to the conversation AXA had with the contractor who completed the report. 
During this conversation, the contractor explained the tiles were loose and rattled in the 
wind. So, this was causing the granules to fall off and the tiles to deteriorate. I find this 
explanation to be credible as its not unreasonable to think strong winds could cause 
damage of this nature.
However, even if I were to conclude the report Mrs H provided was more persuasive 
than AXAs, Im not satisfied this would change the outcome of this case. This is 
because if high winds from the storm in February caused the tiles to become loose and 
deteriorate, this wouldnt explain why Mrs H said in April that she first noticed granules 
at the beginning of the year. Instead it would suggest the storm conditions made a 
gradual pre-existing problem worse. And as Mrs H is aware, there is no cover available 
for this scenario under the terms of the policy.
Ive also considered the reports Mrs H provided in 2022. However, given the time that 
had passed, and the potential for further bad weather to have occured, I dont think AXA 
acted unreasonably by declining to give them significant weight. They have considered 
the two reports completed in 2021 and Im satisfied neither of these (when reviewed 
alongside the first notification of loss call and the weather reports) indicate AXA acted 
unfairly by declining the claim for storm damage. 
Finally, Ive considered if any part of the claim should reasonably be settled under the 
accidental damage section of the policy. However, having carefully considered the 
circumstances and the policy definition Im satisfied this isnt the case.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Claire Greene
Ombudsman