DRN-2451992
The complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard has unfairly suspended 
his credit card account and has said he is in persistent debt.
What happened
Mr S says Barclaycard suspended his account use after telling him he was in persistent 
debt. He says he is not in any financial difficulties and makes required monthly payments. Mr 
S says Barclaycard wrote to him at an incorrect address and he has had difficulties speaking 
to it. He would like the account restrictions removed.
Barclaycard says it followed Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) guidance on Persistent 
Debt and says it was obliged to send Mr S the letters about it and told him that unless an 
agreement was reached it would suspend the account. It accepts it sent some letters to an 
incorrect address and has apologised and paid £25 compensation.
Mr S brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator thought Barclaycard was obliged to tell Mr S about the debt and that he wasnt 
reducing the account balance. And was obliged to take the steps it did when Mr S didnt 
agree to an account repayment plan. The investigator thought the compensation paid was 
fair and reasonable for that part of the complaint.
Mr S doesnt accept that view and says Barclaycard has damaged his credit file and didnt 
contact him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Barclaycard has dealt fairly with this 
complaint. I appreciate Mr S will be disappointed by my decision.
The rules and guidance about Persistent Debt are not set by Barclaycard but by the 
regulator- the FCA. Im satisfied in those circumstances that Barclaycard doesnt have a 
choice in the matter and must follow those rules and guidance. I can see that Barclaycard 
sent Mr S letters about the debt and gave him a number of options and told him when 36 
months had passed that unless an agreement was reached it would suspend the account. 
So, I dont think Barclaycard acted unfairly by following the rules and by later suspending Mr 
Ss account and I find it acted in line with FCA guidance.
I appreciate Mr S didnt receive some of Barclaycards letters. But Im satisfied he did receive 
the important one about the debt as he gave us a copy it. I accept Mr S was caused 
inconvenience by the address problem but Im satisfied Barclaycard has fairly apologised for 
that mistake and paid what I find was a fair and reasonable amount of compensation. I 
appreciate that isnt the main part of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr S says he makes regular monthly payments and isnt in any financial 
difficulties. But I hope he appreciates that the rules and guidance on this issue is not 
something Barclaycard has a discretion about. And I can see that due to the size of the 
account balance, Mr S has been paying a significant amount per month towards interest 
rather than the capital balance.
Overall, Im satisfied Barclaycard has acted fairly and hasnt made a mistake and gave Mr S 
the option of agreeing a repayment plan with it. I dont think any such plan was agreed and I 
make clear that I have not seen any evidence about any impact on Mr Ss credit file and I 
dont think that was part of his original complaint to Barclaycard.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 February 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman