DRN-2665449
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Covea Insurance plc declined a claim made under his Lifestyle 
Protect insurance policy (the policy).
What happened
Mr H worked abroad. Towards the end of February 2020, he was requested to return to the 
UK and self-isolate for 14 days, as a result of the emerging spread of Covid-19.
Although Mr H continued to be employed, he didnt return to work shortly after the period of 
his self-isolation ended because in line with Government guidelines - and to protect staff and 
customers  his employer temporarily closed for business. Mr H was subsequently 
furloughed, and he received a proportion of his usual pay backdated to around 19 March 
2020.
Mr H made a claim under the policy he had the benefit of. That claim was ultimately declined 
by Covea.
Unhappy, Mr H complained to Covea. And when it maintained its decision, he brought a 
complaint to our Service. Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. So, its now been 
passed to me to consider everything afresh to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Covea has a duty to consider claims promptly and fairly. And it mustnt unreasonably decline 
a claim.
Subject to the terms and conditions of the policy, the policy does provide cover  and will 
pay the monthly benefit - if Mr H was unable to work due to an accident or sickness - or if he 
was unemployed for a continuous period of 15 days. 
Accident/sickness is defined in the policy as: You being certified as unfit to work, by your 
doctor due solely to an accidental injury, illness or disease which starts/occurs at a time 
when you are in work and which wholly prevents you from doing your work.
Work is defined as: being in employment
And employment is defined as: you are not self-employed and you are working for 
remuneration under a contract of employment for at least 16 hours per week, or paying 
Class 1 National Insurance contributions.
The reason Mr H wasnt able to work after the end of February wasnt due to an accidental 
injury and although he was advised to self-isolate, this wasnt because he was ill; it was a 
pre-cautionary measure. Although I accept its possible that Mr H had contracted Covid-19 
and he was asymptomatic, theres nothing to suggest that this was the case at the time. Or 
that this was the reason why he self-isolated for 14 days and was prevented from working.
Also relevant to this complaint is the policy definition of unemployment/unemployed as the 
policy does provide a benefit for being unemployed as stated above.
Unemployment/unemployed is defined as: You being entirely without workand (no more 
than 3 months later) being registered as unemployed with the Department for Work and 
Pensionsand you are actively looking for work. 
Mr H hadnt had his employment contract terminated. His employer also subsequently 
confirmed that hed been furloughed and he did receive part of his salary (although he says 
this was a lot less than his usual pay as it didnt include commission). 
Further, and importantly given the policy definition of unemployment, he didnt register as 
being unemployed with the Department for Work and Pensions and wasnt actively looking 
for work. 
From Mr Hs perspective, I can understand why he feel he was left in an unfair position, 
having to self-isolate to protect the wider public to his own financial detriment. And then by 
his employer temporarily closing its business. The emergence and subsequent global spread 
of Covid-19 was unprecedented. And, of course, completely outside of Mr Hs control. 
However, Im also conscious that it couldnt have been contemplated by Covea either. And 
overall, Im satisfied its acted fairly and reasonably by relying on the policy terms/definitions 
and concluding that the reasons Mr H was unable to work werent covered under the policy. 
When making this finding Ive taken into account all Mr Hs comments including what he 
says about Coveas representative telling him during a call that they were looking to help as 
many people as they could - and perhaps consider claims outside of the usual policy terms. 
Weve received a recording of this call and I accept that something along those lines was 
said to Mr H. However, I dont think this can be reasonably taken as an assurance that 
Covea would be paying the monthly benefit to Mr H given the circumstances he found 
himself in. And I would expect insurers to consider the policy terms in light of the individual 
circumstances of the case  and their obligations including the principle of treating 
customers fairly - when assessing a claim. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman