DRN-3445697
The complaint
Mr T complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money has rejected a claim 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75) regarding a faulty car 
hed acquired using his credit card.
What happened
In April 2019 Mr T purchased a used car from a dealership. He paid both the deposit and 
the remaining cost of the car with his credit card provided by Virgin Money. The car cost 
£9,995, was around eight years old and had a mileage of just under 83,000. It came with a 
three- month warranty.
Around five days after collecting the car Mr T contacted the supplying dealer and said 
hed discovered a crack in the windscreen and that the air con wasnt working properly. 
He later raised issues as to the power socket/cigarette lighter socket not working and the 
car having a whirring noise. The dealer agreed to repair these issues and the car was 
later returned to Mr T.
A few days after the car had been returned Mr T contacted the supplying dealer again 
and said he was experiencing a vibration in the central console, something sounding like 
it was loose or rolling in or around the drivers door and a knocking noise in the 
passenger nearside. Mr T told the dealer that the knocking noise could be due to a faulty 
shock absorber. The dealer said they hadnt heard any noises when driving the car back 
to Mr Ts home following the earlier repairs. The dealer agreed to look at the car.
Mr T later raised issues about the brake pad warning light illuminating, an issue with the 
fuel gauge, the drivers seat belt and a wing mirror. The retailer says they fixed all the 
issues raised.
In June and July 2019 Mr T raised issues about the seat memory switch not working 
and a humming noise.
In August 2019 Mr T made a claim to Virgin Money to return the car and have the cost 
reimbursed on the grounds that the issues with the car had not all been resolved. He said 
the supplying dealer had stopped answering his emails and calls. Mr T also raised an issue 
with the service history as he had been provided with a replacement service book. He said 
that he had been told the car had been serviced shortly before hed acquired it and that 
another one wouldnt be due for 10,000 miles however the service warning light had recently 
illuminated. Mr T said hed only driven around 2,500 miles in the car.
In September 2019 Mr T raised an issue with water ingress into the passenger footwell. 
He took the car to another garage who reported that they had found a plastic container 
that wasnt a legitimate car part in the space above the pollen filter in the cars engine. The 
garage also said that it found sealant under the screen seal to mask the leak. Photos of 
the plastic container and its position in the engine were also provided.
Virgin Money investigated Mr Ts claim first as a chargeback and then under section 75. 
Virgin Money declined Mr Ts claim as it said that the supplying dealer had informed it that 
all the issues with the car had been resolved and there was no evidence that the 
remaining issues were faults that had been present from the point of supply.
Mr T complained to Virgin Money about its decision to decline his claim. Virgin Money 
didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint as it said no new information had been provided as to the 
condition of the car.
Mr T complained to this service. He said the car had been misrepresented to him as the 
advert had set out it came with a full-service history when the service history couldnt be 
verified because the book was a replacement. He also said the car didnt come with a 
USB connection nor with audio streaming as had been claimed.
Mr T also said that there had been a breach of contract as the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality due to a knocking noise that had persisted and water ingress in the front 
passenger footwell which was linked to the plastic container that had been placed in the 
engine.
During this services investigation Mr T raised further concerns with the car. He said that 
the water ingress had led to damage to the electrical system. He provided an invoice for 
repairs to the Bluetooth module that had been carried out in February 2020 by another 
garage. The invoice set out that in the garages opinion the water ingress had been 
present for two years and this had led to the module needing replacement.
Mr T provided a report from the garage he had used to inspect the car for various issues 
in May 2019, September 2019 and February 2020. This garage reported On inspection 
and below the windscreen scuttle panel I found a takeaway container above the pollen 
filter for the vehicle and a collection of black silicone sealant. In my professional opinion 
the takeaway container and sealant were aged and had been placed in the vehicle prior 
to the sale to Mr (T) in an attempt to mask the water ingress.
Virgin Money asked Mr T to take the car to a Motor Ombudsman approved garage for an 
inspection in respect of the water ingress. This inspection took place in August 2021. 
The garage hosed the car and found that water had leaked in through the bulkhead, 
pollen filter and the nearside lower windscreen.
Virgin Money said that it would be fair to offer Mr T £750 towards the cost of repairs. It 
said that Mr T has been able to use the car since hed acquired it, the original issues 
raised had been repaired by the supplying dealer and the later issues had arisen after 
the warranty period had ended and were likely due to wear and tear.
Mr T rejected Virgin Moneys offer. He said the water ingress was the most serious issue 
and the evidence showed this had been present since the point of supply as the 
container had been in the car for a long time. Mr T also said the car continued to have a 
knocking noise. He said his preferred option was to return the car and have full cost of 
the car reimbursed.
Our investigator said she thought Virgin Moneys offer was fair and reasonable. She said 
the car had travelled around 83,000 miles when Mr T had acquired it and so it wouldnt be 
reasonable to expect it to have been fault free. Mr T had been able to drive around a 
further 21,500 miles in the car since hed acquired it.
Our investigator said the evidence didnt demonstrate the current faults with the car 
had been present at the point of supply.Mr T disagreed with the view of our investigator. He said the evidence about the container 
in the engine and the age of the sealant showed it had been placed in the engine prior to 
him acquiring the car. He said he thought the container had been placed in the engine to 
mask the water ingress. He said he wanted to reject the car which had suffered a number 
of issues and although it had been usable, he had had to carry out repairs due to the 
damage caused by the water.
Mr T said that an issue had been found with the wiring loom when investigating a 
problem with the rear lights. He said the car now required a new wiring loom.
As the parties were unable to reach an agreement the complaint was passed to me. I issued 
a provisional decision along the following lines.
My role here was to decide whether Virgin Money had acted fairly and reasonably in its 
response to Mr Ts claim. Id seen that Virgin Money had been in contact with the retailer 
and that there had been repairs carried out to the car. However, Mr T said that there were 
still issues remaining that hadnt been fixed and which had been present since hed 
acquired the car. Mr T also said that the car had been misrepresented to him by the 
dealership.
Where evidence is contradictory or missing then I have to decide what I think is the 
most likely thing to have happened.
Mr Ts claim for reimbursement of the cost of the car was considered by Virgin Money 
both under the chargeback scheme and section 75. Chargeback, unlike section 75, isnt 
enshrined in law but is instead part of a scheme with rules which vary depending on the 
particular card used. It may apply when goods are either not delivered or are damaged 
and may assist when the goods cost less than £100. There is also a 120-day time-limit to 
make a claim once the goods have been received.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 may apply when the goods purchased by a 
credit agreement cost over £100 up to a limit of £30,000. The general effect of the section 
is that if a consumer has paid for goods or services with a credit agreement, such as a 
credit card, and they have a claim against the supplier of those goods or services for 
misrepresentation or breach of contract, they are given a like claim against the credit 
provider, which here is Virgin Money.
Mr T had raised both misrepresentation and breach of contract in respect of the car. I looked 
first at the condition of the car and whether Virgin Money had fairly decided there was 
insufficient evidence to support Mr Ts claim for a breach of contract.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) there is an implied term that when goods 
are supplied the quality of the goods is satisfactory. The relevant law says that the quality 
of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would 
consider satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, price, and all other 
relevant circumstances.
The relevant law also says that the quality of the goods includes their general state 
and condition, and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, 
freedom from minor defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the 
goods.
Here, the car wasn't new being around eight-years old and with a mileage of 83,000. I 
thought that, taking into account these things, a reasonable person would have expected 
there to be issues with maintenance and repair since components of the car would have been subject to wear and tear through use. So, unlike a new car, there wouldnt be 
expectation that the car was fault free.
Mr T had raised a number of different faults with the car which he said arose within a short 
period of acquiring it. Virgin Money said that the faults were all repaired by the supplying 
dealer and that there wasnt enough evidence to say that the remaining issues with the car 
werent due to wear and tear. It had, however, offered Mr T £750 towards the repairs 
needed for the water ingress.
Mr T said the main concerns with the car were the knocking noise and the water ingress. 
However, I noted that the knocking noise didnt appear to have been diagnosed. The 
invoice provided by Mr T from the garage that had investigated this in May 2019 
suggested it could have been an issue with the rear suspension. Since that time Mr T had 
been able to drive the car an additional 21,500 miles, the car had been serviced and 
passed two MOTs. And I hadnt seen that any repair work had been required in relation to 
this knocking noise. In light of that I didnt think I could reasonably say this was a serious 
issue. So, I didnt think there was sufficient evidence to say this knocking noise was a fault 
with the car that made it of unsatisfactory quality. It hadnt appeared to have an impact on 
Mr Ts use of the car.
Id seen that the cause of the water ingress was also undiagnosed. But both the garage 
that inspected the car at Mr Ts request in September 2019 and the Motor 
Ombudsmans approved garage that inspected it in August 2021 had found there was 
water entering the car around the pollen filter (as well as other areas). Id seen that there 
was a plastic container found in the cars engine and it had been thought this had been 
placed in the engine to act as a makeshift pollen filter. Mr T had also provided a clear 
photo of this container.
I didnt think the purpose of this plastic container was entirely clear from the evidence as it 
was originally described as a makeshift pollen filter but later its presence was said to be in 
order to conceal the water ingress. However, this wasnt a legitimate car part and Id also 
seen that the garage that saw the car in September 2019 and provided a later report about 
the car, said that there was a pollen filter present although it was in a poor condition.
I noted that when the car was hosed in August 2021, as part of the test to find where the 
water was leaking into the car, it was found to be entering around the pollen filter which 
was where this plastic container was located. There was also a leak from the nearside of 
the windscreen which had been replaced by the supplying dealer shortly after Mr T 
acquired the car.
I hadnt seen that the supplying dealer had provided any views about the plastic container 
and neither had the garage that examined the car in August 2021. The second garage only 
reported on where the water was leaking into the car.
Looking at the evidence, I was persuaded by the report provided by the garage that saw 
the car in September 2019 that this plastic container had been in place prior to Mr T 
acquiring the car. In the absence of any other explanations for its presence, then I thought 
it was more likely than not that, as this garage had later reported, this container together 
with the sealant that had been found had been put in place to mask the water ingress. I 
further accepted that the water ingress had resulted in damage to the Bluetooth module 
which had later been replaced.
Virgin Money said that the fault with the water ingress arose after the warranty period had 
come to an end. But I thought it was reasonable to expect water ingress to be an 
intermittent issue and so I wasnt surprised it had taken time for Mr T to find this problem. And as I accepted that the presence of the plastic container was linked to the water 
ingress and that this container had been placed in the cars engine prior to Mr T taking the 
car, then I was satisfied the car had a fault at its point of supply. Taking into account the 
nature of the fault and when it first arose, I thought the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at 
the point of supply.
Under the CRA the retailer, and so Virgin Money, has an opportunity to repair. Id seen 
that the water ingress didnt appear to have been raised with the supplying dealer who 
had carried out a number of other repairs. Virgin Money had offered £750 towards the 
cost which Mr T had rejected as he said this wasnt sufficient as any repairs were likely to 
be well in excess of £2,000. I accepted Mr Ts view that the costs and extent of the repairs 
required for this issue were unknown.
I didnt think Virgin Money had acted fairly in assessing the evidence as to whether there 
had been a breach of contract between Mr T and the supplying dealership. I thought the 
evidence regarding the plastic container showed it had been in situ before Mr T had 
acquired the car and that it was linked to the water ingress the car was suffering from. 
Virgin Money said that as Mr T had been able to use the car, it was fit for purpose, but I 
didnt think it was reasonable to say that water ingress was an acceptable fault in car of 
this age and mileage. Id seen that it had led to a repair to another part being required and 
had frustrated Mr T.
As this has been an ongoing problem over a long period and the possibility of whether its 
actually repairable or not was unknown, I thought the fairest outcome would be for Virgin 
Money to accept there had been a breach of contract and under section 75 and this 
should be remedied. I thought it should agree to collect the car at no cost to Mr T.
In regard to reimbursement, due to the amount of use Mr T hadbeen able to make from 
the car I disagreed that he should be repaid the full amount hed paid for it. Its fair that he 
covers the use he has had. Looking at an established guide on car values, Id seen that 
the Cap value for this car at this age and mileage (but without the water ingress fault) was 
£6,225. So, I thought it would be fair for Virgin Money to reimburse Mr T £6,225 for the 
car, £187.20 for the cars inspection in September 2019 which reported on the plastic 
container and £441.60 for the replacing of the Bluetooth module. This made a total 
reimbursement of £6,853.80.
However, I didnt agree Mr T should also be reimbursed for any of the other inspections 
and repairs as I didnt have sufficient evidence that faults with the drivers seat or 
knocking noise were faults that had been present from the point of supply. I also didnt 
think it would be reasonable to ask Virgin Money to reimburse Mr T any sums paid to hire 
cars. Ive seen that he accepts he was able to drive the car and I think hiring a car for any 
longer distances he was undertaking was a choice hed made.
As I therefore thought that Virgin Money hadnt fairly consider Mr Ts claim under section 
75 in regard to breach of contract due to the condition of the car, I didnt think it was 
necessary to deal with the other matters raised by Mr T. That was whether there had been 
a misrepresentation of the car or whether Virgin Money had dealt fairly with a claim for 
chargeback as I was satisfied any findings wouldnt change my view as to what was a fair 
settlement for Mr Ts complaint.
For the reasons given I intended to uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Virgin Money hasnt asked me to review any parts of my provisional decision. Mr T has 
asked I look again at my proposed settlement as he says due to the length of time this has 
taken to resolve he has had to spend money maintaining the car and its value has depreciated. He has also raised a second set of repairs that were undertaken in January 
2022 due to further damage to the Bluetooth and DAB module from the water ingress which 
amounted to £816.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have looked again at the conclusions I have reached on the evidence that has been 
provided and I am still satisfied that the car had a fault at its point of supply to Mr T. I also 
still think that Virgin Money didnt fairly consider Mr Ts claim under section 75 for the breach 
of contract in respect of the condition of the car.
Mr T has asked me to look again at the settlement that I had proposed. I accept that it would 
be fair for Mr T to be reimbursed the cost of the repairs undertaken in January 2022 as these 
arose from the water ingress. However, and although this will be of disappointment to Mr T, I 
havent changed my view in regard to the remainder of my provisional settlement as I still 
think thats fair in the circumstances.
I appreciate this has taken time to resolve but I cant reasonably say that had Virgin Money 
accepted Mr Ts section 75 claim earlier that he would have received the full cost of the car 
back. I dont know what would have been the outcome as its possible the car may have 
found to be repairable at that time, and even if it had been agreed the agreement should be 
ended and the car returned, then a deduction for use could still have been applied.
I still think its fair for Mr T to pay for the use he has had of the car. This includes the usual 
costs of maintaining and running the car as these are the expected expenses of running a 
used car. I understand the car has depreciated over time in its value, but Ive asked that 
Virgin Money reimburse him the value the car should be had it not suffered the damage from 
the water ingress. This means Mr T is in the position he would have been in had the car not 
been faulty. 
So, for the reasons set out above Im upholding Mr Ts complaint.
Putting things right
Im asking Virgin Money to do the following:
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Mr T
Reimburse Mr T £6,225 for the car
Reimburse Mr T the amounts of £187.20, £441.60 and £816 for the inspections 
and repairs carried out to the car due to the water ingress. These amounts to 
have interest added at the yearly rate of 8% simple from the date of payment 
until the date of settlement.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im upholding Mr Ts complaint. Im asking Clydesdale Bank 
Plc trading as Virgin Money to do the following:
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Mr T
Reimburse Mr T £6,225 for the carReimburse Mr T the amounts of £187.20, £441.60 and £816 for the inspections 
and repairs carried out to the car due to the water ingress. These amounts to 
have interest added at the yearly rate of 8% simple from the date of payment 
until the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2022.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman