DRN-2972022
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain that The Car Finance Company (2007) Ltd (TCFC) irresponsibly 
gave them a hire purchase agreement they couldnt afford. 
What happened
In June 2014, Mr and Mrs K acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement from 
TCFC. The cash price of the car was £5,940. Mr and Mrs K were required to make 36 
monthly repayments of £289.03, with a total repayable of £10,405.08.
In June 2020, Mr and Mrs K complained to TCFC to say the agreement had been 
unaffordable to them from the outset. They said they had to borrow from other lenders to be 
able to make the repayments towards the agreement. 
TCFC thought it had acted fairly in approving the finance. It said that it had completed a 
credit check on both Mr and Mrs K, asked them to complete a detailed income and 
expenditure form and reviewed numerous bank statements from them to verify the 
information Mr and Mrs K had provided. It said their checks showed Mr and Mrs K had in 
excess of £1,000 in disposable income each month. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought TCFC had 
completed reasonable and proportionate affordability checks. However, she didnt think 
TCFC had taken into consideration all the expenditure it could see from Mr and Mrs Ks bank 
statement. But she said that even if they had, the lending still appeared to be sustainable 
and affordable. Therefore, she didnt think TCFC had acted unfairly in lending to Mr and 
Mrs K.
Mr and Mrs K didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.  
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Did TCFC complete reasonable and proportionate affordability checks?
TCFC were required to ensure it carried out adequate checks on Mr and Mrs Ks ability to 
sustainably afford the agreement. These checks had to be borrower-focussed and 
proportionate. What is considered proportionate will vary depending on the circumstances, 
such as (but not limited to): the total amount repayable, the size of the monthly repayments, 
the term of the agreement and the consumers specific circumstances. 
TCFC completed a credit check, asked Mr and Mrs K about their income and expenditure 
and then verified this information using bank statements. The credit check revealed a small 
amount of adverse information for both Mr and Mrs K. However, the income and expenditure 
information and bank statements would have provided a TCFC with a reasonable 
understanding of whether the new borrowing would be affordable. 
Given the relevant circumstances here, Im satisfied TCFC completed reasonable and 
proportionate affordability checks. However, that doesnt automatically mean it assessed that 
information adequately or made a fair lending decision.
Did TCFC make a fair lending decision?
Having reviewed Mr and Mrs Ks bank statements, I havent seen anything that makes me 
think TCFC should have questioned  or had concerns about  the income and expenditure 
information that had been provided. It did seem that Mr Ks income fluctuated from month to 
month, but the three month average it could see from the bank statements was broadly in 
line with what Mr and Mrs K had declared to TCFC as their monthly income. 
It seems Mr and Mrs Ks committed monthly expenditure was slightly higher than they had 
estimated when TCFC asked them about what they regularly spent. But even using this 
higher expenditure figure it would show that Mr and Mrs K had more than sufficient 
disposable income to meet the monthly repayments of £289.03 and have several hundred 
pounds left over each month for emergency or unexpected costs. While the credit check did 
show Mr and Mrs K had some adverse information relating to some credit commitments, 
I dont think there was anything within the bank statements to demonstrate this was likely to 
be due to a lack of available funds or possible financial difficulty. 
Taking everything into consideration, I dont think TCFC acted unfairly when it approved the 
finance agreement for Mr and Mrs K.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 September 2021.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman