DRN-3750610
The complaint
Mr H complains his insurer Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited (Watford) declined 
his claim after an electric fire in his vehicle because the name on the V5 certificate wasnt 
the same as the policyholder.
What happened
Mr H had motor vehicle insurance with Watford from 10 April 2021. 
In January 2022 there was a small electrical fire in the vehicle. Mr H says following the fire 
Watford collected the car to inspect it, and the car was placed in storage.
Mr H received an email from Watford saying it wanted to check the driver details since it 
wasnt able to read some of the documents Mr H had sent in. Mr H says Watford took a long 
time to respond to emails so the matter went on for some time. 
Mr H says Watford then declined the claim because it said the car wasnt owned by Mr H 
and he had no financial interest in it. When Mr H showed he had financial interest in the car 
since he paid for it Watford said it wouldnt pay the claim because the V5 document isnt in 
Mr Hs name. 
Mr H says the car is registered to someone else but that person lives at the same address 
as him. And on that basis the insurer has refused to pay the claim out. Mr H says he had to 
purchase another car because Watford declined the claim, which has left him out of pocket. 
Watford said when Mr H took out the policy he was asked a series of questions which 
allowed the underwriter to determine whether they chose to offer cover and if so at what 
cost. At that stage Mr H said he was the registered keeper and owner of the vehicle and so 
the policy was offered on that basis. 
When Mr H made the claim for the fire Watford said it noted the car was registered to the 
named driver on the policy. And the underwriter would only offer a quote where the 
policyholder, or their spouse, is the owner and registered keeper of the vehicle. And so if Mr 
H had told Watford who the registered keeper actually was it wouldnt have offered him a 
policy. 
Mr H wasnt happy with the response from Watford and so he referred his complaint to this 
service. Our investigator looked into things for him. She said she agreed with Mr H and that 
the insurer had treated Mr H unfairly. She said by failing to follow the rules under the 
Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) Watford had 
affirmed Mr Hs cover and therefore should deal with the claim under the terms of the policy. 
Watford disagreed with the investigators outcome. It said it hadnt seen the bank statement 
from Mr H to show he had an insurable interest in the vehicle. It also said since Mr H 
incepted the policy in his own name when he was aware the V5 and receipt of purchase was 
in the named drivers name it shows a reckless misrepresentation on Mr Hs part. Watford 
said had Mr H advised it at inception that the named driver was the registered owner and 
keeper the policy would not have been offered. And so would not have been in place at the 
time of the fire. 
Watford said the decision to cancel the insurance was posted but due to the time frame to 
the policy lapsing this didnt happen. And this benefits Mr H since he has not had a policy 
cancelled and so doesnt need to disclose this to any future insurers. Since Watford 
disagreed with the investigators outcome the complaint has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to start by reassuring both parties that Ive considered all the information provided to 
me as well as comments from both sides. But Ive focussed on whats relevant to the 
outcome of this complaint. 
I appreciate Mr H has experienced a difficult time during the course of the claim so I can see 
this has been a stressful experience for him. Mr H feels very strongly that Watford has 
treated him unfairly. 
Misrepresentation 
The relevant law in this case is CIDRA. This requires consumers to take reasonable care not 
to make a misrepresentation when taking out an insurance policy. And if a consumer fails to 
do this the insurer has certain remedies provided the misrepresentation is a qualifying one. 
For it to be qualifying the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on different 
terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless. 
Watford say Mr H failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
took out the policy via a price comparison website. 
Ive looked at the questions asked by the site when Mr H was purchasing the policy. The 
relevant page asks, Are you (or will you be) the registered keeper and legal owner? There 
is a yes/no choice to answer, and Mr H answered yes. There is an explanation box next to 
that question which says, The registered keeper is named on the V5 certificate and will hold 
this document. The name on the V5 certificate is the named driver on the policy but Mr H 
still answered yes to this question. Im satisfied the question asked by Watford was clear and 
so I think Mr H failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. 
I will now move on to whether the misrepresentation was a qualifying one. And what Watford 
would have done had it known the correct information. 
Watford has provided evidence by way of correspondence from the underwriter that shows it 
would not have provided cover if it had known Mr H was not the registered owner. And so I 
agree with Watfords view that Mr H made a qualifying misrepresentation. 
I have looked at what Mr H has said about why he said he was the registered owner of the 
vehicle since he had paid for it. I empathise with Mr Hs position here and can see why he is 
frustrated; he perhaps didnt appreciate the potential consequences of his actions. Watford said once it was aware of the misrepresentation it dealt with the policy as if it were 
to void or cancel it. And the underwriter did issue notice to cancel within seven days, 
however the policy lapsed. Watford said Mr H has been advantaged by this because he now 
doesnt have to declare a void or cancelled policy to future insurers. 
When Watford became aware Mr H wasnt the registered keeper of the vehicle and the 
underwriter confirmed the policy would be cancelled then I would have expected Watford to 
avoid the policy. Avoiding the policy would mean there was no policy in force when the 
damage to the vehicle occurred, and so Watford wouldnt have to deal with the claim. But 
Watford didnt do this. Instead it tried to cancel the policy giving seven days notice as per 
the terms of the policy.  I think this, in effect, affirmed the contract it had with Mr H by relying 
on policy terms in declining the claim, despite the fact it knew Mr H had failed to take 
reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. 
The claim was made in January 2022 and the policy was due to lapse on 9 April 2022. The 
letter from the underwriter is dated 28 March 2022 so Watford could have avoided the policy 
at any time until the policy expired, refused all claims, and not returned the premiums if it 
considered the misrepresentation to be reckless. By keeping the premiums and allowing the 
policy to lapse Watford have effectively affirmed the contract. 
Watford have said it chose to cancel the policy and then it allowed the policy to lapse. In 
doing so it made the decision that the policy was live and active up to the point it lapsed. And 
since it received a claim for something that happened during the time the policy was active 
Id expect it to assess the claim in line with those policy terms.
Putting things right
In summary while I think Mr H made a qualifying misrepresentation when he took out his 
policy with Watford, I think the fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint is for Watford 
to now deal with the claim under the terms of the policy. This is on the basis it waived its 
right to rely on the misrepresentation. And instead allowed the policy to lapse thereby 
confirming it as a live policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold Mr Hs complaint and direct Watford Insurance 
Company Europe Limited to now deal with Mr Hs claim under the terms of the policy. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2022.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman