DRN-3598901
The complaint
Mr M complains ReAssure Limited didnt give him access to its online portal, so he couldnt 
access his pension funds or change his pension investment, which caused him a financial 
loss.
What happened
In 2020, ReAssure took over a group of policies from the business that had previously 
administered them. This included Mr Ms pension policy. 
By July 2021, Mr M had told ReAssure he wanted to transfer his pension to a Self-Invested 
Personal Pension (SIPP). On 2 July 2021, ReAssure called Mr M about that but didnt reach 
him, so it sent a letter to the address Mr M was living at overseas. The letter advised Mr M to 
seek independent financial advice. And explained that hed need to complete and return the 
enclosed form for ReAssure to proceed with his SIPP transfer request. 
On 12 and 15 July 2021, Mr M emailed ReAssure to see if it still held his pension funds and 
to proceed with the transfer, as hed not heard back from it. 
On 15 July 2021 Reassure sent Mr M a letter confirming it was responsible for administering 
his pension and setting out the policy number and current value, along with its Client 
Services Department phone and email contact details if Mr M needed anything more.  
ReAssure followed up by calling Mr M on 1 August 2021, but it didnt reach him so it emailed 
him instead to again say hed need to complete and return the attached form if he wanted to 
transfer his pension, and included a number to call from overseas if he had any queries.
Mr M emailed ReAssure on 27 August 2021 to say it was uncontactable and hadnt allowed 
him to manage his pension funds. That he wanted to access ReAssures online portal and 
move his pension somewhere else. And that the online portal access codes ReAssure had 
posted to him had expired by the time he received them.
ReAssure treated this as a complaint, and accepted it had let Mr M down. ReAssure 
explained it posted online access codes as standard, though in the future it might email 
them. It apologised that the access codes posted to Mr M in November 2020, May 2021, and 
September 2021 were expired when he received them. And while it wasnt responsible for 
overseas postal services, given the circumstances, it would call Mr M and provide the online 
access code over the phone.
Mr M came to our Service, saying hed spent a lot of time and effort trying to contact 
ReAssure but still didnt have the online access hed had before ReAssure took over his 
pension policy. He said this left him unable to invest his pension as he wanted, causing a 
£50,000 financial loss.
Mr M emailed ReAssure across September 2021 to chase access to his funds. ReAssure 
called Mr M at the end of September 2021 and beginning of October 2021 to provide the 
online access code by phone, but couldnt reach him. In late January and early February 
2022, Mr M called and emailed ReAssure for an access code. So ReAssure emailed him a 
link and guidance to access his pension online. But Mr M said the link didnt work and the 
access code had expired the same day it was provided, and asked ReAssure to call. And a 
few days later, Mr M chased ReAssure by phone and email as hed not heard from it yet.
On 24 February 2022, Mr M told us he could now access his pension online, but that 
ReAssure didnt cater for overseas customers and had caused him a significant financial 
loss.
Our Investigator thought ReAssure couldve given Mr M an online access code in a different 
way sooner, and should pay him £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience that 
caused. But that ReAssure didnt need to compensate Mr M for the financial loss he said 
hed been caused, because its online portal wasnt the only way for Mr M to manage his 
pension. So Mr Ms lack of online access hadnt prevented him from managing his pension. 
And Mr M hadnt given ReAssure clear instructions about where to invest his pension, 
though our Investigator invited Mr M to provide further evidence about that if he wanted to. 
Mr M thought £300 wasnt enough given the financial loss ReAssure caused him as he 
approached retirement. That he shouldnt have to pay ReAssures fee, and that ReAssure 
benefitted from holding his pension funds. Mr M asked for this complaint to be passed to an 
Ombudsman.
ReAssure agreed with our Investigator. And it chose to reconsider Mr Ms complaint. After 
doing so, ReAssure increased its offer of compensation to a total of £500. Mr M rejected this 
as he thought £5,000 was fairer compensation.
As agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint came to me for a final decision.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not asking ReAssure to put things right in the way Mr M would like. I 
know Mr M will be very disappointed by this, but Ill explain why. 
The evidence Ive been provided with shows that by July 2021, Mr M had told ReAssure he 
wanted to transfer his pension to a SIPP, and that ReAssure had provided Mr M with the 
paperwork hed need to complete before it would take that transfer request any further. 
ReAssure told Mr M this again in the email it sent him at the start of August 2021, which also 
again provided the necessary form.
Its clear that Mr Ms preference was to carry out his pension transactions through 
ReAssures online portal - I understand hed always used to manage his pension online 
before ReAssure took over the administration of his policy. And ReAssures final response to 
Mr Ms complaint makes clear that ReAssure itself accepts it let Mr M down with regard to 
accessing its online portal. And I agree, it could have given Mr M better customer service 
here. Because while ReAssure says posting access codes is its standard process, in late 
August 2021 Mr M told ReAssure that the online access codes it had posted to him had 
expired by the time they reached him. Yet ReAssure still posted Mr M another access code 
about a week later. 
Im satisfied that ReAssure was able to provide access codes in another way because, soon 
after this, it agreed to provide Mr M with an access code over the phone. But it didnt do this 
as soon as it could and should have  from the evidence provided to me, I can see there 
were times in September 2021 and in late January to early February 2022 when ReAssure didnt respond to Mr Ms repeated contact about this as soon as it reasonably should have. 
So I agree ReAssure gave Mr M some poor customer service here, and caused delays in 
providing an online access code. 
Ultimately, Mr M gained access to ReAssures online portal around the middle of February 
2022.  Im satisfied that trying to contact ReAssure for online access over so many months 
and being sent access codes that would expire before he could use them - even after Mr M 
had alerted ReAssure to this - would have caused Mr M inconvenience, frustration and 
concern. But I think that the total of £500 ReAssure itself has offered Mr M is fair and 
reasonable compensation for that unnecessary distress and inconvenience. 
I appreciate Mr M says £5,000 compensation would be fairer, as he thinks ReAssure have 
caused him a significant financial loss by leaving him without online access to his pension 
and unable to manage it as he wanted to. But I dont agree that ReAssure left Mr M unable 
to manage his pension as he liked. Its clear that Mr M wanted to transfer his pension to a 
SIPP, at least initially. But ReAssures online portal wasnt the only way Mr M could do this. I 
say that because in July 2021, and again in August 2021, ReAssure explained to Mr M that 
he must complete and return a form before it would take his SIPP transfer request further, 
and provided him with a copy of that form. 
Our Investigator gave Mr M the opportunity to provide further evidence about this if he 
wanted to. But Ive not been provided with anything to suggest that Mr M returned such a 
completed form to ReAssure. Or that Mr M gave ReAssure clear and specific instructions 
about where to invest his pension. Instead, it seems to me that Mr M continued to pursue the 
matter of online access with ReAssure. So while it became clear that Mr M wanted to carry 
out his pension transactions online, ReAssure had already provided him with a different way 
of taking forward his SIPP transfer request, if that was what he wanted to do. 
Therefore, I cant fairly and reasonably conclude that ReAssure is responsible for any 
financial loss Mr M believes hes been caused by not having access to manage his pension 
through ReAssures online portal. So Im not asking ReAssure to do anything further on that. 
Putting things right
I think the total of £500 ReAssure has itself offer Mr M is fair and reasonable compensation 
for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience it caused him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding Mr Ms complaint.  ReAssure Limited should 
pay Mr M £500 compensation its offered for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience it 
caused him. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2023.
 
Ailsa WiltshireOmbudsman