DRN-3057678
The complaint
Mrs J has complained MBNA wont refund the money she paid for wedding dresses in 2019. 
She made a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 as the wedding 
dresses were never returned from the shop after being sent for alterations.
What happened
In 2019 Mrs J paid for 11 dresses for granddaughters and great-granddaughters to wear to a 
family wedding. Some of these dresses were to be worn by young children as well as adult 
females.
The dresses all needed alteration and went back to the shop for these alterations to be 
completed. Unfortunately the family were never able to get the dresses for the family 
wedding and alternatives needed to be found. As Mrs J paid for part of the costs (£700 and 
£90 in two separate transactions) using her MBNA credit card, she asked MBNA to help.
MBNA refunded £790 but wouldnt reimburse the full costs  more than £4,500  under 
section 75. Mrs J brought her complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator told Mrs J we were unable to help as there was no valid debtor-creditor-
supplier relationship as required under the legislation.
Mrs J disagreed with this outcome. Shes asked an ombudsman to consider her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain 
why.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 allows a customer to submit a claim for breach 
of contract or misrepresentation by a supplier to their credit provider. This applies when 
customers use certain types of credit to buy goods or services. In this case Mrs J paid for 
wedding dresses for her family in part using her MBNA credit card.
One key requirement to allow consideration of a section 75 claim is that there needs to be an 
effective relationship between the supplier of the goods and the person who had the 
relationship with the creditor. This is often referred to as the debtor-creditor-supplier 
relationship. 
In this case the contract is between the supplier  who didnt end up supplying the dresses  
and the 11 family members who the dresses were to be personally fitted to. Theres no 
dispute that Mrs J is the debtor as she paid in part with her credit card but I dont believe 
theres enough evidence to show shes the contracting party here. 
I absolutely appreciate that Mrs J had some say as she was paying for all of the dresses but 
the invoice is in the name of the family wedding. Ive considered there were 11 dresses 
being bought. Some of these were for girls who are too young to formally make contracts for 
their dresses. But I believe from the correspondence shared by Mrs J and her family 
representative in response to our questions, that decisions about the dresses were made 
jointly by the female adults who were choosing and making decisions about the dresses. 
Therefore Mrs J was not the main contracting party.
This means that Mrs J has no relationship with the supplier.
I should clarify that in no way is this a comment on whether a breach of contract exists or 
not. It means that I cant consider the breach of contract issue which arises here. 
Unfortunately under the legislation which exists on section 75, I have no leeway here to ask 
MBNA to do anything further.
I know this must seem unfair to Mrs J who spent a great deal of money for dresses for a 
family wedding which were never supplied.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mrs Js complaint against 
MBNA Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman