DRN-2985785
The complaint
Mrs M complains about how HSBC UK Bank Plc dealt with her chargeback.
What happened
Mrs M says she booked a holiday for over £2,220 and airport parking for £48.26 but was 
unable to travel. She says she asked HSBC to raise a chargeback which it did and refunded 
her the money whilst the chargeback was considered. Mrs M says she was told she was 
successful, but HSBC later deducted the car parking cost. She says that decision and how 
HSBC treated her caused severe anxiety and stress. Mrs M says she was diagnosed with 
alopecia which is triggered by stress and would like further compensation.
HSBC accepts it made a mistake by telling Mrs M she was successful for both chargebacks. 
It accepts it ought to have told her that it would be deducting the car parking cost as that 
service would have been available to Mrs M. But its apologised for what took place and has 
paid £200 compensation which includes the car parking cost. It says Mrs M had a balance in 
her account of over £5,000 and so the deduction would have had a limited impact.
Mrs M brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
accepted HSBC had made a mistake but had apologised and paid an appropriate 
compensation amount. The investigator didnt think it possible based on what Mrs Ms doctor 
had told her, that it was possible to say HSBCs actions had caused the medical problem.
Mrs M doesnt accept that view and says she has a further medical appointment in 
September 2021.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mrs M will be disappointed by my decision.
There is no dispute here that HSBC raised a chargeback for both Mrs Ms holiday and her 
car parking cost. And that the main cost of over £2,200 was recovered by Mrs M. I accept 
HSBC made a mistake and told Mrs M that she had been successful for both chargebacks 
and I have no doubt she was caused inconvenience when she found out the car parking cost 
had been deducted from her account. I also accept the problem took a couple of months to 
sort out. But Im satisfied HSBC has fairly apologised for what took place and has paid what I 
think is a fair and reasonable compensation amount in total of £200.
I dont think Mrs M suffered any financial loss as a result of what took place and also think 
that it unlikely the chargeback would have been successful for the car parking cost as that 
service was still available to her.
I appreciate Mrs M says she suffered severe anxiety as a result of what took place and has 
suffered related medical problems. I cant fairly hold HSBC responsible for any medical 
issues and I have made clear that I dont think the car parking cost was particularly 
significant in the context of the overall amount or that it would have caused any real financial 
issues. I have not seen any medical evidence that HSBCs mistake directly caused Mrs Ms 
medical condition and I dont think it likely that medical evidence could be provided in any 
event. So, I dont think it necessary to wait for Mrs Ms next medical appointment and am 
satisfied that she has told us that her doctor would be unable to provide an opinion that 
HSBCs mistake was the cause of the medical problem. And I also think that Mrs M has had 
over a year to provide any such medical evidence.
Overall, I find that HSBC did make a mistake about the car parking cost chargeback and 
ought to have been clearly in its communication with Mrs M. Im satisfied that HSBC has 
paid a fair and reasonable compensation amount and that I cant fairly hold it responsible for 
Mrs Ms medical problem.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman