DRN-3657951
The complaint
Ms S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard withdrew her 
promotional interest offer on her credit card account.
What happened
Ms S says she opened a Barclaycard account with a 0% interest offer. She says she made a 
balance transfer to the account but says a direct debit set up for 21 December 2020 wasnt 
taken and so she made a payment on 24 December 2020. Ms S says she was told the late 
payment would not affect her promotional interest rate but found out in 2022 that she had 
been charged interest since 2020. She would like all of the interest refunded.
Barclaycard says the telephone call recording from December 2020 is no longer available 
but doesnt dispute what Ms S says. It says it has refunded three months interest and paid 
£50 compensation for the incorrect information. Barclaycard says the promotional interest 
rate is removed in line with account terms and conditions in these circumstances and its up 
to Ms S to manage her account. It says Ms S regularly used online banking and ought to 
have noticed the interest.
Ms S brought her complaint to us and our investigator thought Barclaycard dealt fairly with it 
by paying appropriate compensation and by refunding three months interest. The 
investigator thought this was Ms Ss account and up to her to manage it. He also thought Ms 
S should have noticed the interest on the statements.
Ms S says she didnt receive statements and had no reason to look at online statements. 
She also questions why the balance transfer fee hasnt been refunded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Barclaycard has dealt fairly with this 
complaint. I appreciate Ms S will be disappointed by my decision.
I have looked carefully at Ms Ss account terms and conditions which I think she would have 
agreed to when the account was opened. Those terms and conditions make clear that a 
promotional interest rate will be lost if the terms of the agreement are not kept. There is no 
dispute here that Ms Ss direct debit was returned on 21 December 2020 which meant the 
monthly payment was not made by the required date. So, Im satisfied in those 
circumstances that the terms and conditions of the credit card agreement were not met, and 
Barclaycard was entitled to remove the interest rate offer. I dont think Ms S has explained if 
she did have sufficient money in the account for the direct debit to be made and think on 
balance that may have been the reason the direct debit failed. I find that this was Ms Ss 
account and her responsibility to make sure the payment was made on time.
There is no dispute here that when Ms S called Barclaycard some three days later that it 
ought to have given her accurate information, namely that the payment was late and so the 
interest rate offer was automatically withdrawn. But Im satisfied Barclaycard has fairly 
apologised for that mistake and acted fairly by paying compensation as well as refunding 
three months interest. I think that offer is fair and reasonable for the reasons I will explain.
I appreciate Ms S would like the interest refunded from December 2020 until she noticed the 
position in 2022. But I disagree and have made clear that this was Ms Ss account and up to 
her to manage it. I can see Ms S says she was also told she would receive a refund on the 
late fee she was charged and had no reason to check her account statements. But I would 
reasonably have expected Ms S to have checked her next account statement, which would 
have shown that interest was now being charged and that her late payment fee hadnt been 
refunded. I can also see that Ms S had used her account for purchases and cant see why 
she wouldnt have checked at least the following two statements to check on the refund she 
says she was told would be due as well as the accuracy of the purchase amounts. I would 
have expected her to have checked she wasnt being charged interest.
I have looked at Barclaycards records and am satisfied Ms S was given notice of the new 
account statements and used online banking even if she didnt receive paper statements.
Overall, Im satisfied that Barclaycard was entitled to remove the promotional offer and has 
acted fairly by paying appropriate compensation. I find that compensation amount fair and 
reasonable and that it reflects the level of the mistake and its impact. I have explained why I 
think this was Ms Ss account to manage her account and check her account statements 
especially in the light of what took place in December 2020. It follows that I cant fairly order 
Barclaycard refund any interest I think was correctly charged or refund the balance transfer 
fee.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman