DRN-3684949
The complaint
Mr Ps complaint about Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) relates to his online 
application for a transfer onto a better mortgage interest rate (product transfer) which Halifax 
said couldnt be considered until he spoke with a mortgage advisor. Mr P feels that his 
application was declined because his account had an historic marital dispute marker on it 
which ought to have been removed some years earlier. Had it been so he believes his 
application would have been allowed to progress successfully. 
What happened
Mr P had a joint mortgage with his late wife who sadly passed away in May 2019. Mr P said 
he told Halifax about this immediately, although Halifaxs records show they werent made 
aware until August 2020. Nevertheless, the mortgage was transferred into Mr Ps sole name, 
and in March 2022 he made a product transfer application but without success. Each time he 
tried he was told he would need to speak to a mortgage advisor so that a mortgage review 
could be carried out. 
Mr P didnt want to do that as he didnt think it was necessary. He said he had been a 
mortgage customer with Halifax for over 15 years, had made overpayments to his mortgage 
regularly, was not asking for a change in either the term length or level of lending, and his 
monthly repayments would be less than they were. Mr P feels that he was prevented from 
obtaining a better rate because Halifax left a marital dispute marker on his account which 
ought to have been removed following his wifes death. As a result, he believes he has 
suffered a loss because he was unable to switch to a better rate.
Halifax said that it was correct that Mr P had made regular overpayments to his mortgage 
account, and because of that, they required him to have a mortgage review in line with their 
policy. They also acknowledged that the marital dispute marker ought to have been removed 
much sooner, but they did not agree that this was the reason his product transfer application 
didnt progress. The reason, they said, was because Mr P wouldnt have a mortgage review 
and this was always going to be required irrespective of any marker on his account.
Mr P was unhappy with Halifaxs final response and so approached this service to see if we 
could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that Halifax hadnt done 
anything wrong and had dealt with the complaint fairly.
Mr P didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My summary of what happened is brief and I know the parties went into a lot more detail. Im 
going to focus on what I think are the key issues. Our rules allow me to do this and it reflects 
the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. So, if theres something Ive 
not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it, its because Im satisfied that I dont need to 
comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Ive taken account of both sides views when considering whether Halifax acted fairly and 
reasonably. Ive looked at the issues raised and considered all the available evidence. 
The accepted facts to this complaint are that Halifax agree that it should have removed the 
marital dispute marker much sooner than it did. Mr P made regular overpayments to his 
mortgage and was making an online product transfer application. Halifaxs policy relating to 
their customers making product transfer applications, and who had also made overpayments 
on their existing mortgage, was to require a mortgage review with a mortgage advisor. 
Halifax required him to have such a review, but he declined, thus preventing his application 
from progressing.
Mr P has referred to the mortgage review as an affordability review, but I can find no 
evidence that Halifax termed it as such. But I dont think the name of the review makes any 
difference here because it is clear that what was being asked of Mr P was for him to meet 
with a mortgage advisor to review his circumstances. Mr P was adamant he didnt want to 
see a mortgage advisor because he thought he was able to afford the new product going 
forward, and he wasnt wanting to change the term or lending. So, I can see that he didnt 
really want to discuss anything with the advisor, which leads me to conclude that whatever 
the review was termed he was not going to take part in it. 
Halifax have said that their mortgage review was to allow the mortgage advisor to look at the 
wider financial situation of its customers and consider things like whether it would be better 
to reduce the term of the mortgage rather than make monthly overpayments. Calculations as 
to the difference in overall interest payable could have been provided and advice given 
regarding the limit on overpayments for any particular product chosen.
Halifax have to treat their customers fairly and I can accept that before one of their 
longstanding customers changes their product they have a duty to ensure not only whether 
he can afford the new product, but also to bring to that customers attention information 
which would be relevant to the decision that customer had to make. And I agree that 
knowing what the overall cost would be on the proposed new product and whether there 
were any particular limitations on it, would be information that would be vital to making that 
decision. So, I accept that Halifax were right to ask Mr P to have a mortgage review in line 
with their policy, and in so doing they were not treating Mr P unfairly. 
I dont have the power to make rules for financial businesses, assess or direct that they 
change their policy or procedures. I only look at what happened in the circumstances of each 
individual complaint and check that the business followed its rules and procedures and has 
applied them fairly. And here I am satisfied.
The fact that Mr P didnt have the mortgage review is the reason why his product transfer 
application didnt proceed. I know he feels that this was due to the marker on his account, 
but Im satisfied that this had no bearing on the ultimate outcome, since without the 
mortgage review the application was never going to progress. 
I know Mr P wants me to look at Halifaxs failure to remove the marker as part of this 
complaint, but I am afraid I cant. The reason for this is that Halifax havent yet had the 
chance to respond to that complaint. Whilst I acknowledge they have said it should have been removed much sooner than it was, they have not made any offer of resolution to Mr P, 
and it is important that they ben given the opportunity of doing so first. 
So, although Mr P will probably be disappointed with my decision, I cant say Halifax has 
acted unfairly or unreasonably here and Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman