DRN-3878234
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G have complained about the advice and service they received from a 
predecessor company which is now an appointed representative of Quilter Financial Limited 
(Quilter).
What happened
Mr and Mrs G complained in March 2020 about the advice they had received in 2011. They 
had been advised to sell some of their then current holdings. The subsequent funds 
reinvested into underperformed those previously held  a difference of around £24,000.     
Mr and Mrs G also said they hadnt received the financial reviews they should have done for 
which they have been paying a servicing fee.
Quilter treated Mr and Mrs Gs complaints separately. It responded on 29 April 2020 to both 
complaints. In those responses it said;
Mrs Gs ISA was invested into a cautious managed fund which matched her agreed 
investment objectives. This was later switched to a balanced risk portfolio like Mr Gs 
attitude to risk.
For Mr G it said that as well as their main residence he also held a buy to let 
property, had a cash ISA, unit trusts, and stocks and shares PEP. He wanted advice 
on a lump sum of £10,680 which was currently invested in a unit trust. His attitude to 
risk was recorded as balanced.
The sale proceeds of Mr Gs unit trust were to be split between ISAs for                   
Mr and Mrs G plus another transfer of £15,000 from an existing PEP  all invested 
into managed funds.
Those funds were transferred to cash in early 2019 as the portfolio of funds invested 
into was taken over by another management company. This had protected             
Mr and Mrs G during the stock market downturn caused by the pandemic.
Despite there being contact with Mr and Mrs G by the adviser it was accepted that 
formal reviews hadnt been carried out since 2017. It acknowledged this and offered 
£317.52 for Mrs G and £1,170.62 for Mr G.
The investments made only represented a small part of Mr and Mrs Gs overall 
portfolio and having held several buy to let properties between them, shares and 
other investments meant Mr and Mrs G were relatively experienced investors.
£250 each was also offered for the trouble and upset Mr and Mrs G may have been 
caused.
In Mr and Mrs Gs response to Quilter of 10 May 2020 they didnt agree with Quilters offer. 
Amongst other points they reiterated the purpose for which they sought advice was to obtain 
a better performing investment with a similar risk to the ones they already held. And that they 
were both balanced investors hence Mrs Gs investment being switched.
Remaining unhappy with the outcome, Mr and Mrs G brought their complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman. Our investigator concluded the complaint should be partially upheld. He said;
The recommendations given to Mr and Mrs G were suitable for their needs at the 
time. It wasnt a fair comparison between the previously held investments and the 
ones Mr and Mrs G were advised to invest into as they were exposed to different 
levels of risk.
The funds were converted to cash in early 2019. The investigator couldnt see any 
evidence that Mr and Mrs G were told about this and therefore the service they 
received from Quilter fell short. But this protected Mr and Mrs G from the downturn in 
the markets caused by the pandemic.
Quilter had offered to refund the servicing fees for 2018 and 2019 but the investigator 
couldnt see there had been any reviews between 2013 and 2016 and those should 
be refunded also.
The offers of £250 for both Mr and Mrs G was fair and reasonable.
Quilter accepted the investigators opinion.
Mr and Mrs G asked how much the refund of the servicing fees would amount to. They also 
made the following points;
They maintained the redress should be significantly more rather than a 
reimbursement of fees.
They had sought advice about alternative investments to the funds they held that 
would generate a better return for a similar risk. They had been advised they should 
transfer their investments to a fund recommended by the adviser which would better 
meet their objectives. In practice that investment badly underperformed so was 
contrary to their instructions.
Annual reviews would have provided a focus for the lack of performance. They 
werent notified of the transfer to cash into a non-interest-bearing account which was 
contrary to their investment objectives.
As the complaint couldnt be unresolved, it was passed to me for a decision. I issued my 
provisional decision explaining that I intended on partially upholding the complaint and 
detailed how the matter should be put right but I asked both parties to give me anything 
further they wanted to consider before I issued my final decision. Heres what I said;
Mr and Mrs Gs circumstances and the investments made
Quilter has given us a copy of the Financial Report that dated 28 November 2011 
further to the meeting that was had with the adviser and Mr and Mrs G. The Report 
provided details of Mr and Mrs Gs circumstances at the time.
Mr G had taken some time away from work to look after Mrs G who hadnt been well 
for a while. Mrs G was recorded as being employed  work which I assume she 
intended on returning to when she had sufficiently recovered. Mr and Mrs G had 
some investments, but this was the first time they were seeking advice. The adviser 
was to review their current investments to provide capital growth over the medium to 
long term.
For Mr Gs existing investments, he held a stocks and shares PEP which was valued 
at £15,658 and its risk rating was deemed to be acquisitive by the adviser. The adviser thought this didnt reflect Mr Gs circumstances and objectives and 
recommended it be transferred and reinvested more suited to his risk profile.
Mr G also held three collective investments totalling £17,837 and which were all risk 
rated as acquisitive. It was recommended that Mr G encash part of the investment 
(two of the collectives) as again they didnt reflect his circumstances and objectives. 
For reinvestment, the proceeds were to be used to fund Mr and Mrs Gs ISAs for 
2011/12.
Mr G was recorded as having a balanced attitude to risk and Mrs G was cautious.
The investment recommendation reasons were outlined in detail and carried out in 
December 2011. Mr and Mrs G each invested £5,340 into their respective ISAs with 
proceeds from Mr Gs taxable portfolio. Mr G transferred his non-taxable account 
portfolio which had been valued at around £15,000 and which was sold and 
reinvested. So, in total approximately £25,680 was invested into managed portfolios 
which offered various underlying funds. Mr Gs 2011/12 ISA was invested into a 
balanced managed sector which had a risk rating of balanced and Mrs Gs ISA into 
the cautious managed sector with a risk rating of cautious. Mr Gs existing non-
taxable portfolio was also invested with a balanced attitude to risk.
I note that after the investments were made, Mrs G switched out of the cautious fund 
and into the balanced fund to be in line with her husbands investments in April 2012.
Mr and Mrs Gs attitude to risk
The Financial Report states that risk and risk versus reward had been discussed at 
some length and Mr and Mrs G had completed a risk profiling questionnaire which 
was designed to assess their knowledge, experience, attitude towards investment 
risk and capacity for loss. The outcome was that Mr G was deemed to have a 
balanced risk profile which was defined as;
A balanced investor is looking for a balance of risk and reward, seeking 
higher returns than those available from a high street deposit account and 
willing to accept a certain amount of fluctuation in the value of their 
investment as a result. However, they would feel uncomfortable if their 
investments were to fall in value significantly in one year.
Mrs Gs risk profile was deemed to be cautious;
A cautious investor is looking for investment where the return should be 
slightly better than that available from a high street deposit account and 
accepts that the value of the investment fall as well as rise. They would feel 
uncomfortable, however, if their investments were to rise and fall in value very 
rapidly.
As mentioned above in subsequent correspondence in early 2012, despite Mrs Gs 
initial cautious attitude to risk, this was to be changed to balanced and her 
investment was altered to reflect the balanced approach.
The advice
As evidenced by the Financial Report Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs Gs attitude to risk 
and investment objectives were discussed and I dont find the conclusions reached 
by the adviser to be unreasonable. However, Mr and Mrs G hadnt received any advice before and which they were now seeking. So, Ive considered whether what 
was recommended to them was right for their identified circumstances and financial 
objectives.
One of Mr and Mrs Gs main arguments is that the investments they were advised to 
invest into underperformed those they previously held. So, Ive considered the overall 
advice  whether it was reasonable for the adviser to have recommended the 
investments they did hold to be sold as well as whether the funds reinvested into 
were suitable for their needs.
Its not the role of the Financial Ombudsman to risk rate funds. But I have reviewed 
the reasons for the adviser to conclude that some of the investments held should be 
sold after discussion about and identification of Mr and Mrs Gs respective attitudes 
to risk.
The adviser identified their previous investments as being acquisitive. According to 
the definitions of the business, an acquisitive investor is defined as being an;
Investor is willing to accept an unlimited level of risk on their investment in 
return for higher returns in the long run. They are willing to accept a good 
amount of short-term fluctuation in the value of their investments as a result. 
They would feel comfortable if their investments were to fall in value more 
than one quarter in one year and may well see this an ideal time to purchase 
investments because of their cheaper asset values.
So, on the basis of the advisers opinion, Mr and Mrs Gs then current assets didnt 
match their attitude to risk as they were too high risk for them bearing in mind the 
business definitions of Mr and Mrs Gs balanced and cautious risk profiles Ive 
quoted above. As a result, it doesnt seem unreasonable to have advised                
Mr and Mrs G to sell those investments and reinvest into funds more suitable for their 
identified risk profiles.
The two funds selected within the managed portfolio were balanced for Mr G and 
cautious for Mrs G  albeit changed to balanced shortly afterwards  which were in 
line with the attitudes to risk that had been identified for both. So again, I dont find 
this to be an unreasonable recommendation.
And I dont agree with Mr and Mrs Gs argument about the funds invested into 
underperforming those previously held and they should receive financial 
compensation. Those funds were identified as exposing Mr and Mrs G to a risk they 
were not prepared to take  they were a higher risk. And because of those previously 
held investments being able to take a higher risk they could potentially provide higher 
returns. Which they did in this instance. But that doesnt lead me to conclude the 
advice was wrong. The advice was given to better reflect Mr and Mrs Gs attitude to 
risk.
Just because the investments chosen didnt perform as well as other investments, 
doesnt necessarily mean the advice to invest into them wasnt right. I note its 
recorded in the Financial Report that;
we discussed at some length your attitude to risk and in particular the 
relationship between risk and reward. The more risk you are prepared to 
accept, the greater the long term rewards will often be. It is important to 
maximise your return, but also ensure you are not exposed to a level of risk that is unacceptable to you. It is therefore imperative that your attitude tor risk 
and maximum capacity for loss is clearly identified at outset.
Im satisfied the Financial Report is a reflection of what was discussed during the 
meeting between the adviser and Mr and Mrs G. And Mr and Mrs G saw that report 
so I think its reasonable for me to conclude that the relationship between risk and 
reward was discussed so I think Mr and Mrs G knew they were reducing their 
exposure to risk by following the advice but were losing the potential for an increased 
reward.
So overall, I dont think the advice to sell the investments that had been identified to 
be of a higher risk than Mr and Mrs G were willing to take and reinvest into funds that 
exposed them to a lower risk to be unreasonable.
Transfer into cash in 2019
In Quilters letters to Mr and Mrs G it said that the adviser had confirmed with          
Mr and Mrs G in early 2019 that their funds were transferred to cash by the business 
that had taken over the management of Mr and Mrs Gs funds. The adviser said he 
emailed Mr and Mrs G on 19 March 2019 to say he would be touch in the first six 
months of 2019 but was available if they needed to speak in the meantime, but no 
contact was made. The adviser did meet with Mr and Mrs G in March 2020 and at 
this point Mr and Mrs G made their complaint so was unable to carry out any further 
recommendations until the outcome of that was complete.
Mr and Mrs G told us that they didnt receive the advisers email of 19 March 2019 so 
werent aware their funds were in cash  and potentially which they would have 
challenged. From what Ive seen Mr and Mrs G wouldnt have been given a choice 
about the switch into cash and I note they were made aware that this had happened 
in Quilters responses to their complaint in April 2020.
That being said I havent seen a copy of the confirmation email that the adviser sent 
to Mr and Mrs G in March 2019 and Quilter hasnt been able to provide a copy when I 
asked for one. Mr and Mrs G kindly checked all of their received emails from around 
that time but couldnt find anything so on balance, I think it more likely an email 
wasnt sent to Mr and Mrs G or at least it wasnt received by them.
The funds were switched to cash in September 2018 and January 2019 and I think it 
most likely they would have reinvested the cash at some point after that. Quilter has 
said that ultimately Mr and Mrs G were protected from the significant market 
downturn which I note started in around February 2020 and which continued to be 
volatile for at least a year. But while Mr and Mrs G may have been protected from the 
significant downturn that doesnt necessarily mean they are in either a better or 
worse position. I cant say for certain that Mr and Mrs G benefited by staying in cash.
So, while I cant know what Mr and Mrs G would have done with their cash, they 
have told us they would have reinvested it. I think it more likely they would have done 
and in line with their balanced attitude to investment risk. So, this needs to be put 
right, the method for which I outline below.
Annual reviews
I note from the Financial Report that there is a section entitled Regular Reviews 
which highlighted the importance of a regular financial review and that the adviser 
would review your investment performance on an annual basis and to contact you annually to carry out a financial check-up. These did not happen as they should 
have done.
Mr and Mrs G calculate that the monthly fee had averaged around £30 since they 
had transferred their investments. Quilter has already offered a refund £317.52 for 
Mrs G and £1,170.62 for Mr G for the missed financial reviews. And the investigator 
concluded that this should be extended to years 2013 to 2016 as well. Quilter 
accepted this.
I agree that Mr and Mrs G should be refunded the costs they incurred for fees when 
the service they were paying for wasnt provided. So, Quilter should make this 
calculation and pay the refund.
Quilter has offered Mr and Mrs G £250 each for the trouble and upset they have 
been caused. I have considered this and borne in mind our long-standing approach 
to awards for distress caused. Clearly Mr and Mr G have been inconvenienced and I 
think an award of £250 each to be a fair reflection for the distress and inconvenience 
caused to them.
Overall, and taking all of the above into consideration, and in the individual 
circumstances of this complaint, I dont have anything to conclude that the advice 
given to Mr and Mrs G was unsuitable for them bearing in mind their personal and 
financial circumstances, attitude to risk and investment requirements. It follows that I 
dont uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint about the advice they were given.
But Quilter should pay redress for the missed financial reviews as well as £250 to 
both Mr and Mrs G for the upset they have been caused. Quilter should also pay 
compensation for Mr and Mrs G not being informed of the switch of their funds to 
cash.
To put the matter right I said that Mr and Mrs G should be put as close to the positional they 
would probably now be in they had been made aware of the switches to cash in              
September 2018 and January 2019. I thought Mr and Mrs G would have invested differently 
if they had known about the switches to cash. 
Mr and Mrs G told us they originally intended on waiting for the outcome of their complaint 
with the Financial Ombudsman before taking any action with the cash but had transferred 
the cash into cash ISAs in September 2022 in the hope of earning more interest.
I said Quilter should compare the performance of Mr and Mrs G's investments after they 
were switched to cash  so from September 2018 and January 2019  with that of the FTSE 
UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index plus interest and pay Mr Mr and Mrs G £250 
each for the trouble and upset they had been caused and refund the annual review fees as I 
had already detailed. 
In response to my provisional decision Mr and Mrs G said that while it wasnt the outcome 
they were hoping for, they accepted my provisional decision unless Quilter made any further 
representation. We didnt receive any reply from Quilter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.As neither party to the complaint has given me anything further to consider, I see no reason 
to depart from my provisional decision. So, I confirm those findings and reiterate the 
compensation that Quilter should calculate.
Putting things right
To compensate Mr and Mrs G fairly, Quilter must:
Compare the performance of Mr and Mrs G's investments after they were switched to 
cash  so from September 2018 and January 2019  with that of the benchmark 
shown below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of 
the investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable. 
Quilter should also pay interest as set out below.
Pay Mr and Mrs G £250 each for trouble and upset they have been caused and 
refund the annual review fees as detailed above.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Investment 
nameStatus BenchmarkFrom (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
CashNo longer 
existsFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return IndexDates funds 
switched to 
cashDate cash 
ceased to be 
held8% simple per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to the 
date of 
settlement
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the investments should be 
deducted from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to 
accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular 
payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Quilter totals all those payments and 
deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair value instead of deducting periodically. If 
any distributions or income were automatically paid out into a portfolio and left uninvested, 
they must be deducted at the end to determine the fair value, and not periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr and Mrs G wanted Income with some growth and were willing to accept some 
investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return.
Although it is called Income Index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
Index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr and Mrs G's circumstances and risk attitude.
The additional interest is for being deprived of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint and                         
Quilter Financial Limited should calculate and pay compensation to them as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman