DRN-3872563
The complaint
Miss B complains that her motor insurance premiums have increased with AA Underwriting 
Insurance Company Limited following an incident, despite saying she was told that wouldnt 
happen.
What happened
Miss B contacted AA to explain that someone collided with her parked car. Miss B wasnt in 
her car at the time, but she saw footage of the third party causing the collision.
Miss B says that when she contacted AA to report this, they told her that because the issue 
wasnt her fault her premiums wouldnt be affected. But, she says that they have risen since 
then and she isnt happy about that.
An Investigator here looked into the matter and said that having listened to a call between 
Miss B and AA they didnt give her any assurances about the premium.
Miss B didnt accept that and asked for an Ombudsman review, so the case was passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Miss B but I agree with the conclusion reached by the Investigator.
I too have listened to the call when Miss B reported the incident, and AA did not tell her that 
it wouldnt affect her premium.
Miss B was told that the incident would be logged as information only and that it wouldnt 
affect her no claims discount. She was also told she wouldnt have to pay an excess. But 
she wasnt told it wouldnt affect her premium going forward. She was also told the claim 
would have to be declared on renewals.
Miss B said she didnt want the claim to affect her premiums, and regrettably AA didnt 
confirm that it may still do so  they simply confirmed it was a non-fault claim on her part. I 
think AA ought to have been clearer that there was no guarantee premiums wouldnt go up 
at renewal. But this failing isnt sufficient for me to say the premiums going up was wrong.
Id like to be clear that I understand why Miss B is unhappy about whats happened, 
especially as AA werent as clear as they shouldve been. But, its for insurers to decide how 
they set their premiums, and if an incident  whoever was at fault  means they feel an 
increase in premiums was appropriate then theyre entitled to do that when it comes to 
renewal.
Likewise, Miss B was entitled to shop around if she wasnt happy with the premium increase.
Furthermore, there are many factors involved when insurance premiums are calculated. And 
even if the incident had an affect there will be other considerations involved, which can mean 
the cost increases regardless. Risk factors which determine premiums, and of which there 
are many, include the type of car, location and occupation  and that perception will usually 
change over time. So, even if those things remain the same it doesnt guarantee the 
premium will also remain the same every year.
Overall, I dont believe AA misled Miss B in relation to this matter even though they couldve 
been a little clearer.
My final decision
It is my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 June 2023.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman