DRN-2917401
The complaint
Mr L complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) wont refund him a payment he made 
on his credit card as a result of a scam.  He also complains that Santander caused delays; 
and provided him with incorrect information about making repayments towards the 
outstanding balance on his account, which has now been passed to a debt collection 
agency.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide a brief summary of events below.
In October 2019, Mr L says he was considering booking a flight online with a company I will 
refer to as Company C in this decision.  He says he didnt end up making a booking, but later 
the same day he received a telephone call from someone stating they were from Company 
C.  In the course of that call, Mr L says the person informed him that he could book the flight 
he was interested in for a price cheaper than the one advertised on Company Cs website.  
Consequently, Mr L says he paid for the booking using his Santander credit card, which 
amounted to £2,000.
Later, Mr L says he felt uneasy about the payment because: it was made to a company I will 
refer to as Company T in this decision, rather than Company C; and that Company T is 
based outside the United Kingdom.  So, Mr L contacted Santander and the airline concerned 
to discuss the payment he had made.  Mr L says the airline told him the booking was on their 
system, but they were awaiting payment.  The airline later informed Mr L that the booking 
had been cancelled due to non-payment.  As for Santander, it decided not to raise a 
chargeback claim on Mr Ls behalf.
Mr L complained to Santander about the above.  He said he had been the victim of a scam.  
He also said that he stopped paying towards the outstanding balance on his account, as 
Santander told him he wouldnt need to make repayments pending the chargeback process.  
Due to non-payment and amounting arrears on Mr Ls account, Santander passed his debt 
to a debt collection agency.
Santanders position, broadly, is that Mr L didnt furnish it with the clarification and evidence 
it required to proceed with the chargeback.  Because of this, it says it closed the chargeback 
and didnt contact the scheme provider.  Santander also says that it wouldnt have 
recommended that Mr L stop making payments pending the chargeback claim, as his debt 
was still valid.  Santander adds that it has been unable to identify any evidence of Mr L being 
advised of this; and that its Collections team wouldve sent Mr L letters confirming there were 
arrears on his account.  In relation to a section 75 claim, Santander says as Mr L didnt pay 
the supplier of the contract directly, and instead through an agent, this would constitute a 
debtor-creditor-supplier chain break, and so section 75 wouldnt have been valid.
Unhappy with Santanders position, Mr L referred his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt uphold it.  In short, he said he 
was satisfied that Company T had carried out the service they described  that is, they 
processed Mr Ls £2,000 payment.  For this reason, he said if a chargeback had been 
raised, the likelihood is that it wouldve been successfully defended  so Santander had 
declined Mr Ls chargeback claim fairly.  Our investigator also concluded that there had been 
a break in the debtor-creditor-supplier chain, so Mr L had no recourse under section 75.
Mr L disagreed with these findings.  In short, he said that Santander had not acted fairly in 
declining his chargeback claim.  He said Santander couldve avoided the fraud by acting 
immediately when he told it about the transaction.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for reasons I set 
out below.
Repayments and delays
Mr L says Santander advised him that he wouldnt have to make repayments towards his 
account pending the chargeback process.  Based on the evidence provided, I havent seen 
anything to support this assertion.  As Mr L wouldve be liable for the outstanding balance on 
his account  I find it unlikely that Santander wouldve told him he wouldnt need to make 
repayments.  Further, Santander sent Mr L two letters in February and May 2020 informing 
him it wouldnt be refunding the transaction and that he should contact the merchant.  So, 
Im of the view that these letters wouldve made Mr L reasonably aware that he was liable for 
the debt concerned.
Mr L says the scam couldve been avoided had Santander acted immediately when he 
informed it of the transaction.  I can see Santander accepts that it did advise Mr L to wait 
until the flights were due before raising a dispute, and that this caused delays.  It says it has 
credited £50 to Mr Ls account for this, which I think is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.  I say this because, in my view, the delays caused (which were not lengthy) 
made no material difference to the overall outcome in this matter  for reasons I go into more 
detail about below.
Chargeback
Its not disputed that Mr L authorised the £2,000 transaction to Company T.  His position is 
that he believed he was paying this amount to Company C for the booking of flight tickets, 
but later discovered he was scammed and that the booking wasnt ever made.  So, Mr L 
would like a refund of these funds.  Santander says it was unable to raise a chargeback for 
Mr L because he didnt provide it with sufficient information to do so. 
Our investigator didnt make a finding on whether he thought Mr L provided Santander with 
sufficient information to raise a chargeback.  However, he considered that even if one had 
been raised against Company T, it wouldnt have been successful.
Chargeback is an entirely voluntary scheme, which means banks are under no formal 
obligation to raise a chargeback claim.  The scheme operator can ultimately arbitrate on a dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved between them.  
However, such an arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme  so there are limited 
grounds on which a chargeback can succeed.  My role is to determine whether the regulated 
card issuer (in this case, Santander) acted fairly and reasonably if it decided not to present a 
chargeback on behalf of its cardholder (in this case, Mr L).
Some examples of situations where a bank might be able to raise a chargeback include: a 
customer paying a merchant for goods and/or services, but not receiving them.  
In this case, Im satisfied, on balance, that Company T are a payment processor.  I say this 
based on the information Ive considered from Company Ts website; and technical details 
about the transaction itself.  The service Company T provided Mr L was: processing the 
£2,000 payment he made to them.  Because of this, if Santander had raised a chargeback 
against Company T, I think, on balance, they wouldve been able to provide evidence 
showing that the service they provided Mr L was processing his payment.  It follows then that 
Im persuaded Santander acted fairly and reasonably by not presenting a chargeback on 
behalf of Mr L, as Company T wouldve likely been able to show they provided the service 
they were meant to.
I acknowledge Mr L says he believed he was making the payment to Company C, who in 
turn would book the flight tickets he wanted.  However, for the purposes of the chargeback 
scheme, this wouldve had no bearing on Mr Ls chargeback claim if one had been raised.  
Section 75
Under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA), the borrower under a credit 
agreement has an equal right to claim against the credit provider if theres either a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier of goods or services.  Section 75 will only apply 
when there is a direct relationship between the debtor, creditor and the supplier (in this case, 
Mr L, Santander and the scammer respectively).  From what Ive considered, Im not 
persuaded that a valid debtor-creditor-supplier relationship exists in this case.  I say this 
because Mr Ls £2,000 payment was not made directly to the scammer, but to Company T  
which is a payment processor.  Consequently, this breaks the debtor-creditor-supplier chain.  
Company T hasnt breached its contract with Mr L or misrepresented the service it provides.  
The payment in this case was likely made in the way it was to provide the scammer 
protection from section 75  knowing the payment to Company T broke the debtor-creditor-
supplier relationship.  Whilst I acknowledge Mr L had no knowledge of this, unfortunately, 
this has no bearing on his rights under section 75 of the CCA.
Taking all the above points together, Im satisfied Santander acted fairly and reasonably in 
the circumstances of this complaint  particularly in its decision not to raise a chargeback or 
section 75 claim on Mr Ls behalf.  So, I wont be asking Santander to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman