DRN-3004924
The complaint
Mrs V is unhappy with damage charges Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited 
(MBFS) applied when she handed back a car shed acquired under a hire agreement.
  
What happened
In February 2017, Mrs V entered into a hire agreement with MBFS to acquire a new car. It 
was then inspected in March 2021  when the agreement came to an end. Mrs V complains 
that some of the damage shes been charged for were in fact dirt, rather than damage. Mrs V 
says she told the British Car Auction (BCA) inspection agent at the time and that he advised 
for her to take pictures at the time to show the dirt had been wiped away and to dispute this 
later on. Mrs V says this was because the inspection agent said hed already sent the report 
for the damages and was unable to make any further changes to it. Mrs V has asked for 
these charges to be removed.
MBFS investigated matters for Mrs V and said the charges had been applied in line with their 
Vehicle Return Standards (VRS). However, after looking into things again, they agreed to 
remove the £70 charge for the scratch on the front wing arch extension.
 
Our Investigator looked into Mrs Vs concerns. In summary, he said Mrs V had provided 
photo evidence taken at the time of the inspection to show that three of the damages being 
charged for appeared to be dirt. So, he asked MBFS to remove the three damages, leaving 
Mrs V with £240 in total to pay.
Mrs V agreed to this, however, MBFS didnt. They said they didnt have the images Mrs V 
provided showing no damage in their initial investigation. So, the complaint has been passed 
to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mrs Vs hire agreement and these explain that 
when its time to return her car, whether its at the end of the period of hire or earlier, she 
must return it in line with MBFS VRS. 
As well as MBFS VRS, the BVRLA has produced industry guidance to help determine what 
a finance company can charge for when a car is returned. This is the starting point for me as 
it represents gocod practice across the industry and is fairly detailed. So, Ive taken this 
guidance into account along with the VRS, when deciding whether MBFS acted fairly and 
reasonably in the charges they applied. 
Following removal of the £70 charge for scratch on the front wing arch extension, Mrs V was 
charged for these items of damage (taken from the BCA report): 
1.Bumper moulding LHR Scratched - Greater than 25mm Specialist repair £30
not through top coat
2.Bumper moulding LHR Scratched - Greater than 25mm 
not through top coatSpecialist repair £30
3.Bumper moulding RHR Scratched - Greater than 25mm 
through top coatSpecialist repair £30
4.QTR panel RHR Scratched - Greater than 25mm 
through top coatRefinish £170
5. Door RHF Scratched - Greater than 25mm 
through top coatRefinish £210
Ive assessed each charge separately and made my findings for each item below:
1 and 2: I note MBFS have charged Mrs V twice for scratches to the bumper moulding. 
Having looked at the photos in the report alongside the photo provided by Mrs V, I dont think 
its fair for MBFS to apply these charges. I say this because the photos provided by Mrs V 
show the inspectors ruler in the same position and I cant see the scratch indicated in the 
report. So, I think on balance, its reasonable to believe this was dirt and that it was wiped off 
in the presence of the inspector. With this in mind, I think MBFS should remove both charges 
of £30 from the total Mrs V owes.  
 
3: In relation to the right-hand rear bumper moulding, the VRS says that scuff marks up 
to 50mm which dont adversely affect the overall appearance of the car are acceptable. I 
can see from the photo in the BCA report that theres a scratch of under 50mm. But I 
think this scratch adversely affects the appearance of the car. I say this because its 
quite visible as its penetrated the base coat of the paint and therefore, the metal is 
showing. So, I think its fair for this charge to remain.
4: Ive looked at the photo in the BCA report of the right-hand rear quarter panel. And I 
can see there are two scuffs. Mrs V has provided a photo of the same area. In this 
photo, I can only see one of the scuffs  the bottom one of the two. Again, in this photo, 
the BCA inspectors ruler is alongside it. So, I think its reasonable to believe Mrs V took 
this photo while the BCA inspector was present. And as there is only one scuff, Im 
persuaded by Mrs Vs testimony that the bottom scuff was dirt and was able to be 
rubbed off. The remaining scuff is less than 50mm and I dont think it adversely affects 
the overall appearance of the car. So, I dont think it was fair for MBFS to apply this 
charge given my findings. With that said, I think MBFS should also remove this charge of 
£170 from the total Mrs V owes.
5: Ive lastly looked at the photo of the damage to the right-hand front door. I can clearly 
see there is a scratch and it has penetrated the base coat which isnt acceptable under 
the VRS and also the BVRLA guidelines. So, I think its fair for MBFS to charge for this.
I appreciate MBFS have said they didnt see Mrs Vs photo evidence before their 
investigation. However, I can see our Investigator sent these when MBFS asked for 
them. So, I think MBFS had a fair chance to review these and reconsider any decision 
theyd made about the charges in response to our investigators view.
Putting things right
Overall, for reasons Ive already explained, I think MBFS should remove the following 
charges:Items 1 and 2 from the table above: scratches on the left-hand side rear bumper- 
£30 each
Item 4 from the table above: scratch on the right-hand rear quarter panel- £170
This means Mrs V must pay the damage charges for:
Item 3 from the table above: scratch on the right-hand rear bumper - £30
Item 5 from the table above: scratch on the right-hand front door - £210
  
My final decision
For reasons explained above, I uphold this complaint and I direct Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK to carry out the actions under the putting things right section of 
this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2022.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman