DRN-3106418
The complaint
Mr G complained that Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) irresponsibly 
provided him with an unaffordable loan. 
What happened
In March 2019 Mr G took out a Lending Stream loan for £200, repayable over six months. 
The highest monthly repayment was £53.61. Mr G ran into problems making the monthly 
repayments and the loan is still outstanding as far as I am aware. 
Mr G mainly said that he was already in financial difficulty when Lending Stream provided 
the loan and it shouldve seen that it would be unaffordable for him. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr G and Lending Stream told us about this loan. In 
summary, our adjudicator thought:
given the loan amount, what was apparent about Mr Gs circumstances at the time 
and his history with the lender, it wouldnt have been proportionate to ask Mr G for 
the amount of information needed to show the lending was unsustainable
the loan looked affordable on the basis of the information Lending Stream had 
gathered 
there wasnt anything in the information Mr G provided, or the information Lending 
Stream shouldve been aware of, which meant that Lending Stream shouldve taken 
steps to verify the information Mr G had declared
as this was the first loan Mr G had taken out with Lending Stream, Mr G didn't have 
any track record with the lender that shouldve alerted Lending Stream to any 
underlying money problems. 
So our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr G disagreed with our adjudicator. In particular, he didnt think that the fact this was his 
first Lending Stream loan meant that the lender didnt have to conduct through checks before 
lending to him. And Mr G felt that his previous loan history, which included defaults on 
payday loans that he said were clearly shown on his credit report, should have led to his 
application being rejected. 
The complaint came to me to decide. And to assist me, Lending Stream provided more detail 
about the results of its credit checks. 
I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Lending Stream provided Mr G with a high-interest loan intended for short-term use and 
needed to make sure that it didnt provide the loan irresponsibly. 
In practice, this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Mr G could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
Mr Gs income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Gs complaint. 
Before lending to Mr G, Lending Stream asked Mr G for information about his monthly 
income and his outgoings. It also asked about any other credit commitments and carried out 
its own credit checks. Lending Stream told us that it also considered data gathered from the 
office of national statistics which provided information about what people in Mr Gs 
circumstances typically spent each month.
This was Mr Gs first (and only) loan with Lending Stream so he didnt at that stage have any 
track record with Lending Stream and I dont think Lending Stream had any reason to think it 
shouldnt rely on the information Mr G provided. Looking at the monthly loan repayment 
amounts and the loan term, and the information Lending Stream had on record for Mr G, 
including what it appears Mr G told Lending Stream about his monthly income and what he 
was paying out each month and also spending on other credit, this didnt point to the loan 
being unaffordable for Mr G.  
After taking into account Mr Gs take home pay and his monthly spending, including the 
figure of £125 each month it appears he told Lending Stream he was spending on other 
credit expenses, Mr G still shouldve had more than £600 left over to pay for this loan. As the 
monthly repayments due on this loan were around £54, this wouldve looked comfortably 
affordable for Mr G.  
Im sorry that Mr G had a problem with debt and that repaying this loan was difficult for him. 
I accept that in reality Mr Gs actual circumstances possibly werent fully reflected either in 
the information he provided, or the other information Lending Stream obtained. 
But wed expect Lending Stream to decide Mr Gs lending application based on the 
information it was reasonably entitled to rely on at the time. Lending Stream has sent me the 
results of its credit checks which show that he had thirteen active accounts and 2 delinquent 
accounts (suggesting some minor payment problems) on two of those accounts  one of 
which had happened just a month or so earlier. But it didnt show any defaults within the 
previous 36 months.  
Im aware that when a lender carries out a credit search, the information it sees doesnt 
usually provide the same level of detail that a consumers own credit search will and it isnt 
necessarily up to date. A lender might only see a small portion of a borrowers credit file, or 
some data might be missing or anonymised. Im also aware that not all payday and short 
term lenders report to the same credit reference agencies. So, this may explain any 
differences between what Mr G says his credit report would have shown and the results of 
Lending Streams own credit checks.
I dont think there was anything in the information that Lending Stream gathered at the time 
which should have caused the lender any additional concerns about Mr Gs financial position 
when he applied for the loan or that ought reasonably to have led Lending Stream to the 
conclusion that his loan application should be declined. 
I say this because the loan looked affordable on the figures and I dont think that there was 
anything obvious, in the information Lending Stream had, to suggest Mr G wouldnt be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way. In saying this, I have taken into account that Mr Gs 
declared monthly credit spend of £125 looked like it probably didnt accurately reflect the 
payments he would have to make to thirteen accounts. But it looks to me like Lending 
Stream had already boosted his declared monthly expenditure figures and it appeared that 
Mr G still had ample spare cash which would have comfortably allowed for some additional 
spending on his existing credit commitments. So this makes no difference to the outcome of 
Mr Gs complaint. 
And I dont think proportionate checks in these circumstances would have required Lending 
Stream to probe any more deeply into Mr Gs finances or ask Mr G to prove what he was 
declaring or check other information sources to verify what he had told them (or omitted to 
say) about his financial circumstances. So I cant reasonably say that Lending Stream 
should have asked to see the bank statements that Mr G has sent to me  and if he didnt 
tell Lending Stream about the information disclosed on those bank statements then I cant 
fairly say that Lending Stream could or should have found this out. 
In order to uphold this complaint I have to be able to say a lender did something wrong. And, 
in this case, I dont think that Lending Stream did anything wrong in deciding to lend this loan 
to Mr G. So thats why Im not planning on upholding this complaint.
I understand that what Ive said will come as a disappointment to Mr G. But I hope that 
setting out the reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision.
If Mr G is still in a position where he would like help to manage his finances, theres more 
information about how to get free debt advice and access other support on our website  or 
we can provide contact details if he gives us a call.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr G told me he has no further points to add and Lending Stream has not commented 
further except to acknowledge receipt of my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website and Ive taken this 
into account in deciding this complaint.  
I appreciate that Mr G feels strongly about what happened and he holds a different view to 
me. I would like to assure Mr G that Ive taken carefully into account all the information I've 
been sent and everything thats been said. 
I must be impartial and equally fair to both parties. 
In order to be able to uphold his complaint, I would have to be able to say that Lending 
Stream did something wrong or that it acted unfairly in some way. But I think Lending Stream 
carried out checks that were proportionate before lending to Mr G and it made a fair lending 
decision based on the information it had gathered. 
For all the reasons I have explained more fully in my provisional decision, I think its fair to 
say that Lending Stream was entitled to rely on the information it gathered. So if Mr G didnt 
tell Lending Stream about everything  and although I can see he was fully engaged in the loan application process, I cant see that he did this  then I cant fairly uphold his 
irresponsible lending complaint. 
As no further comments have been received in response to my provisional decision that 
change what I think about this case, I still think its fair not to uphold this complaint for the 
reasons I explained in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman