DRN-2340813
The complaint
Mrs C and Mr S complain that Bank of Scotland plc, (BoS), mis-sold them a mortgage 
payment protection insurance, (MPPI), policy.
What happened
Mrs C and Mr S took out a mortgage with BoS which started in 1992. An MPPI policy, 
which only covered Mr S, was also taken out. The first payment on it was made several 
months after the mortgage started. The premiums were initially about £17 a month.
On 12 October 2020 I issued a provisional decision in which I explained why I had 
provisionally decided not to uphold this complaint. Mrs C and Mr S disagreed with this but 
didnt send us any more information or make any further comments. BoS didnt respond.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of payment protection 
insurance on our website. Ive followed this in making my decision.
As neither party has given us any further information since I drafted my provisional decision 
I find no reason to vary its findings or change my decision.
Because the sale was so long ago, BoS no longer has any of the paperwork signed by
Mrs C and Mr S. So Ive made my decision on the basis of the information that I do have 
and what we know generally about the sale of MPPI policies. Also, I only know the date on 
which Mrs C and Mr S started paying for the insurance. I dont know the date on which it 
actually started. Because the terms and conditions applying to BoS MPPI policies changed 
around the time of the first payment Ive considered the two sets of terms and conditions 
that might
have applied.
I know that this will come as a disappointment to Mrs C and Mr S, but Ive decided not to 
uphold their complaint. I explain why below.
BoS ought to have made it clear to Mrs C and Mr S that the policy was optional. Mrs C 
and Mr S say that they were not even aware that they had the policy. Because the sale 
took place over 25 years ago, I dont find that it would be fair and reasonable for me to rely 
solely on their recollection. Understandably, after so long, BoS has not been able to give 
us much detail about how the policy was sold. To be fair to Mrs C and Mr S, it has 
assumed that the sale took place in a branch and that it advised them to take out the 
insurance. But it cant give us any details of what it told Mrs C and Mr S about the MPPI.
However, the policy started more than a year after Mrs C and Mr S received the mortgage 
advance. I dont know why that was. But I think this would have made it clear to Mrs C and 
Mr S that they didnt have to take out in order to get the loan, and that it was a separate 
product. And as the policy shows up on BoS records I find that its more likely than not 
that Mrs C and Mr S decided to take it out, albeit sometime after the mortgage started.
If BoS recommended Mrs C and Mr S to take the policy, it ought to have taken reasonable 
steps to ensure that it was suitable for their needs. I dont know what steps BoS actually 
took. But, in any event, I find that the policy was suitable for Mrs C and Mr S. I say this 
because, knowing what I do about Mrs C and Mr Ss circumstances at the time and the 
terms and conditions of the policy that would have applied:
Mr S would have been eligible for the MPPI;
Mr S was unlikely to have been adversely affected by any of the policys main 
restrictions and limitations  such as any relating to someone with a pre-existing 
medical condition;
Mr S has told us that he was entitled to sick pay from his employment and had some 
savings. But, following a successful claim, the policy would have paid out for at least 
up to 12 months had Mr S been off work because of accident, sickness or 
unemployment. These payments would have been in addition to any sick or 
redundancy payments Mr S would have received from his employment or any savings 
he had, leaving these available to help him and Mrs C meet their other expenses 
while he wasnt working. So I find that the MPPI could have been of use to Mrs C and 
Mr S;
Looking at the information I have regarding Mrs Cs and Mr S employment, I think it 
is more likely that not that he was the main earner. This being the case I think that it 
was reasonable that he was the person covered by the insurance;
The policy was competitively priced by reference to other similar ones available in the 
market at the time. And I havent seen anything to suggest that Mrs C and Mr S 
couldnt afford the premiums. In any event, as it was paid for monthly, had they later 
felt that the policy was unaffordable for them or that they no longer wanted it, they 
could have cancelled it at any time without further cost.
Its possible that BoS didnt tell Mrs C and Mr S everything that it ought to have about the
MPPI, so that they could make an informed decision whether they wanted to take it or not.
But as Ive concluded that they seem to have wanted this type of cover and that it could have
been useful to them, I dont think that clearer information would have changed Mrs Cs and
Mr Ss mind and stopped them buying it. I say this, particularly bearing in mind the serious
consequences that could have arisen had Mrs C and Mr S been unable to make their
monthly mortgage payments, which were secured on their home. This means that Mrs C and
Mr S havent lost out because of anything that may have been wrong with BoS sales
process. So theres nothing that I require it to put right.As Ive said earlier, Ive considered everything that Mrs C and Mr S have said or sent to us,
including that Mr S didnt make a claim following an accident. And that this reinforced what
he has told us about not being aware that he had the policy. I dont know when this accident
occurred and, if it was some time after the policy was taken, the fact that Mrs C and Mr S
didnt then remember its existence doesnt mean that they werent aware at the time they
took it out. So this and all Mrs Cs and Mr S other comments dont change my decision.
When he went into a branch three weeks after the accident, Mr S says he was told by BoS
that it was a shame he hadnt made a claim under the MPPI. And, although Im not quite
clear, it seems that what Mrs C and Mr S are saying is that BoS employee implied that he
couldnt then make a claim because he was too late, and/or because he was entitled to sick
pay. From what I know about the terms and conditions of the MPPI, neither of these reasons
would by themselves have prevented him making a claim. But consideration of this is out of
the scope of this decision which relates only to whether the policy was mis-sold, and not to
matters arising once it was in place.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint..
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 January 2021.
 
Ros Barnett
Ombudsman