DRN-3044333
The complaint
Mrs F has complained that Hargreaves Lansdown Savings Limited caused her financial loss 
when delaying any ISA transfer.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and although I recognise that Mrs F will be disappointed by my decision, I 
agree with the conclusion reached by the investigator. Ill explain why: 
Hargreaves Lansdown addressed Mrs Fs concerns and accepted that there had 
been delays in transferring Mrs Fs stocks and shares ISA. I can see that Mrs F had 
to make numerous phone calls and I accept she would have been concerned about 
the transaction given the delays. It offered £175 by way of apology for the 
inconvenience caused. I think that was fair. 
Hargreaves Lansdown also asked for documentation regarding the financial loss 
which Mrs F felt she had experienced. When no compensation for this was offered 
Mrs F asked us to look into the matter. Ive carefully considered the evidence before 
me to determine whether Mrs F missed an investment opportunity for which she 
should be compensated. Mrs F has said that she intended to invest all the cash 
earlier, as she didnt wish to hold on to it. But Im not persuaded by the evidence that 
Hargreaves Lansdown should compensate Mrs F for financial loss.
The transfer eventually took place on 17 November 2020, the funds being available 
with the new provider for investment on 23 November 2020. Like our investigator Im 
satisfied that the transfer could have taken place by 12 November 2020. I accept that 
Mrs F was keen for the funds to be transferred as soon as possible and had let 
Hargreaves Lansdown know this. She wanted to invest when the market was low but 
feels that by the time she was able to utilise the money the market was recovering. 
However I note that when the cash was available the first investment wasnt made 
immediately  rather it was made on 3 December 2020. The majority of the cash was 
invested by 15 December 2020. Given the time frame, and the fact that no evidence 
of what she planned to invest in has been presented, I dont find its more likely than 
not that Mrs F would have invested the cash sooner than she did. Accordingly I dont 
require Hargreaves Lansdown to compensate Mrs F for financial loss. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint about Hargreaves Lansdown Savings 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2022.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman