DRN-2136758
The complaint
Mr T, who is represented by a third party, has complained that in December 2006 he 
was mis-sold a regular premium mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) by 
Legal & General Partnership Services Limited (Legal & General).
What happened
Mr T bought the PPI from Legal & General to be used alongside his mortgage. At the 
time Mr T was self-employed and hes said this is the reason why the PPI was mis-sold.
The adjudicator assessed the complaint and considers that the PPI policy was mis-sold 
by Legal & General as the policy terms relating to making a claim if self-employed are 
onerous. Legal & General doesnt accept that, so the complaint has been passed to me 
for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ts case.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ts complaint. Ive set out my reasons below.
At the time the policy was taken out Mr T was self-employed. The policy terms say a 
self-employed person could make an unemployment claim if their self-employment had 
ended because their business permanently stopped trading and a final tax return had 
been provided to their tax office.
L&G says the policy terms are natural requirements of ceasing to trade. It seems to me, 
however, that the requirement to permanently cease trading meant Mr T wouldnt have been 
able to claim for a period when he had stopped trading because he was simply unable to find 
enough work (and needed the protection offered by the policy), but his business had not 
totally ceased to trade.
I also consider that the requirement for final accounts to be prepared, in order to prepare a 
final tax return, could create a problem as not all self-employed people have an accountant. 
Also, for the bank or tax office to know they are not trading, again implies a much more 
serious situation than simply not being able to find enough work to meet their expenses. For 
this reason, I think the policy terms make it difficult for self- employed people to make a 
successful unemployment claim.
Legal & General says the policy was discussed with Mr T and that he would have been 
aware of the conditions for making a successful unemployment claim. But Legal & General 
should have taken the policys unemployment conditions into account when making a 
recommendation about the suitability of the PPI for him. But I dont think that it did. And I 
dont think that Mr T would have signed up to the policy if the limitations that affected him 
had been explained. As such, I dont think the policy or the recommendation to take it out 
was suitable.
I therefore think Mr T has lost out as a result of Legal & Generals failings in advising Mr T 
in the sale of this policy. 
Putting things right
Legal & General should put Mr T in the position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled if it hasnt been cancelled already and Legal & 
General should:
- Pay Mr T the amount he paid each month for the PPI
- Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. 
The rate of interest is 8% a year.
- If Mr T made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Legal & General can take 
off what he got for the claim from the amount it owes them
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Legal & General to take off tax from this interest. 
Legal & General must give Mr T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he 
asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and order that Legal & General Partnership Services Limited pay 
compensation to Mr T as calculated above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2020. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman