DRN-2814936
The complaint
Mr B alongside his professional representative (from now on Ill just refer to Mr B) says that 
Portal Financial Services LLP (Portal) gave him unsuitable advice to transfer a number of his 
personal pensions into a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) and to invest in high-risk 
investments in 2011. 
  
What happened
In 2011 Mr B was advised by Portal to transfer his personal pensions into a Self-Invested 
Personal Pension (SIPP) and to invest in a number of quite specialist investments.
Mr B was advised to take tax free cash and the remainder went into the SIPP. The remaining 
funds were invested into five funds as detailed below:
59% Raithwaites Hypa Fund 
5% Hypa Asia Fund
16% Venture Oil International 
15% EOS Solar Energy
5% Cash Deposit
Mr Bs existing investments before the transfer to SIPP were:
Personal Pension 1 with provider A
Mr B was invested in a medium risk fund investing in a mixture of equities and bonds and 
a with-profits fund that had a more cautious risk profile. The annual fund charges were set 
at 1% and there were no advisory charges. It would have been possible for Mr B to have 
taken his 25% tax free cash from age 55 from this pension plan. The transferred out value 
on 15 September 2011 was £29,033.41.
Personal Pension(s) 2 and 3 with Provider B
The above two pension policies were transferred to the SIPP on 26 September 2011 for 
£20,101.38 and £6,879.01 respectively. Prior to transfer, both policies were invested in a 
conventional with-profits fund which was low to medium risk. At the time of the transfer, the 
only charges applicable were the annual management charge of 1.5%; the provider 
deducted 1% annually for administration costs and 0.5% to cover the cost of the guarantees 
given in these with-profits policies.
The transfer into the SIPP included the following charges; an initial adviser charge of 5% and 
an ongoing fee of 1% for managing the investments. As for the SIPP platform charges, there 
was an annual fee of 0.6% on investments and 0.45% on cash held in the SIPP. On top of 
that there was an administration charge of £20 per quarter charged by the SIPP.
At the time of advice it was recorded:
Mr B was 57 years old
Mr B was a teacher earning approx. £35,000
Lived in rental accommodation
Had outstanding loans and credit card balances totalling £28,000
Mr Bs attitude to risk was moderately cautious
Mr Bs aimed to take tax-free cash to pay off and reduce his debts
Make investments in-line with his attitude to risk to provide an income at a later date
In the years following the transfer to the SIPP, many (including the largest) of Mr Bs 
investments collapsed. And his SIPP suffered a huge loss in value.
With the help of a professional representative Mr B complained that the advice hed received 
was unsuitable. 
Our investigator looked into matters and upheld the complaint. He said that:
The advice to transfer was unsuitable as it was carried out to facilitate the investment in 
Unregulated Collective Investments Schemes (UCIS) that were wholly unsuitable for Mr 
Bs attitude to risk. 
The advice was in clear contradiction to regulator guidance.
The advice increased costs to the point where it was unlikely this could be recovered by 
better investment performance
Mr B didnt need to transfer to a SIPP and take on the higher costs to access tax-free cash
The transfer into UCIS put Mr Bs pension at significant risk and as a consequence he has 
suffered a huge loss  he couldnt afford to take such risks
His needs couldve been met within his existing investments  the transfer wasnt in his 
best interests
The advice he received to transfer to the SIPP (and invest in the UCIS) was unsuitable 
and Mr B should be put back in a position approximate to that if he hadnt transferred.
Portal responded to say:
The advice to transfer to the SIPP was suitable.  Mr B required tax-free cash and one of 
his existing providers didnt provide the option of accessing tax-free cash directly. The 
SIPP in itself wasnt expensive and was competitive with stakeholder plans.
The index used to calculate the redress didnt adequately match the risk profile of a 
moderately cautious investor. It should include a bond element and it suggested an 
alternative benchmark
The investigator responded to say:
The advice to transfer wasnt separate from the investments made and the costs involved. 
Even if mainstream investments had been made its unlikely investment performance 
couldve exceeded the costs involved in the relatively short time until retirement.
The advice to transfer was inextricably linked to the investments made and the costs 
involved in doing so. The intention behind the transfer was to make those investments 
which were completely unsuitable for Mr B
The benchmark selected is suitable for someone of Mr Bs attitude to risk. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator. The advice to transfer 
and the investments recommended were wholly unsuitable for Mr B. I say this because:
Mr B was 57 years of age and fairly assessed as a moderately cautious investor and yet 
the advice was to put the large majority of his funds in high-risk funds. Putting his 
retirement provision at risk with little time to recover if large fluctuations occurred.
The advice meant that the charges taken from his pension fund were increased 
significantly without any evidence of likely benefit.
Mr B didnt have many years left until his likely retirement and therefore even if the 
investment advice had been suitable for him  its unlikely this wouldve outperformed the 
additional charges to an extent that Mr B would see benefit from the advice to transfer to 
the SIPP. The regulator provided guidance in 2008 around pension switching and this was 
one of the reasons highlighted where advice was deemed unsuitable.
Investment in UCIS even at a small proportion was unsuitable for Mr B. Mr B didnt have 
the necessary experience or knowledge for this to have been suitable for him. And 
regulatory guidance for even those it may be suitable for, was that the investment 
proportion in UCIS should be restricted to between 3 to 5%. Here 95% of Mr Bs funds 
were invested in UCIS.
Portal appears to be suggesting we should separate the transfer advice and investment 
advice and then agree the advice to transfer was suitable because Mr B required the tax-free 
cash. At the time the adviser made no material attempt to consider or set out alternative 
options which was to Mr Bs detriment  theres no doubt in my mind this course of action 
was set the moment Mr B agreed to be a client of Portals. The advice was given so that he 
could be invested in the UCIS. This paragraph from the recommendation is in itself rather 
telling:
some of the partners of Portal Financial may also have business interests in some of the 
funds invested in through your personal pension. Portal Financial will not receive any 
commission through the investment that we may recommend to you.Due to the fact that 
if the fund grows it is mutually beneficial, we believe that there is no conflict of interest.
Whilst I accept Mr B may have wished to access his tax-free cash and with his debt 
situation, accessing it early may not have been unsuitable in itself. And one of his existing 
providers didnt offer the ability to take tax-free cash without income. It doesnt look like the 
adviser spent any time considering the alternatives or whether taking tax-free cash was 
required to manage this debt. Or whether alternatives to the transfer to the SIPP couldve 
better facilitated Mr Bs needs. Theres a clear failure under COBS 5.24 and the requirement 
to Know Your Client. 
Given the lack of care taken at the time of the advice and lack of information collected and 
provided to Mr B, I dont think its reasonable for Portal to now attempt to re-engineer the 
advice to something it wasnt at the time and argue that it was suitable  when at the time 
the customers circumstances werent fully considered and neither were the alternatives to 
the transfer to the SIPP and UCIS investment. Mr B may have required tax-free cash and a 
transfer but there were many cheaper alternatives to do so, other than the course of action 
Portal set him down, if he did require this. The advice given wasnt suitable and didnt consider his circumstances then in any detail. 
And the advice was given to transfer to facilitate the investment with the UCIS. So in the 
circumstances I dont think the fact Mr B may have required the tax-free cash is a defence. 
That said any tax-free cash that Mr B has received since the advice was given should be 
deducted from any loss suffered. As Mr B will have had already had the use of this money.
I also agree with the investigators findings regarding the benchmark selected. I think it is 
suitable for someone of Mr Bs risk profile.
In conclusion the advice to transfer Mr Bs existing pensions and transfer into a SIPP to 
make high-risk investments was wholly unsuitable. Mr B needs to be compensated for this 
unsuitable advice. Its difficult to say what he wouldve done had he been given suitable 
advice, so compensation inline with a suitable benchmark seems the fairest solution to this 
issue.
Putting things right
To compensate Mr B fairly Portal should:
Compare the performance of Mr B investments within the SIPP with that of the benchmark 
shown below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation 
is payable. Portal should also pay any interest set out below.
If there is a loss, Portal should pay into Mr B's pension plan, to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest. Portals payment should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. Portal shouldnt pay the compensation into the pension 
plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Portal are unable to pay the compensation into Mr B's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a 
taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr B's actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at his selected retirement age.
For example, if Mr B is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the 
reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr B would have been able 
to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
In addition, Portal should pay Mr B £400 for the distress caused by the loss of his pension 
plan.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Portal consider that it is required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, Portal should tell Mr B how 
much its taken off. Portal should also give Mr B a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, 
so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.investment 
namestatus Benchmark from (start 
date)to (end date) additional 
interest
 SIPP still existsFTSE UK
Private Investors 
Income Total 
Return Indexdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple per 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation is 
not paid within 
28 days of the 
business being 
notified of 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If, at the end date, the investment is illiquid (meaning it cannot be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult to find the actual value of the investment. So, the actual value 
should be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Portal should take ownership of 
the illiquid investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension provider. This 
amount should be deducted from the compensation and the balance paid as above.
If Portal are unable to purchase the investment the actual value should be assumed to be nil 
for the purpose of calculation. Portal may wish to require that Mr B provides an undertaking 
to pay Portal any amount he may receive from the investment in the future. That undertaking 
must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the 
pension plan. Portal will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Portal total all those payments and deduct that figure at the 
end instead of deducting periodically.
As the SIPP only exists because of the advice Portal gave, in order for the SIPP to be 
closed and further SIPP fees prevented, the illiquid investments need to be removed. 
But if Portal cant buy them, Mr B is faced with future SIPP fees. Our investigator 
recommended that Portal pay five years worth of SIPP fees if it couldnt buy the 
investment. I think this is reasonable as Mr B hasnt got the opportunity to close the SIPP 
or switch to another pension if the illiquid investment remains in it. So, if Portal cant buy the investment and it remains illiquid, it should pay Mr B an amount equal to five years of 
SIPP fees based on the current tariff. This is in addition to the compensation calculated 
using a nil value for the investment.
Portal should provide the details of the calculation to Mr B in a clear, simple format.
Why is this remedy suitable
Mr B wanted capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 
2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a 
range of indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and 
government bonds. Its a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take 
some risk to get a higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of 
comparison given Mr B' circumstances and risk attitude.
Further information
There is guidance on how to carry out calculations available on our website, which can be 
found by following this link: https://www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk/businesses/resolving- 
complaint/understanding-compensation/compensation-investment-complaints. Alternatively, 
just type compensation for investment in our website:
www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Bs complaint against Portal Financial Services LLP and direct it to put things 
right as explained above, following Mr Bs acceptance of this decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2021.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman