DRN-2967048
The complaint
Miss K is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc has refunded only half of the £5,180 she lost to 
an investment scam.
What happened
Miss K says she made trading investments from someone she found through Instagram.
Miss K followed and messaged the person who claimed to be a full licenced trader who 
worked on behalf of clients for 15% commission fee. Unbeknownst to Miss K at the time, the 
trader was in fact a fraudster.
The fraudster told Miss K her success rate was 97.6%, with investments starting from £650 
with a return profit of £1,500-£2,000 guaranteed to be made within the same day. Miss K 
was told there was a no loss guarantee and that she couldnt lose money on her investment- 
that as a first-time trader she was entitled to a full refund. 
The fraudster told Miss K once the payment was made, shed be issued with a digital receipt 
as well as a confirmation text and terms and conditions. And that at the end of the trade an 
official invoice would be sent with a breakdown of the stock.
The fraudster also said Miss K would have all its bank account information, which is easily 
traced, its office-based address and personal contact number. 
Contact between Miss K and the fraudster then moved across to a messaging service, 
outside of the social media platform. 
Miss K proceeded to make payments from two separate banking service providers. As this 
complaint is against HSBC, Ill only be considering the transfers made from her HSBC 
student account, which were as follows:
 Payee Date and time Amount Method
Payee 1 22 July 2020
08:44£680 Mobile banking 
Payee 1 22 July 2020
11:45£500 Mobile banking 
Payee 1 22 July 2020
17:44£400 Mobile banking 
Payee 2 24 July 2020
15:49£500 Mobile banking 
Payee 3 26 July 2020
17:16£600 Mobile banking 
Payee 4 28 July 2020
10:41£2,500 Mobile banking 
Miss Ks complaint about the payments she made with the other banking service provider 
will be considered under a separate complaint with our service. 
Miss K made the first payment of £680 for the trade. A few hours later Miss K says she was 
told more was needed to improve the trade  so she sent the payment of £500. Miss K was 
told the trade had been done and she had made a profit of £2,485.85. To withdraw the 
funds, she was told she needed to pay a fee  Miss K sent the payment of £400. 
The fraudster told Miss K the fee was late and was told she had to pay this again but that 
this had increased. This was the payment of £500 Miss K made to payee 2 on 24 July 2020. 
Miss K was told again the fee had been paid late and so she needed to pay this again. As a 
result of this Miss K made another three payments in respect of the late fee  the payment 
shown above of £600 on 26 July 2020 to payee 3 and two other payments with the other 
banking service provider.
Miss K says she was told by the fraudster she would be paid the profit on top of the money 
shed put in. 
Following this Miss K was passed to a financial coordinator who asked her to pay a final fee 
of £1,200. This was paid from Miss Ks other account. However, she was told this again was 
late and so Miss K made a further payment for her other account. 
After the fraudster confirmed the fee Miss K was expecting her return payment. But Miss K 
was told as the profit had increased there was one last fee to pay. Miss K made the payment 
of £2,500 from her HSBC account to payee 4 on 28 July 2020. The fraudster then told 
Miss K there was a mistake and this point Miss K asked for a refund of the money shed 
paid. 
It was at this point, after making all payments to the fraudster, Miss K saw shed been 
blocked by the fraudsters (the finance coordinator and the trader shed initially been in 
contact with). Its then she realised shed been the victim of a scam. 
Miss K says contact was made via a friend with the fraudsters in an attempt to resolve 
things, but she was subsequently blocked again. 
 
Miss K reported the incident to HSBC on 4 August 2020 and it investigated her fraud claim. 
HSBC was able to recover £1.85 from one of the beneficiary banks but the other beneficiary 
bank confirmed no funds remained. 
HSBC considered its obligations under the Lending Standards Board Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code, of which it is a signatory. The Code requires firms to 
reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP scams like this in all but a limited 
number of circumstances. HSBC says one of the exceptions in the Code applies, in that 
Miss K could have carried out more checks before making the payments. And so it said 
Miss K ought to bear some responsibility for her loss. HSBC did recognise it could have 
done more to protect Miss K to warn her of this type of scam when she made the payments. 
And so, it agreed to refund her half of her loss - £2,590 was credited to Miss Ks account on 
7 September 2020. 
Miss K was unhappy with HSBCs answer and so brought the case to us. One of our 
investigators considered all that had happened and felt the bank had fairly answered 
Miss Ks complaint. She said the concerns HSBC had raised about the legitimacy of the 
payments were enough to support its position that Miss K failed to meet her requisite level of 
care under the code and so thought it had done enough in refunding half of her loss. Miss K was also unhappy with the customer service shed received from HSBC, in particular 
the wait times when calling the fraud team and the availability of branch appointments. Our 
investigator contacted HSBC about this, and it agreed to pay Miss K £150 compensation for 
the inconvenience caused. Our investigator didnt think it was unreasonable for HSBC to ask 
its customers to book appointments, nor did she think the wait time of one week for a branch 
appointment was unreasonable  given the number of customers. However, HSBC did 
recognise it was likely the fraud team was experiencing long wait times to get through and so 
she thought its offer of £150 compensation in recognition of this was fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances. 
Miss K disagreed and so the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset Id like to recognise Miss Ks strength of feeling about what has happened here 
and I appreciate she has raised a number of points in response to her complaint. While I 
may not specifically comment on each and every point thats been raised this does not mean 
I have not considered all of the information thats been given to me by both Miss K and 
HSBC. Simply, I have commented on the aspects that I feel are key to this complaint. 
Having done so, I think HSBCs refund of half of the lost funds is fair. And its offer of £150 as 
compensation for the level of service Miss K received is also fair. Ill explain why.
Theres no dispute that Miss K authorised the payments that are the subject of this 
complaint, even though she did so as a result of being deceived by fraudsters. Broadly 
speaking, under the account terms and conditions and the Payment Service Regulations 
2017, she would normally be liable for them. But that isnt the end of the story. 
Where a customer has been the victim of a scam it may be appropriate for the bank to 
reimburse the customer, even though payments have been properly authorised. Of particular 
relevance to the question of what is fair and reasonable in this case is the Lending 
Standards Boards voluntary Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code), which 
HSBC has signed up to. 
Under the CRM Code, the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who 
is the victim of an APP scam, like Miss K. The circumstances where a firm may choose not 
to reimburse are limited and it is for the firm to establish that a customer failed to meet their 
requisite level of care, as set out in the Code. 
One such circumstance is where the bank can demonstrate that the customer made the 
payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that: 
 the payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay;
 the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or 
 the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate.
 
In considering these points, all of the circumstances of the case should be taken into 
account, including the characteristics of the customer and the complexity of the scam.
 
Ive thought carefully about the scam Miss K fell victim to and Im in agreement with our 
investigator  I will explain why. HSBC has fairly held Miss K responsible for half of her loss. 
I dont find she had a reasonable basis for believing the payments were for a legitimate investment or that she was engaged with legitimate parties. Im satisfied there were warning 
signs that all was not as it seemed. This ought to have led Miss K to question the investment 
opportunity and to carry out checks into its legitimacy. Had she done so, I believe the scam 
would have been avoided. Ill explain why in more detail. 
I find the initial offering itself, of turning £650 into £1,500 - £2,000 within the same day, to be 
improbable to the point of it being too good to be true. Miss K has said shed seen a friend 
go through this kind of trade where their money was doubled. She also says shed seen this 
through mutual contacts which shared the trades they did specifically with the fraudsters. 
And whilst that might be true, delivering between a 200%- 300% return within the same day 
does not seem likely. Ive also not seen evidence to suggest that Miss K was provided with a 
persuasive explanation of how this might be achieved. But this isnt the only factor. Miss K 
was also offered a no loss guarantee- where the fraudster told her their success rate was 
97.6% and that shed never lose money on her investment as she was entitled to a full 
refund. Miss K has said she had no knowledge and experience of investing. And while Ive 
have considered this carefully, I believe this ought to have caused her to question what was 
being offered. It seems an unrealistic feature of any investment opportunity.
There are then the channels through which the alleged investment was found, and the 
investment made. This all took place on social media and messaging apps. Miss K has said 
social media has become one of the many places people have businesses and so, she didnt 
think this could not be a way of going through a legitimate trade. Ive thought carefully about 
this, but I find it unlikely a genuine investment firm would arrange genuine investments via a 
social media platform or messaging app. And Im not persuaded the channels used in this 
case, is consistent with the usual set up for a legitimate trading company.
Miss K was given the traders number which she says she could call if needed. She was also 
provided with the bank account details which she was told was easily traceable and its 
office-based address. But Miss K didnt check the individual trader was licenced as claimed 
and didnt check the company online through Companies House or the FCA website. From 
what Ive seen Miss K doesnt appear to have been given a company name to check, and 
Ive seen no evidence that shows she asked for one. Further when looking at the office- 
based address provided I note having searched this the postcode provided is for a different 
area as to where the office is said to be located. Miss K also made the payments to multiple 
payees in personal names. Miss K says this was because she was told these were the 
details for the accountant available at the time. I think its fair to say that Miss K ought to 
have been some concerns the payments werent being made to an actual investment 
company, instead going to individuals.
I know Miss K has said she read peoples stories on their successful trades and said it is not 
possible for so many people to lie or be fake given their proof of transactions. But Im afraid I 
cant agree. I say this because there would be little way to check the legitimacy of those 
posts or that people had actually made money through the fraudsters services. And I dont 
find that such posts would be enough to counter all of the other concerns that ought to have 
arisen over the course of the scam, and the general lack of investigation into the legitimacy 
of the fraudster, the position they claimed to hold  licenced trader - or the proposed 
investment offered. 
I also think the continued requests for further payments became increasingly implausible as 
the time went on. When the fraudster asked Miss K to pay more fees on the basis that the 
previous payment was received late and, that the amounts increased - I think this ought to 
have raised questions with Miss K especially given the amount of profit she was expecting to 
receive at this point.The bank has already agreed to refund half Miss Ks loss on the basis that it could have 
done more to warn her of this type of scam when making the payments, so I wont comment 
on the warnings here. I believe the refund represents a fair and reasonable settlement of 
Miss Ks complaint. 
I appreciate Miss K feels the bank hasnt done enough and should reimburse her more than 
50% of her loss. But Im satisfied HSBC has fairly applied the CRM Code in respect of her 
complaint. I am sorry that Miss K has been the victim of a cruel scam and Ive no doubt that 
the £2,590 is a significant sum to her. But I cant fairly ask the bank to compensate her the 
remaining loss for the reasons Ive explained above. 
I have also taken into account what Miss K has told us about her family situation. But I dont 
think these circumstances meant she was unable to protect herself from the scam. So this 
doesnt change my findings. 
customer service 
Ive carefully considered Miss Ks concerns about the customer service she received once 
she realised shed been the victim of a scam - in particular those relating to the waiting times 
when calling the fraud team and the waiting time for a branch appointment. While I recognise 
Miss Ks personal views about this, I am in agreement that given the number of banking 
customers HSBC has, I dont find a one week wait for an appointment in branch to be 
unreasonable in the circumstances. However, HSBC did recognise it was likely the fraud 
team was experiencing long wait times to get through and offered £150 in recognition of the 
inconvenience this caused. I consider this to be a fair and reasonable offer and make no 
further award on this point. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. 
HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay Miss K £150 compensation in recognition of the customer 
service received if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 October 2021.
 
Staci Rowland
Ombudsman