DRN-4121799
The complaint
Miss B has complained that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) acted 
irresponsibly by increasing her overdraft limit and continuing to apply charges to her account 
when it should have realised her finances had gotten worse and she was no longer able to 
clear her overdraft.
What happened
In March 2016 Miss B held a bank account with Halifax with an overdraft limit of £450. This 
was increased to £650 in December 2016, and further increased to £700 and £750 January 
and February 2017 and then £1,050 in March 2017 following which her overdraft limit 
continued increasing until it reached £4,020. 
Miss B complained to Halifax about this and Halifax issued its final response in October 
2022 agreeing that it shouldnt have agreed any further overdraft applications from 22 
August 2017. Halifax agreed to refund all interest and overdraft fees charged since 22 
August 2017 amounting to £6,543.10 which included £294.10 interest and £70 
compensation for any upset caused.  Halifax partially applied the refund to settle Miss Bs 
outstanding overdraft debt and paid the remainder to another of her accounts.
Miss B was dis-satisfied with this and brought her complaint to this service. Miss Bs 
complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They said they were unable to look at 
all of Miss Bs complaint points as the complaint points relating to the closure of Miss Bs 
account and repayment plans offered had already been considered as part of an earlier 
complaint in March 2022 and had been brought by Miss B to this service too late. They 
agreed that Halifax shouldnt have agreed further lending from August 2017 but as Halifax 
had already refunded fees and charges from this point  in line with our approach - that 
Halifax didnt need to do anything more.
Miss B disagreed. She is unhappy that Halifax applied the refund to her outstanding 
overdraft balance and thinks that her overdraft balance shouldve been written off. She 
doesnt believe the £70 compensation is enough considering the stress and anxiety the 
lending has caused her and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
I issued my provisional decision on 2 May 2023. In my provisional decision, I explained why 
I was proposing to uphold Miss Bs complaint. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Miss B has provided further information but overall it does not add anything new to 
what has already been considered. While Halifax has confirmed it will settle the complaint in-
line with my provisional decision which amounts to paying Miss B a further £183 plus 8% 
interest.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said that:
To be clear my decision only addresses Miss Bs complaint point regarding the affordability 
of the overdraft lending. I am unable to look at the previous complaint points Miss B raised 
because Halifax have already provided an answer to these and Miss B failed to bring these 
complaint points to our service within six months of Halifaxs final response letter.
Halifax will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when making 
lending decisions and applying overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all 
of this out in this decision.
Ive considered whether there were instances where Halifax didnt treat Miss B fairly and 
reasonably. And from March 2016 up until March 2017 (when Miss Bs overdraft limit was 
increased from £750 to £1,050) I dont think that Halifax did treat Miss B unfairly or 
unreasonably. I say this because having looked at Miss Bs statements Im not persuaded 
that Miss Bs overdraft limit was unaffordable for her or that she was experiencing financial 
difficulties. Miss B was receiving a regular salary of around £1,400 and was able to bring the 
overdraft down before once again going on to use her overdraft to make debit card 
transactions, money transfers and cash withdrawals. 
I accept Miss B didnt maintain a credit balance for more than a month at a time, but I think 
this was overall due to Miss Bs spending habits rather than severe financial hardship. 
And while Im not seeking to make retrospective value judgements over Miss B expenditure, 
nonetheless there are significant amounts of non-committed, non-contractual and 
discretionary transactions  in particular regular spending on retail, fast food and leisure 
activities. 
So, in these circumstances I dont think that it was unreasonable for Halifax to proceed with 
adding the interest, fees and charges it did in light of how Miss Bs account was being used. 
However, I dont think Halifax shouldve agreed to increase Miss Bs overdraft limit by £300  
from £750 to £1,020 in March 2017. And I think it acted unfairly when it continued charging 
overdraft interest and associated fees from this point.  
I say this because the statements show in the months leading up to this increase Miss B 
spent a lot more time at the top of her limit and rarely saw a credit balance. The statements 
show that Miss B was able to reduce her overdraft when credits came into her account, but 
almost as soon as the credits came in the money would go back out again. And overall Miss 
Bs overdraft was not reducing. 
Miss B appeared to be struggling to manage her existing overdraft limit and I think that 
Halifax ought to have realised that increasing her limit and continuing to allow Miss B to use 
her overdraft in this way wasnt in her best interests and there was a significant risk that she 
may not be able to pay back what she already owed within a reasonable period of time. 
Halifaxs own literature suggests that overdrafts are for unforeseen emergency borrowing 
and as Miss B wasnt using her overdraft as intended Halifax shouldnt have continued 
offering it on the same terms.So Im currently minded to think that Halifax should not have agreed to increase Miss Bs 
overdraft limit and instead treated Miss B with forbearance. As Halifax didnt react to Miss 
Bs overdraft usage and instead increased her borrowing and continued charging in the 
same way, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably. And this means that it should put 
things right.  
Halifax has already refunded overdraft fees and charges from a few months later in August 
2017. Miss B says Halifax shouldve written off the outstanding balance of her overdraft and 
not applied the refund to this. But in cases such as hers where a business increases or 
continued to allow a consumer to use a credit facility which it should have realised was 
unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put the consumer in the position theyd be in now if 
they hadnt paid any further interest and charges on that credit. This means wed normally 
expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added to any credit from the point the 
lender ought to have realised it was unsustainable. And if those interest and charges were 
paid also add 8% simple interest per year. And we think it is fair to apply any refunds in 
interest and charges to an outstanding debt. Miss B had the use and benefit of the funds and 
Halifax is entitled to be paid back.
So while Miss B is unhappy with this - I havent been given a reason for departing from our 
normal approach to putting things right in cases such as hers.
As neither party has provided any further new evidence or arguments that I consider would 
change the outcome from my provisional findings, I see no reason to depart from the 
conclusions set out in my provisional decision. It follows that I uphold this complaint. 
Putting things right
I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of Miss Bs complaint for 
Halifax to put things right by:
Re-working Miss Bs current overdraft balance so that any additional interest, fees
and charges applied as a result of the overdraft limit increase from March 2017 
onwards are removed. 
AND
If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Miss Bs
credit file, it should backdate this to March 2017.
OR
If there is no longer an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as 
overpayments and returned to Miss B along with 8% simple interest on the 
overpayments from the date they were made (if they were) until the date of 
settlement. If no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, 
then Halifax should remove any adverse information from Miss Bs credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Halifax to take off tax from this interest. Halifax must 
give Miss B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Miss Bs complaint and direct Bank of Scotland plc 
to pay the fair compensation outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 June 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman