DRN-4137995
The complaint
Mrs F complains about Domestic and General Insurance PLC (D&G) as she was unable to 
contact them to make a claim under her appliance insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs F had a policy with D&G. Her fridge freezer broke down and she attempted to contact 
them initially via the phone. She explained that over the course of a few days she was 
unable to log the claim successfully with D&G. She tried the telephone numbers on the 
policy, but to no avail. She received an automated response that she would get an email but 
didnt receive that. So, she tried phoning again on another day, with the same result. 
Following Mrs Fs unsuccessful contacts with D&G, she referred a complaint to our service. 
The case was allocated to our investigator and after the issue of the final response from 
D&G, in which it directed Mrs F to the correct telephone numbers she needed, to log a claim, 
it said that it was unable to uphold her complaint. 
Our investigator considered the complaint and thought it shouldnt be upheld. He said that 
D&G had provided call records and there was no record of Mrs F having called them. The 
two numbers that Mrs F called, D&G said that one wasnt recognised as theirs and the other 
related to another business. Further, D&G offered to carry out a repair of Mrs Fs appliance, 
but it couldnt do so as Mrs F had confirmed that she had disposed of the appliance and 
replaced it. Consequently, our investigator said that there was nothing further he could ask 
D&G to do. 
D&G accepted the view, Mrs F did not. She reiterated her points that she had tried to contact 
D&G at various times on numerous occasions, over the course of two days, but to no avail. 
She said that D&G simply ignored her and ultimately, she had to replace the appliance 
herself. So, she asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our 
investigator. I understand that this might be a disappointment to Mrs F, but I hope my 
findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
I have considered both parties comments and the evidence both have provided. Mrs F said 
she initially started to contact D&G on 19 February 2023 to report the breakdown of her 
fridge freezer. She said that she spent several hours trying to get through on two different 
numbers, that she said she found on her policy. 
Eventually, when she was unsuccessful, she thought that she would receive an email from 
D&G but she received nothing. Mrs F said that the next day she also didnt receive an email. 
She tried again the following day and again was unsuccessful. Ultimately, Mrs F bought a 
new fridge freezer.
D&G sent me the call history and it said that there were no calls received from Mrs F on 18 
and 19 February 2023. The last call it had received was in 2021. So, it said that it was more 
likely than not, that Mrs F called another company. 
In addition, it said that Mrs F told them that she was informed that she would have to make a 
payment to ask a question online. D&G said that this, wasnt something that it wouldve 
asked for. 
Finally, D&G said that the telephone numbers that Mrs F said she was using to contact 
them, were not numbers attributable to D&G. So, it couldnt say whether Mrs F had made fair 
and reasonable attempts to contact them. 
Based on the evidence that Ive read and the information from both parties, Im persuaded 
that Mrs F more likely than not, contacted a different business and not D&G. And because of 
this, I cant agree that D&G were at fault. 
I have also been provided with a call recording in which Mrs F registered her new appliance. 
During the call she mentioned that a family member advised her to purchase a new fridge 
freezer, which she did. She also mentioned that she found it very difficult to use online and 
that she was asked for £5.00 to ask a question online. 
D&G again informed Mrs F that this didnt relate to them. And I have seen no evidence that 
supports that a charge would be sought from Mrs F to ask a question online. Further, 
although Mrs F said that her family member advised her to buy a new appliance, I have seen 
no evidence that this family member assisted her in trying to contact D&G, which might have 
helped. 
Finally, as Mrs F has now disposed of the faulty appliance, D&G no longer have the 
opportunity to assess or repair it. Consequently, I cant recommend that D&G should provide 
any further assistance with the faulty fridge freezer. 
Whilst I understand how disappointed Mrs F will be, I dont think that D&G did anything 
wrong here. I dont think that Mrs F contacted them via phone or online. So, I cant 
reasonably ask D&G to do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman