DRN-3870375
The complaint
P, a limited company, complains that Metro Bank PLC did not refund all of the money lost 
when it fell victim to an invoice intercept scam.
Mr B, the director of P, represents it in its complaint. 
What happened
The facts of this case are well known to both parties, so I have summarised only the key 
details here. 
A supplier of Ps had its email account compromised, leading to an invoice the 
supplier was sending for P to pay being intercepted. The bank details for payment 
were changed. 
This meant a payment of just over £19,000 that P made from its Metro account on 
18 November 2021 went to a fraudster and not to the supplier P thought it was 
paying.
Mr B said he makes all of Ps payments. He explained that the email came from the 
suppliers genuine email address. Hed been in contact with the supplier and was 
expecting to receive this request for payment. Mr B is concerned that Metro allowed 
him to make a payment of this size to a new payee without any challenge. 
At the time Mr B made the payment on Ps behalf, Metro was not signed up to the 
Confirmation of Payee name checking service. 
The scam only came to light when the supplier contacted Mr B to chase up the 
payment it had been waiting for.
Mr B immediately contacted Metro. The bank made a mistake and logged a payment recall 
request and not a scam claim. The delay in logging the claim correctly meant that over 
£6,000 that would have otherwise been recovered was lost. Metro was ultimately only able 
to recover £51.88 from the receiving bank, but it paid P the funds that it lost the opportunity 
to try and recover due to the banks mistake. 
Metro said it was not responsible for refunding the remainder of Ps loss. It said Ps turnover 
was too large so the payment was not covered by the Contingent Reimbursement Model 
Code (the CRM Code), which is a voluntary scheme Metro has signed up to designed to 
reimburse customers that have fallen victim to an authorised push payment scam. 
Mr B complained. In its final response letter, Metro paid P £100 compensation to 
acknowledge it had given poor service when he reported the scam. 
Mr B was unhappy with the banks response and referred the complaint to this service. 
When Metro provided its complaint file to us, it maintained its stance that the payment was 
not covered by the CRM Code. It said P does not fall under the definition of a customer 
under the Code.
Our Investigator looked into the matter. He issued his view upholding the complaint on 
20 October 2022. He thought P was a micro-enterprise and said the disputed payment was 
covered by the CRM Code. He didnt think any exceptions to reimbursement under the CRM 
Code applied in this case. In particular, he didnt think Metro had shown it had provided an 
effective warning to Mr B, and he thought it was reasonable for Mr B to believe he was 
making a legitimate payment to Ps supplier. 
The Investigator concluded Metro ought to have reimbursed the remainder of Ps loss under 
the provisions of the CRM Code at the time it made the claim. He said Metro should now 
settle the complaint by refunding the outstanding £13,124.16 together with interest on the 
sum at the simple rate of 8% a year from the date it declined Ps claim to the date of 
settlement.
Metro disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman to review the complaint. It said that P 
needed to be a micro-enterprise for its claim to be considered under the CRM Code and it 
maintained that it was not eligible. Upon request, the bank provided copies of its payment 
warning messages but was unable to confirm what information was presented to Mr B at the 
time. As no agreement could be reached, the complaint was referred to me.
After the complaint was referred to me, Metro confirmed to this service that it did now accept 
that P was a micro-enterprise and that it should have considered its claim under the CRM 
Code. It made no comment about whether it agreed with our Investigators view that P 
should be fully reimbursed under the CRM Code.
I contacted Metro on 22 March 2023 and asked it to confirm its position on whether it would 
now refund P under the CRM Code by 29 March 2023. I explained that if Metro did not reply, 
I would need to decide based on the information that I currently have. 
Despite being given a fair opportunity to do so, Metro did not respond. That deadline has 
now passed and the bank has still failed to respond. Mr B told us hed taken on extra debt to 
cover the missing money and things are getting increasingly tight financially for P. As such, 
I now need to make a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding it. 
Our statutory rules provide  at DISP 3.5.8 to 3.5.15 of the Financial Conduct Authority 
Handbook  that we may give case-management directions and fix or extend deadlines; and 
that we may: 
reach a decision on the basis of what has been supplied and take account of the failure by 
a party to provide information requested; 
And that 
If a respondent fails to comply with a time limit, the Ombudsman may: (1) proceed with 
consideration of the complaint; and (2) include provision for any material distress or material 
inconvenience caused by that failure in any award which he decides to make. Ive therefore concluded that, in the absence of any further response from Metro, it is fair and 
reasonable to proceed on the basis of the evidence we already have and/or to take account 
of Metros failure to confirm whether it agrees or disagrees with our Investigators view.
Ive considered whether P ought to have been reimbursed when Mr B notified Metro of the 
scam. I agree that Ps claim is eligible to be considered under the CRM Code and I am not 
persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to full reimbursement under the CRM Code apply 
in the circumstances of this case.
The starting point in law is that P is presumed liable for any transaction it authorises. Having 
looked at Ps statements in the lead up to the scam, its not unusual for P to make large 
payments to pay invoices, and so, at the time Mr B made this payment, P is considered to 
have authorised it. This is the case even though it was later discovered that P had been 
tricked into doing so. But Metro has signed up to the CRM Code. The CRM Code says that 
signatory firms should refund customers that fall victim to an authorised push payment scam 
like this one except in a small number of circumstances.
It is for Metro to establish that a customer failed to meet a requisite level of care under one, 
or more, of the listed exceptions set out in the CRM Code. 
Those exceptions are:
The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made.
The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that: the 
payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted 
was legitimate. There are other exceptions which arent applicable here. I have 
considered whether Metro has done enough to show that any exceptions apply to Ps 
case.
The CRM code says that, where firms identify APP scam risks, they should provide effective 
warnings to their customers. It sets out that an effective warning should enable a customer 
to understand what actions they need to take to address a risk and the consequences of not 
doing so. And it says that, as a minimum, an effective warning should be understandable, 
clear, impactful, timely and specific.
Metro cannot be sure what information it presented at the time Mr B made the payment on 
Ps behalf. Ive looked at the information Metro has provided, but I am not persuaded that 
any of the information that could potentially have been shown to him was impactful enough 
in the context of this scam to meet the minimum requirements of an effective warning under 
the CRM Code. Nothing Ive seen really brings alive what a scam of this nature looks and 
feels like. It follows that I am not persuaded that Metro gave an effective warning to Mr B, 
nor do I consider that he ignored one.  
Ive also thought about the steps Mr B took to reassure himself about the legitimacy of the 
transaction and whether it was reasonable for him to proceed with the payment. Mr B has 
explained that he believed the invoice was genuine. He had no concerns about the email 
address it came from. In addition, the fraudulent invoice looked identical to the suppliers 
genuine correspondence. From what I have seen, it would have been very difficult for Mr B, 
or anyone else, to tell that he had received a fraudulent invoice. I have compared the 
fraudulent invoice to a genuine one from the same supplier. The only change to the format of 
the invoice was the substitution of the account details. There was also no reason for Mr B to 
think he wasnt communicating with the genuine supplier or that the payment request hadnt 
really come from them. Mr B had been in touch with the supplier and was expecting to make this payment so receiving the invoice did not arouse any concern, nor do I think it ought to 
have done. 
From what I have seen, I am satisfied that there was no particular reason for Mr B to find the 
payment request unusual or to doubt its authenticity. I dont think it was unreasonable for 
him to have made the payment in the circumstances that he did. I am not persuaded that 
Mr B failed to take the requisite level of care required for Metro to choose not to reimburse 
under the term of the CRM Code, especially as Metro has not shown that exceptions to 
reimbursement apply to this case. 
Putting things right
The CRM Code explains that where a customer has met their requisite level of care (which 
as Ive explained, Im satisfied was the case here) they should be refunded all of the money 
that was lost. So I think its fair that Metro now refunds the remainder of the money P lost, 
along with interest as Ive outlined below.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint about Metro Bank PLC. 
To put things right, Metro Bank PLC should now:
Pay P a refund of the money that was lost to the scam, less any funds it has been 
able to recover and any redress that it has already paid
As P has been deprived the use of those funds, it should also pay 8% simple interest 
from the date Metro declined Ps claim under the CRM Code until the date of 
settlement
If Metro considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell P how much its taken off. It should also give P a tax deduction 
certificate if it asks for one, so P can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2023.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman