DRN-3144661
The complaint
Mr M complains that esure Insurance Limited unfairly refused to pay a claim he made on his 
motor insurance policy and voided the policy.
What happened
Mr M had a motor insurance policy with esure. He bought a car from abroad. He phoned 
esure to arrange to put the new car on his policy. But when he explained that he was 
importing the car esure said that the only imported cars it covers are ones which have been 
imported to UK specs from European countries. Mr M said during the call that hed been 
mistaken about the country hed originally said the car was coming from. But neither country 
Mr M referred to was in Europe. Esures adviser said that esure couldnt insure Mr Ms car 
even though Mr M stressed it was built to UK specifications. This was because it fell outside 
esures criteria.
Just under four weeks later Mr M had got a new number plate for the car from DVLA. He 
phoned esure again and spoke to a different adviser. She took various details of the car. But 
she never asked whether the car was imported. The new car was put on Mr Ms policy.
The catalytic converter was subsequently stolen from Mr Ms car. Esures engineer 
considered that the car was written off as a result. But in the course of inspecting the car, he 
noticed that it was from overseas. And the country it had been imported from wasnt in 
Europe.
Esure refused to pay Mr Ms claim. It said that the answers Mr M gave to the advisers 
questions on the second phone call didnt accurately reflect the true origin of the vehicle and 
the vehicle registration number. So in addition to refusing to pay the claim, it considered that 
it was justified in voiding the policy.
Mr M wasnt happy with esures decision, and brought his complaint to us.
One of our investigators considered Mr Ms complaint, and thought it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said esure shouldnt have voided Mr Ms policy, as it hadnt asked whether the 
car was imported. And since Mr M hadnt been asked the question, he hadnt said anything 
about where the car came from, so thered been no misrepresentation. So the investigator 
said esure should reinstate the policy, consider Mr Ms claim and pay him £300 as 
compensation for the inconvenience caused to Mr M by Esures handling of his claim.
Mr M was happy with the investigators view, but esure didnt agree, so the complaint was 
passed to me.
My provisional findings
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr M 
and to esure on 26 August 2021. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not planning to 
uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr M says he didnt remember what he was told in the first phone call when he phoned 
again a few weeks later to arrange the policy. He explained to esure he was making a lot of 
calls at the time. I accept that it may have been difficult to remember the details of what he 
was told on every call. But esure was Mr Ms existing insurer. That being the case, I think its 
unlikely hed have forgotten the gist of what esure said to him.
Mr M would have known after the first call with esure that he wasnt going to be able to 
insure the new car (which he explained that hed already gone ahead and bought) with 
esure. So he was going to need to find a new insurer. I think Mr M would have expected that 
finding a new insurer to take more time and effort than staying with his existing insurer. And 
even if he understandably didnt remember every bit of detail of the conversation hed had 
with esure, I think its highly unlikely that Mr M would have forgotten this crucial point.
Mr M says he looked at a number of insurers online and many of them asked specifically 
whether the applicants vehicle was imported, but esure didnt.
Ive listened to both the phone calls Mr M had with esure. Its true that in the second call, 
when the insurance was arranged, esure didnt ask him whether the car was imported. So 
Mr M didnt have to answer that question. But I note that Mr M said I think the registration 
number has been changed. Esure then asked him Is that the original number plate? When 
you bought the car was that what was on it? Mr M replied No. I think it was probably on a 
cherished plate or something, so its been changed.
Id generally consider, as the investigator said, that the onus is on an insurer to ask an 
applicant the questions it needs to know the answers to before deciding whether or not to 
insure. And I accept that technically the answer Mr M gave to esures question was right. 
The number plate on the car wasnt the original one.
But Im satisfied that Mr M knew that the reason the number plate had been changed was 
because the car had been imported, not because the previous number plate had been 
cherished. I think that he sought to steer esure away from any suspicion that the car was 
imported by speculating that the car might previously have had a cherished plate. And I think 
that he did this because he realised that esure wouldnt insure the car if it knew it was 
imported.
Taking everything into account, I dont consider that it would be appropriate for me to 
interfere with esures decision to refuse Mr Ms claim and to void his policy, or to require it to 
take any other action.
I realise that Mr M will be unhappy with my provisional decision, but Ive considered all the 
comments and evidence that both he and esure have provided very carefully. And for the 
reasons Ive set out, and based on what Ive seen so far, Im not intending to uphold Mr Ms 
complaint.
Further submissions
Esure has told us its happy with my provisional decision and doesnt have anything further 
to add. But Mr M has made detailed further submissions which hes asked me to take into 
account. Ive considered everything that Mr M has said in reaching my decision. But I hope 
hell understand if I focus on what I think are the most significant points hes made. Ill 
summarise those points here:He answered all the questions esure asked him. 
He thinks he spent a few days getting quotes, including one from esure. Some 
companies said theyd be willing to insure him. Others didnt.
Esures was the third best of the prices he was quoted. But the differences between the 
quotes werent too much, and he had no experience or history with the other insurers, 
and hadnt heard of them.
He genuinely didnt remember calling esure the previous month. Hed been suffering 
with serious health issues and had been in excruciating pain. He was on very strong 
painkillers, which affect his short-term memory.
He bought the car through an agent. The agent told him the registration plate would 
need to be changed, as the previous owner of the car still owned it. Hes never bought 
an imported car before, so he didnt know that the registration number would need to be 
changed when it was imported. He assumed that the existing plate would remain on the 
car.
He was always honest when getting the quotes. If hed remembered his previous 
conversation with esure, hed have insured the car with one of the other insurers whod 
quoted, and which were a little cheaper.
Esures website doesnt say anything about not covering imported cars. And it didnt say 
anything about imports in his renewal documents either. It could have asked a simple 
question to establish the position, and the whole situation could have been avoided.
Hes pretty much lost his independence, has suffered depression and has lost a car 
which he cant afford to replace. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about everything that Mr M has said in response to my provisional 
decision, including the points Ive itemised above. I know that Mr M will be disappointed, but 
Im not convinced that theres a good reason to change the conclusions I reached in my 
provisional decision.
Its not always possible to be sure what happened, or why someone did or said something. 
Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive, I need to decide what I thinks most likely 
to have happened, based on the information I have.
As I said in my provisional decision, Ive listened to both the phone calls Mr M had with 
esure. Im satisfied that when he made the first phone call, Mr M knew that the car had come 
from overseas. And during the call, it was made clear that since it had been imported from 
outside Europe, esure wasnt willing to insure it even though Mr M explained that the car met 
UK specifications. There was no ambiguity about the fact that esure wasnt willing to insure 
it. It was quite categorical.Ive listened again to the phone calls. In the first call Mr M was asked if he had the cars 
registration number. He said he didnt, and immediately explained that hed imported the car, 
and that the DVLA had told him to insure it using the vehicle identification number until it 
gave him a new registration number. So on the first call, Mr M was immediately forthcoming 
about the fact that the car was imported. And he seemed to link that to the fact that he 
needed to change the number plate.
Of course its possible that the number plate had also been cherished by the previous owner. 
But it was the fact that the car had been imported which Mr M mentioned in the first call, 
when he explained that he was waiting for a new number plate. And I think it would have 
been natural to mention this in the second call when he was asked whether the number plate 
was the original one. As it was, Mr M made no mention at all of the car having been imported 
during the second call. And on balance, I think he deliberately avoided referring to the fact 
that the car was imported. 
I accept that esures website may not say anything about whether it insures imported cars. 
And I take Mr Ms point that it would be a relatively easy question to ask. But this doesnt 
change my view. Im satisfied, on balance, that Mr M knew that the fact that the car was 
imported mattered to esure, and that if hed mentioned this during the call, it would have 
refused to insure him. 
I acknowledge that Mr Ms told us that his short-term memory has been affected by 
painkillers. And I have sympathy for the health problems hes experienced. But it was made 
clear to him in the first call that esure wasnt willing to insure his car because it was 
imported. And Im satisfied that Mr M understood this. As I said in my provisional decision, 
that meant hed need to change insurer, which would have been a bit of a nuisance 
compared with staying put with esure. And as Mr Ms said, he knew esure, but had never 
heard of the other companies who offered him cheaper quotes. So I can see why hed 
probably have preferred to stay with esure if he could. And taking everything into account, 
I still think its unlikely, on balance, that Mr M would have forgotten that esure wasnt willing 
to insure the car.
So having thought carefully about everything thats been said, my view remains that I dont 
consider that it would be fair or reasonable for me to interfere with esures decision to refuse 
Mr Ms claim and void his policy.
Mr M has also mentioned that he considers that esures salvage agent damaged his car 
before dropping it off at his nominated garage in an undrivable condition. Esure has now 
provided a separate response to Mr Ms complaint about the damage, which will be dealt 
with separately.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2021.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman