DRN-3966978
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Clydesdale Bank PLC, trading as Virgin Money, unfairly charged 
them an early repayment charge (ERC) when they repaid their mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C had a mortgage with Virgin and took out a new mortgage product with it in 
early 2018. They took a fixed interest rate of 2.11% until March 2023. An ERC was payable 
if Mr and Mrs C repaid their mortgage in full during the fixed rate period, before March 2023.
In June 2022, Mr and Mrs C asked Virgin for a further advance, in order to consolidate other 
debts. Virgin reviewed their application but turned it down. 
Mr and Mrs C complained. They said that Virgins decision left them with no choice but to re-
mortgage elsewhere, and it was unfair of Virgin to charge them an ERC in the 
circumstances, particularly when there was less than a year left on their fixed rate. 
Virgin said it wasnt prepared to lend Mr and Mrs C more money and it would apply an ERC 
in line with the mortgage terms if they moved to another lender during the ERC period. 
Mr and Mrs C re-mortgaged elsewhere in August 2022, repaying the Virgin mortgage and an 
ERC of around £7,500. They asked the Financial Ombudsman Service to look into their 
complaint.
Our Investigator didnt think Virgin had done anything wrong. Mr and Mrs C didnt accept that 
conclusion and asked for it to be reviewed. They felt they had done the right thing by re-
mortgaging elsewhere and it wasnt fair that Virgin had taken £7,500 from them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while I realise Mr and Mrs C will be very disappointed, Ive reached the 
same overall conclusion as the Investigator.
The mortgage offer Virgin issued to Mr and Mrs C in December 2017 said, at section 10:
Early repayment charges
If you transfer to a new mortgage product with Virgin Money plc or repay your mortgage in 
full before 1 March 2023 (the Early Repayment Charge period), you will be charged an Early 
Repayment charge.
The Early Repayment Charge is calculated as 4.00% of the outstanding loan balance at the 
date when either the loan is repaid or you transfer to a new mortgage product. Cash 
examples of the amount you could pay at different stages of the Early Repayment Charge 
period are provided in the table below
Im satisfied that the ERC was set out clearly in the offer. The offer set out the circumstances 
in which an ERC would be payable. It went on to include examples of the actual cost Mr and 
Mrs C would be expected to pay if they repaid the mortgage or took a new product at 
different times over the five-year fixed rate period, assuming no payment holidays were 
taken or overpayments made.
Mr and Mrs C have pointed out that there was less than a year left on their fixed rate, and 
they consider £7,500 is a lot to pay in the circumstances. There are, however, costs to a 
lender when a mortgage is repaid early. So its common practice for lenders to include 
provision in mortgage contracts to recover those costs, in the form of an ERC. An ERC isnt 
intended to be a penalty for the borrower. And its a regulatory requirement that an ERC be a 
reasonable pre-estimate of the cost to the lender of settling the mortgage early. That cost 
can be calculated across a tranche of mortgages rather than individually.
Mr and Mrs C chose to go ahead and re-mortgage elsewhere, knowing that they would be 
required to pay the ERC if they did so. There was never any guarantee that Virgin would be 
prepared to lend them more money. It was entitled to decide that for itself and I find nothing 
to indicate that it treated them unfairly in turning their application down after considering it. 
Im satisfied that Virgin was also entitled to charge the ERC when Mr and Mrs C repaid their 
mortgage.
In all the circumstances, I dont find that I can fairly require Virgin to refund all or part of the 
ERC.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 May 2023.
 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman