DRN-4155433
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited failed to deduct the correct no 
claims discount when her motor insurance policy renewed.
What happened
Mrs S took out a motor insurance policy underwritten by Advantage in January 2021.
In July 2021 her car was damaged in an accident. Mrs S referred this to Advantage. She 
said her car was hit while it was parked, so she wasnt at fault.
While the claim was still being considered, the policy came up for renewal. Mrs S had a 
phone call with Advantage on 21 January 2021 where she discussed the renewal. The 
renewal premium was calculated on the basis there was an outstanding claim but she was 
told she would get a refund if the claim was later closed as no fault.
The policy renewed on 26 January 2022 for another year and her premium increased from 
£682 to £701.
The claim was closed on 1 February 2022 and recorded as no fault. This meant Mrs S was 
entitled to a discount on her premium of £11.46 as from 26 January 2022 but the refund 
wasnt processed at the time  it was only refunded to Mrs S some months later.
In response to Mrs S complaint Advantage accepted there had been a delay in telling her 
about the refund and paid compensation of £20 in respect of this. It says she made another 
complaint about the policy and was paid £50 compensation on that complaint so in total 
shes received compensation of £70.
Mrs S remained unhappy and referred the complaint to this service but our investigator didnt 
think it should be upheld. He said although there was some delay, the no claims discount 
was reinstated before the next renewal, there was no reason to say the amount of the 
reimbursement was wrong, and compensation was paid in respect of the delay.
Mrs S disagrees. She says she is still out of pocket because:
the discount should have been applied automatically when the claim was settled in 
February 2022 but that didnt happen;
at that point, she was still within the 14 day cooling off period for the renewed policy;
if shed been given the right information then she could have compared prices with 
other policies and could have cancelled the policy and gone elsewhere;
she wasnt able to do this and was stuck with the existing policy for another year.
The investigator considered these points but didnt change his view. So Mrs S has requested 
an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Like our investigator, I dont think the complaint should be upheld, for the following reasons:
Advantage dealt with the claim in the normal way  its standard practice to treat any 
claim as a fault claim unless and until it has been settled without costs being paid 
and recorded as a no fault claim. That doesnt that Mrs S was being 'blamed' for the 
incident  simply that Advantage hadn't been able to recover all its costs. So there 
was no fault by Advantage in recording it in this way while the claim was being 
considered.
As the policy renewed before the claim was settled, the renewal premium would have 
been calculated on the basis the claim was outstanding.
Advantage accepts there was an error in not reinstating the no claims discount earlier 
but once this was done, it was backdated to the original renewal date. 
Mrs S says the deduction in the premium should have been higher. The information 
Advantage has provided shows the difference in price between two years and three 
years no claims discount is only a few percentage points. So whether the premium 
was calculated on two years or three years no claims discount, the difference in 
premium (bearing in mind this is only one of the factors taken into account) would 
have been modest. Based on the information Ive seen I have no reason to say the  
refund is incorrect. 
Advantage should have let Mrs S know about the outcome and then adjusted her 
premium once the claim was settled but failed to do this until months later. But that 
doesnt mean Mrs S lost out in the way she suggests. She was able to get other 
quotes and could have moved to a different policy; it was her choice to renew the 
policy again.
Policies will vary in relation to the cover offered. For example, Mrs S policy included 
a number of extras such as legal expenses cover, breakdown cover and substitute 
vehicle cover.  The level of cover, the number and types of extras and the way the 
insurer calculates the premium will vary from one policy to another. 
Mrs S has provided a screenshot of a quote she obtained for another policy, but this 
doesnt give any detail about the level of cover or whether there were any optional 
extras included, nor does it say a non-fault claim within the previous 12 months was 
included. So its difficult to compare it with the renewal price or conclude that Mrs S 
lost out by not being able to switch.
In any event, Mrs S could have changed policies but chose not to. And theres no 
guarantee that if she had been given the information about the claim in February 
2022 it would have made a difference. She could have moved to another insurer on 
the basis she only had two years no claims discount and giving them details of the 
outstanding claim, and then sent them proof of three years no claims discount when 
she finally received it later in the year and asked them to review the premium. 
There was some delay but this was put right and for the reasons set out I dont think 
Mrs S has shown it caused a loss. Shes had some compensation for the distress 
caused and I think thats fair.My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2023.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman