DRN-1921897
The complaint
Mr S complains that TSB Bank plc (TSB) have rejected a claim he made under section 75 
of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint TSB, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I dont have to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr S made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as 
against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
I think there has been a breach of contract here as I find the independent report more 
persuasive than the merchants report and the independent report suggests the three-seater 
sofa is not of satisfactory quality. The merchants report cant fairly be said to be 
independent and I think the independent report clearly demonstrates the faults Mr S was 
complaining about.
That independent report explains that the cushions on the three-seater sofa were still 
underfilled after the merchants attempted repair. The photographs demonstrate that the 
cushions are ill fitting and there are gaps between them. The photographs also show the 
cushion dipping.
The relevant legislation allows the business one opportunity to repair goods that were faulty 
when supplied. I think its clear the sofa was faulty when supplied as Mr S reported the 
issues within weeks of taking receipt of the goods. But if that repair fails, as Im persuaded 
has been the case here, the business should allow the consumer to reject the goods.
So, I dont think it was fair for the merchant to attempt a further repair and I think it would be 
fair for TSB to now support Mr S and allow him to reject the sofas. 
I understand that the two-seater sofa is not faulty but the two and three-seater sofas were 
purchased together, as a set, and Mr S should therefore be allowed to return both of them.
Putting things right
Its not reasonable to expect TSB to refund all the money Mr S paid as hes had some, 
admittedly impaired, use of the goods. So, I think a refund of £2,000 of the total purchase 
price of £2,718 should be provided by TSB. 
They should also refund the cost of the independent inspection Mr S had to fund to 
demonstrate the problems he was having. This would not have been necessary had the 
goods been of satisfactory quality. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell TSB Bank plc to take the 
sofas back and refund £2,000 to Mr S. They should also refund the £130 Mr S spent on the 
independent report. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 February 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman