DRN-3207844
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the poor customer service he says he has received from Amtrust 
Europe Limited since making his claim on his legal expenses insurance (LEI).
Amtrust uses intermediaries to administer its legal expenses insurance and manage claims 
on its behalf, so any reference to the insurer within this decision should be read as including 
the acts or omissions of such intermediaries.
What happened
Mr S wanted to sell his caravan. The caravan had previously been bought from a company 
Ill call C. When it was bought, Mr S says it had outside decking. It was a condition of the 
sale of the caravan to Mr S that C would have some involvement in any resale process. 
When Mr S told C he wanted to sell the caravan, C said the decking would need to be 
removed prior to the sale or that money would be deducted from the sale proceeds. 
Unhappy with this, Mr S made a claim on his LEI on 18 May 2021. 
Amtrust performed the initial insurance checks and the claim was passed to a firm of 
solicitors Ill call M on 2 June 2021. 
On 27 July 2021 M contacted Amtrust because it wanted to check whether the claim was 
covered as it noted an exclusion in the policy  relating to leases - which might be relevant to 
Mr Ss claim. Amtrusts underwriters were contacted and confirmed the exclusion wasnt 
applicable to this claim.
Mr S sent a letter to Amtrust and asked it to investigate a service complaint. Amtrust 
received this letter on 20 August 2021. Mr S asked Amtrust to speed up his claim and pay 
him £600 for the poor service.
Amtrust issued its final response letter on 4 October 2021 and maintained that it hadnt done 
anything wrong. A few days later it confirmed funding for the claim.
The investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He explained that we couldnt 
look at the actions of M, but we could look at the actions of the claims administrators and 
Amtrust. He didnt think that Amtrust was fully responsible for anything that meaningfully 
delayed Mr S in receiving a conclusion of his claim sooner. 
Mr S disagreed with the investigators view. He said he remains unhappy with Amtrusts 
claims administrators because they are not progressing the claim fast and they have so 
many departments that it is confusing him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear that Mr S feels let down and that the number of departments he has had 
to contact him has confused him. But having looked at Amtrust and its claims administrators 
actions from the date he raised the claim until the date of his complaint to Amtrust I cant 
agree that it has done anything wrong or that it has unreasonably delayed his claim. 
The claim was first raised on 18 May 2021.The claim was passed to M on 2 June 2021. This 
does not seem an unreasonable delay given the insurance validation checks which were 
necessary.
Amtrust was then told by M on 27 July 2021 that the claim maybe excluded from the policy. 
This was referred to the underwriters and the underwriters confirmed that as long as the 
claim does not arise from a lease or a breach of that lease then the exclusion will not apply. 
This was communicated to M on 10 August 2021. I think- following the email from M on 27 
July 2021 - it was reasonable for Amtrust to consider whether the claim was excluded under 
the policy. I do not think it took an unreasonable amount of time to respond. 
I appreciate that having a claims manager, solicitor and insurer may have added to Mr Ss 
confusion but this is not an unusual way for claims to be handled and so I cant say that 
Amtrust did anything wrong here. 
I am pleased to see that Amtrust confirmed funding of the claim within a few days of M 
confirming the claim enjoyed reasonable prospects of success and M providing Amtrust with 
its stage 3 report.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Nicola Wood
Ombudsman