DRN-3930117
The complaint
Miss J has said Madison CF UK Limited, trading as 118 118 Money (Madison), lent to her 
irresponsibly. Miss J said she was accepted for a credit card, and a loan, when Madison 
should have known these werent affordable for her.
What happened
In September 2019 Madison accepted Miss Js application for a credit card. The credit card 
allowed for spending up to a limit of £225. And an £8 monthly subscription was charged for 
the card.
Around a year later, in September 2020, Madison lent to Miss J again. It increased the limit 
on her credit card from £225, to £800. The monthly subscription fee increased to £25. Its my 
understanding the credit card is now closed. 
Shortly after this, in December 2020, Miss J applied, and was accepted for a £2,000 loan 
with Madison. This loan agreement was for a period of 24 months  with Miss J due to repay 
£3,163.68, by the end of the term. This loan remains active. 
Miss J feels Madison did the wrong thing by lending to her on these three occasions. Shes 
said that if Madison had conducted sufficient checks when deciding whether to lend to her, it 
would have seen the lending was unaffordable. 
Because Miss J was unhappy with the lending decisions made, she raised a complaint with 
Madison. It responded and said it was satisfied with its decision to accept Miss Js 
applications for credit. It explained it had completed checks to understand Miss Js 
creditworthiness, and to make sure Miss J could afford the credit applied for, before it lent to 
her.
Miss J remained in disagreement. So, she referred her complaint to this service, for an 
independent review.
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. They 
considered that Madison had carried out proportionate checks when deciding whether to 
lend to Miss J. And those checks hadnt highlighted any concerns, which should have 
prompted Madison not to provide the credit.
Miss J didnt agree. Miss J raised that she was unemployed when taking the lending  so 
she couldnt understand how Madison had verified her income as being one which could 
afford the lending. Miss J also noted that the income, rent and outgoings Madison had 
provided to this service were wrong. Miss J reiterated that she considered the lending 
decisions were irresponsible.
As Miss J didnt agree, her complaint has been referred to me to decide. 
I issued a provisional decision to the parties, detailing my intended decision. In this I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im intending on upholding Miss Js complaint in part.
When coming to my decision Ive taken into account the relevant law, rules and guidance 
about irresponsible lending. Having considered these, I think Madison lent to Miss J fairly 
when it provided her with a credit card in September 2019. So, I dont intend on requiring it 
to do anything more in respect of that lending.
But I think Madison acted irresponsibly when it decided to lend to Miss J in September 2020 
(credit card increase) and December 2020 (loan). So, Im intending on requiring Madison to 
take action to put this right. 
Ive addressed the lending decisions separately below. 
September 2019 credit card 
At the point Madison provided this credit card to Miss J, it was required to carry out a 
reasonable assessment of whether Miss J could afford the credit card repayments in a 
sustainable way. And, when carrying out checks to make sure this was the case, the checks 
had to be borrower focused. So, this means Madison had to consider the impact the 
lending would have on Miss J  not just how likely it was that Madison would receive its 
money back. 
Madison also had to make sure the checks completed were proportionate to the 
circumstances of the lending applied for. Checks could include a number of things, including 
 but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the borrower (e.g. their financial history, 
current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty) and 
the amount/type/cost of the credit they are seeking. 
Ive looked at what checks Madison completed, and what information it gathered at the time 
of this lending.
And having done so, Im satisfied Madison did make proportionate checks, in line with the 
above requirements, before agreeing to lend to Miss J in this instance. So, I dont think it did 
anything wrong here. 
Madison considered Miss Js income and expenditure. It asked Miss J what her income was, 
and was told she was employed part-time, earning £1,772. Madison verified this information 
by undertaking a standard industry check, which confirmed the turnover in her bank account 
was consistent with her receiving this level of income. Ive seen a copy of this check. And it 
did verify the income entering Miss Js account was consistent with what she had said. Miss 
J said this income wasnt correct. But I dont hold Madison accountable for this  it acted on 
what it was told and undertook reasonable checks to verify this.
Madison also asked Miss J her expenditure and took this into account when deciding 
whether lending up to the £225 limit was affordable.  
Madison also looked at Miss Js credit file. I dont think there was anything within the credit 
file report at the time, that should have raised concerns for Madison. Miss J didnt have any 
defaults in the last 12 months, and the credit commitments on file were up to date. Based on 
the income and outgoings Miss J had given, and the credit file check, I think Madison acted 
fairly in concluding that Miss J had sufficient disposable income to pay the credit card in a 
sustainable way.Given the amount Miss J was asking to borrow, and the checks Madison completed, Im 
satisfied it acted proportionately, and in a borrower focused way when checking the credit 
card would be sustainable for Miss J. And given the information it saw when checking 
whether the credit card was affordable for Miss J, I think it made a fair decision to accept the 
application Miss J made.
So, I dont intend on requiring Madison to do anything more in respect of this lending 
decision. 
September 2020 credit card increase
However, as noted above, I think Madison acted irresponsibly by agreeing to increase Miss 
Js credit limit to £800, in March 2020.
Im not persuaded that Madison completed proportionate, borrower focused checks at the 
point of this application. And I think the checks it did carry out should have highlighted some 
concerns about whether it was appropriate to lend in this instance.  
Madison asked Miss J to confirm whether the income and expenditure she had disclosed in 
her previous application remained the same. And Miss J confirmed the information to still be 
accurate. But this time, I cant see that Madison did any standard verification checks on Miss 
Js income to check this was reflective of her situation  as it had this from the year before. 
And it didnt ask for any other information to verify Miss Js income, such as bank statements 
or payslips. 
And whilst Miss J had confirmed some expenditure  this being her rent, some insurance, 
and council tax she had only committed to £100 for food. And detailed no utilities costs. I 
cant see Madison factored these sorts of costs into its considerations, when deciding if Miss 
J would be able to sustainably repay the credit card increase. So, I dont think it did 
proportionate checks to understand Miss Js financial situation, and whether she would be 
able to repay the credit increase sustainably. 
Madison did complete a credit file check. I think this should have raised concerns and led 
Madison to seek additional information of Miss J, before deciding to lend. 
I say this because Miss Js credit file suggested Miss J was struggling to manage her 
existing credit commitments. And so additional lending may have added to this struggle. The 
credit file showed Miss J had received a default on a credit card, around five months prior to 
this application. It also showed that Miss J was only £1 away from the limit on two of her 
credit cards, one which was the credit card already with Madison. And the balance to limit 
ratio on the report was showing as 364%, showing high credit card usage.  
With this in mind, Ive considered what I think additional checks in Miss Js financial 
circumstances would have shown. I appreciate that different checks show different things, 
and further checks, might not have extended to Madison looking at bank statements. But, in 
the absence of anything else, Ive reviewed these to get an idea of what Madison would 
likely have discovered it if had asked Miss J some more information about her income, 
expenditure and financial situation. 
Miss Js bank statement show that in the couple of months prior to the credit card increase 
she was living beyond her means and struggling to manage her financial situation. Her 
statements show she was at times using her overdraft on day-to-day expenses. And the 
statements show that Miss J wasnt receiving any obvious, regular, income, other than around £67.25 a week from DWP. She appears to have been receiving funds from friends 
and family to make ends meet.
Having considered the above, I think if Madison had carried out more proportionate checks it 
ought to have reasonably realised that Miss J most likely wouldnt be able to repay the credit 
card increase without undue difficulty or having to borrow from elsewhere. 
Given that I think Madison lent to Miss J irresponsibly in September 2020, Im intending on 
requiring Madison to take action to put this right.
Miss J had the benefit of the funds she was provided with, when taking this credit card 
increase. So, I dont intend on requiring Madison to refund the capital of this lending. But I 
think Madison should refund any additional interest, fees and charges Miss J paid as a result 
of the credit limit being increased.
And whilst I do think its fair Miss Js credit file is an accurate reflection of her financial 
history; I dont think its fair for her to be disadvantage by Madisons decision to lend to her 
irresponsibly. So, I think Madison should remove any negative information recorded on Miss 
Js credit file, in relation to this lending. 
December 2020 loan 
I also think Madison acted irresponsibly in agreeing to provide Miss J with the loan she 
applied for in December 2020. So, Im also intending on uphold this element of Miss Js 
complaint. 
Ive thought about whether Madison completed proportionate, borrower focused checks at 
the point Miss J was applying for this credit limit increase. And I think it did carry out 
proportionate checks. But I think those checks should have raised concerns about whether 
the lending was affordable. And Madison should have asked more questions of Miss J as a 
result. 
Miss Js credit file at this time shows her having had a default on a credit card 8 months 
prior. And a delinquency recorded 10 months earlier too. The credit file showed what 
Madison already knew  that it had increased her credit card limit recently. And it showed 
that Miss J then missed the November 2020 payment for this card. The credit file also 
showed Miss J going over the limit on another credit card, in October and November 2020. I 
think this information should have raised concerns about Miss Js situation, and led to more 
questions, to check the loan would be something Miss J could sustainably pay. 
As above, Ive thought about what additional checks would likely have shown Madison. In 
the absence of other evidence, Ive also reviewed Miss Js bank statements for the months 
prior to applying for this loan. Again, to see what Madison would likely have discovered it if 
had perhaps asked Miss J some more information about her income, expenditure and 
financial situation. 
As with the previous bank statements, Madison would have seen Miss Js income wasnt as 
suggested. But was sufficiently lower  with the only regular, set income payments being 
from DWP. And it would have shown her living beyond her means and struggling to manage 
her financial situation  with reliance on bank transfers from family members to manage. 
I think it Madison had carried out more proportionate checks it ought to have reasonably 
realised that Miss J most likely wouldnt be able to repay the loan either without undue 
difficulty or having to borrow from elsewhere. Given that I think Madison lent to Miss J irresponsibly in December, Im intending on 
requiring Madison to take action to put this right.
Miss J had the benefit of the funds she was provided with, when taking this loan. So, I dont 
intend on requiring Madison to write off the capital of this lending. But I think Madison should 
refund any interest, fees and charges added as a result of this credit, that shouldnt have 
been provided, so that a new starting balance  consisting of only the amount lent is left.
Madison should then deduct any Miss J has already payments made, from this new balance. 
If this results in Miss J having paid too much, then any overpayments should be refunded. 
8% interest should be paid to Miss J on any overpayments, from the date they were paid, 
until the date of settlement, less any tax properly deductible. 
And whilst I do think its fair Miss Js credit file is an accurate reflection of her financial 
history; I dont think its fair for her to be disadvantage by Madisons decision to lend to her 
irresponsibly. So, I think Madison should remove any negative information recorded on Miss 
Js credit file, in relation to this lending.
Miss J responded to my provisional decision and agreed with it. Madison responded and 
also agreed. It had confirmed that Miss Js account, which had been sold to a debt 
purchaser would be returned to them, to carry out the redress required. Madison also asked 
whether it should remove the negative information on Miss Js credit file, at the point the 
debts had been repaid. And I confirmed this to be the case.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part.
There hasnt been any further comments or evidence from either party, to alter my findings 
on this complaint, or the reasoning for it. And so, my decision remains the same as that in 
my provisional decision, and for the same reasons.
My final decision
Given the above, I require Madison CF UK Limited, trading as 118 118 Money (Madison) to:
In terms of the loan provided in December 2020 - Madison should refund any 
interest, fees and charges added as a result of this credit, that shouldnt have been 
provided, so that a new starting balance  consisting of only the amount lent is left. 
Madison should then deduct any Miss J has already payments made, from this new 
balance. If this results in Miss J having paid too much, then any overpayments 
should be refunded. 8% simple interest per year* should be paid to Miss J on any 
overpayments, from the date they were paid, until the date of settlement, less any tax 
properly deductible.
In terms of the credit card increase provided in September 2020 - Madison should 
refund all interest and charges incurred on a balance above £225, along with 8% 
simple interest per year* from the date the credit balance arose to the date of 
settlement.
Remove any negative information recorded on Miss Js credit file, in relation to the 
credit increase provided in September 2020, and in relation to the loan provided in December 2020, once the debt has been repaid. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Madison to deduct tax from this interest. Madison should give 
Miss J a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman