DRN-2293173
The complaint
Mrs G says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy for a store card. 
AXA France IARD, as the insurer, has taken responsibility for the sale. To keep things 
simple, Ill only refer to AXA in this decision, rather than any other business.
What happened
This complaint is about a store card PPI policy Mrs G took out in 2003.
I sent Mrs G and AXA a provisional decision on 26 October 2020, to explain why I thought 
the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs G, so it didnt have to check it was right for her. But it 
did have to give her information about the policy that was clear, fair, and not misleading  so 
that she could decide for herself whether the PPI was right for her.
I cant see that AXA gave Mrs G clear enough information about the policys costs, benefits, 
and exclusions. And I think this wouldve mattered to Mrs G.
Mrs G had a medical condition when she bought the policy, which wouldnt have been 
covered. And while I take AXAs point that it was potentially manageable, I do note that shed 
already had to take around two weeks off work for that condition, needed multiple 
medications, and had regular doctors appointments for it. So I think it probably wouldve 
been a concern for her if shed found out that she couldnt claim for anything resulting from 
her condition.
I also note that Mrs G had sick pay through work, as well as accessible savings. From what 
shes told us, these wouldve covered her for long enough to not really need the PPI. Indeed, 
given just how expensive this particular policy was, I dont think Mrs G wouldve thought it 
was good value for money in light of her existing cover.
It seems most likely that Mrs G would not have bought the policy if shed been given clear 
enough information about its cost, benefits, and exclusions. So I think Mrs G has probably 
lost out because of the flaws in this sale.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  but both AXA and Mrs G 
confirmed they had nothing more to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before  that I think this policy was most likely to 
have been mis-sold.
Putting things right
AXA needs to put Mrs G in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A.) AXA should find out how much Mrs G would have owed when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  
as well as any interest added to those charges. 
AXA should then refund the difference between what Mrs G owed when she closed her 
account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs G made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got for the 
claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.) AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs G would have owed 
when she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The interest 
rate should be 8% simple a year.
C.) If  when AXA works out what Mrs G would have owed each month without PPI  she 
paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs G paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mrs G wouldve 
owed AXA something on her store card. The interest rate should again be 8% simple a 
year.
D.) AXA should tell Mrs G what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give 
Mrs G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Gs complaint, and direct AXA France IARD to put things right in the way I set 
out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2020.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman