DRN-4260766
The complaint
Mr C complains that he can't use the automated banking service provided by Nationwide 
Building Society without being passed to an agent. He further complains that he was kept on 
the line for an unreasonable amount of time to make a complaint on a chargeable call.
What happened
Mr C says he tried to use the automated banking service to check his balance on a number 
of occasions but was unable to use the service and was passed to an agent each time. He 
called to make a complaint but was kept on the line on a number he was charged for.
Nationwide reviewed Mr C's complaint but said it had referred Mr Cs issue to its IT 
department who confirmed that there were no errors with the system. Having checked 
Mr C's use of the automated system it found that Mr C had either made errors with inputting 
his passcode or sort code or in not inputting his passcode at all. It had reviewed the matter 
with Mr C and told him he would benefit from using its banking app. Mr C had explained that 
his phone did not support the banking app but I understand that he has a tablet which would 
support the app. As regards his complaint, Nationwide pointed out that he was told that it 
would have to go through its process in order to log the complaint. The call lasted just over 
15 minutes which it did not think was unreasonable.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service, our Investigator said that he did not think 
that Nationwide had made an error but that it had worked with Mr C to provide an alternative 
solution by downloading the app to his tablet which would have bypassed the need to 
provide a passcode.
Mr C didn't agree and said that he had a log of his attempts to use the system and had 
further issues with using the system after he made his complaint. He was invited to provide 
this by e-mail but has declined to do so.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept first of all that Mr C had difficulties using Nationwide's automated telephone banking 
system. I've noted the details of Mr C's complaints raised with Nationwide. I also see that 
Mr C was given the opportunity of providing the further evidence he said he had both by our 
Investigator and his manager. He has declined to provide that evidence but its part of my 
role to consider a complaint on the basis of the available information. So I think it appropriate 
to make this decision.
The main evidence provided in this case is Nationwides computer records. Such records are 
often provided to us by banks, building societies and other service providers, and I see no 
reason to disbelieve the information contained in them. Mr Cs attempts to use the system 
were as follows:
27 March 2023, no pass number was entered and when asked for again, the number given 
was invalid. This resulted in the call being directed to one of Nationwides customer service 
team. 
25 April, no option was selected, so the call was transferred to the customer service team.
29 April, the sort code was entered incorrectly twice and then the passcode wrongly and 
therefore as Mr C hadnt passed ID he couldnt use the self-service.
12 May:
at 1411 Mr C successfully input his customer account number. The system shows that when 
he reached the passcode page he disconnected the call.
at 1413 again the customer account number was successfully input but the system shows 
that Mr C failed to input his passcode or input an invalid entry such as # or *. He was 
directed to a customer service agent.
 at 1416 Mr C entered his passcode correctly and was able to view his balance.
I've also noted that on a number of other occasions Mr C was successful in using the 
system. Nationwide has advised that its IT department has checked any system errors and 
hasnt found any, and had no problems with other users. I understand that its banking app 
which has facial recognition could avoid the need to enter a passcode and that whilst Mr C's 
phone may not support it, I understand that he has a tablet which could be used.
So I think it's been shown that there were no system errors and that any difficulties Mr C had 
were due to user error.
If Mr C has had further issues with Nationwide following dealing with his complaint he should 
take them up with it directly.
As regards the time it took for Mr C to lodge his complaint, he was told at the outset of the 
call that the process would have to be gone through and he accepted that. I don't think that 
15 minutes is an unreasonable length of time to set up his complaint. The number he called 
is potentially chargeable, although it would normally be included in the minutes in a phone 
contract. But if he is concerned about the cost of calling Nationwide, it has pointed out that it 
does have a free chat function.
So overall I don't think that it has been shown that there was anything wrong with 
Nationwides automated system. and I think it acted reasonably in setting up Mr Cs 
complaint.
My final decision
I don't uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman