DRN-2097631
 
The complaint
Mrs B complains that errors by LeasePlan UK Limited led to her incurring additional expense 
relating to her hire agreement and the depreciation in the value of the vehicle. She wants 
compensation.
What happened
Mrs B tells us that she had three vehicles with LeasePlan. She states that she was able to 
terminate the agreements on two of the vehicles but that LeasePlan failed to provide her with 
a settlement figure for the third vehicle. As a consequence, she says she had to take out 
further insurance. And that the vehicle depreciated in value as she was unable to sell it at 
the time she wished.  Mrs B estimates the devaluation at approximately £1,000 and seeks 
compensation for this and the insurance costs of approximately £800.
LeasePlan told us it wasn't able to supply a settlement figure as the agreement was more 
than three months in arrears. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld but only in part. She 
thought that if LeasePlan had provided a clearer explanation about why it wouldn't provide a 
settlement figure a lot of the uncertainty would have been avoided. She thought it should pay 
£200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience. But she didn't think any 
compensation was due in respect of the insurance costs or the alleged depreciation. She 
explained that Mrs B was liable to insure the vehicle whilst it remained in her possession and 
that she'd not seen any evidence to show the vehicle had depreciated in value or to what 
extent.
LeasePlan accepted it should pay £200. Mrs B didn't agree with our investigator's view. She 
said she thought it was obvious that a vehicle would depreciate due to the passage of time 
and the delay caused by LeasePlan's failure to supply a settlement figure. As it's not been 
possible to resolve this complaint an ombudsman's been asked to make the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to make clear that I'm aware of a separate complaint which I understand has been 
resolved and which in part overlaps the circumstances of this complaint. I've been told that a 
settlement figure for the third vehicle was eventually notified. 
 
Mrs B's complaint is that because of delay in supplying the settlement figure when she 
wished to terminate her lease agreement and sell the vehicle she's incurred consequential 
losses. She specifically seeks compensation of £1,000 relating to depreciation of the value of the vehicle; a refund of additional insurance costs; and £500 for distress and 
inconvenience.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
I'll deal separately with each aspect of the complaint.
The contact notes show that Mrs B tried on a number of occasions to obtain a settlement 
figure. She's explained she no longer required the vehicle and I can understand her 
frustration at any delay. Whilst the vehicle is in Mrs B's possession she's required to keep it 
insured. And not having been able to sell it then it was necessary for her to extend the 
insurance cover.
LeasePlan has explained that it doesn't provide a settlement figure if an agreement is in 
more than three months arrears. And whilst it's not for me to tell LeasePlan what policy it 
should adopt in these circumstances, it would've made things clearer to Mrs B if she'd been 
told this from the outset.  She'd managed to terminate the agreement on two vehicles so it's 
understandable she would think a similar process would apply to her remaining vehicle. 
Whether this delay made any significant difference is doubtful. I can see that Mrs B later 
entered into a payment arrangement to settle the arrears. So it's probable that - even if she'd 
been advised about the need to reduce the arrears below a set figure prior to obtaining a 
settlement amount - she'd not have been able to do so immediately. I should also note that 
the insurance to cover the vehicle was taken out in a third party name. I'm only able to award 
compensation to parties to the complaint. I shan't ask LeasePlan to make any refund in this 
respect.
Mrs B seeks compensation for consequential loss relating to depreciation. I've not been 
supplied with any specific information which shows what, if any loss, has accrued. I accept 
that depreciation would probably occur simply through the passage of time. But any actual 
loss would be affected by various factors. This would include the type of vehicle; 
mileage; and its general condition. But for me to make an award relating to a consequential 
loss I'd have to find it arose directly from a failing on the part of the business. Whilst the 
business made an error in not making clear the terms on which it would provide a settlement 
figure - the delay occasioned was a consequence of the arrears.
I'd also add that as Mrs B has retained the vehicle I can't see that any potential loss has 
crystallised. I'm unable to find that any consequential loss has arisen in terms of 
depreciation.
In terms of compensation for distress and inconvenience the approach this service adopts is 
that any such award is not meant to penalise a business. It's to reflect - as far as money is 
able - the effect upon the customer of any errors by the business. And that will vary from one 
individual to another. 
I've also to take into consideration that the error here related primarily to a single aspect of 
the process. An award of £200 is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in these circumstances.In summary, for the reasons I've given together with those explained by our investigator I'm 
upholding this complaint but only in part.
Putting things right
LeasePlan should pay £200 to Mrs B for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
LeasePlan UK Limited has made an offer to settle this complaint. I think that offer is a fair 
and reasonable resolution of the complaint.
For the reasons given above I'm upholding the complaint in part only. I now require 
LeasePlan UK Limited in full and final settlement of this complaint to pay Mrs B £200 ( if it's 
not already done so) for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2020.
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman