DRN-4244094
The complaint
Miss P complains that more 2 life Ltd caused unreasonable delays with the completion of her 
lifetime mortgage and she has lost out as a result. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to Miss P and more 2 life so I wont set them all 
out again here. In summary though, Mis P received a mortgage offer from more 2 life for a 
lifetime mortgage in August 2021. Miss P was taking out the lifetime mortgage with a view to 
repay her existing mortgage on her property as well as a number of other commitments and 
to complete some home improvements.
During the completion process, more 2 lifes solicitors (Company A) acting for it with the 
transaction identified a pending charge against the property and it sought confirmation on 
this. This pending action was not resolved for some time and Miss P needed to go back to 
court on different occasions in relation to this debt and the actions of the third-party seeking 
repayment.
Miss P feels Company A failed to accept redemption statements provided to it at multiple 
points to allow the mortgage to complete and this resulted in significant delays.  In total 9 
mortgage offers were issued as the mortgage was not able to complete ahead of these 
expiring. 
More 2 life said Company A was unable to progress the application until confirmation had 
been provided that the pending charge and court action had been agreed or settled. The 
application was placed on hold in November 2021 when court proceedings were due to take 
place in reference to this. More 2 life say it wasnt until Miss Ps solicitor confirmed and 
agreement had been reached with the third-party in August 2022 that it was able to proceed 
to complete the mortgage.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and didnt think more 2 life had added delays to the 
process. He felt these were caused by things outside of its control, namely the pending 
charge and related court action with this. As a result he didnt think it was fair to say it added 
to the costs Miss P needed to pay when redemption figures expired and increased at later 
dates. 
Miss P disagreed and maintained that she felt more 2 life should have allowed the mortgage 
to complete sooner. She said the third party continually refused to accept monies offered 
and fruitlessly kept taking her to court to gain an order for the sale.
Our investigators opinion remained unchanged so the complaint has been passed to me for 
decision.      
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint for much the same reasons as our investigator. I 
know this will be disappointing for Miss P, but Ill explain why I dont think it is fair to ask 
more 2 life to do anything else in relation to this complaint.
Miss P accepts she struggled to reach an agreement with the third party who was pursuing 
her for monies owed in relation to a separate claim. And she acknowledges there was 
multiple court applications in relation to this where, as part of a resolution to the debt, the 
third party was seeking an order of sale on Miss Ps property. 
I dont think Company A was acting unreasonably when placing the completion on hold in 
view of these pending court actions. I appreciate Miss P feels the third party would not have 
obtained an order for sale on her property. But with Company A working for more 2 life as it 
secured the charge for its lending on Miss Ps property, it is understandable why there was 
concerns with this pending action and how it could impact this charge.
It was not until August 2022 that Miss Ps solicitor confirmed an agreement had been 
reached with the third party and it was able to continue to move forward with the application. 
It did take a few months after this for all redemption figures to be obtained and the mortgage 
completed in October 2022. With the number of third parties needed to confirm redemption 
figures at this point, I dont think there was any unreasonable delay. And as I am satisfied 
more 2 life was not acting unfairly when it said the pending charge and court action needed 
agreeing before it could continue with the mortgage completion, I am not persuaded it needs 
to do anything else now.
The application/completion process did continue for a long time and it wasnt without mistake 
by more 2 life. It issued an offer that was not applicable to Miss P and her circumstances. 
But it provided redress for this at the time and as the main reason why this could not be 
progressed sooner was outside of the control of more 2 life, Im persuaded it has not caused 
any unreasonable delays to the process.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold Miss Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman