DRN-4051478
The complaint
Mr J complains that Berkshire Hathaway International Insurance Ltd declined his claim on 
his commercial motor insurance policy after his van was stolen. He wants it to pay his claim. 
What happened
Mr J had a motor trade policy with Berkshire Hathaway. After his van was stolen, Berkshire 
Hathaway investigated the claim. It thought the van wasnt an insured vehicle as defined by 
the policy. It also thought Mr J was using the van for his other business, and this wasnt 
allowed by the policy. So it declined the claim. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Mr J had 
provided sufficient evidence to show that the van was an insured vehicle under the policy. 
And he thought Berkshire Hathaway had unfairly applied the exclusion for limitation on use. 
So he thought it should now settle Mr Js claim with interest.
Berkshire Hathaway replied that it was persuaded that the van was an insured vehicle as 
defined by the policy. But it said it had fairly declined the claim as Mr J wasnt using the van 
for purposes covered by his policy and he was using it for another business that wasnt party 
to his policy. Berkshire Hathaway asked for an Ombudsmans review. So the complaint has 
come to me for a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Berkshire Hathaway has accepted that the van was an insured vehicle as defined by the 
policy. So I wont consider that point further. What remains for me to consider is whether 
Berkshire Hathaway declined Mr Js claim fairly and reasonably. 
Berkshire Hathaway said Mr Js policy covered him for Motor Trade and Social Domestic 
and Pleasure usage only. Mr J also had a construction business. And Berkshire Hathaway 
thought the van was being used for purposes related to this at the time of the theft. And so it 
relied on the following exclusion to decline the claim:
The Company shall not be liable in respect of;
1. Any Accident, injury, loss, damage or liability occurring whilst any Insured Vehicle is 
being:
a) Used otherwise than in accordance with the Limitations as to Use specified in the 
Certificate of Insurance.
And the Certificate stated:
6. Limitations as to use.
Social, domestic and pleasure purposes of the Insured and the Insured's employee or 
partner, as specified in section 5 above, and in connection with the motor trade business of 
the Insured.
I think the exclusion is clear and was sufficiently brought to Mr Js attention for Berkshire 
Hathaway to rely upon it to decline a claim. 
The evidence Berkshire Hathaway relied on to decide that Mr J was using the van for 
business purposes was Mr Js responses to questions asked in its investigation. Mr J stated:
7) I collected the vehicle from the garage at around 17:00 and drove it to where I was 
working.... I was undertaking some construction work at this property. I also operate [a 
refurbishment business].
8) [the address] was an unoccupied property with no occupants.
9) My other vehicle was already on site so I could only drive one of the vehicles home that 
evening. I left the [van] on the roadside just in front of [the address].
Mr J explained that he had collected the van from a garage where repairs had been carried 
out. The garage was close to the address where he was working. He couldnt then drive both 
vehicles home. So he left the van at the site, from where it was stolen, with the intention of 
collecting it the next day. 
I think that if Mr J had been using the van for business purposes, then these would be to 
transport tools and materials. And I havent seen evidence that he was doing this. That he 
left the van at the site shows that he didnt need it for his business purposes. Instead, it 
follows that the vehicle he drove home in was his business vehicle. 
So Im not persuaded that there is evidence to show Mr J was using the van for business 
purposes. And so Im satisfied that it was unfair and unreasonable for Berkshire Hathaway to 
decline the claim because business use was excluded from cover. 
Berkshire Hathaway thought Mr J should provide evidence that his other vehicle was insured 
for business purposes. But I dont think that would fair or reasonable as this isnt related to 
his complaint or to his policy with Berkshire Hathaway.  
I think Berkshire Hathaway should now settle Mr Js claim for the theft of his van. And, as 
hes been without his money for some time, I think it should reasonably add interest to this 
amount from the date of the claim to the date of settlement. 
Putting things right
I require Berkshire Hathaway International Insurance Ltd to settle Mr Js claim, adding 
interest to any payment at the rate of 8% simple per annum from the date of the claim to the 
date of final settlement. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Berkshire Hathaway International Insurance Ltd to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 July 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman