DRN-2010954
The complaint
Mr C says PDL Finance Limited, trading as Mr Lender (Mr Lender), irresponsibly lent to 
him. Mr C says Mr Lender didnt sufficiently checked his circumstances before agreeing to 
lend to him. He had to reborrow to make the loan repayments and was using other short-
term credit facilities.
What happened
This complaint is about five short-term loans Mr Lender provided to Mr C between March 
2013 and November 2014. Mr Cs borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Highest 
repaymentDeferrals
1 28/03/2013 22/11/2013 1 £250.00 £337.50 6
2 09/01/2014 24/04/2014 1 £300.00 £375.00 2
3 15/05/2014 23/07/2014 1 £250.00 £287.50 1
4 24/07/2014 20/11/2014 4 £600.00 £330.00 0
5 20/11/2014 18/02/2015 6 £700.00 £326.66 0
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Cs complaint and thought loans two to five shouldnt 
have been given and also rollovers four to six on loan one. They thought it was evident that 
Mr C was struggling to make loan repayments after the third rollover on loan one and that his 
subsequent borrowing would suggest he was becoming reliant on this type of lending. 
Mr Lender disagreed with the adjudicator. But it did offer redress for rollovers four to six on 
loan one and for loan five. But it said that the gaps in borrowing between loans one and two 
and loans two and three didnt suggest Mr C was reliant on this type of lending. It also said 
that loan three was less than loan two and that loans four to five were instalment loans which 
made them more affordable. 
We put the offer Mr Lender made to Mr C, but he didnt want to accept it. He agreed with 
what the adjudicator had concluded.
As the complaint remains unresolved it has been passed to me for decision in my role as 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr C 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mr C could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Mr C didnt disagree with the adjudicators opinion that the first three rollovers on loan one 
shouldnt be upheld. Because of this, I dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about 
this part of the borrowing. So, I wont be making a decision about it. But the lending was part 
of the borrowing relationship Mr C had with Mr Lender. So, it is something I will take into 
account when considering the other loans he took. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Cs complaint. After doing so Ive decided to uphold 
the complaint in part. Ill explain why.
Loan one
Before agreeing to this loan Mr Lender asked Mr C for details of his employment, income 
and living costs. From the information recorded by Mr Lender this loan would have seemed 
affordable and Mr Lender wasnt wrong to have agreed to the lending. I also think it was 
reasonable at such an early stage in the borrowing relationship for Mr Lender to have relied 
upon the information Mr C gave it about his financial circumstances. The checks it carried 
out were proportionate. Mr Lender has told us Mr C chose to book an interest only payment for loan one at the 
application stage. It says this facility provides its customers with flexibility in repaying the 
loan. This meant the loan was rolled over in return for a monthly payment of additional 
interest. 
But this happened repeatedly on a monthly basis on a total of six occasions. I think that after 
the loan had been rolled over three times, Mr Lender ought to have realised that the 
repayment was potentially problematic for Mr C and a possible sign he was experiencing 
financial difficulties. 
So, I think that after the third rollover Mr Lender should have realised that further lending 
was unsustainable for Mr C and it shouldnt have agreed to rollovers four to six. 
Loans two to five
Mr Lender has highlighted there was a gap between loan one being repaid and loan two 
being taken and then loan two being repaid and loan three being taken. It says that this 
shows the loans were not a salary substitute and Mr C wasnt struggling financially. But I 
disagree. I think Mr Lender should have taken account that it was evident that Mr C had 
difficulties in repaying loan one and it should have seen that further lending was likely to be 
unsustinable. And I note loan two was rolled over twice so this looks likely. 
Mr Lender has said that loan three was the same amount as loan one and which was slightly 
less than loan two. But by now Mr C had been borrowing from Mr Lender for over a year so I 
think its more likely that Mr C was becoming persistently reliant on this type of lending and it 
was unsustainable for him. 
Loans four and five were instalment loans which Mr Lender says would have been more 
affordable for Mr C, but I note the amounts borrowed were double and more than double 
than the earlier lending, so the monthly repayments were about the same as for loans one to 
three. And loan four was taken the day after loan three was repaid and loan five was taken 
the same day that loan four was repaid. Again, this borrowing pattern suggests persistent 
reliance on this type of lending. 
It follows that I dont think Mr Lender was right to have agreed to loans two to five. 
So, like the adjudicator, Im also upholding the complaint about the rollovers four to six on 
loan one and all the subsequent lending and Mr Lender should put things right.
Putting things right
refund all interest and charges Mr C paid on rollovers four to six on loan one and 
loans two to five;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about the rollovers four to the six on loan one and 
loan two from Mr Cs credit file;
the number of loans taken from loan three onwards means any information recorded 
about them is adverse. So, all entries about loans three to five should be removed 
from Mr Cs credit file. HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr Cs complaint. PDL Finance Limited 
should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2020.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman