DRN-2069269
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
Mr and Mrs H took out a PPI policy at the same time as they applied for a mortgage in 1992. 
They took out a second policy in 1995, again when they applied for a mortgage. They recall 
the sales took place in bank branches. The bank cant confirm this but agrees to the 
complaint being reviewed on that basis. Both times the cover was in Mr Hs sole name and 
gave him accident, sickness and unemployment cover. They paid a monthly amount for the 
PPI. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs H
disagreed so the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to our adjudicators view, Mr and Mrs H said it seems we are taking what Halifax 
has said as correct over their point of view, despite the bank providing nothing to 
substantiate its arguments. I have weighed up the available evidence from both sides, and 
as some of it is incomplete my decision is based on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, on what I consider is most likely given the evidence we do have and what we know 
about how Halifax sold PPI at the time. As an independent and impartial organisation we 
dont act on behalf of either consumers or banks - theres no benefit for us to find in the 
favour of one party over the other.
Our general approach to complaints about PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here. I 
have reviewed carefully all of Mr Hs comments in response to the adjudicators view. In 
keeping with our role as an informal dispute resolution service I will comment here only on 
those issues I find to be material to the outcome of the PPI mis-sale complaint. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs H say both times the PPI was imposed on them, they werent told it wasnt 
compulsory, or that they could buy it elsewhere. The bank disagrees with the first two points. 
I cant know what was said in the meetings and Halifax isnt able to provide the documents to 
show how the PPI was presented to Mr and Mrs H in 1992 or 1995. But the sales were over 
25 years ago, so this isnt surprising or unreasonable. 
In cases like these where there is limited information, I have to decide what I think is most 
likely. Ive thought carefully about everything Mr and Mrs H said but I also have to take into 
account how long ago the sales were and how that might affect what they recall. Also, the 
bank was under no obligation to explain that other policies were available in the market. So 
without stronger evidence to show Halifax didnt make it clear the PPI was optional, and Mr 
and Mrs H didnt agree to take it out, I cant fairly uphold the complaint on this point.
Its most likely Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs H, so it had to check that the 
PPI was right for Mr H. I know they feel strongly Mr H didnt need it, saying he was 
established in a good job and had good health  but based on what Ive seen of his 
circumstances, I think that it was suitable. Mr H has confirmed there was no change in his 
circumstances between 1992 and 1995.  
He was entitled to just statutory sick pay. The PPI wouldve paid out in addition to this and 
for up to 12 months for each successful claim. It also offered up to 12 months 
unemployment cover. Mr H told us also they had modest savings, but the PPI would have 
allowed them to use these to cover other living expenses whilst Mr H wasnt working, or to 
keep them intact for their future needs. Mr H said their parents would have helped out, but 
thats not suitable alternative protection. Its not guaranteed, and peoples circumstances can 
change. He also recalls having other insurance policies but has no record of when these 
were live, or what they covered. So I cant conclude that meant they didnt need PPI for 
Mr H.
In both years Mr and Mrs H were borrowing large sums of money over a long period, 
secured on their home. And the effects of not keeping up the repayments could have been 
serious for them. So, overall, given their existing means, I think the PPI would have been 
useful for Mr and Mrs H if Mr H was sick or lost his job.
Its possible Halifax didnt give Mr and Mrs H all the information they needed before deciding
to buy PPI. I dont know when the costs were made clear in either year, or the extent to 
which Halifax explained that the premium level could change over the policy term. But the 
PPI was competitively priced and was apparently affordable. Its also not clear that the bank 
pointed out the main things the policies didnt cover. However Mr H doesnt appear to have 
been affected by any of the main exclusions. So I dont think better information about the 
policies wouldve changed their mind about buying PPI for Mr H.
It follows I dont think Mr and Mrs H have lost out because of any problems with these sales.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I am not upholding Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 October 2020.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman