DRN-3547898
The complaint
Mr H complains about the valuation esure Insurance Limited trading as Sheilas' Wheels 
(esure) put on his car when it was written off in an accident.
What happened
Mr H had motor insurance with esure. His car was involved in an accident and esure decided 
it couldnt be economically repaired. Esure offered him £8650 to settle the claim. Mr H says 
he couldnt find a comparable replacement car for this price. He complained to esure. Esure 
said it used motor trade guides to come up with the valuation. It used four guides and the 
valuations were:
£8680
£9471
£9004
£8620.
Esure said there was an anomaly with two of the guides, so it took the average of £8680 and 
£8620 to reach the valuation of £8650, which it felt was fair. 
Mr H wasnt happy with this response and so he complained to this service. Our investigator 
didnt uphold his complaint. The investigator said he also used motor trade guides and came 
up with exactly the same four valuations for the car.
When the investigator first contacted esure to tell it about Mr Hs complaint, esure offered to 
increase the valuation to £8950, slightly more than the average of the four valuations 
(£8943.75). The investigator thought this was a fair and reasonable outcome.
Mr H didnt agree, so his complaint has been passed to me. Mr H has provided some 
advertisements for similar cars to his. Mr H wants a settlement of his claim that is enough to 
buy a comparable replacement car, which he says is likely to be around £11,250 or more.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr Hs insurance policy booklet with esure said:
Damage to your car
What is covered
All loss and damage to your carWe will:
pay to repair the damage or
replace whats been lost or damaged if its more cost effective than repairing it; or
pay to settle your claim
We will decide which method we use to settle your claimWe wont pay more than the 
market value of your car at the time of loss, less the total excess payable.
And:
The market value is the amount you could reasonably have expected to sell your car for on 
the open market immediately before your accident or loss. Our assessment of the value is 
based on cars of the same make and model and of a similar age, condition and mileage at 
the time of accident or loss. This value is based on research from motor trade guidesThis 
may not be the price you paid when you purchased the car.
Its not my role to value Mr Hs car. My role is to decide whether esure acted fairly and 
reasonably when it dealt with the claim.
This service has a standard approach to complaints like this. We have access to a number 
of motor trade guides just as esure does. So we can check if a business has offered a 
settlement in line with the guides. These guides are based on extensive nationwide research 
of likely and actual selling prices, usually based on advertised prices and auction prices. 
We dont usually find advertisements for similar vehicles on their own very persuasive. But 
we do consider them as they could indicate a problem with the guides. However a vehicle 
may be sold for less than the advertised price, particularly with private sales. And differences 
in mileage, year, model type, optional extras, accessories and other unusual features can 
make a significant difference to the price. Ive looked carefully at the advertisements Mr H 
has provided. But Im not persuaded that they show there could be a problem with the 
guides.
The motor trade guides esure and our investigator used are sophisticated online tools. They 
collect up-to-date information on advertised and actual selling prices for a wide range of 
vehicles. Mr Hs car was a relatively common make and model and Im satisfied on balance 
that the values the guides gave for it were accurate. Our investigator and esure both used 
four different guides and got the same results. The valuations were within a relatively narrow 
range. So Im satisfied it was fair and reasonable of esure to take an average of the four 
valuations when deciding how to settle Mr Hs claim.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint. So I wont be asking esure 
Insurance Limited trading as Sheilas' Wheels to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 
Sarah Baalham
Ombudsman