DRN-3886228
The complaint
A limited company S complains that Santander UK Plc didnt do enough to prevent the loss 
it suffered when it sent money to one of their customers accounts as the result of a scam. 
S has used a representative to bring its complaint, but for ease of reading Ill mainly refer to 
S itself, rather than the representative. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. In February 2018 S was the victim of an 
email interception scam. As a result of this a payment it sent was misdirected to an account 
held with Santander. The payment in question was sent from S account with its own bank I 
on 13 February 2018 and was for £68,161.25. 
When S realised it had been the victim of a scam, it reported this to I and Santander. 
Following receipt of an indemnity from I, Santander returned £30,422.22 that it had 
recovered. S made an application in court for pre-action disclosure in relation to certain 
documents from Santander about its accountholder. Once it had obtained these documents 
it made a complaint to Santander alleging that it had failed against various obligations it had. 
In summary S sought recovery of its outstanding loss (plus costs it had incurred) due to what 
it says was Santanders failure to effectively operate the systems it had in place. 
S said it had robust systems in place but that they couldnt share information about these. It 
didnt uphold the complaint and the matter was referred to our service. One of our 
Investigators thought there were limits as to how much of S complaint we could consider. 
And for what she could look at, she didnt recommend it should be upheld. S didnt accept 
this and asked for an Ombudsman to review its complaint. 
Ive already issued a jurisdiction decision which explains the limits as to how much of S 
complaint our service can consider. In summary I said I could only consider a complaint that 
relates to Santanders obligations under regulation 90(3) of the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017. 
Following on from this, with a view to resolving the complaint without the need for a formal 
decision. I informally shared, with S, my thoughts on the aspects of its complaint I could 
consider. S confirmed it would like me to issue a written final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As set out in my previous jurisdiction decision, the only thing I can comment on is a 
complaint about whether Santander met its obligations in relation to section 90(3) of the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs). This says:
The payee's payment service provider must co-operate with the payer's payment service
provider in its efforts to recover the funds, in particular by providing to the payer's payment
service provider all relevant information for the collection of funds.
The co-operation referred to is between payment service providers (PSPs). Santander were
obliged to co-operate with I in its efforts to recover the funds. Ive reviewed the notes of the 
contact between Santander and I which took place around the time, and Ive seen no 
evidence that Santander didnt co-operate with I in its efforts to recover the funds. Im 
satisfied that the funds that remained in the account at the point Santander received 
notification of fraud from I formed part of what was returned to S following receipt of an 
indemnity.
Whilst there was no regulatory obligation for it to do so, Santander also went further by 
contacting 2nd Generation banks, where the money had been sent to, to see if they could 
secure further funds beyond those which remained in their customers account at the time of 
reporting. This is why the amount which was returned was greater than what had remained 
in the account at the point of notification. 
Santander went beyond what was strictly required and I cant say that it failed against its 
obligations under 90(3) of the PSRs in such a way that it caused or contributed to S 
outstanding loss.
I appreciate S may feel that Santander didnt co-operate fully with it or its representative. But
as Ive previously set out, my consideration in this case is restricted by our jurisdiction and 
can only be about co-operation between the two PSPs. And in that context, Im not 
persuaded there is a reasonable basis upon which I can require Santander to do anything 
further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2023.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman