DRN-1773946
The complaint
Mr R complains that Paragon Finance PLC trading as Idem Servicing (Idem) is unfairly 
pursuing him to repay a debt it acquired from another business in 2013. 
What happened
Idem says it acquired a debt in Mr Rs name in relation to a closed overdraft in March 2013. 
Idem and the original lender sent Mr R notices of assignment (NOAs) confirming the new 
arrangement on 27 June 2013. The NOAs said the date of sale was 21 March 2013 and that 
the balance on that date was £639.10. 
Between June 2013 and May 2018 Mr R made repayments to the outstanding balance, 
reducing it to £250.41 in May 2018. For much of this period, Mr Rs repayments have been 
made via third party debt advice services. 
Mr R asked for a copy of his original credit agreement but Idem wasnt able to obtain it. 
Idems letter dated 18 June 2018 said the agreement couldnt be enforced but that it still 
expected Mr R to repay what he owes. 
Mr R complained as Idem failed to provide a copy of the original credit agreement or provide 
statements in accordance with the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). Mr R has raised 
various concerns about the fairness of Idems decision to collect the debt from him. Idem 
didnt agree that it had acted in error and Mr Rs complaint was referred to our service. 
An investigator reviewed the complaint but thought Idem had shown that it had acquired the 
debt in 2013 and that it had treated Mr R fairly. The investigator didnt uphold Mr Rs 
complaint and his representatives asked to appeal. 
In response, Mr Rs representative said they thought it was unfair for Idem to continue to 
pursue him for the debt that is unenforceable. They also said Idem had failed take steps to 
check there was an agreement in place between Mr R and the original lender. Mr Rs 
representative also said that Idems collections activity had been unnecessary as it was 
aware he had instructed them to complain on his behalf. As Mr R asked to appeal, his 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Idem has confirmed that the debt isnt enforceable because it cant provide a copy of the 
original credit agreement. Mr Rs representatives say that because the debt is unenforceable 
and Idem cant be sure on what grounds he borrowed from the original lender, its decision to 
pursue him for the debt is unfair. 
Id like to thank Mr Rs representatives for the level of detail included in their submissions. If I 
havent specifically referred to each and every point theyve made it isnt because I havent 
considered it. Ive reviewed everything on file. But my decision will focus on what I consider 
to be the key issues of Mr Rs complaint. My approach reflects the informal nature of this 
service. 
As Mr Rs representative is aware, its not the role of our service to say whether or not a debt 
is enforceable in court. Our role is to consider a business actions and whether it has treated 
a consumer fairly. Ill consider all the rules and regulations in place when reaching my 
decision, but the decision will be made on a fair and reasonable basis.
In this case, all parties accept the original credit agreement isnt available  and Idem says 
that means the debt isnt enforceable. But there is a lot of other information on file that 
indicates Mr R was aware of the debt and has been willing to make repayments over an 
extended period. Ive seen statements going back to 2011 that show Mr R was making 
monthly repayments towards the defaulted debt before it was acquired by Idem. The 
statements show that Mr R continued to make repayments over the period, in 2013, when 
his debt was acquired by Idem. I note that many of Mr Rs repayments have come via debt 
advice services that have acted for him. 
In addition, the contact notes show that at various points Idem has considered Mr Rs 
financial circumstances after receiving information from the third parties acting on his behalf.
Ive also seen the NOAs sent to Mr R by the original lender and Idem. They both contain the 
same information about the outstanding balance and confirmation that Idem had taken over 
management of the account.  
Taking all the available information into account, I havent been persuaded that Idem has 
acted unfairly by attempting to obtain repayment from Mr R. The information Ive seen 
indicates there was a debt with the original lender that was acquired by Idem. No interest or 
charges has been applied since at least 2011, and between 2013 and May 2018 Mr R made 
monthly repayments to substantially reduce what he owes. I havent seen any evidence to 
support the claim that the balance Idem purchased was wrong or that it failed to carry our 
reasonable checks. 
Mr Rs representatives have said that Idem has acted unfairly and aggressively tried to 
collect the debt from Mr R. I can see that, once Mr R stopped making repayments, Idem 
started to regularly contact him about the outstanding debt. But I think that reflects the 
decision not to continue with repayments. I understand Idem has called, written and texted 
Mr R on a regular basis, but I havent found that its actions have been aggressive or 
unreasonable. Whilst I note Idem has confirmed the debt isnt enforceable, Im satisfied there 
is an outstanding balance and that Idem has reasonable grounds to contact Mr R to request 
repayment. And whilst I understand Mr R did complain, that doesnt mean Idem had to stop 
contacting him about the outstanding balance. 
Overall, Im satisfied Idem has treated Mr R fairly and I havent found its decision to pursue 
him for the outstanding balance was wrong. As Im satisfied Idem hasnt made an error and 
has dealt with Mr Rs case fairly, Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2020.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman