DRN-1641840
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complains that Countrywide Assured Plc mis-sold them a joint fixed term life 
cover policy. 
What happened
In 2005 Mr and Mrs J set up a joint fixed term life cover policy with a firm Countrywide has 
since acquired liability for. For the purposes of this decision Ill be referring to Countrywide 
throughout. 
Mr and Mrs J say they thought the policy would last for the whole of their lives. They say 
Countrywide didnt advise them about how the product worked such as the policy may end 
before death and that theyd receive no payment at the end of the term. Had it done so, they 
say they wouldnt have purchased it. They say it is now difficult for them to purchase another 
policy given their age. 
Countrywide said Mr and Mrs J chose not to receive any advice from it. It said the 
documents from the time Mr and Mrs J took out the policy showed they had purchased a 
joint fixed term life cover for a term of 15 years which would pay £20,000 on first death. 
Mr and Mrs J were unhappy with Countrywides response, so they brought their complaint to 
us. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought Countrywide didnt advise Mr 
and Mrs J on whether this policy was suitable for them. She thought based on the evidence 
from the time of sale, it was clear that the policy had a term of 15 years. She also explained 
that the terms and conditions did set out that there would be no payment at the end of the 
term. 
Mr and Mrs J disagreed. They maintain that Countrywide shouldve advised them the policy 
wouldnt cover their whole lives. As a result, theyve now had to re-mortgage their house as 
they did not want their children to have to cover the costs of any funerals. They state that 
whilst they have now purchased a new life insurance policy this wont pay out until its been 
in place for a year. 
As no agreement could be reached, the matter has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint. I understand this will 
come as a disappointment to them, but Ill explain my reasons why.
Mr and Mrs J says Countrywide shouldve advised them on the full details of the policy and 
that the policy was only in place for a fixed term. Mr and Mrs J say they cant remember 
much from the time of sale  this isnt surprising given how long ago the sale took place. 
Countrywide says it didnt provide Mr and Mrs J with advice during this sale. Looking at what happened when the policy was sold to them, Im not persuaded that 
Countrywide provided advice. I say this because the life cover proposal form Mr and Mrs J 
completed stated, I confirm that I have not sought or been given, advice by on the 
purchase of this cover. This was in the declaration section of the form directly above where 
Mr and Mrs J had to sign. Im not persuaded they wouldve signed this if they had been given 
advice. 
In addition, the letter containing the policy schedule stated, as you already knew what value 
and type of cover you needed, we have progressed this application on what is known as an 
Execution only basis. This means that advice was not sought, nor given as to the suitability 
of the cover and the policy schedule itself said NIL, as no advice sought or given in the 
cost of advice section. 
This means Countrywide didnt have to check if the joint fixed term life cover policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs J. Instead it had to give them sufficient and appropriate information 
to enable them to make an informed choice about whether to take out the policy. 
Im satisfied Mr and Mrs J were given a broad description of what the policy was intended to 
cover and of the approximate costs. I say this because the policy itself was called fixed term 
life cover. The life cover proposal form sets out on the first page under the heading cover 
chosen that it was fixed term life cover, joint lives, cover term  15 years. It goes on to 
state who is covered and the benefit amount being £20,000. 
The insurance schedule also sets out the period of insurance was from 17/02/2005 to 
16/2/2020 the sum assured was £20,000, the cost was £18.11 on the 17th day of each 
month with the last premium due on 17/01/2020. The insurance schedule then sets out 
that the policy applies to Joint Life  First Death and refers to the policy conditions for more 
detail. In the notes section of the schedule it says warning  this policy has no cash-in value 
at any time. 
Having reviewed the policy terms and conditions Im satisfied it does set out that a fixed 
term life cover is designed to provide a fixed lump sum if the life insured should die during 
the period of insurance. It also specifies that the cover has no cash-in value nor is there 
any return at the end of the period of insurance. So Im persuaded that Mr and Mrs J were 
given sufficient information at the time to be able to make an informed decision about the 
policy they were taking out. 
So, whilst I appreciate this will come as a serious disappointment to Mr and Mrs J - and the 
situation they now find themselves in having to make alternative arrangements, I cant say 
Countrywide has acted unfairly or unreasonably, so Im not asking it to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Js 
complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 April 2020.
Asia Khanam
Ombudsman