DRN-2806606
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ks complaint is about the way Mars Capital Finance Limited trading as Magellan 
Homeloans (and referred to here as MCF) reported information on their credit files. Mr and 
Mrs K say that, due to MCFs errors, they were unable to raise finance for their new kitchen, 
resulting in considerable inconvenience.
What happened
The details of what happened have been set out in correspondence between Mr and Mrs K, 
MCF and our investigator, so I wont repeat the full background here. Our decisions are 
published and its important that I dont include any information that might result in Mr and 
Mrs K being identified. 
Briefly, Mr and Mrs K have a secured loan with MCF. The loan was transferred from 
Magellan Finance to MCF in June 2019. From that date onwards, MCF was responsible for 
reporting Mr and Mrs Ks mortgage to credit reference agencies. Unfortunately, there were 
errors by MCF which led to Mr and Mrs Ks mortgage being reported twice, by both MCF and 
Magellan. It appears this affected not just Mr and Mrs Ks mortgage, but others that had 
been transferred to MCF. 
MCF explained in its final response letter dated 19 December 2019 that accounts were 
updated in batches to rectify the mistakes it had made on its customers credit files. MCF 
said this took much longer than anticipated. As a result, it wasnt until December 2019 that 
Mr and Mrs Ks credit files were finally rectified.
However, the implications of this for Mr and Mrs K were significant. In August 2019 Mr and 
Mrs K were turned down for finance for a new kitchen. It was quickly established that this 
was due to the errors on their credit files made by MCF. Mr and Mrs K eventually had to 
borrow from family to complete the work, but were left without a kitchen for several months, 
resulting in considerable upheaval and inconvenience.
MCF accepted it had made a mistake, and paid compensation of £150, as well as the cost of 
Mr and Mrs K obtaining their credit reports for the period August 2019 to December 2019 
(£104.93). But Mr and Mrs K didnt think this went far enough and complained to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service.
An investigator looked at what had happened, and agreed with Mr and Mrs K that further 
compensation was warranted for the trouble and upset caused. She asked MCF to pay a 
further £200. MCF asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint but put forward no 
further arguments or evidence.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because MCF has accepted it made a mistake I only need to decide what it should do to put 
things right. Ive noted the compensation already paid  £150 for trouble and upset and 
£104.93 for the cost to Mr and Mrs K of obtaining a copy of their credit files. But I agree with 
the investigator that this is insufficient to compensate Mr and Mrs K for the impact of MCFs 
error on them. 
Putting things right
Mr and Mrs K were left without a kitchen for several months, through no fault of their own, 
and had to borrow money from family members, which was embarrassing and upsetting for 
them. Given this, I dont think £150 is sufficient to compensate them for the upset caused by 
MCFs mistake. I agree with the investigator that a further £200 should be paid, making a 
total of £350 for trouble and upset, in addition to the £104.93 for the credit files.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement I direct Mars Capital 
Finance Limited trading as Magellan Homeloans to pay Mr and Mrs K a further £200 
compensation for distress and inconvenience, in addition to the compensation already paid.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 June 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman