DRN-2666797
The complaint
Mr C is a sole trader. He complains that Covea Insurance plc (Covea) unfairly declined a 
claim under his business protection insurance policy.
What happened
Mr C holds a business protection insurance policy with Covea. He made a claim on that 
policy to cover his losses arising from his business closure as a result of the national 
Government-imposed lockdown in response to the COVID-19 pandemic.
Covea declined the claim as it said COVID-19 isnt covered under the terms of the policy. 
Mr C didnt agree. He said he thought the wording of the policy, specifically the wording for 
the extension for Infectious Diseases, meant that his claim should be covered.
Mr C complained to Covea but it explained that, although his policy would provide cover in 
the event of certain Infections Diseases causing closure, COVID-19 wasnt one of the named 
diseases. Mr C wasnt happy with this response so brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator considered Mr Cs complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He said 
that, while he sympathises with Mr Cs situation, he didnt think there was cover available 
under the policy. Mr C didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C is looking to claim on his business protection insurance policy. There are a range of 
business protection insurance policies on the market covering a range of different risks. 
When considering whether Covea acted fairly in declining his claim, the starting point is to 
consider the specific policy Mr C took out. 
Mr Cs policy included an extension which Mr C purchased to cover infectious diseases. The 
policy states that it provides cover for business interruption:
in consequence of closure of the Premises or part thereof on the order advice or 
stipulation of any government or local authority as a result ofany human 
infectious or human contagious Disease (excluding Acquired Immune Deficiency 
Syndrome [AIDS] or an AIDS-related condition) manifested by any person whilst 
at the Premises or within a 25 mile radius of the Premises.
The policy provides a definition for the term Disease, which sets out a list of specified 
illnesses that are covered under the policy. However, COVID-19 isnt on that list.
Given COVID-19 wasnt in existence at the time the policy was entered into, I wouldnt 
expect it to be included in the list. But there are similar policies on the market that provide 
cover in the circumstances of the pandemic, e.g. policies which cover all notifiable diseases 
as set out and updated on a Government-defined list. Mr Cs policy is not like this  rather it 
sets out a defined list of the illnesses which are covered. And there is nothing in the wording 
of the policy which implies it would provide cover for any new illnesses which might emerge. 
The list of covered diseases does include SARS, so Ive considered whether this would 
extend to cover COVID-19. However, I dont think SARS and COVID-19 are the same 
disease. The Governments list of notifiable diseases lists them as two separate diseases. 
And the World Health Organisation has also confirmed that while related, the two viruses 
are different, and it announced that COVID-19 was the name of this new disease on 11 
February 2020. So based on the evidence Ive seen, I dont think I can reasonably say that 
these two diseases are the same.
There has also been some discussion about the Public Emergency Extension within the 
policy, which provides cover for:
the actions or advice of a competent Public Authority due to an emergency likely 
to endanger life or Property in the vicinity of the Premises which prevents or 
hinders the use of or access to the Premises; excludinginfectious or 
contagious diseases.
The policy explains that the definitions given only apply where the word or phrase begins 
with an upper-case letter. As the word diseases isnt capitalised, it isnt limited to the 
definition outlined above  and therefore isnt limited to the list of specified illnesses outlined 
separately in the policy. So for that reason, I think COVID-19 is caught by this exclusion and 
therefore, cover wouldnt be available under this section of the policy.
I was sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact the lockdown had on Mr C. But 
for the reasons outlined above, and having considered the remaining terms of the policy, I 
dont think Covea acted unfairly in declining his claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2021.
 
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman