DRN-3633171
The complaint
Ms K complains that Ageas Insurance Limited unfairly declined a claim under her car 
insurance policy.
Mr S represents Ms K in this complaint.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill only summarise them 
here.
Ms K had car insurance with Ageas and her son, Mr S, was a named driver.
 Ms K says she bought the car in October 2016.
 In November 2016 Mr S was involved in a collision, and Ms K made a claim.
 Ms K has brought two previous complaints to us both of which an ombudsman has 
made decisions.
 There was an issue about who owned the insured vehicle and we previously 
required Ageas to complete its claim procedures.
 Ageas closed the claim without making any payment to Ms K.
 It said Ms K had not provided validation documents about the ownership of the car 
and so hadnt demonstrated that she had an insurable interest.
 Further, Ageas said it believed the sales invoice provided was forged. And the 
addresses involved were linked to Ms Ks family and there was no evidence of the 
vendor existing at the addresses given.
 Our investigator didnt think Ageas had acted unfairly and it was reasonable for 
Ageas to validate the claim.
Ms K disagreed saying Ageas accusations were fictitious and asked that an 
ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator, and for largely the same 
reasons. My role isnt to investigate the claim, the issue I have to decide is whether Ageas 
has acted fairly and reasonably in declining the claim. And on balance I think it has.
I appreciate Ms K has strong feelings on this case and has raised a number of queries. If I 
dont mention a particular piece of evidence or point or shes made it isnt because I havent 
seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont feel it necessary to reference it to explain my 
decision. I hope Ms K doesnt take this as a discourtesy, its just a reflection of the informal 
nature of our service.
The documentation at the heart of Ageas investigation consists of:
V5 registration document
Ms Ks bank statement 
The sales invoice
Im satisfied the V5 document relates to the car involved in the collision. But a V5 document 
only confirms who the registered keeper is, its not evidence of vehicle ownership.  
Ms K provided a bank statement showing a transaction with a Mr Jones on 6 October 2016, 
but the details including the amount of the transaction have been concealed. So the 
transaction couldve been for any amount and doesnt validate that Ms K purchased the car 
or owns it. Our investigator requested a full copy of the bank statement, but this hasnt been 
provided. 
Im satisfied that, on the balance of probabilities, Ageas has shown the sales invoice is 
fraudulent. I say this for the following reasons:
The length of time it took Ms K to provide the document and lack of co-operation 
when it was a reasonable request from Ageas to have sight of it, especially given the 
alleged purchase price of more than £67,000. 
Its not unreasonable to have expected Ms K to be able to provide information 
relating to her ownership of the car, especially as she says she only purchased it the 
month before Mr S was involved in a collision. 
The copy of the sales invoice initially provided didnt include the address of who sold 
the car to Ms K, a Mr Jones. And when a copy of the complete document was 
provided Ageas checked the addresses on a data base and there was no trace of a 
Mr Jones at either the current or future address on the document. 
Ageas suggest one of the addresses on the sales invoice has a link to a relative of 
Ms K. Having seen the name, I can understand why it has concerns. But more 
importantly there is no link to a Mr Jones at either address.
I would add that having commented on the lack of co-operation from Ms K I find that Ageas 
couldve handled the repudiation and conclusion of the claim better than it did. And it took an 
intervention from this service to make that happen.
On balance and taking account of the series of inconsistencies in this case Im satisfied 
Ageas has acted reasonably, and it has fairly declined the claim. So I wont be asking it to do 
any more. 
My final decision
For the reasons above I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2022.
 
Martyn Tomkins
Ombudsman