DRN-1887050
The complaint
Mr B complains that Bank of Scotland Plc (BOS) removed his overdraft limit without warning 
and provided him with loans that were unaffordable. He feels that they acted irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr B had a current account with an overdraft facility of £250 and a loan of around £12,500 
with BOS. In April 2019, Mr B found himself in financial difficulty, so he complained to BOS. 
He told them that over the last few years he felt theyd lent him money irresponsibly by 
allowing him to continue borrowing through various loans hed taken out from 2016 until the 
current one which hed taken out in 2018. 
He also felt they should have realised his debt problems were increasing because he was 
also borrowing from payday lenders  on top of the loans from BOS - and was experiencing 
problem gambling. Which he says they would have seen on his statements as he was 
spending most of his income on gambling. Around the same time, Mr B also approached a 
third party to lend him £200 as he had no money left for living expenses. He also 
approached a charity, who Ill call S, to help him organise his finances. 
As Mr B was incurring charges on his account, S asked BOS to help Mr B by stopping the 
charges being applied. However, in doing this, BOS also removed Mr Bs overdraft facility 
without telling him. So, Mr B raised a further complaint about the difficulties removing the 
overdraft had caused to both his finances and his health. 
BOS didnt uphold the complaints. They said theyd given Mr B the £200 when hed 
contacted them to said he needed it. They also explained, that because S had asked them to 
stop all interest and charges on Mr Bs current account, theyd had to remove the overdraft 
as part of their process. 
BOS said that when Mr B had applied for each of the four loans, hed used internet banking 
and declined to speak to an adviser. They said that Mr B hadnt told them when he made the 
applications that he had borrowing elsewhere, and because of this theyd relied on the 
information available from credit reference agencies. BOS explained that based on the 
information available, they felt the loans were affordable for him. But Mr B didnt agree, so he 
asked this service to look into his complaint.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld in part. She didnt think BOS had 
treated Mr B unfairly by removing his overdraft facility, as they were acting in his interests 
and theyd given him the money he requested when he explained his circumstances. She 
also felt that the first three loans Mr B had successfully applied for had been assessed fairly.
However, she felt that because there had been such a short period between Mr Bs 
applications for loans three and four, and there was an increase in the volume of gambling 
transactions as well as evidence of payday loans, that BOS should have undertaken further 
checks before agreeing to the fourth loan. 
So, she felt that BOS hadnt lent to Mr B responsibly and that they should refund the interest 
and charges Mr B had already paid and freeze any further interest. But she felt he should 
repay the loan capital as hed had the benefit of the money. 
Mr B agreed with the investigators opinion, but BOS didnt. They said that when the loans 
had been agreed, Mr Bs credit information showed he could afford them as he had sufficient 
disposable income. And that the information given to them by S also showed this. They also 
said the payday loans hadnt appeared on Mr Bs credit file until after hed applied for the 
loans, so they wouldnt have been able to take this into account.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im partially upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Irresponsible lending
When deciding whether to lend to a customer, a bank has certain obligations that it needs to 
meet to comply with the rules set down in CONC 5.2A. These include carrying out 
reasonable and proportionate checks which are dependent on the circumstances of each 
individual application. They also need to consider what any borrowing is for and ensure their 
customer can afford to repay any new borrowing in a sustainable way. 
BOS have said throughout that they feel the loan was affordable to Mr B  and thats not in 
dispute here. What I need to consider is if BOS lent to Mr B in a responsible way  which I 
dont think they did. 
I say this because there was only a two-month gap between Mr B applying for loan three and 
four. Looking at Mr Bs statements there was a significant deterioration in the running 
balance on his account during that two-month period due to his problem gambling. Ive also 
seen that Mr B asked for a repayment holiday less than two months after taking out the final 
loan, and several times over the next five months.
Mr B also said that he felt BOS had lent to him irresponsibly because his statements showed 
that he was experiencing problem gambling and he was having to turn to payday lenders for 
money. BOS said that their decision to lend had been made by their automated system 
based on the income and outgoings Mr B had given them, any current borrowing and 
repayment history, and his current credit score. And that based on this information they felt 
the loans were affordable for Mr B.
I recognise that in isolation that the checks the bank ran may not have been enough to flag 
that Mr B was experiencing financial difficulty, and that based on his income and outgoings 
the loans were affordable. I also acknowledge that BOS feel that with the benefit of hindsight 
its easier to identify where a consumer is experiencing issues. However, Mr B was BOSs 
customer and they had access to his account transactions, and the history of his loans which 
I think should have been enough to for them to at least ask further questions. 
Part of being a responsible lender is understanding what a customer will be spending their 
borrowing on. Ive looked at the applications Mr B completed online, and he didnt say what 
he was intending to use the borrowing for  and BOS didnt question this. Looking at the history of the loans I think there were other triggers, such as Mr Bs first loan 
being taken in Mid-December 2016, loan two being taken out six months later, then loan 
three of around £10,600 being taken out in April 2018 and less than two months later loan 
four of around £12,500. I think this reasonably shows unusual behaviour, as its not common 
for someone to take out loans back to back like this. And I think this in itself, should have 
been enough for BOS to take a more thorough look at Mr Bs account before agreeing to 
lend to him again. 
In addition to this, Ive looked at Mr Bs bank statements which clearly show both regular and 
significant transactions to support his problem gambling along with borrowing from payday 
lenders. I think based on volume and amounts that Mr B was spending from his account e.g. 
December 2017 when he spent around £3,200 on gambling in one day, that it would have 
been reasonable for BOS to at least question whether Mr B was vulnerable. 
Its not uncommon for a bank to include additional security checks when significant 
transactions are made within a short timeframe so I think there would have been an 
opportunity for BOS to at least contact Mr B to see if hed made the payments, which in turn 
would have alerted them to his situation. But I cant see at any point they made any 
additional checks. 
I think if BOS had asked Mr B more questions about the significant transactions on his 
account, what hed spent his previous loans on, and what he wanted the loans for, its likely 
that they wouldnt have lent him loans three or four as they eventually did. And based on the 
evidence Ive seen, I think there were numerous opportunities for BOS to identify that Mr B 
was a potentially vulnerable consumer who might struggle to sustainably pay back what he 
borrowed. However, the information was viewed in isolation without thinking about the bigger 
picture  and ultimately Mr B was given an inappropriate loan amount. 
I recognise that BOS feel Mr B should take some responsibility for his actions as he made 
the online applications. And I also acknowledge that he didnt contact BOS until April 2019 
when he was in severe financial difficulty to make them aware of his vulnerability. But Mr B 
hasnt disputed hes had the benefit of the money that hes borrowed, and I think its fair for 
BOS to be able to ask Mr B to pay that back. 
However, I also think BOS should refund both the interest and charges theyve already 
charged Mr B for the loan taken out in June 2018, and any future interest and charges that 
would be payable. As those are charges Mr B wouldnt have had to pay had BOS not 
granted him the additional loan. BOS should also remove any record of the adverse credit 
information and the loan from June 2018 from Mr Bs credit file, so he isnt negatively 
impacted because of whats happened. 
Removal of the overdraft 
Mr B told us he felt BOS had treated him unfairly and caused him distress by removing his 
overdraft without warning, which caused him to go overdrawn with no way to pay for food or 
travel. I recognise that this would have been upsetting for Mr B as it would have been a 
shock to find that he didnt have the money available to him that he expected. 
However, BOS have told us that itss part of their internal process when theyre asked to 
freeze interest and charges  as they were in this case by the charity  to remove any 
overdraft facility. Ive also seen that when Mr B contacted BOS and explained his situation 
that they arranged for him to access £200 in a branch a couple of days later. So, whilst I 
understand the timing wasnt ideal for Mr B, I dont think BOS acted unreasonably by 
removing his overdraft as it was in his best interests to do so.    Next steps
I understand that Mr Bs entered into a repayment plan with BOS to start repaying the 
outstanding balance. But if he still feels this isnt affordable, he should contact BOS to see 
what else they can do to help  as they should treat him positively and sympathetically as 
hes in financial difficulty.
Putting things right
To put things right, I think BOS should do the following:
Remove all interest and charges payable under loan four which was taken out in 
June 2018;
Remove any adverse information about the loan four taken out in June 2018 from 
Mr Bs credit file.
I also understand that Mr Bs entered into a repayment plan to repay the outstanding 
balance. But if he still feels this isnt affordable, he should contact BOS to see what else they 
can do to help  as they should treat him positively and sympathetically if hes in financial 
difficulty.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Bank of Scotland Plc must follow the 
instructions Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 February 2021.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman