DRN-3684417
The complaint
Mr A complains that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc (M&S) have unfairly registered 
a default on his credit file and passed his account to a debt management company (DMC) 
without telling him, despite agreeing repayments with M&S.
What happened
Mr A had an unsecured loan with M&S, but he suffered financial difficulties during the 
pandemic, so they applied a three month payment holiday. Mr A resumed his repayments in 
July 2020, but he rang M&S in October 2020, to ask if his October payment could be 
refunded to him, which they agreed. As he did not make his monthly contractual payment for 
the next few months, they sent him a notice of default on 6 January 2021.
As Mr A had still not made his contractual monthly payment by 5 February 2021, M&S sent 
him a final demand letter, but as no action was taken by Mr A, his account was defaulted on 
27 February. He contacted them on 25 March 2021 and he said he wasnt aware that the 
account had defaulted. He arranged a payment plan with them to pay £115 a month over the 
following 12 months. 
Mr A received a letter from a DMC advising him that his M&S account had been passed to 
them. Mr A made a complaint to M&S that they did not write to him first to explain this would 
happen, and he was worried about any detrimental impact to his credit file. M&S said as his 
complaint was about their policy and procedures, they had taken his feedback on board and 
closed his complaint. Mr A brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mr As complaint. She said as he was unable to keep up with 
the minimum contractual repayments and it appeared that a payment arrangement hadnt 
been agreed until March 2021, M&S hadnt done anything wrong by registering the default, 
as this was a true and accurate reflection of his account management, which lenders are 
required to report to the Credit Reference Agencies (CRA). She said that the transfer of his 
account to the DMC should not affect his credit file.
Our investigator said that M&S acknowledged that they never wrote to Mr A to advise his 
account had been passed to a DMC. She thought it wouldve been good practice to 
communicate this with him, but this didnt mean theyd done something wrong. She said that 
his credit agreement showed they may transfer the rights of the loan to another party. Mr A 
asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He said he was out of work for nine 
months in 2020 as he was in bad health and the situation was out of his control.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything
hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be 
focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here. For ease 
of readability, I will address the default being registered and the account transfer to the DMC 
separately below.
Default
A default can only be registered when a customer has been in arrears for at least three
months. Mr A had trouble making his repayments in 2020 originally. Ive read everything that 
he has said about his difficulty during this timeframe, so Im aware of his circumstances 
here. 
Mr A was approved for a payment holiday in April 2020. But as the payment holiday was 
Covid related, this wouldnt lead to a default. But Mr A missed his November and December 
2020 and his January 2021 contractual monthly payments. So he did miss three months in a 
row here. Although Mr A was on a six month hold from October 2021 and he had his 
October payment refunded to him, a hold would not stop a default from being registered. 
Ive listened to a call that Mr A had with M&S in October 2020. He tells the call handler he is 
not working now but he is hopeful that he will find work early in 2021. As Mr A was hopeful of 
finding work, but hadnt actually found work at that time, he was unable to meet his 
contractual monthly payments for three months (four including the refunded payment), so 
M&S registered the default. Im not persuaded that the default could have been avoided here 
as even though the situation was out of Mr As control because of Covid, M&S have to report 
the accurate account activity to the CRAs, which includes payment history and defaults.
I can see that M&S sent Mr A the required documents, such as a notice of default and a final 
demand. I can see these were sent to Mr A registered address. I know Mr A says he didnt 
receive these letters but, if he did not receive them, I cant hold M&S responsible for any 
errors with the postal system when I can see they have sent these letters. 
Ive also listened to calls that Mr A had with M&S in March 2021. He details that he is 
working three jobs now, but his income is still £1,000 less than what it was prior to his 
financial difficulties. He discusses taking another three month holiday payment once the hold 
period expires if he was to make a lump sum payment towards the loan. He later agrees a 
repayment plan of £115 a month for the next 12 months, but his account had already 
defaulted months earlier. 
M&S have sent me Mr As payment history since the account defaulted. The payments show 
that he is still only paying £115 a month and he has not returned to his contractual monthly 
payment. He did not make a lump sum payment to the account. So it would appear a default 
would always be inevitable, even if Mr A would have been offered another three month 
Covid payment holiday. I cant say that M&S made any errors by registering the default when 
they did, based on the missed payments leading up to the default being registered and Mr 
As circumstances not immediately improving around this time.
The account transfer to a DMC
Ive considered what Mr A has said about M&S not writing to him to inform him that they 
were transferring his account to a DMC. And I agree with our investigator that it would have 
been good practice for them to do so. But this does not mean they have been unfair for 
transferring his account to a DMC.
The credit agreement that Mr A signed set out that they may transfer their rights on the loan 
to a third party. So Im satisfied they were entitled to do this here. He was also made aware 
that his account could be passed to a DMC on a call he had with M&S on 25 March 2021 
also. The call handler says the loan could be administered by an external collections agency, but they just follow our procedures, they wouldnt hassle you for anything that you 
couldnt afford. The call handler also explains if the account is transferred to a DMC they 
would keep the 12 month repayment plan that Mr A set up on the call.
I know Mr A has concerns that the transfer of his account to a DMC may negatively affect his 
credit file. Mr A may wish to check his credit file to ensure the accurate information is 
recorded on there and that only one default is showing. If there is any incorrect information, 
he may want to contact any company who has recorded any incorrect information on his 
credit file to have this corrected. 
It's clear to me what a difficult time Mr A has been through and is going through here. He 
was clearly trying to be proactive in dealing with his finances at a very tough time. Mr A has 
been making repayments to the loan and this should be reflected on his credit file.
In addition, Mr A may wish to consider registering a notice of correction with the CRAs to 
explain what happened during the timeframe in question. This is a short explanatory note 
that he can add to an entry on his credit file, to explain the background to that entry. So 
anyone who searches his credit report, such as a mortgage lender, would see the notice of 
correction and take the notice into account if they viewed his credit file. Mr A would need to 
contact the CRAs to do this.
In summary, in order to ask M&S to remove the default, I would need to see that they had 
registered the default incorrectly. But as the account was in arrears for several months and 
they had sent letters to Mr A to his registered address with the implications of this and what 
would happen, including a notice of default, then Im satisfied that M&S did not make an 
error in defaulting the account. I understand this decision may have an impact on Mr A 
getting a mortgage in the future, so I havent made this decision lightly, and I commend him 
on the actions he took in trying to make his payments to his account when he was able to do 
so, but it follows I dont require M&S to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman