DRN-1774300
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D have complained that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) has responded 
unfairly to a complaint they made about the sale of a packaged bank account (PBA); and 
specifically they are dissatisfied with the compensation RBS has paid them for an apparent 
error in the administration of a related loan they took out. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs D originally complained to us about the actual sale of the PBA, a Royalties 
Gold account, which happened in October 2008. One of my fellow ombudsmen decided that 
we were not able to look into that complaint. This was because of time limits in our rules, and 
how long someone has from the time they should first have realised they had a reason to 
complain. 
Mr and Mrs D then said that they believed they had not benefited from a preferential loan 
rate, which should have been applied as one of the benefits of this PBA. RBS looked into it 
and said it couldnt be sure the correct discount had been applied. So it paid Mr and Mrs D 
the difference between the full-price loan rate and the discount rate (RBS also paid interest 
on that amount). 
Mr and Mrs D say that their reason for taking the Royalties Gold account was to get this 
preferential rate. They say it follows that RBS should have paid back all the fees they paid 
for the Royalties Gold account. 
Our adjudicator said he thought the refund RBS had given was fair. 
Mr and Mrs D didnt agree and so the matter has been passed to me to review afresh, and to 
reach a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. 
Ive not looked at whether the October 2008 PBA was mis-sold  weve already decided that 
we arent able to look into that, under the rules of the ombudsman service. 
Mr and Mrs D have effectively said that they should be compensated as though they had 
been mis-sold the PBA. They say that the reason they took the PBA was to get the 
preferential loan rate and so they didnt get any of the benefits that actually led to them 
agreeing to the PBA upgrade and for which they paid. 
Against this RBS doesnt accept that the PBA was mis-sold. It said to Mr and Mrs D:
I can confirm a packaged account did enable customers to benefit from a preferential 
rate on a loan at the time this account was sold to you. Therefore the advice you 
were given at the time of the sale was correct.
By ensuring that Mr and Mrs D now get the benefit of the preferential rate (by means of a 
refund with interest), RBS is effectively saying it is putting them back in the position they 
would have been in, if the possible error had not been made. 
Near the start of its decision letter to Mr and Mrs D, RBS did say, Having considered all the 
information, I agree with your complaint that you have been provided with an inappropriate 
account. However, I see this as just a poorly drafted paragraph by RBS, and not an overall 
view that the PBA was mis-sold. The rest of the letter focusses on the possibility that RBS 
failed to apply the preferential loan rates. And in its letter to us, RBS said it didnt agree with 
Mr and Mrs Ds complaint and said we have not admitted that the Royalties Gold sale was 
inappropriate for [Mr and Mrs D], only that we were unable to demonstrate that a preferential 
rate had been applied to the borrowing
I can see that both of the positions  that of Mr and Mrs D, and that of RBS  have  a certain 
logic and reasonableness behind them. But, as Im not looking at whether the October 2008 
PBA was a mis-sale, I instead have looked at whether the RBSs resolution of the complaint 
is unreasonable. It is only if I thought the RBS position was unreasonable, that Id be able to 
uphold this specific complaint. 
I dont think RBSs position is unreasonable. It hasnt admitted that the PBA was mis-sold, 
and it has pointed out reasons why Mr and Mrs D may have been attracted to some of the 
PBAs other benefits, and not just the preferential loan rate. Mr and Mrs D will disagree with 
that  but Im not looking here at the issue of whether the PBA was mis-sold.
On this basis, I do think that RBS has done enough to put right the one error it admits it may 
have made  which is not applying the preferential loan rate. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 April 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman