DRN-3614792
The complaint
Mr L complains that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV)  declined his claim against his 
travel insurance policy. Reference to URV includes its agents. 
Mr Ls mother, Mrs L, is assisting him in bringing his complaint. For ease of reference, Ill 
refer to Mrs Ls comments as being those of Mr L.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr L had a single trip travel insurance policy underwritten by 
URV for a trip in June 2019. Whilst Mr L was on the trip, he lost his dental retainer. He 
made a claim against his policy for the cost of a replacement dental retainer. URV 
declined his claim. It said that dental retainers werent covered by the policy. Mr L said 
that the retainer was a personal possession and therefore covered under the policy. He 
pursued his complaint. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She didnt think that URV had 
treated Mr L unfairly or unreasonably in declining the claim. That was because the policy 
doesnt cover loss of a dental retainer. The investigator said that, in any event, the policy 
would only cover the cost of the original item, not the replacement cost. Here, Mr L didnt 
pay for the original item as it was part of his free NHS dental care. 
Mr L didnt agree with the investigator. He said that whilst the retainer was free he had to 
pay for its replacement. Mr L considers that a dental retainer is a personal possession. 
The investigator considered what Mr L said but didnt change her view. Mr L asked that 
an ombudsman consider the complaint, so it was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, which provide cover for lost 
possessions, subject to certain conditions and the policy terms. The relevant part of the 
policy says as follows: 
If your possessions are lost, stolen, damaged or delayed (Policy B Section 8)
We will pay: For:
up to a total of £3,000 for your possessions, 
with a maximum amount for:
         Clothes
Luggage
Shoes
Cosmetics
Fine jewellery & watches
Electrical items & photographic equipment
Buggies, Stollers & Car seats
Eyewear
Unreceipted items up to a maximum of:£1,500
£250
£250
£150
£400
£350
£100
£150
£150
either
the cost of repairing items that are 
damaged whilst on your trip, up to the 
original purchase price of the item, 
less an allowance for age, wear and 
tear,
or
the original purchase price of the 
item, less an allowance for age, wear 
and tear, to cover items that are 
stolen, permanently lost or destroyed 
whilst on your trip
[]
BE AWARE! []There is a maximum amount you can claim and a maximum amount in 
total for each category, and these are shown under the possessions section. The 
possessions section only covers items that belong to you, is not new for old' and an 
amount for age. wear and tear will be deducted. [] No cover is provided under this section 
for:
anything mentioned in the conditions and exclusions (page 15) or any items that do not 
fall within the categories of cover listed.  []
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that URV has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. Im not upholding Mr Ls  
complaint because I dont think that URV treated him unfairly or unreasonably. I say that 
because:
Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or situation. An insurer 
will decide what risks its willing to cover and set these out in the terms and conditions 
of the policy document. The onus is on the consumer to show that the claim falls under 
one of the agreed areas of cover within the policy. Mr Ls policy only covers certain categories of possessions listed in the policy, which 
Ive set out above. His dental retainer doesnt come within those categories of 
possessions, so its not covered under the policy. Therefore, I dont think that URV 
acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining Mr Ls claim.
In any event, even if Mr Ls claim was for an item thats covered by the policy, URV 
wouldnt be obliged to pay the replacement cost  which is what Mr L claims here. 
Thats because the policy says that where an item insured under the policy is 
permanently lost, URV will pay an amount equivalent to the original purchase price, 
less an allowance for age, wear and tear. Where theres no original purchase price, 
theres nothing for URV to pay. 
I do appreciate that Mr L lost his dental retainer and incurred expense in replacing it 
but, for the reasons Ive explained, thats not an expense thats covered by his policy. 
For these reasons, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2022.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman