DRN-3720998
The complaint
Mr H and Ms W and unhappy with the service they received from HSBC UK Bank Plc 
surrounding a large transfer they wanted to make to a currency exchange company.
What happened
Mr H and Ms W wanted to move money from their HSBC UK account to an overseas 
account in order to make a property purchase. Mr H contacted HSBC and instructed a 
transfer of from their HSBC savings account to an account held with a currency exchange 
company with whom hed arranged a fixed currency exchange rate, and from where the 
exchanged currency would be moved onwards to facilitate the property purchase.
Mr H explained to HSBC that it was important that the transfer complete that day, and he 
gave his overseas mobile telephone number as a point of contact should any further 
information be required by HSBC. However, when Mr H awoke the next morning, the 
transfer to the currency exchange company hadnt completed, and he hadnt received any 
call from HSBC. 
Mr H wasnt happy about this as it meant that the fixed exchange rate hed agreed with the 
currency exchange company was no longer available due to time expiry, and because when 
the transfer was later completed the difference in exchange rate meant that he received 
substantially less money in the local currency than he would have done had HSBC made the 
transfer to the currency exchange company when first instructed. Mr H also wasnt happy 
with the service he received from HSBC when chasing this matter, including that several 
telephone calls were dropped. So, he raised a complaint.
HSBC looked at Mr H s complaint. They explained the transfer had been flagged by their 
fraud detection system for further checks, and that it hadnt been possible to try to contact  
Mr H to confirm the validity of the transfer before HSBC had needed to reverse the payment. 
HSBC acknowledged that the non-receipt of the payment had been problematic for Mr H, but 
they didnt feel that theyd acted unfairly in how theyd managed the situation. 
However, HSBC did accept that Mr H had experienced some difficulty and frustration when 
trying to contact HSBC about the payment, and they apologised to Mr H for this and made a 
payment of £150 to him by way of compensation. Mr H wasnt satisfied with HSBCs 
response to the complaint, and along with Ms W, he referred the complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, including a review that had already been 
undertaken by a previous investigator. But while they accepted that HSBCs actions had 
meant that Mr H hadnt been able to take advantage of the more favourable currency 
exchange rate, they didnt feel that HSBCs actions were unfair or unreasonable, and so they 
didnt uphold the complaint. Mr H and Ms W remained dissatisfied, so the matter was 
escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I note several detailed submissions provided to this service by Mr H. Id like 
to thank Mr H for making these submissions. I hope that he doesnt consider it a discourtesy 
that I wont be responding in similar detail here. Instead, Ive focussed on what I feel are the 
key issues of this complaint  in line with this services role as an informal dispute resolution 
service.
As such, if Mr H notes that I havent addressed a specific point that hes raised in this letter, 
it shouldnt be taken from this that I havent read and considered that point. Indeed, I can 
confirm that Ive read and considered all submissions provided by both Mr H and Ms W and 
HSBC. Instead, it should be taken that I have read and considered that point, but that I 
havent felt it necessary to address that point directly here, in order to arrive at what I feel is 
a fair and reasonable decision.
Its also important to confirm that this service isnt a regulatory body or a Court of Law and 
doesnt operate as such. Rather, the remit of this service is based on fairness of outcome. 
And while this service does take regulatory obligations and points of law into consideration, it 
isnt within the remit of this service to decide whether any breaches of regulation or non-
lawful actions have occurred. These would be determinations better suited to a regulatory 
body or Court of Law respectively. 
In regard to Mr H and Ms Ws complaint, Ill begin by stating that I do feel that HSBC were 
acting fairly by stopping the transfer for further checks as they did, which I note initiated by 
HSBCs automated fraud prevention systems. Businesses such as HSBC have an obligation 
to try to protect their customers money where possible, and automated fraud prevention 
systems are a very common tool that financial institutions employ as part of their strategy to 
meet these obligations. 
Im aware that Mr H feels that the fact he had made similar transfers to the currency 
exchange company before meant that the most recent transfer shouldnt have been flagged 
by HSBCs systems. But fraud prevention systems considered each transfer in isolation, and 
so it doesnt necessarily follow that because similar transfers werent flagged previously that 
a more recent transfer shouldnt also not have been flagged. Additionally, having listened to 
a recording of the telephone call where Mr H instructed the transfer, I note that Mr H did 
explain to HSBCs agent that prior transfers hed made to the currency exchange company 
had been stopped for further checks before being allowed to proceed.
Regarding that initial telephone call, Im aware that Mr H doesnt feel that HSBCs agent read 
out a disclaimer  which was read out to him on a subsequent call  whereby HSBC 
confirmed they wouldnt be held responsible for any losses resulting from the transfer not 
being made in a timely manner because of further checks. However, while its correct that 
HSBCs agent on the initial call didnt read out a specific script, she did make several 
references to the payment being made subject to checks, which I feel effectively provides a 
similar message, and which Im satisfied, having listened to the call, that Mr H understood.
It's also evident from the initial telephone call that HSBCs agent explained to Mr H that he 
may get a call from HSBC if they transfer was selected for further checks, and also that later 
in the call, Mr H confirmed the importance of the transfer completing in a timely manner and 
that HSBC should call him at any time, regardless of the hour, if they needed to speak with 
him to confirm the legitimacy of the requested transfer.
Mr H contends that he never received any such call from HSBC and that his telephone 
records confirm that. Indeed, Mr H has stated to this service that hed be prepared to swear an affidavit to that effect. Additionally, in their response to Mr Hs complaint, HSBC also 
stated that no call to Mr H had been attempted.
Mr H strongly believes that because HSBC didnt call him to verify the transfer that HSBC 
should be held responsible for the financial loss he incurred as a result of his having to 
complete the transfer at a later date using a less favourable exchange rate. 
I can understand why Mr H holds this position, but I find it difficult to reach the same 
conclusion. This is because HSBCs stated position on this point is that where a payment is 
stopped for further checks they will try to contact their customer to verify the payment if 
possible  and it isnt that HSBC definitely will contact their customer.
This is evidenced by HSBCs terms and conditions which state  under the heading How 
youll know if theres been a problem (page 23):
If theres been a problem with a cheque or other payment, well try to tell you as 
soon as possible.
Additionally, I note from the initial telephone call where Mr H instructed the transfer that 
HSBCs agent explained that as part of any checks that HSBC undertook on the requested 
payment that he may receive a telephone call from them.
I can appreciate that Mr H may have held the expectation that HSBC definitely would contact 
him if there was a problem with the transfer. But if Mr H did hold that expectation, while 
understandable to a degree, I dont feel it was an accurate expectation for him to have held, 
and accordingly I dont feel that HSBC should be asked to reimburse him for the losses he 
claims because that expectation wasnt met.
One reason for this is because if HSBC do hold concerns about an instructed transfer, then 
they only have a limited amount of time to verify that transfer before they have to make a 
decision as whether to allow that transfer to complete or not. And so, given the limitations as 
described here, it makes sense that HSBC wouldnt provide a guarantee that they will 
contact a customer whose payment required further checks, but would instead only confirm 
that they would attempt to do so on a best endeavours basis.
This is because it would be practically impossible for HSBC to be able to guarantee that they 
would at all times have the staff available to contact all customers whose payments had 
been flagged for further checks within the time limits as described above, and regardless of 
the volume of affected customers that might need to be contacted at any one time. Instead, 
it's only practically possible for such contact attempts to be attempted, and not guaranteed.
Im satisfied that this is HSBCs position, and that they didnt give any guarantee to Mr H that 
he would definitely be telephoned if there were any concerns about the payment as Mr H 
appears to believe here. And I also note the continuing clause in HSBCs terms under the 
heading How youll know if theres been a problem, which explains that customers can 
contact HSBC themselves for an update at any time. And, given the importance of the 
payment for Mr H and Ms W, I feel they could reasonably have mitigated against what took 
place here by contacting HSBC to confirm the transfer a few hours after instructing it.
To summarise, while I can understand why Mr H and Ms W may have held the expectation 
they did that they would be contacted by HSBC if further checks needed to be undertaken on 
the requested transfer by HSBC, I dont feel that this expectation was based on an accurate 
understanding of HSBCs position and obligations. And so, I dont feel that HSBC should 
fairly or reasonably be instructed to cover the losses that Mr H and Ms W claim.Mr H has also stated that HSBCs terms mean that HSBC had no right to reverse the 
instructed payment, even if they had concerns about it. But I reach a different conclusion to 
Mr H here, and Im satisfied that HSBCs obligations to protect their customers money, as 
described previously above, include an obligation to not allow a transfer about which they 
hold concerns to go ahead.
Finally, I feel that the £150 that HSBC have already paid to Mr H and Ms W in light of the 
difficulties and inconvenience they encountered when trying to reach HSBC from overseas 
to resolve this matter already represents a fair and reasonable compensation amount for that 
particular aspect of their complaint.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr H and Ms W were wanting here, but if follows from all 
the above that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing HSBC to take any further 
action. I hope that Mr H and Ms W will understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made 
the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Ms W to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 December 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman