DRN-3725724
The complaint
Mr W complains Interactive Investor Services Limited (IISL) delayed the transfer of 
money from his ISA. As a result, he says he has incurred a financial loss and asks to be 
compensated for this and the poor customer service he received.
What happened
Mr W held an ISA Investment with IISL.
In February 2021, he decided to transfer some of his ISA to a third-party provider that Ill 
call W.
The transfer successfully completed on 13 May 2021 but between February and the 
transfer going ahead, Mr W says he was continually chasing IISL for updates and 
explanations as to why the transfer was taking so long.
Mr W complained to IISL about the delayed and the poor customer service he received.
On 27 May 2021, IISL issued its final response. It said the transfer request was received 
by W on 13 April 2021 and logged onto IISL systems on 15 April 2021. On 26 April 
2021 the transfer was paused as the transfer form was missing confirmation of Mr Ws 
date of birth. 
On 6 May 2021 IISL received the confirmation details required and the funds were 
transferred on 7 May 2021. IISL says the transfer was completed within 3 weeks and in 
line with its own Service Level Agreements (SLAs) and as such it didnt uphold Mr Ws 
complaint.
Mr W had also raised concerns about IISLs online platform. After investigation, IISL 
found no errors or concerns with its online access and so didnt agree this had impacted 
Mr W either.
Mr W disagreed. He felt the service was so poor he instructed the transfer of further 
funds away for IISL and brought his complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into things for Mr W. In her view, whilst she could see why Mr W 
had become frustrated with the transfer process, she didnt find that IISL had acted 
outside of its SLAs. In her view the transfer had been successfully carried out within the 
HMRC guidelines of 30 days and as such she didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint.
She also looked at the online platform, which Mr W complained wasnt user friendly, but 
she explained she wasnt able to comment on how a business chose to set up and run 
its own online access.
Mr W disagreed. He accepts the timeline of events but points out nevertheless that he 
applied for the partial ISA transfer in February 2021 and he feels there were 3 
unaccounted months before it acknowledged the transfer application and that such a 
delay is unacceptable. He tells this service he has lost all confidence in IISL and is in the 
process of moving his other investments away from them. He asks for an ombudsman 
review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for largely the 
same reasons.
Firstly, I should say that I am aware Mr W has raised two complaints with this service. I am 
only considering the whether the actions of IISL were fair and reasonable with regard to the 
partial ISA transfer application to W. I can appreciate this has been a very frustrating 
process for Mr W and this has been further compounded by a second complaint he has felt 
the need to raise with regard to another transfer, but as I have said I am looking at what has 
happened in respect of the ISA transfer request to W and whether IISL were fair and 
reasonable in processing his application.
From what I have seen the correct starting point to consider IISLs actions is 13 April 2021. I 
appreciate Mr W started the process in February 2021, but I can see from the information 
provided IISL didnt receive the transfer notification until then. 
HMRC guidelines suggest it should take about 30 days to transfer an ISA, or sooner if 
possible. In this case I can see it was completed within around three weeks, which is line 
with the guidelines. I went onto consider if there were any unnecessary delays. Im satisfied 
the only real delay was caused by IISL needing the Mr Ws date of birth, which had been 
omitted from the transfer form. The time it took to supply it to IISL is not something I can 
fairly hold it responsible for. 
So, whilst I appreciate Mr W will be disappointed, I find IISL as acted fairly and reasonably in 
processing Mr Ws ISA transfer request within a reasonable amount of time and so I dont 
agree it should pay any compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman