DRN-1587450
Complaint
Mr M has complained that because HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt update the payment due date 
on his personal loans when he first asked its caused him a lot of stress.
Background
Mr M has told us he changed his job on 1 July 2019 and as a result of that his salary was 
now due to be paid to him on the 30th day of each month, rather than the 28th as it had 
been. Mr M says he went into a HSBC branch to ask for the payment date of the loans to be 
changed from the 28th of the month, to the 1st of the month  and was told this had been 
done.
Mr M says he then went back in to the branch on 1 August, as the date hadnt been changed 
 and was again told itd been changed. But he said that wasnt true, and they hadnt 
changed it. He says every month for several months hes had to spend at least 30 minutes 
on the phone trying to sort this out. Mr M says hes also received phone calls from HSBCs 
collections area to say hes not paid his loans. And says hes had three separate letters from 
HSBC saying sorry, that its all sorted, and paying him compensation  but theyve never 
actually sorted out the problem.
HSBC sent Mr M correspondence on 2 August, 2 October, 14 October and 1 November. 
These all said sorry for what happened and accepted hed been told the payment date had 
been updated, when actually it hadnt been. And over the course of the complaint, paid him 
£400 compensation.
Mr M was unhappy with this and asked us to look into it. He also let us know in February 
2020 that the issues with the payment date on his loan had been sorted  and now it was 
just a question of how to resolve the pain, stress and suffering he experienced for four to five 
months.
Our investigator considered the complaint, and said overall she felt £400 was fair 
compensation for the issues Mr M experienced. She also said that when payments came out 
early these were reversed  so Mr M hadnt suffered any financial losses. And she said 
HSBC had told us theyd corrected Mr Ms credit file.
Mr M though didnt agree. He said none of what our investigator said takes into 
consideration the stress or frustration of what he went through. And he said his company 
charges a significant amount per hour for the work they do. He also felt the impact on his 
credit score hadnt been considered. 
Our investigator explained she had considered all the points hed raised, but still felt £400 
was fair. As Mr M still didnt agree, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Mr M has let us know that the issue around the payment dates itself has been sorted, and 
the credit score issues have also been sorted. So now the only thing I need to consider, is 
whether the compensation awarded is fair.
I think itll help to explain that our role isnt to fine or punish businesses for mistakes. Nor 
would we usually award someones professional rate per hour  mainly because the skills 
and experience gained in someones professional capacity, isnt needed to bring a 
complaint. So for that reason I wont be thinking about fair compensation for Mr M in those 
terms.
Mr M has explained that on multiple occasions hes had to go into HSBCs branch, and make 
phone calls in order to get this issue sorted. Clearly thats going to be frustrating, particularly 
when he was always being told by HSBC this issue had been resolved, when that wasnt the 
case.
The issues Mr M has pointed to are undoubtedly an inconvenience. And when something 
goes wrong there will always be an element of inconvenience in trying to put things right. 
From what I can see in relation to Mr M and what hes told us, these relate to several branch 
visits, and a number of phone calls. 
But I have to look at what HSBC have done as well. Over the course of several months, 
when Mr M was having these issues, theyve paid him £400 to reflect that. 
In the circumstances although HSBC have given Mr M poor service by him needing to ask 
multiple times to get this issue sorted, I do think £400 is reasonable.
My decision
It follows I uphold this complaint, and I think that the £400 HSBC UK Bank Plc have already 
paid is fair, so HSBC isnt required to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2020.
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman