DRN-3046492
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy that he was contacted by a market research firm on the behalf of Bank of 
Scotland plc, trading as Halifax.
What happened
Mr L opened a Halifax account online at which time he selected the option to not receive any 
marketing contact. However, sometime later Mr L was contacted by a market research firm 
which said it was conducting market research for Halifax. Mr L wasnt happy about this, so 
he raised a complaint.
 
Halifax looked at Mr Ls complaint. They noted that a customers ability to select not to 
receive marketing contact didnt extend to marketing research for Halifaxs own purposes, 
which remained permitted within the terms and conditions of the account. Because of this, 
Halifax didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint.
 
Mr L wasnt satisfied with Halifaxs response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they also noted that the option not to 
receive marketing contact didnt include market research for Halifaxs own purposes, and so 
they also didnt uphold the complaint.
 
Mr L remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how it must have been frustrating for Mr L to have selected to not receive 
marketing contact only to have then been telephoned by a market research company on 
Halifaxs behalf.
 
However, the terms and conditions of the account confirm that such contact is permitted and 
that market research conducted for Halifaxs own purposes  as was the case in this 
instance  arent included in the marketing preferences which Mr L selected as not wanting 
to receive. 
 
This seems reasonable to me, and I can understand why a business might want to contact 
its customers and gain feedback from them. And I dont feel that Mr L was treated unfairly by 
receiving such a telephone call from a Halifax appointed market research company given 
that the terms and conditions of the account confirm that such calls may be made.
 
Im aware that Mr L feels that the fact that Halifax might contact customers regardless of 
their stated marketing preferences is hidden away in the terms and conditions and should be 
made clearer. I can appreciate Mr Ls position here, and I would encourage Halifax to take 
onboard Mr Ls feedback on this matter. But the function of account terms and conditions is 
to provide a more detailed explanation of how a business operates an account than can 
reasonably be provided elsewhere, and I dont feel that this information was hidden in the 
manner that Mr L suggests here.
 
It's also notable that, after Mr L expressed his displeasure at receiving the market research 
call, that Halifax have asked the market research company not to contact Mr L again. This is 
what this service would expect, and I feel that Halifaxs acknowledgement of Mr Ls 
displeasure and their subsequent actions to prevent further marketing calls to Mr L already 
represents a fair and reasonable resolution to this complaint. And, while Mr L may disagree, 
I dont feel that any further action from Halifax is merited in this instance.
 
All of which means that I dont feel that I can reasonably say that Halifax have acted unfairly 
here, and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint.
 
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr L was wanting, but I trust that hell 
understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman