DRN-3485583
The complaint
A sole trader, who Ill refer to as Mr M, complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) treated 
him unfairly by changing the rate on a fixed rate loan hed applied for. He also complains 
about the lack of communication during the complaints process. 
What happened
In January 2021, after some months of discussion, BOS agreed to offer Mr M a £120,000 
secured fixed rate business loan. 
On 1 February 2021, the bank provided Mr M with a quotation, giving him an indication of 
monthly repayments and total cost. 
On 17 February 2021, the bank called Mr M to book the rate. However, the underlying 
interest rate  known as the reference rate - had increased since the quotation, making the 
overall loan more expensive. 
Mr M says that his contact at the bank encouraged him to complain about the change in 
interest rate, which he did. But the bank didnt contact him to find out his side of the story. 
Instead, in March, BOS sent a letter, which didnt uphold the complaint. It said that loan rates 
are liable to change up until the point a quotation is formally accepted. 
Disappointed with how BOS handled matters, Mr M didnt proceed with the loan and referred 
his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. He agreed with the bank that 
interest rates could vary and pointed out where this was specified in the loan documentation. 
He also said that our service wasnt able to look into how BOS handled Mr Ms complaint 
because complaint handling wasnt an activity we cover.   
Mr M was unhappy with our investigators conclusions, so he asked for an ombudsman to 
look at things again. He said the bank had promised a phone call next week, which he 
didnt receive for five weeks. And the same member of staff had contradicted himself when 
asked whether the stock markets affected the loan interest rate. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im sorry to disappoint Mr M but I agree with our investigators conclusions, 
so Im not going to uphold this complaint. I have little to add to what he said. Ill explain why 
below. 
Mr M wanted a fixed rate loan. These types of loans are pegged at a given margin above a 
reference rate, which fluctuates from day to day. The interest rate will therefore vary until the 
rate is booked, at which point repayments are fixed. Unfortunately, in Mr Ms case, the 
reference rate rose between his first quotation and the 17 February. But this doesnt mean 
the bank did anything wrong. 
When Mr M signed the banks loan documentation, he was agreeing to a contract with the 
bank. The terms of this contract, as our investigator pointed out, included that the rate of 
interest would be at a fixed rate of 2.4% per annum above the rate quoted by the bank about 
the time of the borrowing and the total fixed rate will be confirmed to you prior to booking 
the loan. 
This is exactly what happened on the 17 February  the bank confirmed the total fixed rate 
and Mr M wasnt happy with it. I dont think that the bank did anything wrong in confirming 
this rate, because it acted in accordance with the agreement Mr M had signed. 
It seems to me that Mr Ms main source of dissatisfaction is with what happened afterwards. 
He feels that he was encouraged to make a complaint about the rate, but the bank then 
failed to deal with his complaint properly. 
Its disappointing to hear that the banks member of staff contradicted himself when asked 
about how the reference rate was calculated. I appreciate that Mr M would have liked a 
clearer answer to his question. But I dont think there was any deliberate attempt to mislead. 
And I dont think the lack of clarity on this question made any difference to the outcome for 
Mr M. 
I know that Mr M says he was promised a phone call after the bank had looked into things. 
The banks records indicate that it tried to phone him twice, but couldnt get through, so 
ultimately thought it was better to put its response in writing based on the information already 
held rather than delay further. I dont have any evidence of the attempted phone calls, but I 
think its more likely than not that the bank did try to call Mr M. I say this because this is 
usual banking practice when dealing with this type of complaint. I also dont think the bank is 
likely to falsify its records about it. 
Mr M made his complaint on 17 February and the bank replied a month later, on 18 March. I 
dont think this is an unreasonable timescale and it is within the limits permitted by the 
regulator. 
In summary, I havent found any evidence that the bank did anything sufficiently wrong to 
require compensation here. I dont doubt that Mr M would have liked better customer 
service, but Im satisfied that the bank looked into what had happened with the rate and 
explained things adequately. And there was no error with the rate itself.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 
Louise Bardell
Ombudsman