DRN-3132331
Complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2000. Mrs L says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her PPI.
Background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mrs Ls 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
According to AXAs records, Mrs L paid a total of around £72 for PPI during the policys 
lifetime.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mrs Ls representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
My findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance, and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ls. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs Ls complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
I think AXA made it clear that Mrs L didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take 
it out. I say this because AXA has provided a copy of Mrs Ls store card application 
completed in-store at the time. Looking at this I can see Mrs L signed a separate section 
of the form to take out PPI  a separate and distinct signature from the main credit 
agreement itself. The application doesnt say or imply Mrs L had to take out PPI  it says: 
Only sign this box if you require Account Cover.
So taking everything into account, I think Mrs L chose to take out PPI and likely did so 
without undue pressure.
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs L - so it didnt have to check that the PPI was right 
or suitable for her. But it did have to give Mrs L enough clear and timely information so 
she could decide for herself if it was right for her.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs L about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mrs L  for example she 
was eligible for the cover and there was nothing about her employment or occupation 
which would have made it difficult for her to claim.
While Mrs L indicated that she was entitled to 12 months sick pay, given what we know 
about Mrs Ls employer, she would have been entitled to no more than six months full 
pay followed by sick months half pay.
Mrs L says she had a medical condition, which started around two years before the 
policy was taken out and she indicated that she needed some time off work. But based 
on the available evidence I dont think better information about the existing medical 
condition exclusion wouldve caused her to change her mind about taking out the policy. 
I say this because we asked Mrs L (via her representative and then more recently 
directly) for more details about her condition  importantly whether she was suffering 
with her condition or sought advice for it during the twelve months before she took out 
PPI. But weve not received anything back. Because of this I think it is reasonable for me 
to assume that Mrs L wasnt suffering from her condition at the time  if she was I think 
she would have replied to our requests and told us about it.
In addition, the policy looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would have been 
useful for her if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Mrs L would have 
declined the cover had AXA done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Mrs Ls circumstances at the time of sale  including what I have 
described above - and despite its limitations and exclusions, the policy wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. So I think Mrs L would have still thought she 
had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Mrs L would have still taken out PPI. The policy was sufficiently close 
to what its likely she thought she was getting and I think the policy could provide a useful 
benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. And in those circumstances, I 
think that she would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mrs Ls representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant AXA should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.But Mrs Ls representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mrs Ls individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs Ls particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
This means AXA doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ls complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs L to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 February 2022. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman