DRN-3273255
The complaint
Mr K complains about the level of service received from British Gas Insurance Limited 
following a claim against his homecare policy. 
What happened
Mr Ks boiler was deemed unrepairable by British Gas in October 2020. As such, they 
advised him to replace the boiler, and sent him an email with a phone number to call to 
arrange this. 
Mr K said he had tenants living at the property who had a young child. And at the time, they 
were using a gas hob for hot water and electric heaters. He also said the boiler was installed 
less than seven years ago from the date it was deemed unrepairable, so the policy entitled 
him to a new replacement boiler. 
Mr K said he contacted British Gas by phone on several occasions. And he was passed 
between different departments, one of which told him they were for internal purposes only 
and couldnt help him. He said he was left on hold for prolonged periods, the line 
disconnected and didnt receive call backs when promised. 
As a result, Mr K said he was left to arrange a temporary repair and paid a third party to 
install a new boiler due to the circumstances. Following this, he raised a complaint about the 
level of service received. 
British Gas said they tried to contact Mr K on the number they held on their system, but they 
were unable to reach him. But Mr K says he had no record of calls being received or missed 
by him from British Gas. Mr K also said at one point he was told he couldnt benefit from the 
replacement boiler section of the policy as his boiler was 18 years old. He didnt agree with 
this. So, he complained. 
British Gas responded to the complaint in 2021. They said they could reimburse the costs for 
the temporary repair Mr K paid for as this was covered by the policy. But they didnt agree to 
reimburse the costs to replace the boiler as this was done by a third party, and not British 
Gas. They also apologised as Mr K couldnt get through to their phone lines and the waiting 
times he experienced. 
Mr K remained unhappy. He said due to a lack of communication he was left to arrange a 
temporary repair and replace the boiler. And British Gas were aware of his circumstances 
during this time, so he thinks theyve treated him unfairly. As he remained unhappy, he 
brought the complaint to our service for an independent review. 
Our investigator considered the complaint and initially didnt recommend it be upheld. British 
Gas provided evidence he felt showed the boiler was over 18 years old. Therefore, he didnt 
think Mr K should benefit from a new boiler replacement under the policy as it requires a 
boiler to be less than seven years old when its deemed unrepairable. 
Mr K responded to our investigators assessment and provided a photo of the boiler showing 
a date stamp of when it was installed, in 2016. Therefore, he didnt agree the boiler was 
more than seven years old and British Gas should reimburse the costs he incurred to 
replace it. 
Our investigator considered this and changed his opinion. He felt Mr K had provided 
persuasive evidence to show the boiler was less than seven years old when it was deemed 
unrepairable by British Gas. So, he recommended British Gas reconsiders the replacement 
boiler claim in line with the remaining policy terms. 
Mr K agreed, but British Gas didnt respond. As such, the complaint was passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My starting point here is the policy terms. These say British Gas will cover a replacement 
boiler if they cant repair it  and if the boiler is less than seven years old. The policy goes on 
to say: 
Confirming the age of your appliances 
If your product includes replacing appliances our engineer will estimate how old it 
is. If you disagree youll need to show us either the original from new receipt, a dated 
guarantee or proof of when it was first installed. 
British Gas provided a system screenshot which they said demonstrated Mr Ks boiler was 
installed in 2003. However, Mr K said he had a new boiler installed since then, in 2016, and 
provided a photograph showing the boilers serial number and installation date. Ive looked at 
the evidence provided by both parties, and Ive seen the serial number British Gas held on 
their system is different to the serial number provided by Mr K. Im satisfied this 
demonstrates the boiler Mr K had replaced in 2020 is different to the boiler British Gas held 
in their records, showing an 18-year-old boiler. 
Ive seen there were challenges around communication following British Gas deeming Mr Ks 
boiler unrepairable. Mr K told us his tenants had been living without heating or hot water and 
were having to use the gas hob to heat water, and electric heaters. He also told us a young 
child was residing at the property. So, I can appreciate why Mr K felt the need to act and 
arrange to get matters sorted in the way he did. 
Overall, Im satisfied Mr Ks reasons for choosing to arrange the boiler replacement himself 
were reasonable given the challenges he told us about regarding communication. And so, 
because I also think Mr Ks provided persuasive evidence to show the boiler he replaced in 
2020 isnt the boiler British Gas held on their records, I think British Gas should reconsider 
the claim under the remaining policy terms. 
It has already been agreed by all parties that Mr K should be reimbursed for the temporary 
repairs he paid for. So, I dont need to give any comment to that. Its also helpful to explain 
that, should Mr K remain unhappy with the outcome of claim reconsideration by British Gas, 
he should raise a new complaint with them in the first instance. 
Putting things right
For the reasons given above, I dont think the claim was fairly declined on the basis Mr K had the new boiler installed by a third party given the circumstances. So, I also think British 
Gas should reconsider the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out, I uphold it. I now require British Gas Insurance Limited to 
reconsider Mr Ks boiler replacement claim in line with the remaining policy terms and 
conditions. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2022.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman