DRN-2329783
The complaint
Ms V has complained that Allianz Insurance Plc has unreasonably refused to remove an 
exclusion on her pet policy for her cat.
What happened
Ms V insured her cat with Allianz first availing of its four-week free cover policy from 19 
September 2014, available through her vet at that time. It expired on 13 October 2014. She 
then took out a life time policy also with Allianz over the phone which provided cover from 29 
October 2014. This policy provides no cover for pre-existing conditions. 
Ms V had cause to make a claim for vet fees in 2015. As is normal, Allianz asked for the vet 
history to assess that claim. In the vet history it saw that her vet had noted her cat had a 
heart murmur on 21 August 2014 and again on 16 September 2014. 
As this predated Ms Vs policy start date, given its underwriting guide, Allianz updated Ms 
Vs policy with an exclusion for any heart conditions. 
Ms V wasnt happy with this exclusion so Allianz said it could be reviewed if it saw evidence 
that her cat remained clear of any heart related issues for 12 months and this was confirmed 
by two separate vet examinations on the same day. 
Ms V remained unhappy and she said she sent Allianz several vet opinions that her cat has 
no heart murmur. She also provided a cardiac blood profile test which confirmed any 
cardiomyopathy is unlikely. 
Allianz said that although the blood test showed cardiomyopathy was unlikely, early disease 
may be present and that a further cardiac work up was required including an 
echocardiogram before it would review the exclusion.
Ms V was of the view Allianz mis-read the blood tests results, and as Allianz continued to 
refuse to review the exclusion, she brought her complaint to us. The investigator originally 
thought it should be upheld. However, Allianz provided expert independent vet evidence 
which said the blood tests only detect active heart muscle damage, not any damage to the 
heart valves, which can also be the cause of heart murmurs. So, the investigator was of the 
view Ms Vs complaint shouldnt be upheld.
Ms V didnt accept this, so her complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill now explain why.
First, I want to acknowledge that I am very aware Ms V will be deeply disappointed with my 
decision. Secondly, I also want to acknowledge the time and considerable effort she went to, 
in order to make sure I had all the information she believed was particularly pertinent to her 
complaint. Im aware its been explained to Ms V that I have a duty and therefore will read 
not only her most recent submissions but the entirety of her file from her first communication 
with this service onwards and I want to confirm to Ms V that I have indeed read every page. 
I am completely satisfied that I have enough information on this matter to make a decision 
without the need to communicate with Allianz further or indeed Ms V, save that I asked the 
investigator to ask Allianz for the policy document. As we are a dispute resolution service 
which is free for consumers to use, we rely on the evidence submitted by both parties as we 
are not a court of law and so we dont tend to indulge in further testimony beyond what each 
party has submitted on the matter. Should Ms V decide to not accept my decision its not 
binding on her or on Allianz and she is free to pursue the matter against Allianz direct 
elsewhere. Should she accept my decision then it is binding on both her and Allianz. But I 
must stress to Ms V that this decision is the end of this services involvement with her 
complaint.
My role and that of this service is to assess Allianzs actions as regards the terms and 
conditions of its policy and whether it has behaved reasonably and in accordance with those 
terms and conditions.  
I have decided there are two main issues for me to consider in this complaint.
Was it reasonable for Allianz to impose the exclusion for heart conditions on the 
basis of the vet history, that it received with her claim in 2015?
Is it reasonable for Allianz to remain of the view that it cannot yet review this 
exclusion with a view to removing it?
Was it reasonable for Allianz to impose the exclusion for heart conditions on the basis of the 
vet history that it received with her claim in 2015?
Insurers to include pet insurers, are free to decide for what risks they wish to provide cover 
and for what risks they dont want to provide cover. The policy documents detail this as 
follows:
In the policy booklet it says:
Your insurance does not cover any illness which starts in the first 14 days of the 
policy or any pre-existing conditions. If your pet was injured or ill at any time before 
your insurance started, we will not cover any costs relating to that injury or illness.
This is regardless of whether or not we place any exclusion(s) for the injury/illness.
In the definitions section is says:
Pre-existing condition: An injury or illness that:
a) Happened or first showed clinical signs,
b) Has the same diagnosis or clinical signs as an injury, illness or clinical sign 
your pet had,
c) Is caused by, relates to, or results from, an injury, illness or clinical sign your 
pet had,
 Before your pets cover started, or
 Before the section was added to your insurance.No matter where the injury, illness or clinical signs are noticed or happen in, or on, 
your pets body. This is regardless of whether or not we place any exclusion(s) for 
the injury/illness.
In the policy document itself it says the following:
What we will not pay - applying to Veterinary Fees and Complementary Treatment
1. The cost of any treatment for a pre-existing condition.
Excluding pre-existing conditions isnt an unusual clause in pet policies as virtually every 
other pet insurer includes something similar. I am therefore satisfied the policy 
documentation clearly brings this to the attention of Ms V.
Im also satisfied that the vet history showed Ms Vs cat to have a heart murmur recorded on 
21 August 2014 and on 16 September 2014. This is before Ms Vs policy started on 29 
October 2014 and therefore in view of the policy wording above, I dont consider Allianz did 
anything wrong in imposing an exclusion for heart disorders on her policy following its receipt 
of this vet history for Ms Vs claim in 2015. Allianz is entitled to rely on what is written in the 
vet history. 
If Ms V thinks thats wrong that is a matter between her and this vet and is not a matter that 
concerns Allianz. If there was any further evidence produced to show that this vet made a 
mistake, then I would expect Allianz to take account of that. But there is no further evidence 
that these entries were incorrect from this vet. Further given the heart murmur continued to 
be heard at various further intervals later, which I will discuss below, the likelihood this vet 
was wrong in noting the heart murmur is extremely remote.
Insurers rate issues according to an underwriting guide. This is to ensure they can treat 
customers fairly by treating all customers the same who are in similar circumstances, given 
various stated issues. It also means they dont single out any customer in particular, and 
further it shows clearly that every customer in similar circumstances is treated the same. 
Allianz underwriting guide (like every other pet insurers underwriting guide) lists all the 
potential health issues any pet can suffer from and lists how it wants to deal with each one.
Here heart murmur is similarly listed, and the exclusion imposed is classed as reviewable if 
two separate veterinary examinations confirm no heart murmur present and the full clinical 
history is passed to Technical Underwriting to review and provide guidance. Therefore, this 
is what Ms V had to provide in order that this exclusion could be reviewed. There is no 
requirement in the underwriting criteria that these two vet examinations had to be done on 
the same day as Allianz told Ms V, which I note Allianz subsequently corrected.
So, in conclusion on this point, Im satisfied Allianz did nothing wrong in imposing the 
exclusion once it received this vet fees claim in 2015.
Is it reasonable for Allianz to remain of the view that it cannot yet review this exclusion with a 
view to removing it?
During Ms Vs vets investigation into why her cat was lethargic and not eating, her vet ran a 
cardiac blood test work up which showed her cat was unlikely to have any cardiomyopathy. 
These tests were done in April 2019. Ms V forwarded these test results to Allianz requiring it 
to now remove the heart exclusion from her cats policy. Allianz refusal is the reason Ms Vs 
complaint has come to us.
Allianz showed the blood test report plus the vet history of Ms Vs cat to a vet expert who I 
shall call Mr J. This vet is an independent expert who was a former president of the British 
Small Animal Veterinary Association (BSAVA) which is a professional association of veterinary professionals and is dedicated to promoting excellence in small animal practice 
through education and science. Mr J also served several years as the UK representative of 
the Union of European Veterinary Practitioners. He is instructed by government, welfare and 
media groups on a wide range of welfare issues and has a keen interest in public health and 
forensic veterinary medicine. Therefore, I consider Mr J to be an appropriate vet expert to 
aid Allianz in the consideration of the medical history of Ms Vs cat. 
Mr J noted the following clinical history of Ms Vs cat. Please note I have removed the names 
of the various vet clinics so they cant be identified.
21/8/14 Grade 1 murmur detected, suspected stress murmur
16/9/14 Grade 1 murmur detected
7/11/14 P Heart murmur detected but noted as variable and non-detectable when [name of 
cat] is calmer.
12/02/15 history transferred
12/1/15 No murmur noted in clinical history
12/2/15 No murmur noted in clinical history
24/3/15 to 3/8/15 No murmur noted in clinical history
13/10/15 history transferred
24/8/15 to 29/10/18 
17/9/16 Left side Grade 1 murmur
5/2/16 Grade 2 murmur detected most evident over sternum (ie midline)
8/6/16 No murmur detected
18/8/16 Left side murmur recorded but not graded. Right side murmur detected.
5/9/16 cannot verify Right side murmur but no record of Left side murmur
3/4/19 left sided murmur
17/9/19 no murmur detected.
So, from August 2014 to September 2019 there are seven recorded instances of a heart 
murmur being detected by different vets with one further inconclusive account. Mr J said a 
repetitively detectable heart murmur is not a normal finding and will be due to some 
underlying issue with one or more of the heart valves causing the audible murmur. 
He also said it is notable that the murmur is not always present and may be more evident 
when the heart rate is raised. The grading of the disorder on 5/2/16 suggested that the 
murmur has worsened. It is not possible to determine if the murmur is subsequently 
increasing in audibility because the latter examinations do not grade the strength of the 
murmur. A stress murmur can be innocuous and based on the early history only, it would 
have been reasonable to place a reviewable exclusion on the heart condition. An innocuous 
stress murmur should only appear once or twice in an animals history. For [name of cat] the 
persistence of the murmur throughout his life will lead to secondary pathological changes to 
the heart increasing the risk of clinical disease. Recording the progression of the heart 
disease is only possible by non-invasive means using a stethoscope. That relies of repeated 
grading of the heart either by the same operator or by several scores from multiple 
operators. Accurate assessment of this type of cardiac condition is dependent on x-ray 
examination and ultrasound examination. Both will enable serial imaging to monitor 
increases in the heart size that will be the precursor to overt cardiac disease.
The only additional examination has been the use of the blood test Pro-BNP. Its usefulness 
is severely limited, and it will only detect active heart muscle damage. The pathological 
changes that will occur to the heart due to mal-function of the valves are predominantly 
cardiac enlargement including dilation (heart enlargement) and that can be due to cardiac 
muscle thinning or thickening. Those changes will occur without any active muscle damage 
and hence will not be detected by the Pro-BNP blood test. In conclusion there is clear 
evidence that [name of cat] has a heart disorder that was first detected on 21/8/14.The cause of the valve disorder has not been determined and diagnosis will rely on imaging 
(preferably x-ray and ultrasound) plus doppler flow ultrasonography. The only cardiac 
pathology that has been ruled out is cardiomyopathy ie heart disorders due to inflammatory 
disease of the heart muscle. As a result, there is no evidence that the heart murmur will not 
cause future heart disease and there is a high risk that the heart murmur will cause future 
heart disease.
Lastly, he said further it is incorrect to state that this is simply a stress disorder. Whilst stress 
can increase the heart rate and can exacerbate an underlying valve pathology, it is not the 
cause of the valve disorder that has caused the murmur.
On this basis, Allianz told Ms V if she organised these further tests Mr J recommended, it 
would consider the matter further. Ms V made enquiries and found a suitable vet cardiac 
specialist who could undertake these tests. Allianz also approved of this specialist. However, 
these tests are costly, and so Ms V asked Allianz to pay for them which it refused to do. I 
dont consider Allianz did anything wrong in refusing to pay for these tests because of the 
strength of its vet experts evidence. Furthermore, and more importantly there is no duty in 
pet policies and in also in this policy, for insurers including Allianz, to pay consumers costs 
on obtaining any tests to remove exclusions.
I have received no other vet evidence to counter Mr Js opinion other than a letter from Ms 
Vs vet in December 2019 where she is clear that she believes, as does a former vet who 
examined Ms Vs cat, that he simply has a stress related heart murmur when in the vets. 
She also confirms Ms Vs cat never has had any medication or treatment for his intermittent 
heart murmur, as there was nothing to indicate he required such treatment. As there was no 
indication that Allianz expert vet had seen a copy of this letter, Ms V sent it to Allianz in 
November 2020. 
Allianz asked their vet expert to review it and Mr J said there is no evidence that there is no 
cardiac pathology (other than the lack of any indication of cardiomyopathy March/April 
2019). Cardiomyopathy is only one of many potential cardiac pathologies associated with 
murmur. 
He went on to say for the repeated episodes of cardiac murmur, I believe that removal of 
exclusion should only be considered if a recognised cardiac specialist, following effective 
imaging, deems the heart to be normal and not likely to cause further risk. The reason being 
that repeated evidence of cardiac disease has been noted in the clinical record and there is, 
with the current level of clinical evidence too much risk of heart disease in future years.
Ms V has not produced any evidence from her own vet to say this vet expert is wrong or that 
issues with the heart valves (which cant be detected by the blood test her vet used) cant 
and dont cause heart murmurs. Neither has she provided any vet evidence to counter 
Allianz vets view that the cardiac blood tests, namely the usefulness of the blood test Pro-
BNP is severely limited, and it will only detect active heart muscle damage. 
Therefore, Im persuaded in the absence of any other evidence to the contrary, that Mr J is 
correct.
So, whilst Ms Vs vet believes her cat doesnt need any treatment for his heart murmur, from 
an insurance perspective however, Ms Vs cat remains at risk of having heart related issues 
in the future. And since the heart murmur was detected before cover on this policy began, 
there is nothing to show me that the exclusion should now be removed by Allianz. Ms Vs 
policy simply doesnt provide for pre-existing conditions and its clear here that this heart 
murmur issue is a pre-existing condition. Its further clear given the several instances of this 
heart murmur being found that it remains a risk for Allianz that her cat may well suffer heart issues into the future. I sincerely hope Ms Vs cat doesnt do so, but it remains such issues 
cannot be covered under this policy, unless or until Ms V arranges the further tests Allianz 
has detailed, which will be at Ms Vs cost.
Ms V has complained emphatically that Allianz has treated her badly however I cant see 
that it has, other than demanding her cat be examined by two vets on the same day for the 
exclusion to be reviewed. It later corrected that. 
What has happened here, is that Ms V feels very strongly indeed that its simply not right that 
heart conditions are excluded from cover for her cat. However, her cat exhibited two 
instances of an audible heart murmur before the policy started which the vet recorded on the 
vet history and sadly went on to have five further instances of an audible heart murmur 
recorded again on the vet history up until 2019. The evidence I have seen is that such 
repeated instances of audible heart murmurs suggests a heart value issue given there is no 
cardiomyopathy given the blood tests results. Therefore, considering the heart murmur was 
first detected before this policy started, there is simply nothing wrong with Allianz imposing a 
heart condition exclusion in line with its underwriting guide.
My final decision
So, for these reasons its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms V to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2021.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman