DRN-3263375
The complaint
Mr L says he received poor service from Hastings Insurance Services Limited after he tried 
to stop the automatic renewal of his motor insurance policy.  
What happened
Mr Ls policy was arranged through Hastings and was due to renew automatically in 
November 2020. He told us he cancelled the renewal by email, but that his premiums 
continued to be collected. When he asked for a refund, he didnt get one, even though he 
could show he was insured elsewhere. Mr L said Hastings asked him for evidence of his new 
insurance, although he thought it wasnt entitled to do so. He said it didnt reply to his emails 
and was obstructive about providing details of the calls hed made to it.
 
Hastings said Mr L had contacted it using an unmonitored email address, so it didnt know 
he wanted the renewal to be stopped. It said it didnt have a record of any calls from him. It 
also said the proof Mr L provided of the new policy wasnt sufficient and that the premiums 
hed been charged couldnt be returned. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Ls complaint. He set up a new complaint against the 
insurer, as he thought it was responsible for the issue with his premiums and the new policy 
details that were required. The insurer later accepted Mr Ls proof of having a new policy and 
agreed to return the sum he was charged for cover with it after the policy renewed. 
The investigator noted that Hastings had told Mr L about auto-renewal when he bought the 
policy and also in the renewal invitation a year later. The renewal invitation said Mr L should 
call Hastings if he didnt want the policy to be renewed. He said Hastings maintained that 
when Mr L emailed the unmonitored email address, hed have got an automated reply saying 
it was unmonitored. Hastings thought the response emails may have gone into his junk 
folder  and it confirmed it had no record of the calls Mr L said hed made to it.
Mr L said Hastingss system wasnt fit for purpose. He said that in January 2022 he got a 
letter from Hastings that said if it couldnt collect a further sum from him it may instruct debt 
collectors and a credit reference agency. The investigator reminded Mr L that the insurer had 
agreed that the cancellation should be backdated to the renewal date, so that wouldnt 
happen. Mr L insisted he was being called about money he didnt owe, but Hastings said it 
hadnt instructed debt collectors.
As there was no agreement, the complaint against Hastings was passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The premiums charged after renewal and the details required about other insurance cover 
have been dealt with in the complaint against the insurer. So Ill only be considering the 
concerns Mr L raised about Hastings poor service.
When Hastings issued the renewal documents, I think it was reasonable for it to advise Mr L 
in the invitations cover letter to call it if he didnt want the policy renewed  using the 
telephone number provided. Mr L chose not to call Hastings as advised.
In my opinion, it might be best practice for Hastings to include a line in the renewal letter to 
warn consumers not to email the automated address from where renewal documents are 
issued. But I dont think not doing so amounts to poor service if clear alternative advice 
about what to do has been given. The content of its letters and the operation of its systems 
is for Hastings to decide. We cant instruct businesses about their practices, as we arent the 
industry regulator. Hastings says its automated system issues a response to any email 
received at the automated address. I have no reason to doubt it, as thats common practice 
with unmonitored addresses. In my opinion, its a reasonable way of dealing with 
correspondence that isnt expected and shouldnt have been received.
Its very unfortunate that Mr L didnt see the responses to his emails. They may have gone 
into his junk folder, or there may be another reason he didnt see them. But I cant say 
Hastings is to blame for that. When it got an email from Mr L on 5 March 2021 (sent to a 
monitored email address) stating that hed sent two previous emails to it, Hastings agreed to 
cancel the policy from that date. I think that was reasonable. Mr L wasnt happy, as he 
wanted it backdated to the renewal date. I can see why he asked for that, but I dont think 
Hastings was in a position to do it. The insurer later backdated the premium to the renewal 
date, so Mr L didnt lose out financially. I think the main point in relation to Hastings service 
is that it  had asked Mr L to call if he didnt want the renewal to go ahead.
Hastings has given us a copy of its call log from the date of the renewal invitation in October 
2020 to 7 December 2020, more than two weeks after the renewal. Theres no record on it of 
any calls from Mr L. Hastings asked him to provide any record he had of the calls, so it could 
review the issue, but he hasnt done so. Mr L says he was left on the line for some time 
when calling Hastings before being cut off. I can see how frustrating that would have been 
for him. But long waiting times arent uncommon when calling brokers or insurers, especially 
in recent times. I think theyre often due to a high volume of calls, rather than poor service. 
  
When the investigator asked Hastings to comment on Mr Ls concern about harassment by 
debt collectors, it said that on 12 May 2021 a note was added to its file about referring Mr Ls 
case to a debt collection agency - but that his details were not passed on. It said the matter 
was left on hold until January 2022 and was then removed. The cancellation letter only 
refers to the possibility of a referral to a debt collection agency or a credit reference agency. 
If Mr L has evidence of being chased by a debt collection firm  or evidence that his credit 
rating has been affected - its open to him to provide it to Hastings, so it can investigate.  
Based on the evidence Ive seen, I dont think Mr L has shown that Hastings acted 
unreasonably, or that it provided poor service, so I cant uphold his complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2022. 
Susan EwinsOmbudsman