DRN-3726988
The complaint
Miss G complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc failed to update her after a fraud incident and 
didnt complete an account switch properly.
What happened
Miss G was moving an account to HSBC and shortly after it was opened, Miss G received a 
text about suspicious transactions on her account. Miss G contacted HSBC and was advised 
that several attempts had been made to use her new card. At that point Miss G hadnt used 
the card herself.
HSBC prevented any losses to Miss Gs account and told her that shed receive a call from 
their Fraud team within 24 hours. Miss G didnt hear anything and called back a few days 
later. Miss G was worried about how the information about her card and potentially her 
identity details had been found soon after the account had opened .
Miss G complained that HSBC hadnt called her back and was later told that the Fraud team 
dont make outgoing calls. This was despite being told they would call her. Miss G was 
offered an apology and a box of chocolates which she accepted. 
Miss G then wrote to HSBC because she still hadnt heard anything and wanted to raise an 
issue about her account switch which had encountered some difficulties. HSBC explained 
that the account switch problems shed experienced was due to incorrect information made 
on the application and to contact her old bank about this. A further £30 was offered to Miss 
G for the continued lack of information from the Fraud team.
Miss G wanted to find out more about how her details had been compromised but HSBC 
advised that they werent in a position to explain this. Miss G declined the offer and wanted 
£50, but HSBC didnt accept this.
Miss G brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent 
review. It was looked into by one of our adjudicators who didnt think that HSBC had acted 
unreasonably and didnt uphold Miss Gs complaint.
Miss G disagreed with the outcome and asked for a further review and compensation of 
£200 for the stress the situation had caused her.
Miss Gs complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its apparent that Miss Gs account suffered fraudulent attempts against it which were 
prevented by HSBC. As she didnt suffer any losses, I dont need to further consider the 
issue of the actual disputed transactions themselves.
What appears to be the main issue here is that HSBC told Miss G that theyd call her back 
within a given time scale (24hr) but didnt. When Miss G called back a few days later, there 
was an opportunity  to speak with them, but this would have meant a 30 minute wait which 
Miss G couldnt do at the time. 
Miss G was later told that the Fraud team dont make outgoing calls. What happened here, 
which HSBC accept, is that Miss G was given misleading information about what to expect 
regarding the fraud investigation and how shed be contacted. Neither of these things was 
particularly helpful to Miss G as she was hoping to find out how her card details had been 
compromised. 
At the time, she was sent a box of chocolates which she accepted. The Complaints team 
representative apologised for the experience Miss G had received up to that point, which I 
think was a reasonable and fair way for HSBC to deal with what had happened.
Later, Miss G was still waiting for an update and raised an earlier issue with her account 
switch experience. HSBC did tell Miss G that it was unlikely they would find out how the card 
details were compromised, and I think its probably something that will never be explained to 
her satisfaction. HSBC explained that the account switch was due to an issue shed have to 
raise with her old bank. HSBC offered a further apology for the misinformation Miss G had 
received and offered £30 to address the customer service shed received and the impact this 
had had on her.
I appreciate Miss G wanted £50, but I think HSBCs offers (chocolates and £30) and multiple 
apologies were both fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. Miss Gs 
account had been protected, and HSBC advised it was continually monitored for suspicious 
activity. I dont think it was unreasonable that they couldnt explain how the details had been 
compromised  unfortunately its likely something that wont ever be uncovered. 
Regarding the account switch  this appears to be something for Miss Gs old bank, so I 
dont think HSBC had to make any further offers to her for this aspect of her complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 November 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman