DRN-4162735
The complaint
Mrs M has complained about the way Newline Insurance Company Limited settled a claim 
under a pet insurance policy for her dog. References to Newline include its agents. 
What happened
Mrs M took her dog to the vet because of lameness. The vet applied to Newline on Mrs Ms 
behalf for pre-approval of x-rays which was granted.
The x-rays revealed a cruciate ligament tear. Mrs M says she was aware there was an upper 
limit of £750 under her policy for treatment of this condition and decided to proceed. The 
operation cost over £3,500.
When Mrs M made a claim to Newline, it told her the £750 limit applied to the combined cost 
of x-rays and the operation. Mrs M complained that without the x-rays they wouldnt have 
known the cause of the lameness. She didnt think the x-rays should be classed as part of 
the treatment for the cruciate ligament repair.
Mrs M brought her complaint to this service. I issued a provisional decision explaining why I 
was minded not to uphold the complaint. An extract from my provisional findings is set out 
below:
Mrs Ms policy says:
Please carefully read your policy and your schedule to understand which cover sections 
and payment limits apply to you.
The Schedule set out the relevant benefits of the policy as follows:
Cover Benefits Maximum Benefits
Veterinary fees for accidents & illness £6000.00
Cruciate £750 (included within the overall vet fee 
limit)
MRI/CT Scan £750 (included within the overall vet fee 
limit)
Mrs M contacted Newline online to ask whether a cruciate ligament tear would be covered 
by her policy.
Newline replied:
I can confirm that cruciate ligament tear would fall within the £750 per policy year, cruciate 
ligament inner limitation.

Your policy covers you for up to £6,000 per policy year with an excess of £100 which is 
applied once per condition per policy year as well as a vet fee contribution of 20% which is 
deducted from every claim you make. If you were to claim for any CT, MRI Scans or 
Cruciate Ligament claims then these will be capped at £750 per policy year.
Newline sent similar information to her vet.
Mrs M didnt think x-rays should be classed as treatment of illness or injury. She thought 
they were part of investigations before medical care was given for illness or injury.
However, the definition of the term treatment in Mrs Ms policy is:
Any examination, consultation, advice, tests, X-rays, medication, surgery, nursing, 
prescription diet food and care provided by a veterinary practice and/or if instructed by a 
vet.
I think that wording makes it clear that x-rays and other investigations are classed as 
treatment. Mrs Ms dog was being treated for a cruciate ligament repair. So I think Newline 
treated her fairly by applying the cruciate limit of £750 to the whole treatment and not paying 
anything extra for x-rays.
Neither party objected to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party objected to my provisional findings, I see no reason to change them and 
they now form part of this final decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2023.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman