DRN-2369407
The complaint
Mr S complains that Premier Insurance Company Limited increased the premium for his 
motor insurance policy after he changed his address for correspondence. 
What happened
Mr S told his broker about a change in address. The price of his policy then increased. 
Premier said that this was due to the change in risk. But Mr S said the change was just for 
correspondence and his home address hadnt changed. But Premier declined to change the 
price back. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Mr S 
had been made aware that the cost of his premium could change if his details changed. 
Premier had shown in its underwriting criteria how the change would affect cost. 
Mr S replied that he had discussed the change with his broker, but he wasnt told this would 
lead to a price increase. He thought he should be able to retract the change and keep things 
as they were.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr Ss main concern is that he wasnt warned that a change in his 
correspondence address would lead to an increase in premium. 
Mr S first discussed the change online and hes provided us with a copy of this. In the chat, 
the agent is clear that she cant change Mr Ss address until he moves into his new property. 
There was no discussion of a price increase. 
Then Mr S sent a change of address request to his broker. This simply stated the new 
address, not that it was for correspondence purposes only. But this triggered a premium 
increase of about £200. Premier declined to revert back to the old address as it said the 
correspondence address was a new risk. 
Ive seen Premiers underwriting criteria and I can see that where it has a correspondence 
address as well as a home address it considers both in calculating a premium. And adding 
Mr Ss correspondence address made a significant increase to his premium. And so I think 
Premier calculated this price change correctly.
I think the policy documents make it clear that cover, and the premium, is based on the 
information provided. And I think its reasonable to expect a consumer to understand that a 
change in material information, such as changing an address, could lead to a change in 
premium. 
Mr S said he didnt realise that a change in address would increase his premium. But I can 
see that hed earlier discussed with his broker removing a named driver from his policy. But 
he was advised against this due to a discount hed received. So I think Mr S was aware that 
changes in his details could change his premium. And I think he could have asked the broker 
if there would be any change in his premium from the change in his address. 
Mr S said the change in his address was just for the convenience of receiving post. But its 
clear from what hes told us that he spends much of his time there. And, from the online chat 
with his broker that he provided, it seems that he intended to move to this address. And then 
he told Premier, via his broker, that his address had changed. So I cant say that its 
unreasonable for Premier to maintain this risk address on his records. 
So I think Mr S was made reasonably aware that a change of address could affect his 
premium. I think he told Premier of the change and I think it was then entitled to recalculate 
the premium based on the change in risk. So I cant say its done anything wrong or needs to 
waive any price increase.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman