DRN-4424870
The complaint
Mrs D complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc, trading as first direct (first direct), didnt do 
enough to protect her from what she says was a scam involving the purchase of a car. Mrs D 
would like to be reimbursed for the losses she considers shes incurred.
What happened
On 21 January 2023 Mrs D sent a payment of £900 from her first direct account for the 
purchase of a second-hand car, which she collected in person after carrying out a short test 
drive.
Mrs D, upon returning home with the car, phoned the seller to enquire about the MOT 
renewal date. Mrs D says she was told that the MOT was due around March 2023. Mrs D, 
wanted to get a more specific date and went onto the DVLA website. Mrs D discovered the 
MOT was due on 26 January 2023. Mrs D carried out the MOT and it failed. Mrs D paid for 
some repairs and had a further MOT carried out and while the MOT passed  it passed with 
defects and advisories which Mrs D would need to take care of also.
 
Mrs D is of the opinion that she had been scammed by the seller and reported the matter to 
first direct to help her get her money back.
 
Ultimately first direct concluded that this was a civil dispute rather than a scam and said it 
couldnt assist. 
Mrs D referred her complaint to our service and one of our Investigators didnt recommend it 
should be upheld. In summary our Investigator thought first direct had acted fairly in reaching 
the decision it had. Mrs D disagrees and has asked for an Ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Mrs D. I can see she feels strongly about what has 
happened. But having considered everything, I can see no basis on which I can fairly require 
first direct to refund the money Mrs D sent. I can appreciate that this outcome is not the one 
Mrs D was hoping for and I can understand why she wants to try and recover this money. 
But having thought about first directs actions, I am unable to say it has responsibility for 
refunding the money Mrs D sent. I will explain why.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that their customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. When first direct made 
the payment, it was complying with Mrs Ds instructions. At the time, Mrs D wanted to pay 
the seller and there was no mistake made as the money was sent to the correct account 
details. As I dont think first direct acted incorrectly by making the payment, Ive gone on to 
consider whether it should have refunded Mrs D for any other reason.
When considering what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive also thought about the 
Lending Standards Boards voluntary Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code, which 
first direct has signed up to and was in force at the time Mrs D made these payments.
Under the CRM Code, the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who 
is the victim of an authorised push payment (APP) scam. Ive thought about if the 
CRM Code applies in the circumstances of the payment Mrs D made and, in particular, 
whether first direct ought to reimburse her under the provisions of the CRM Code.
 
But the CRM Code is quite explicit that it doesnt apply to all push payments. It says:
 
DS2(2) This code does not apply to: 
(b) private civil disputes, such as where a Customer has paid a legitimate supplier for 
goods, services, or digital content but has not received them, they are defective in 
some way, or the Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier
Subsections (a) and (c) have been omitted as they are not relevant to this complaint.
 
Both first direct and our Investigator felt the payment Mrs D made formed part of a 
buyer/seller dispute and, as such, is not covered by the CRM Code. 
Mrs D strongly disagrees. She feels the seller has scammed her. From what I have seen, 
although I accept Mrs D may not have received a car that was in as good a condition as she 
expected, or it may have been misrepresented to her by the seller, I dont think I can fairly 
say that the situation Mrs D finds herself in is a scam. I think first directs conclusion that the 
payment Mrs D made forms part of a civil dispute and, as such, is not covered by the CRM 
Code was fair.
This means I dont think first direct is responsible for reimbursing Mrs D because of any 
obligation under the CRM Code. I can appreciate why Mrs D feels she has been deceived. 
But I am mindful that Mrs D did receive the car for the money she paid. There is no dispute 
that the car exists, as Mrs D has taken ownership of it, and Ive not seen anything that 
makes me think the person selling it did not have the right to do so.
The problems Mrs D has raised stem back to the condition of the vehicle  she said the car  
was not as described, not fit for purpose and was dangerous  requiring her to carry out 
additional repairs after it failed its MOT. However the car Mrs D purchased did have a valid 
MOT  albeit it expired sooner than what the seller advised. I appreciate Mrs D had to pay 
for repairs in order for it to subsequently pass its MOT, but the concerns and issues Mrs D 
raises about the condition of the car are clearly stated as not being catered for within the 
CRM Code.Mrs D has my sympathy, in that she hasnt received a car that was in the condition she had 
hoped for. But overall, I dont think first direct has treated Mrs D unfairly when they 
concluded this was a civil matter. For the reasons I have explained, Im satisfied Mrs D isnt 
due a refund under the CRM Code. Nor can I see there are other grounds on which I could 
say that first direct should fairly and reasonably bear the responsibility for either refunding 
Mrs D the purchase price or paying for or contributing towards any of the further costs shes 
since incurred.
 
I realise that my decision will be disappointing for Mrs D. But overall, for the reasons Ive 
explained I consider first direct were fair in considering the matter a civil dispute which isnt 
covered by the CRM Code and is therefore something that needs to be resolved between 
the two parties through alternative methods.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman