DRN-2577238
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C are complaining about the service provided by Barclays Bank UK PLC 
(Barclays) when they wanted to borrow some extra money on their mortgage.
What happened
Both parties know the history of this complaint, so I wont go into it in detail. But, in summary, 
Mr and Mrs C asked Barclays to lend them an additional £40,000 on top of their existing 
mortgage. They did that a couple of months before the fixed rate on their mortgage was due 
to end. Because of the way Barclays handled the application Mr and Mrs C eventually 
moved their mortgage to a new lender.
Barclays has acknowledged it handled neither the application nor the ensuing complaint 
well. It has apologised and provided feedback to the member of staff who originally talked to 
Mr and Mrs C about the application. Its refunded Mr and Mrs C any interest they paid over 
and above their old fixed rate up to the point they closed the mortgage, and paid £500 
compensation to make up for the trouble and inconvenience it caused.
When Mr and Mrs C asked us to review their complaint, our investigator thought Barclays 
offer was reasonable. 
Mr and Mrs C want substantially more compensation to make up for the distress and 
inconvenience theyve suffered.
Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to uphold this complaint, as I think Barclays offer is reasonable.
Theres no question Barclays didnt handle either the application or the ensuing complaint as 
it should have. And its acknowledged that meant Mr and Mrs C paid more in interest than 
they should have and were inconvenienced by its errors.
As far as the application goes, Barclays says its provided feedback to its mortgage adviser 
to ensure the mistakes dont happen again. And its refunded the extra interest Mr and Mrs C 
paid.
This service expects a business to put mistakes right in two ways: by returning them to the 
position theyd be in if the mistake hadnt been made and by compensating them for the 
distress and inconvenience suffered.
I think Barclays has done the first of these by refunding the extra interest Mr and Mrs C paid. 
Mr and Mrs C havent told us about any additional costs they had  and its likely theyd have 
had some costs (an arrangement fee etc) even if theyd eventually borrowed more from 
Barclays. 
Turning to the compensation, Ive thought about what Mrs C has told us about the upset of 
finding out she and Mr C couldnt borrow more from Barclays and the confusing way it 
calculated their incomes. Ive also noted that Barclays wrongly closed their first complaint 
without responding to it  and that they later had to make another application to a different 
lender. 
Taking everything into account I think £500 is a reasonable amount. I know Mr and Mrs C 
want more, but, as our investigator said, this service normally awards modest levels of 
compensation for distress and inconvenience, and Barclays payment it in line with what Id 
expect it to offer. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 July 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman