The complaint
Mr O has complained about Zenith Insurance plcs handling of his motorbike insurance 
policy.
Reference to Zenith includes their agents.
What happened
Mr Os policy with Zenith renewed on 5 November 2018. On 12 December 2018, 
unfortunately, Mr Os his motorbike was stolen. He claimed on his policy.
As is usual practice, Zenith carried out validation checks. And they discovered that Mr O had 
been unemployed since July 2018. But when his policy renewed in November 2018, Zenith 
believed he was employed as he had declared before. Zenith said that Mr O should have 
told them he was unemployed when his policy renewed. And had he done so, Zenith said 
they wouldnt have renewed Mr Os policy.
Zenith voided the policy (treated as though it never came into existence), didnt pay Mr Os 
claim and refunded his premium.
Mr O complained but Zenith didnt uphold it. Mr O didn't think that was reasonable so he 
brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into it. He felt that Zeniths 
decision was reasonable. As Mr O didnt agree with our investigator, the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I appreciate this will be disappointing for 
Mr O, but Im not going to uphold his complaint. Ill explain why.
In his complaint, Mr O has made a number of detailed points and Ive considered all those 
carefully. But, in this decision, I will focus on what I consider to be the key issues. My role is 
to decide if Zenith have dealt with Mr O in a fair and reasonable way.
I have seen Zeniths underwriting criteria. Each insurer sets their own underwriting criteria 
which are the rules they follow to determine whether or not they will provide someone with 
cover. Zeniths rules say that they wont provide insurance to anyone whos unemployed. Mr 
O accepted he was unemployed since July 2018, before his policy renewed in November 
2018. Im therefore satisfied that if Zenith knew from the outset that Mr O was unemployed 
they wouldnt have insured him. 
DRN-1756808Zenith have suggested that Mr O not telling them about his employment status amounted to, 
what is known in the insurance industry, a careless misrepresentation. And theres specific 
legislation - the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA)  
that sets out what insurers may do in such a situation. It says that insurers may void the 
policy and refuse all claims if they wouldnt have provided cover had the correct information 
been given by the policyholder when applying for the policy. Where that happens the insurer 
must return the premium, which is what Zenith have done. 
When the policy renewed in November 2018, Zenith sent Mr O documentation which 
included a document called Statement of Fact. The Statement of Fact listed all the 
important information on which Zenith agreed to insure Mr O. It said: 
The Statement of Fact form covers all the information you gave us. Your insurance is 
based on this information and the form is the basis of your contract with your Insurer. It 
is important that you check the information you have provided and notify us 
immediately of any changes to these details. Failure to disclose correct and complete 
information to the best of your knowledge and belief may result in increased 
premiums, refusal of a claim or not being fully paid, your policy being cancelled or 
being made null and void. If any of your details are missing or incorrect, or if anything 
else changes, please contact us immediately
The schedule of insurance sent to Mr O stated he was employed and his occupation was 
what he had declared to Zenith previously. The schedule was applicable from 5 November 
2018 when the policy renewed. 
CIDRA specifically says that: a failure by the consumer to comply with the insurers request 
to confirm or amend particulars previously given is capable of being a misrepresentation for 
the purposes of this Act. So, in Mr Os case, Zenith sent him the Statement of Fact in which 
they told him to read all the information carefully as he had a duty to provide accurate 
information. I think Mr O should have told Zenith he was no longer employed. I therefore 
think Mr O didnt take reasonable care and he made a misrepresentation.
Zenith have not suggested in anyway Mr O had any bad intent. But they said his 
misrepresentation was careless and I agree with that. But even where the misrepresentation 
was careless CIDRA allows Zenith to void the policy if they wouldnt have insured him had 
they known he was unemployed. I therefore dont think Zenith have done anything wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2020.
Mehmet Osman
Ombudsman