DRN-1617729
The complaint
Mr S complains that AXA Global Healthcare (UK) Limited acted unfairly and unreasonably in 
failing to authorise his visit to see a doctor to get a diagnosis under his private health 
insurance policy. He wants matters put right.
What happened
Mr S had a private health insurance policy with AXA. Mr S was suffering from an 
undiagnosed medical issue, and contacted AXA to get authorisation to see a doctor where 
he was currently living. On the same day, Mr S had previously spoken to a doctor through 
video; he sent a medical report to AXA arising from that discussion, which showed Mr S had 
been advised to see a doctor to confirm a diagnosis as there were several possibilities.
AXA asked Mr S to complete a medical information form as pre-existing conditions werent 
covered by the policy, which had only been in force for about 25 days. Mr S wasnt happy as 
he wanted to see a doctor and asked if the issue of pre-existing medical condition could be 
sorted out later  AXA refused. It wanted to know if the condition was pre-existing before 
authorising a doctors appointment and treatment.
A few weeks later, AXA contacted Mr S and asked for consent to see his medical records. 
Mr S said hed now seen a doctor and had been given medication that cured his issue, and 
cancelled the policy. Mr S felt AXA had behaved unfairly and unreasonably. AXA said it was 
simply trying to treat all its policyholders fairly, and when a claim was made close to the start 
of the policy, it did need to check if there was a pre-existing condition involved.
Mr S complained to us. The investigators view was that the complaint should be upheld. He 
noted that the policy was underwritten on a moratorium basis, which meant pre-existing 
medical conditions from the last five years werent covered. The policy also said that AXA 
could ask for further information if a claim is made; this is what happened when AXA asked 
Mr S to complete the form in order to check if the condition was pre-existing. The 
investigator noted that the policy was relatively new at the time of the claim, and it was 
reasonable to check in the circumstances.
The investigator also noted that a week after the claim was made, the company that first 
spoke to Mr S about his health sent an email saying that Mr S had told it that the medical 
issue arose before the policy was started, while Mr S said he hadnt seen a doctor for six 
months so didnt think his issue was relevant. The investigator thought that it was fair and 
reasonable for AXA to ask for evidence about pre-existing conditions as it was permitted 
under the terms and conditions of the policy, but he also thought AXA had acted too slowly. 
The investigator said that AXA shouldve asked for access to Mr S medical records much 
earlier as by the time it asked, Mr S had seen a doctor and received treatment. He also 
thought that AXA shouldve told Mr S he could see a doctor but the visit mightnt be covered 
by the policy; he said that its failure to do so caused Mr S to delay seeing a doctor, which 
caused him more suffering. The investigator said that the fair and reasonable outcome was 
for AXA to consider paying the claim if given access to Mr S medical records; it should also 
pay £100 for the trouble and upset caused by its delay in asking to access the records and in 
not telling Mr S to seek treatment (but at the risk of not being covered by the policy).
Mr S disagreed. He said that the doctor he spoke to suggested that the issue might pre-date 
the policy, but it wasnt certain. Mr S repeated that hed been advised to see a doctor, and 
there was no need to see his medical records as he hadnt seen a doctor for six months 
(though it was the record of his discussion with the doctor AXA particularly wanted to 
access). He felt that £100 compensation wasnt enough, particularly as hed been scared 
and in pain. Mr S said he should receive more money due to inhumane treatment. 
The investigator said that it was fair for AXA to ask to see Mr S medical history, and it was 
permitted under the policy; he warned that the email from the doctor mightve led to AXA 
declining the claim anyway. The investigator also thought the compensation hed 
recommended was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances and the error AXA made 
wasnt asking for information, but in acting too slowly and not telling Mr S he could see a 
doctor and take the risk of not being covered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that AXA has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
The policy does exclude pre-existing medical conditions, and makes it clear that if a claim is 
made, AXA has the right to seek further information. This is standard industry practice. While 
I can understand why Mr S wasnt happy to be asked for information before a doctors 
appointment would be authorised, stepping back and looking at the whole picture, AXA was 
entitled to ask for the information; given how recently the policy had been started, I think it 
also was fair and reasonable to ask for the information. 
Mr S mayve felt that the information wasnt necessary, but this ignores how recent the policy 
was and the need to check the position. Until the medical records (including the information 
held by the doctor Mr S had spoken to about the issue and the doctor who treated Mr S in 
the end) are disclosed, there is no way to know if Mr S was suffering from a pre-existing 
medical condition. Indeed, as consent hasnt been given, neither AXA nor this service knows 
the full picture. While the initial note from the doctor Mr S first spoke to is silent about when 
the condition arose, in a later email, the company said that the condition was pre-existing, 
while Mr S has emails he sent her after the claim saying the condition arose after the policy 
started. I cant say AXA acted unfairly or unreasonably in asking for the medical information.
Where AXA did go wrong in my view was the time taken to ask for medical information, and 
in particular for consent to get information from the doctor Mr S first spoke to  AXA was far 
too slow, particularly when it knew Mr S wanted to see a doctor as soon as possible. Mr S 
has told this service that he was scared and in pain. I can see he did try to progress the 
claim by chasing AXA. And the requirement for Mr S to give consent is well-established  it 
isnt clear to me why AXA didnt ask for this consent much sooner. This is unfair and 
unreasonable. 
I also think the failure to clearly tell Mr S that he could go and see a doctor and take the risk 
of not being covered by the policy was unfair and unreasonable. Im satisfied that the 
evidence shows Mr S did delay seeing a doctor while he tried to progress matters with AXA. 
But Mr S did take this step in the end and the evidence available to me doesnt show how 
much pain he was in or when (if at all) it increased. I note that Mr S had suffered from the condition for some time before starting the claim and contacting a doctor, which suggests at 
least initially it wasnt too painful.
Money never compensates truly for trouble and upset, and this service doesnt award 
compensation based on any notion of punishment or to stop future issues. Compensation is 
awarded on the basis of the trouble and upset shown to have been caused by the unfair and 
unreasonable conduct of the financial business involved, and our awards tend to be modest. 
Much of Mr S upset is about being asked for further information, which he describes as part 
of the inhumane treatment by AXA, but is something which Ive found to be fair and 
reasonable. And Ive borne in mind that Mr S did in the end receive treatment which limited 
the time period in which he was awaiting treatment and was in pain. Taking all the 
circumstances into account, I think £100 compensation is fair and reasonable.
Until Mr S gives consent to release all his medical records to AXA, including those held of 
the doctor he spoke to and the treating doctor, as well as the invoices for his later treatment 
and medication, AXA and this service isnt in a position to assess whether the claim should 
be paid in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. If Mr S is willing to do this, then 
AXA should consider his claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. If the claim 
is declined at that point, its open to Mr S to raise a new complaint with AXA and then this 
service if he remains unhappy.
Putting things right
AXA should consider the claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy if its given 
access to Mr S medical records and the evidence supporting the claim. It should also pay 
£100 for the trouble and upset caused by its delay in asking to access all the records and in 
not telling Mr S to seek treatment but at the risk of not being covered by the policy.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and AXA Global Healthcare (UK) Limited 
should pay Mr S £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by the failings set out 
above and consider Mr S claim for the treatment he received if he provides evidence of the 
claim and access to his medical records in full. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 29 September 2020.
 
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman