DRN-4509241
The complaint
T, a limited company, has complained Tide Platform Ltd, trading as Tide, wont refund them 
for transactions they didnt authorise.
What happened
Mr B is the director of T and is representing them in this complaint. Mr Bs sister, Ms S, 
works for T and manages the accounts. Her phone is registered with Tide as the authorised 
person for the account. The Tide app also works on her phone. Mr B also has the Tide app 
on his phone and the app works to his facial ID.
In February Ms S was working at home, as shed not been well, and received a call from 
someone pretending they represented Tide. They asked whether shed been aware of a 
letter advising her that the app was out of use whilst being updated. This fitted with Ms S's 
own experience as shed been logged out of the app and couldnt log back in. During this call 
Ms S was sent a message from Tide providing her with an Apple Pay set up one-time 
verification code. Ms S cant recall completely what she did with this code.
The following day after re-setting up the Tide app on her phone, Ms S alerted T to fraudulent 
transactions. More than £22,395 was spent on the Tide card linked to Ts Tide account. Mr B 
was able to report these to Tide. Tide didnt take steps to note the card as compromised so 
didnt delink this from Apple Pay. Further disputed transactions were also made which Tide 
subsequently accepted was down to their error.
Tide wouldnt refund T for the first set of disputed transactions. They believed Ms S was an 
unauthorised user on the app and had given away the Apple Pay verification code which 
enabled the card transactions to be made. They didnt believe they were required to refund 
T.
Mr B brought Ts complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator reviewed the evidence provided by both T and Tide. She believed the card 
transactions had been authorised and therefore T should remain liable for them. She also 
noted that Tide had made an error which enabled further fraud transactions (£6,184.99) 
being undertaken but felt that £75 offered was fair in the circumstances.
Still unhappy with this outcome, Mr B asked for Ts complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman.
I completed a provisional decision on 16 December 2023. I believed there wasnt sufficient 
evidence to show these had been authorised by T. However I believed because of the 
apparent authority Mr B had granted Ms S, half of Ts losses should be refunded. I also told 
Tide I would be asking them to pay additional compensation of £425.
On behalf of T, Mr B accepted this provisional outcome.
Tide didnt. They emphasised their point that their terms and conditions didnt permit Ms S to 
access and use Bs account and felt these outweighed the other considerations Id made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as I did in my provisional decision. What 
follows explains my thinking.
I have read and considered Tides detailed response to my provisional decision. I can see 
they believe my arguments were contradictory, but I can clarify that the PSRs and what they 
state about apparent authority outweigh Tides terms and conditions. I am satisfied the 
points they make are covered below and those that arent covered in detail have been 
considered fully and taken into account as I made my final decision.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The regulations which are relevant to Ts complaint are the Payment Services Regulations 
2017 (PSRs). These primarily require banks and financial institutions to refund customers if 
they didnt make or authorise payments themselves. 
To help me come to a decision, Ive reviewed the evidence Tide provided as well as what 
Mr B has told us. Ive also taken into account our investigators detailed view dated 
7 September 2023. I dont feel the need to repeat some of the facts included there as all 
parties will be aware of these. I can confirm that I have reviewed Tides terms and conditions 
for the use of their card, particularly sections 10.6 to 10.13.
Theres no dispute that the transactions totalling £22,395.57 were made using Ts Tide card 
details enabled on Apple Pay. I believe these transactions were carried out as Ms S 
provided the verification code to the person on the phone pretending to be Tide. I accept 
what Mr B has told us that Ms S cant recall exactly what happened. She was suffering a 
migraine at the time, and I appreciate how debilitating these can be. 
However I think its most likely Ms S provided the person on the phone with the code. She 
wasnt feeling well, believed she was talking to Tide at the time and had been told that the 
app was unavailable which she knew was the case from her own experience. So I dont 
believe its too surprising that Ms S gave away the code perhaps as a way of verifying 
herself to Tide. I need to be mindful of the circumstances of Ms S giving away the code  
despite warnings Tide may have issued at the time  and Im satisfied she behaved in a 
reasonable manner taking into account she was a victim of a scam. Shed have been aware 
that her phone number was registered with Tide for the operation of Ts business bank 
account but was also aware that she and Mr B had come to a mutually reasonable way of 
managing Ts account by both accessing the app, whilst only Mr B was able to provide the 
proper ID for using the app.
The provision of the code to set up the card on Apple Pay didnt in itself provide 
authorisation for the individual Apple Pay transactions although I agree this enabled what 
subsequently happened. However authorisation, as defined within the PSRs is very specific as I confirm below, so I am therefore satisfied that I can conclude the Apple Pay transactions 
made with the Tide card werent authorised. There seems to be no dispute these were 
carried out by the fraudulent third party.
I do need to take into account the terms and conditions that relate to the use of thew Tide 
card and business account. Whilst Tide believes theyre not liable because T gave away the 
code to an unauthorised user  essentially Ms S  I dont agree.
Instead I believe T gave Ms S apparent authority under the PSRs to use the card related to 
the account.
The PSRs say that someone acting as an agent on behalf of T can be treated as acting with 
apparent authority when making transactions on their account.
Authority consists of two elements. The transactions must be authenticated, and T needs to 
have consented to the payments being made.
Im satisfied from reviewing the history of account use that T consented to Ms S using the 
card and authorising transactions. I also believe that Ms S must have given away the 
verification code as I explain above. However I dont believe Ms S consented to the 
individual disputed transactions which then took place.
Based on apparent authority, Im satisfied T must bear some liability for what happened. As 
Ive confirmed, I dont believe the individual card transactions were authorised by T, or Ms S, 
but Ms Ss involvement means that I believe its fair that T bear the costs of 50% of the 
disputed transactions.
Putting things right
This means I will be asking Tide to refund £11,197.79 to T.
Ive also looked at what happened after Mr B reported the disputed transactions and 
compromise that had taken place on Ts Tide card. Its clear that Tide made an error which 
led to a considerable further number of disputed transactions.
As this complaint is in Ts name, Im unable to consider any individual distress or shock that 
Mr B and Ms S undoubtedly suffered. However I believe this latter event may have caused 
inconvenience to T whilst the business was trying to manage their cash flow after losing 
more than £22,000. Having considered this, I believe Tide should pay T a further £425 
(making this £500 in total) in compensation for this inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is to instruct Tide Platform Limited to:
Refund £11,197.79 to T;
Add 8% simple interest to this amount from 23 February 2023 to the date of 
settlement; and
Pay T £500 in total compensation for the inconvenience caused.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman