DRN-3029321
The complaint
Mr H complains that MBNA Limited mis-sold him payment protection insurance (PPI) with a 
credit card in or around 2007. 
What happened
It looks as though Mr H initially complained to MBNA in or around 2013 through a claims 
management company. MBNA issued a final response letter about the alleged mis-sale on 3 
September 2013. 
Mr H then instructed his current representatives. They wrote to MBNA on 23 January 2017 
to complain PPI had been mis-sold to Mr H. In response, MBNA said it had already dealt 
with the complaint about the alleged mis-sale. But it did pay back to Mr H the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium. It did this because it 
didnt tell Mr H about the high level of commission and profit share he would pay  which 
was unfair.
Through his new representatives, Mr H complained to this service. MBNA didnt agree we 
could look at a complaint about how the PPI was sold - because it said Mr H had referred the 
complaint to us too late. 
Our adjudicator looked at all of this  but didnt think we could help with Mr Hs complaint 
about how this policy was sold. And they thought MBNAs payment was a fair way to resolve 
the complaint
Mr Hs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion and queried whether the 
response from MBNA dealt with all of the complaint points Mr H made. 
As things couldnt be resolved informally, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I cant look at all the complaints referred to me. The rules applying to this service say that  
where a business doesnt agree  I cant look into a complaint if its been referred to us more 
than six months after the business sends the consumer its final response letter, telling them 
they can refer their complaint to us. This is Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R(1)  and it can be 
found online in the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook.
MBNA sent its final response on 3 September 2013. So Mr H had until 3 March 2014 to refer 
the complaint to us. But we didnt receive the complaint until January 2018. So the complaint 
was referred out of time under the rules I have to apply.
I can look into complaints referred outside the usual time limits where Im satisfied the failure 
to comply with the time limits was because of exceptional circumstances. The representative 
didnt really tell us about any exceptional circumstances in Mr Hs case. Instead, it said it 
was unclear as to whether MBNA had dealt with all of the arguments raised on his behalf. 
I appreciate those representing Mr H may have made new arguments as to the mis-sale in 
2017. But Im afraid that raising new arguments about the same facts after a final response 
has been issued does not extend the time limit to bring the complaint to this service. I cant 
reasonably say it amounts to exceptional circumstances either. 
Taking account of all of the evidence before me, Im sorry that were unable to help Mr H 
with the complaint about how this policy was sold. Thats because it was referred over three 
years too late and no exceptional circumstances apply. 
non-disclosure of commission
But I have considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including whether the non-
disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act  
and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided MBNA should have disclosed the commission it received and 
that MBNAs offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused 
is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
MBNA didnt tell Mr H about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this case. 
So taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
MBNA and Mr H was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act because 
MBNA didnt tell him about the high levels of commission and profit share in this case 
I dont think MBNA acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr H because it failed to 
disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Mr Hs representative has made a number of representations about this part of the complaint 
including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer 
Credit Act on this complaint.
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipIn summary they have said Mr H should get back all the money he paid for the policy 
because: MBNA failed to tell Mr H about the high commission and profit-share rates paid, 
the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say that 
meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Mr H wouldnt have taken out the policy 
had they known about the level of commission and he should receive a refund of all the 
premiums he paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- A court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a 
consumer would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; 
and
- The FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge 
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance 
about mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman in this case is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair 
compensation for Mr H in order to remedy the unfairness caused by MBNA not disclosing 
the high level of commission before he purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mr Hs representative suggests, driven to conclude that he wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for MBNAs failure to disclose the level of commission for the 
reasons Ive given above.
I think it was fair for MBNA to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return some of the money Mr H paid for the PPI policy, and I consider this fairly removes the 
source of the unfairness. 
So I consider that MBNAs payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and profit 
share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where applicable) in 
line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
As MBNA has already paid Mr H compensation on this basis, I dont consider it should do 
anything further. 
My final decisionIm unable to consider Mr Hs complaint about how the policy was sold, because it was 
referred to us too late  and Im not persuaded the failure to comply with the time limits was 
because of exceptional circumstances.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that MBNA 
Limited should pay Mr H an amount equivalent to the commission and profit share paid in 
excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where applicable). As MBNA 
Limited has already paid compensation on this basis, I dont require it to do anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2021.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman