DRN-4342959
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy Santander UK Plc (Santander) hasnt reimbursed two card payments he 
made towards his sisters medical degree course. He believes it was a scam.
What happened
Mr K says his sister (Miss S) didnt get services paid for. He said the Institution (N) and a 
third-party agent (S) werent honest. He said Miss S was promised online lectures, seminars, 
and full online support for a four-year graduate medicine course. However, once she 
enrolled onto the online programme, she was told online studies are illegal and she needed 
to present a valid reason as to why she couldnt attend on campus. It was also revealed that 
she would need to complete (and pay for) a further two years for her degree to be approved 
by the General Medical Council (GMC).
Santander said it was unable to deem the payments as fraudulent and it was too late to raise 
a chargeback claim on the first payment of £1,536.33 but it provided a disclaimer form for 
the second payment of £74.57.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. He didnt think the payments made were to a 
scam and he also didnt consider the size of the transactions ought to have caused 
Santander concern. He also didnt think there was any realistic prospect of recovering the 
money via a chargeback.
As Mr K did not agree, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant 
law and regulations; regulatory rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than Mr K has presented to 
us, but I have read all of his submissions. Im not responding to every single point made but 
instead Ive concentrated on what I think are the key issues material to the outcome of this 
complaint.
Im not deciding a dispute between Mr K and N  I dont have the power to look into a  
complaint about N. My role is limited to deciding the dispute between Mr K and Santander.
The two payments from Mr Ks debit card went to Mr Ks pre-existing account with an 
Electric money institute (EMI) and as I understand it - on from there to an institution (N) 
abroad - to pay for Miss Ss degree course fees and insurance.
There is no dispute Mr K authorised the transactions and he was sending money to his own 
EMI account. These are card (pull) payments rather than authorised push payments and the 
CRM Code does not apply here.
Although the money did not go directly to N from Mr Ks Santanders account, the evidence 
Ive seen suggests N is a legitimate further education institution based abroad. Having 
considered all the evidence and information Mr K has provided, I believe this is a civil matter 
between the two parties.
Overall, I am not persuaded Mr K has been a victim of a scam here. I havent gone into 
detail about this because - even if it could be established Mr K was a victim of a scam - this 
is not a complaint I would uphold. Ill explain why.
Its important to note there is no automatic refund for victims of fraud. When thinking about 
Mr Ks payments, Santander has an obligation to follow Mr Ks instructions. In broad terms, 
the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments and withdrawals 
that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services Regulations and the 
terms and conditions of the customers account. 
There may be circumstances where a bank should fairly and reasonably take additional 
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to 
make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm. 
But the payments of £1,536.33 and £74.57 were unremarkable and Mr K had made similar 
sized transactions in the months prior to the scam. Neither payment cleared the balance of 
his account. I also note the payments were going to an account in Mr Ks name. I cant fairly 
conclude that they should have stood out to Santander as being unusual or out of character. 
So, I dont consider the bank missed a clear opportunity to identify a potential scam risk. 
Banks cant reasonably be involved in every transaction. There is a balance to be struck 
between identifying payments that could potentially be fraudulent and minimising disruption 
to legitimate payments.
For completeness, I will add that banks dont have to raise chargebacks if it looks clear that 
the cardholder would lose. The first payment was outside the permitted timescales but in any 
event the payments did not go directly to the merchant but via Mr Ks EMI account.
Overall, I dont think Mr K has been a victim of fraud but even if he had been  I dont think 
Santander did anything wrong in processing the transactions for the reasons Ive explained 
above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman