DRN-4323430
The complaint
Mr B complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax declined some transactions, he
tried to make using his credit card account.
What happened
I previously issued a provisional decision on this case. It was my intention to come to a 
different outcome to the Investigator and so I wanted to give both parties the chance to 
respond with anything else they wanted me to take into account before I came to my final 
decision on the matter.
I have copied my provisional decision below, which also forms part of this final decision.
Mr B says he was on a cruise when he tried to make a payment for a coach ticket to get him
home once his holiday had finished. Mr B says the payment went through and he received
the ticket by email. However, hours later, Mr B says he received a text message from Halifax
to say the transaction had been declined due to fraud checks. Mr B checked with the coach
provider that the ticket had been cancelled, to which it responded to say it had. Because he
didnt have a coach ticket, Mr B had to take another route home, which took a long time and
wasnt convenient.
A number of weeks later, Mr B saw his credit card statement and found out that the
transaction for the coach ticket had gone through the following day after his initial attempts.
He was unhappy at how the transaction could have been processed the next day, without his
consent  he feels this is fraud and deception. Mr B complains also that he wasnt told the
transaction had gone through when he was communicating with Halifaxs representative. Mr
B would like Halifax to refund him £26 for the coach ticket.
Mr B also attempted to make a payment for a hotel using his Halifax account. This 
transaction was declined for further security checks. Mr B says that he was on a cruise and
so wasnt contactable by phone, and he couldnt respond to text messages. Mr B also tried
to use his Halifax debit card to make the payment, but this payment also wasnt successful 
the merchant said this was because the card had expired, which Mr B disputes. Because
Halifax hadnt allowed the payment to go through, Mr B had to rebook the hotel at a later
date by which time the price had increased. Mr B would like Halifax to reimburse him the
additional cost of the hotel, which he says was £25.
In addition to the above, Mr B is unhappy with the service he received from Halifax. In
summary, he says that Halifax didnt respond to his emails and call wait times were very
long.
Halifax didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. It explained that the payments made to the coach
provider on 26 March 2023 were declined because the payments werent processed using
the correct fraud prevention measure. It also said that it didnt process the payment again on
27 March 2023, and this was a separate transaction. It said that if Mr B didnt initiate this
payment, then he would need to contact the coach company for a refund.
In relation to the hotel booking Mr B attempted to make, Halifax said that the payment
initially flagged for security checks. It said it tried to call and text message Mr B to verify the
payment but because it couldnt get a response from him it declined the payment and
blocked the account. Halifax said that when Mr B attempted to make the same payment
using his debit card, the transaction was declined by the hotel provider  and its possible
this was because Mr Bs stay was after his debit card had expired.
Halifax also told Mr B that it has responded to his complaint within the timescales. Unhappy
with Halifaxs response, Mr B brought his complaint to this service.
The Investigator considered all of the information provided by both parties, however they
didnt think Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. Mr B didnt agree with the Investigator and so
the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision on the matter.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered all the information available to me, I intend to uphold Mr Bs complaint in
part. I hope Mr B wont be too disappointed that Im not upholding his case as far as I
understand he would like me to. The reason Ive decided to partly uphold the complaint is
because I think Halifax could have been clearer with some of the information it gave Mr B,
which I can see from Mr Bs submissions has clearly and understandably caused him some
concern.
The Financial Ombudsman Service can only consider complaints about financial businesses.
In this decision, I can only consider the actions of Halifax  and whether it acted fairly and
reasonably in relation to Mr Bs complaint. I cant consider or make a finding on any possible
wrongdoing of any other company in connection with the issues Mr B has raised.
In my view, the crux of Mr Bs complaint falls into three distinct categories, and so Ive
considered these separately below:
Coach ticket
Based on the information I have seen, there were four attempts made on 26 March 2023 to
purchase a coach ticket. Halifax has provided me with evidence to show that three of these
transactions were declined because the coach company didnt process the transaction using
the correct fraud prevention measures. I cant fairly say that Halifax did anything wrong in not
allowing these payment attempts to go through, given that it has a responsibility to ensure
that all payments made from the account are verified in the right way. And because the fraud
prevention measures werent followed, I dont think it was unreasonable of Halifax to decline
these transactions.
Mr B said that after he made one of the payments on 26 March 2023, it appeared to have
gone through and he received an email from the coach company with confirmation of his
ticket. But shortly after this, he received a text message from Halifax to let him know the
payment hadnt gone through.
Based on the information Ive seen from Halifaxs internal systems, and more recent
confirmation from Halifax, Halifax did approve one of the payments Mr B attempted on 26
March 2023. So, there was no payment approved by Halifax the following day. Halifax say
the coach company processed the payment the following day, which is why the transaction
is showing on Mr Bs statement on 27 March 2023.This particular point has caused Mr B a lot of concern. I can see Halifax told Mr B that this
was a separate transaction, processed and authorised on 27 March 2023. And that this
transaction was separate to those that had been attempted the previous day. It told him to
contact the coach company about it if he didnt make the transaction. It appears that this
information has, understandably, led Mr B to believe that transactions are being processed
on his account without his consent. I dont think that is what has happened here, but I do
think that if Halifax had been clearer in what it told Mr B, then it would have saved Mr B a lot
of worry and frustration. And for this reason, Im currently planning to say Halifax should pay
Mr B £150 for the distress and inconvenience this misleading information has had on him.
I note that Mr B says he received a text message from Halifax to say that the transactions to
the coach company had been declined. While I accept that this must have been confusing,
given that one of the transactions had in fact gone through, some of the transactions had
been declined, so I dont find that Halifax sent the text message incorrectly. Although I can
understand why this has caused confusion.
In relation to the cost of the ticket itself, Im not going to ask Halifax to reimburse this to Mr B.
I appreciate that the information the coach company gave to Mr B implied that if his payment
hadnt gone through then the ticket would be cancelled. But the payment did go through.
Because of this, I cant hold Halifax responsible for the coach company either cancelling the
ticket when it had in fact received a payment or for providing him with misleading information
by implying the ticket was cancelled.
I have noted though that Mr B received a refund to his account from the coach company on
14 May 2023 for £26. It isnt clear if this is a refund for the ticket this complaint relates to or
not. If it isnt, then I suggest that in the first instance, Mr B contacts the coach company for a
refund. If this isnt successful, then he might be able to raise a payment dispute with Halifax.
Hotel booking
Mr B attempted to make a booking for a hotel at the cost of £88  he attempted this
transaction on 26 March 2023. Ive seen evidence to show that this transaction was flagged
by Halifaxs fraud systems for verification. And Ive also seen evidence to show that Halifax
made many attempts to contact Mr B about the transaction by both phone and text message.
Because Halifax couldnt verify the transaction with Mr B, it blocked his account until it could
speak to him.
I accept that this must have been very frustrating for Mr B  especially given that he couldnt
receive calls or send text messages while he was away on his cruise. However, Halifax has
security procedures in place to protect both itself and its customers from fraud. And so I
dont find that it was unreasonable of Halifax to have declined the transaction and blocked
his account when it couldnt get in touch with him.
I can also see that Mr B tried to make the same transaction using his debit card which was
also declined. Mr B says that when it was declined, he was told this was because his card
had expired, when he said that it was due to expire the following month. Halifax say that the
transaction was declined by the merchant. Again, I can understand how frustrating this must
have been for Mr B, but I havent seen any evidence to persuade me that it was Halifax that
declined the transaction. I find its explanation for why the transaction might have been
declined by the hotel provider to be reasonable, and so I cant fairly say Halifax has done
anything wrong here. Because of this, I wont be asking it to pay Mr B the difference between
the cost of the room he tried to book, and the cost he had to pay at a later date.
Customer serviceI can see that Mr B has sent Halifax a number of emails. And it hasnt responded to Mr B in
the way he wanted it to. Halifax has said that it doesnt respond to complaint points by email.
It has also sent information to suggest that this is for security reasons. I dont find Halifaxs
explanation as to why it didnt respond to Mr B by email to be unreasonable. Account
information and personal details are sensitive, and so I can understand why it couldnt do
this for security reasons. Halifax explained it attached Mr Bs emails to his complaint and
considered these when it responded to his complaint.
Its understandable that Mr B was frustrated by this  especially when, in his view, Halifax
could have told him information about the payment to the coach company much sooner than
him seeing it on his statement. I can see that Halifax did offer to call Mr B at a time that
suited him, to avoid him having to wait in a queue. It isnt clear if Mr B took Halifax up on this
offer of a call back or not  but I feel that the offer of a phone call was a reasonable solution.
Mr B responded to the provisional decision to say that he accepted the resolution. However, 
he added that he had a phone call with Halifax after the payment was collected for the coach 
ticket, but before his statement was produced. And so, someone could have told him on this 
call that the payment had been made to the coach company.
Halifax also responded to the provisional decision to say it accepted the resolution.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that both parties accept the resolution as outlined in my provisional decision, I see no 
reason to depart from the findings made in the provisional decision. It follows that I will be 
upholding Mr Bs complaint for the same reasons as outlined in the provisional decision.
In response to Mr Bs point, I agree that if he had spoken to Halifax on the phone, it would 
have been better service if he had been told about the coach payment. However, I think the 
£150 is still a fair way to compensate Mr B for the things Halifax could have done better.
Putting things right
Halifax should put things right for Mr B by paying him £150 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to him as a result of the misleading information it provided him with.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, it is my decision to uphold Mr Bs complaint. I order Bank of 
Scotland plc trading as Halifax to put things right for Mr B by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 September 2023.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman