DRN-4414964
The complaint
Mr F complains that West Bay Insurance plc is responsible for poor repairs under a claim on 
his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a sports utility vehicle, made by a mass-
market car-maker and first registered in 2013. It had a ram-operated tailgate.
Mr F has told us he acquired the vehicle in 2017.
For the year from February 2023, Mr F had the vehicle insured on a comprehensive policy 
with West Bay.
In about October 2022, Mr F reported that an accident had damaged the rear of the car. 
West Bay arranged an inspection and a repair in November 2022.
In April 2023, Mr F complained to West Bay that its repair had been of poor quality, so that 
the tailgate of his car wasnt closing properly and was letting in rainwater. 
By a final response dated late June 2023, West Bay didnt accept the complaint about the 
repair. But West Bay said it as sending Mr F a cheque for £75.00 as an apology for 
telephone waiting times.
Mr F brought his complaint to us without delay.
Our investigator initially recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that 
West Bay hadnt done a full and lasting repair. She recommended that West Bay should re-
look at the damage and make sure the impact of the accident has been properly repaired 
and, if necessary, provide a detailed report to support any damage they believe is unrelated.
West Bay provided further information.
Our investigator changed her view. She didnt recommend that the complaint should be 
upheld. She thought that the issue was mechanical, possibly related to wear and tear. She 
didnt have enough evidence to show it was due to the accident or covered under the policy. 
Mr F disagrees with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
His engineer said a screw had sheared when it was fitted to the tailgate bolt.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy covered accident damage. The policy didnt cover mechanical failure.
Ive seen evidence from an online forum that there are known problems with the tailgate of 
Mr Fs model of SUV.
I find it likely that his vehicles tailgate had a mechanical problem before the accident. When 
West Bays engineer assessed the car in October 2022, he noted an uneven gap at the top 
of the tailgate. He questioned whether all the damage was consistent with the reported 
accident. 
In November 2022, West Bay replaced the tailgate including some damaged bolts on a ram.
I can see why Mr F would be disappointed to have a problem with the tailgate in April 2023.
And Mr F sent us a video of an engineer looking at the damaged tailgate and highlighting a 
sheared screw or stud.
However, I havent seen a written report or any details of that engineers qualifications or 
experience.
So I place more weight on the evidence of West Bays engineer. He says that the damaged 
bolts were replaced in November 2022, but the replacement bolts had suffered similar 
damage by April 2023. He considers that, in each case, the bolts sheared causing failure of 
the ram.
Such a failure is, in my view, a mechanical failure. I dont consider that the policy covered 
such failure or consequent damage to the tailgate or adjacent panels. And I dont consider 
that the evidence shows that West Bay was responsible for a poor-quality repair in 
November 2022 that caused the problem Mr F experienced with the tailgate from April 2023.
So I dont find it fair and reasonable to hold West Bay responsible for that problem or its 
consequences. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct West Bay Insurance plc to do any more in response to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2024.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman