DRN-4091409
The complaint
Miss S complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) wouldnt refund the money she lost in a 
scam.
What happened
What Miss S says:
Miss S had an account with Lloyds. 
In December 2022, Miss S was contacted by someone purporting to be Mick Jagger, or his 
agent, on social media. She was a big fan and wanted to meet him. She was told that if she 
sent money to pay for membership to a meet and greet service, a meeting could be 
organised. She thought the contact was genuine  as she had grown up in the same area as 
Mick Jagger and she said her mother knew him. 
She made two payments from her Lloyds account using As app, each for £500. They were 
paid to a third-party money processing company (which I will call A):
Date Amount
5 December 2022 £500
9 December 2022 £500
She also made two other payments of £400 and £500 via A from an account with another 
bank  who have refunded that money.
The funds were then moved by A to the beneficiary, who proved to be a scammer.
Miss S is vulnerable and is in financial difficulty. She has no savings and lives on benefits. 
She said she had to pawn her gold and silver to pay for the scam. She has had a severe 
illness recently, and her autistic son lives with her. 
On 25 January 2023, Miss S contacted Lloyds and said the payments were part of a scam, 
and Lloyds shouldve been aware of this and stopped them, or contacted her to verify them. 
She said Lloyds should refund the money to her.
What Lloyds say:
Lloyds said the payments were made to A, a third-party money payment service and so 
Lloyds couldnt trace who the funds had gone to. They said theyd spoken to Miss S before 
about a previous, similar scam, so she shouldve been aware of the possibility she was 
falling victim to a scam. Theyd advised Miss S to be careful about such a scam. In the 
future, any contact with Mick Jagger would be through a management or publicity team  
and no celebrity would ever ask her for money. Lloyds said she should block and report 
these types of accounts. Lloyds didnt refund the money to Miss S.
Our investigation so far: 
Miss S brought her complaint to us. Our investigator said the payments didnt appear 
unusual or suspicious  considering Miss Ss normal account activity. She had made 
payments for similar amounts in the previous few months  so he didnt think Lloyds 
shouldve intervened to question them.
The Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (the CRM Code) 
didnt apply in this case as the payments were made by card, and these are excluded from it. 
So  he couldnt ask Lloyds to apply the Code to these payments. Miss S didnt have a 
chargeback claim as it was A who made the payment to the beneficiary, not Lloyds. He 
didnt consider that Lloyds should reimburse Miss S.
Miss S didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman look at her complaint. So, it has come to 
me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry that Miss S has lost money in a cruel scam  and its money she cant afford to 
lose. But this doesnt automatically mean that Lloyds should refund her. I can only ask 
Lloyds to do so if I think it should have done more to protect her when she made the two 
payments. 
Its not in question that Miss S authorised and consented to the payments in this case. Here, 
the money was transferred from her Lloyds account to A and then A sent it to the scammer. 
Lloyds showed us that Miss A authorised the transfer from her Lloyds account to A  by 
using As app authorisation. 
So although Miss S didnt intend for the money to go to the scammer, she is presumed to be 
liable for the loss in the first instance.
The CRM Code doesnt apply in this case. Thats because the code only covers payments 
made by faster payments and CHAPS  which wasnt the case here. 
So, in broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the 
Payment Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And 
I have taken that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story. Taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider Lloyds should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
In this case, I need to decide whether Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Miss S when she made the payment requests, or whether it should have done more than it 
did. I have considered the position carefully.
I looked at Miss S account history with Lloyds. And I dont think the payments were unusual 
for her. For example, there were six payments of up to, or around £100 in the month of 
November 2022. 
And while I accept this was a lot of money to Miss S, the payments in question were in fact 
fairly low value ones. There was also nothing else about the payments that ought reasonably 
to have concerned Lloyds. Theres a balance to be struck: Lloyds has obligations to be alert 
to fraud and scams and to act in their customers best interests, but they cant be involved in 
every transaction as this would cause unnecessary disruption to legitimate payments. In this 
case, I think Lloyds acted reasonably in processing the payments.
In some circumstances, banks can ask for money back as a chargeback claim. This would 
involve Lloyds asking for the money back from A. Its a voluntary scheme  which allows 
card issuers, on behalf of cardholders, to dispute payments for certain specified reasons set 
out by the card scheme operator. Lloyds arent required to pursue a chargeback if it feels 
there is no chance of success.
Here, Lloyds said they couldnt do that because A would have completed the transfers as 
requested. And therefore, there was very little chance of getting the money back from A. So 
 it is unlikely there was any chance of a chargeback being successful. And therefore it was 
reasonable for Lloyds not to pursue it.
Recovery:
Ive then gone on to consider whether Lloyds couldve recovered the money once Miss S 
contacted them about the scam. But in this case  Lloyds couldnt have done anything about 
the payment to A, as it was then sent immediately by A to the beneficiary as requested by 
Miss S. And Miss S didnt contact Lloyds until later in January 2023  more than a month 
after the payments were made.
And because Lloyds couldnt see where A sent the money to, they couldnt do anything 
further.
I read Miss S complaint and her circumstances closely. Im sorry she has lost money in this 
cruel scam. She told our investigator that shes now taken steps to block all contact with the 
scammer, which is the right thing to do. I know she will be disappointed by my decision, 
which is that Lloyds dont have to do anymore here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept or reject my decision before 12 June 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman