DRN-1552185
 
The complaint
Mr K has complained about U K Insurance Limiteds (UKI) handling of his car insurance 
policy.
Reference to UKI includes their agents.
What happened
Mr K took out car insurance with UKI in August 2018. Sometime around March 2019, the car 
was involved in an accident. Following the accident and some enquiries, UKI said it came to 
light that Mr K wasnt the cars owner and registered keeper as he had declared when he 
took out the policy. UKI also said they found out Mr K had two claims from 2017 which he 
failed to declare when he took out the policy.
UKI said Mr K had deliberately misrepresented his circumstances when taking out the policy 
and had UKI known he wasnt the owner and registered keeper of the car they would never 
have offered him cover. UKI voided (treated as though it never came into existence) the 
policy.
Mr K complained about UKIs actions. UKI didnt uphold his complaint saying they hadnt 
done anything wrong. Mr K brought his complaint to our service. One of our investigators 
looked into it. He felt that UKIs actions were reasonable. As Mr K didn't agree with our 
investigator, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
UKI have said that what Mr K did by declaring he was the owner and registered keeper of 
the car when he wasnt, and by not declaring the two claims from 2017, amounted to, what is 
known in the insurance industry, as a deliberate misrepresentation. And theres specific 
legislation - the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA)  
that sets out what insurers may do if there is a deliberate misrepresentation. It says that 
insurers:
may avoid (treat as though it never existed) the insurance contract and refuse all 
claims, and
need not return any of the premiums paid, except to the extent (if any) that it would 
be unfair to the consumer to retain them.
CIDRA says that a consumer must take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation to 
an insurer before entering into an insurance contract. Whether or not a consumer has taken 
reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation is to be determined in the light of all the 
relevant circumstances. In deciding whether or not a consumer has taken reasonable care 
certain things may need to be taken into account. For example, whether or not the questions 
asked by the insurer were clear.
An insurer has certain remedies under CIDRA where there has been a qualifying 
misrepresentation. But the insurer may only have recourse to those remedies where they 
can show that without the misrepresentation they either wouldnt have provided the policy at 
all, or they would have provided the policy but on different terms.
CIDRA says a qualifying misrepresentation is deliberate or reckless if the consumer:
(a) knew that it was untrue or misleading, or did not care whether or not it was untrue 
or misleading, and
(b) knew that the matter to which the misrepresentation related was relevant to the 
insurer, or did not care whether or not it was relevant to the insurer.
Following the accident, the police contacted UKI at the end of March 2019, because UKI 
were the cars insurer. UKI investigated and discovered the registered keeper of the car was 
Mr Ks brother. They also found out that Mr Ks brother had bought the car on finance shortly 
before Mr K insured it. The legal owner of the car was therefore the finance company.
The policy started on 8 August 2018, but Mr K called UKI two days earlier on 6 August when 
he applied for the policy. Ive listened to that call during which UKI asked Mr K a number of 
questions. It was in answering some of those questions during that call where UKI said Mr K 
made deliberate misrepresentations.
UKIs representative asked Mr K if he had already bought the car. He initially said he had but 
then corrected himself by saying he had put in an offer. But despite saying he hadnt yet 
bought the car he asked for the policy to start today, which was on 6 August 2018. UKIs 
representative asked: whos going to become the owner and registered keeper of the car to 
which he replied me. UKIs handler then asked if Mr K had any accidents or claims 
regardless of blame in past three years. Mr K replied yeah, I think there was. As Mr K 
already had a separate policy with UKI for another car, UKI already held some details about 
Mr Ks claims history. UKIs representative confirmed Mr K had a non-fault claim from 
March 2017 and his wife had a non-fault claim from April 2016. But Mr K didnt disclose the 
two claims he had in July and August 2017, while he was insured with a previous insurer.
Mr K said the information he gave during the call in August 2018 was done so with the 
utmost good faith and he believed it to be correct. He said he had no intention of deliberately 
misleading UKI but there may have been miscommunication.
Mr K said when he bought the car from his brother he wasnt aware that it had finance on it 
and that it was owned by the finance company. He said he was given the V5C/2 (the New 
keepers details slip). And he said he expected his brother to send the V5C/1 (commonly 
known as the cars logbook) to the DVLA for a new V5C/1 to be issued to him. He said that 
was the responsibility of his brother as the seller. But I note that as of March 2019, the 
registered owner of the car was still Mr Ks brother. Mr K said that as he hadnt received the 
new VC5/1, he did contact UKI by phone and in writing to inform them but to no avail. But 
UKI said they had no record of Mr K contacting them about that. Mr K told our investigator 
that he would send us his phone records to prove he had contacted UKI. But some six 
months have passed since then but Mr K hasnt provided that evidence.
Mr K hasnt provided a copy of the new keepers details slip or any other evidence, such as 
proof of payment, to show he bought the car and when. Nor has he provided any evidence 
from his brother to confirm that his brother sold him the car. I also find it very unusual that his 
brother would buy the car on finance and then sell it to Mr K within the space of a few days 
without telling him the car had finance.Ive listened to a call between Mr K and UKI on 28 March 2018. In that, during a discussion 
about the cars registered keeper and owner, Mr K said his recollection was that the question 
he was asked when taking out the policy was whether he would be the registered keeper or 
owner. And not whether he would be the registered keeper and the owner. He said he 
answered yes because his intention was that he was going to become the registered 
keeper and not the owner. When UKIs representative asked him if he was the owner of the 
car Mr K replied: Im not saying Im the owner at all. He also said I had good faith to 
believe at the time I would be the registered keeper not the owner. He also said he took out 
the policy on the basis that he would be the registered keeper and not the owner. I find 
Mr Ks comments inconsistent because if he was buying the car from his brother as he said 
he was, surely his expectation was that he would become the owner as well as the 
registered keeper. On the available evidence, other than what Mr K has told us, Ive not see 
any convincing evidence to show that he was the registered keeper of the car at the time he 
bought the policy or at any time thereafter. And he has accepted he wasnt the owner. So I 
think that when Mr K answered UKIs question about whether or not he was the cars 
registered keeper and owner he gave them information which he knew to be untrue or 
misleading. And if UKI had known Mr K wasnt the cars owner and registered keeper they 
would never have offered him cover. Im therefore satisfied that Mr K made a qualifying 
misrepresentation when he told UKI he would be the owner and registered keeper of the car. 
And I think UKIs decision that the misrepresentation was deliberate was reasonable. UKI 
were therefore entitled to void the policy under CIDRA. 
In relation to the two claims from July and August 2017, UKI said they spoke with Mr Ks 
previous insurer that insured Mr K at the time of those two fault claims. That insurer told UKI 
that Mr K didnt renew his policy for his other car with them because the premium was too 
high as a result of those two fault claims. Mr K then took out his policy with UKI for his other 
car in December 2017. UKI have said that as those two claims led to the cost of Mr Ks 
renewal policy being so high which caused him to not renew with them and to change 
insurers and come to UKI, surely those claims were memorable and he should have 
disclosed them to UKI. But he didnt. Not only didnt Mr K disclose them when he took out 
the August 2018 policy but he also didnt disclose them when he took out the other policy 
with UKI in December 2017 on his other car. And given he changed insurers because of the 
impact those two claims had on his premium, I think they would have been at the forefront of 
his mind and not something he would have forgotten about. Im therefore making a finding 
that Mr K made a qualifying misrepresentation by not disclosing those two claims. Im 
satisfied Mr K knew those two claims were relevant to his policy and something UKI should 
have known as they would have had an affect on his premium. The misrepresentation was 
therefore deliberate.
Once the policy was incepted, UKI sent Mr K his policy documentation. The documentation 
contained the information UKI relied upon in providing Mr K cover. The documentation 
confirmed that UKI based their decision to offer insurance on the fact that Mr K was the 
owner and registered keeper of the car. It also confirmed UKIs understanding of what claims 
Mr K had in the past three years. The documentation showed Mr K had one claim. The 
claims from July and August 2017 were absent. In the documentation UKI warned Mr K to 
carefully check all the information and to correct any mistakes. There was also a warning of 
the possible consequences of incorrect information not being corrected. Mr K told our 
service that: After receiving the insurance documents via post and having read through the 
documents taking all reasonable care and checking all details for accuracy But he didnt 
contact UKI to correct the inaccurate information.
In relation to the policy documentation UKI sent Mr K, I will point out that CIDRA specifically 
says: a failure by the consumer to comply with the insurers request to confirm or amend 
particulars previously given is capable of being a misrepresentation for the purposes of this 
Act. This means that a consumers duty to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation applies not only at the stage before the insurance contract is incepted but 
also after the policy has started. So, in Mr Ks case, UKI sent him the policy documentation 
which contained the information they based the policy on. And they told him to read all the 
information carefully as he had a duty to provide accurate information. The documentation 
contained inaccurate information. Mr K at that stage had a duty to take reasonable care not 
to make a misrepresentation. But despite saying he read through the documents to check all 
details for accuracy, he didnt contact UKI to correct the inaccurate information. I therefore 
think Mr K didnt take reasonable care and he made a misrepresentation.
For the reasons given above, UKIs decision to void the policy on the basis that Mr K made a 
deliberate misrepresentation was reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2020. 
Mehmet Osman
Ombudsman