DRN-1986270
Complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2000. Mr H says HSBC Bank UK Plc (HSBC) mis-sold him the PPI. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
A long time has passed since Mr H has bought his PPI policy so there isnt much 
documentation available from the time of sale. Where there is limited information available, I 
have to decide what I think is more likely based on the evidence available, including Mr Hs 
testimony.
Mr H bought his PPI during a meeting with HSBC. Ive seen a copy of report HSBC prepared 
during the meeting when he applied for his mortgage and PPI. HSBC made 
recommendations after discussing his needs which included recommending he takes PPI. 
Nothing Ive seen on this report indicates the PPI was compulsory. This report strongly 
indicates PPI was discussed to some degree and Mr H could choose whether to accept 
HSBCs recommendation. 
SO, I think its more likely HSBC made it clear Mr H didnt have to take out the PPI and he 
chose to take it out.
HSBC recommended the PPI to Mr H, so it had to check the PPI was right for him  and 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example, he 
was eligible for the policy and he wasnt significantly affected by any of the main exclusions 
to or limits on the PPI cover. 
Mr H was self-employed at the time he took the PPI, so he feels the PPI wasnt right for him 
because he believes the terms related to self-employed people are onerous. Mr H has 
pointed to several other cases where the terms relating to self-employed persons were 
deemed to be onerous. 
Each case is decided on the individual merits of that case. While there may be policies out 
there where it would be particularly difficult for someone who was self-employed to make a 
successful unemployment claim, I have to decide Mr Hs case based on the terms of the 
policy he actually took out. And based on what Ive seen, I think he couldve made a claim if 
he needed to and I dont think these policy terms made the policy unsuitable for him.
I say this because nothing in the terms required him to permanently cease trading, or wind 
down his business or required him to be insolvent  like weve seen with other policies. Of 
course, as a self-employed person, Mr H would have to take different steps to someone who 
was employed, to make an unemployment claim. But this is to be expected. And its 
reasonable for the insurer to require some evidence to show someone is unemployed before 
they pay a claim.
Mr H also seems to have had a need for the cover. As Mr H was self-employed, he had no 
sick pay available to him to use if he couldnt work because of sickness. He did have life and 
critical illness cover (CIC). But his PPI policy wouldve paid out for up to 12 months if Mr H 
was unable to work because of illness or injury, which I believe wouldve been particularly 
helpful being self-employed. It also provided 12 months of cover for unemployment. Life and 
CIC policies do not provide the same type of cover as PPI. So I think the PPI couldve been 
useful for him. 
Its possible the information HSBC gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But I think he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it 
seems like it would have been useful for him if something went wrong. It also looks like it 
was affordable. A mortgage is a long term and significant commitment  the consequence of 
not being able to make repayments can be serious. Based on everything Ive seen, I dont 
think better information about the PPI would have put Mr H off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr H has said, including that HSBC has offered redress in 
other PPI cases he has raised with it. As explained above, each case is decided on the 
individual merits of that case, and I cannot compel HSBC to offer redress in this case 
because it has on others. So, this point doesnt change my conclusion. 
Overall, I dont think this policy was mis-sold. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2020.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman