DRN-2688682
The complaint
Mr C2 complains on behalf of the estate of Mr C and the executor of the estate, Mrs G.
He says that Bradford & Bingley Plc mis-sold his late father, Mr C, a decreasing term
assurance policy that he didnt need.
What happened
In early 1991, Mr C took out a further advance of £10,000 with Bradford & Bingley over a 13-
year term. Later that year, he also started a decreasing term assurance policy which would 
have repaid the borrowing in the event of his death. The monthly premiums for the policy 
were £5.20. The policy was maintained until it ended in 2004.
Mr C sadly passed away in 2009.
In 2019, the executor of Mr Cs estate, Mrs G, complained that he had been sold a policy he 
didnt need, as he had liquid assets that exceeded the amount of the borrowing, private 
pensions that included lump sum payments upon death and other life insurance products.
Bradford & Bingley said that the policy was an efficient way of protecting Mr Cs further 
advance, which was on a repayment basis. It said that benefits such as death-in-service 
through an employer wouldnt be suitable for mortgage protection. Bradford & Bingley said 
that the recommendation of having the cover was optional and the decision to go ahead with 
it was Mr Cs. It didnt think the policy had been mis-sold to him and said it was suitable for 
his circumstances.
Our investigators opinion
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and, although he believed that the policy
was partly unsuitable for Mr C because its term hadnt matched the original borrowing, he 
didnt think this had led to a financial loss. The investigator wasnt persuaded that it was
unsuitable for Mr C to have been recommended this plan in his circumstances. But he noted 
that Mr Cs term assurance policy had started six months later than his further advance, and
he said he wouldve expected it to match the term of the borrowing. But he also said that 
Mr C had then extended the term of his main mortgage and further advance, so he didnt 
think the term assurance policy being longer than the original term of the further advance 
had caused a financial loss.
Mr C2 didnt accept the investigators findings. He said that Mr C hadnt needed the 
insurance as he was single, with no dependants, and had the financial means to pay off his 
debts. The term assurance exceeded the length of the further advance which Mr C2 felt
demonstrated disregard for Mr Cs circumstances. He said hed provided evidence of Mr Cs
ability to pay off the mortgage in the event of his death.
My provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in February 2021. In summary, I said I 
didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
I reviewed all of the documentation Mr C2 provided about his fathers pensions; shares and 
the information about the capital sums he inherited when Mr C passed away. And I said I did 
understand that, with hindsight, Mrs G and Mr C2 felt that this term assurance was 
something that Mr C didnt have a need for.
From the information provided, I could see that Mr C applied for a further advance on his
mortgage loan in January 1991. The purpose was to re-fit his bathroom, install central 
heating and re-decorate. The further advance began in March 1991.
Mr C2 supplied a letter from a branch of Bradford & Bingley which was dated in September
1991. This referred to Mr C visiting the branch and enclosed a quotation for a mortgage
protection policy and an application form for him to complete and return. The letter 
suggested that Mr C didnt apply for his further advance at that particular branch. Mr Cs 
term assurance policy then started shortly after that letter.
Bradford & Bingley told us that having suitable life cover wasnt a condition of the borrowing. 
And, at the time he applied for it, Mr Cs further advance had already been in place for six 
months.
I said it wasnt clear what led to Mr Cs discussion in the Bradford & Bingley branch about 
this life cover. However, I didnt think his particular circumstances meant that having such 
cover was unsuitable for him at that time. Mr C was increasing the amount of his original 
mortgage by taking a further advance for home improvements. And the life cover meant that 
this part of the overall borrowing would be repaid in the event of Mr Cs death during its term, 
so his property could be passed onto his beneficiaries unencumbered. As I understood it, 
Mr Cs original mortgage was supported by an endowment plan, which would have provided 
him with life cover for that amount.
But I said I did appreciate that Mr C2 felt that Mr C already had the means to repay the 
borrowing if he passed away, through his pensions and his death-in-service benefits through 
his employer. However, I didnt think these would necessarily have been an appropriate 
means of protecting his mortgage borrowing. I said this because Mr C may not have had the 
death-in-service benefit if hed left or changed his employment. And it may not have been 
the case that the proceeds of his pension entitlements could be paid in such a way that they 
would provide a lump sum for the mortgage repayment.
I also considered Mr Cs mortgage arrangements with Bradford & Bingley. I could see that
in 1994, he asked for the repayment basis for both parts of his mortgage (the main part and
the further advance) to be changed to an interest-only basis, which meant that his monthly
repayments would only be for the interest on the capital borrowing. I could also see that in
2004, when his mortgages were coming to the end of their original terms, Mr C applied for
them to be extended by ten years to 2014. The records showed that his mortgages were 
repaid in 2008.
So, while I said I understood what Mr C2 told us about the savings and shareholdings his 
father had, I couldnt say with any certainty that his circumstances would have meant that he
was in a position to repay his mortgage borrowing, or that he therefore didnt have a need for
the life cover he applied for.I said I appreciated that initially Mr Cs term assurance would have extended beyond the 
original term of his borrowing because of the timing of when it started. But I didnt think this 
in itself meant that the policy wasnt suitable for Mr C, when it wasnt unusual for such life 
assurance to be written in whole years.
The changes that Mr C decided to make to his borrowing may have meant that the
decreasing term assurance policy may no longer have been the most appropriate type or
duration to protect his borrowing. But I said it was for Mr C to decide whether he felt he 
wanted to continue with it.
The responses
Neither Mr C2 nor Bradford & Bingley responded to my provisional decision with any further 
submissions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mr C2 nor Bradford & Bingley have added any further points for my consideration 
following my provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from the findings I reached.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and the 
estate of Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman