DRN-3263520
The complaint
Miss E complains about the quality of a car that she purchased using her credit card
provided by MBNA Limited (MBNA).
Miss E also complains about the customer service MBNA has provided whilst dealing with 
her complaint.
What happened
I set out the background to Miss Es complaint in the two provisional decisions I have issued 
in relation to this complaint. However, Ill set out that background again here to help with 
ease of reading.
Miss E was in the market for a very specific type of car. She saw an advert for a car which 
she liked the sound of. She contacted the supplier, a limited company I will call P. In the 
advert P described the car, in part, like this: 
This vehicle has 83,000 miles on the clock and has been very well looked after and has full 
main dealer service history. 
P then went on to describe the paintwork which it described as beautiful with hardly any 
signs of wear and tear. The interior was also described as were the optional features 
included in the car. 
Further, the advert set out what further work P would do to the car and there was a photo of 
the car too. The photo showed the car to be in good condition.
During the period before Miss E purchased the car, Miss E and P wrote to each other about 
the vehicle. In the course of this correspondence P described the car in very positive terms, 
for example it said:
you are going to struggle to find anything wrong with this car even though it is ten years of 
age, on the service receipts it shows that the car had lots of extended warranties at [name of 
cars manufacturer],all the alloys are excellent, one has a tiddly little scuff, all four tyres are 
over 6mm, all [name of cars manufacturer] service history, the car drives lovely, we changed 
the suspension arms as the bushes had dried out so now it is even more perfect 
Plus, P said the car had just been serviced and had its MOT. The car is second-hand (as I 
have already mentioned) but P indicated that the previous owner kept the car in tip-top 
condition indeed, so much so that, according to P, within 10 minutes of seeing the car P 
decided to buy it from its previous owner.
In addition to what was said in writing, P sent Miss E a video of the car. This gave a well-lit 
360 view of the car. Miss E watched the video, she apparently liked what she saw and had 
read and went ahead and bought the car in May 2019. She used credit provided by MBNA to 
make the purchase. 
Miss E wanted the car shipped overseas. In the short space of time between when the car 
was bought and when it was shipped it stayed with P for most of the time. Then it went to a 
secure storage facility. As soon as she received the car Miss E noticed that the rear bumper 
was damaged. She said this had never been mentioned before neither was the damage 
visible in the video. Right off the bat she complained to P. Miss E blamed P for the damage. 
P blamed the company that transported the car.
Further, Miss E tells us that the first time she drove the car she noticed some faults with the 
handling of the car. In particular she was concerned about the handbrake, and about what 
she called a starter issue. She suggested the starter issue was so serious that it made her 
worry the car would break down and shed be stranded therefore she drove the car much 
less than she had planned. She also complained about this to P. It suggested the fault lay 
with Miss E rather than with the car.
Unfortunately, despite some, increasingly tense, to and fro between them, Miss E was not 
able to come to an agreement with P about how to put things right and who was responsible 
for this. Miss E and P reached an impasse with both suggesting the other was not acting in 
good faith.
Shortly after this, in October 2019, Miss E said the car had complete engine failure. It seems 
that Miss E has had work done on the car but only what she considers to be the bare 
minimum essential work to keep the car going. She is also proposing to have further 
extensive work done, but it is not clear if this will resolve all the issues. 
Since MBNA provided the credit she used to pay for the car, and given Ps stance, Miss E 
wants MBNA to take responsibility for paying for all the work she has had done and all the 
work she proposes to do. When it is all totted up this work totals around about the same 
amount she paid for the car in the first place. Miss E also wants MBNA to refund the costs 
she says she has run up due to the faults with the car. Miss E relies on the rights she has 
under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75). Further, Miss E suggests 
MBNA has mishandled her complaint and therefore made the whole process more difficult for 
her.
MBNA saw things very differently from Miss E. At first it pointed out that while Miss E may 
have rights under Section 75 that she is entitled to rely on, this provision does not give her 
the automatic right to a refund. Moreover, its stance was that the onus is on Miss E to prove 
her case. In order to prove her case MBNA said Miss E would need to supply an experts 
report because her position is that, Section 75 covers her for breach of contract. According to 
her, there has been a breach of contract because the car she got was not as P described it 
and does not work as it should. However, whilst Miss E may feel very strongly that this is the 
case, without an experts report MBNA suggested it could not really form an opinion about 
whether she is right or not. It didnt agree that it had not provided the level of customer 
service to Miss E that she was entitled to expect.
Dissatisfied with MBNAs response Miss E came to our service.
Once Miss Es complaint was with us MBNA made an offer. It looked at the work that Miss E 
had told it was needed. It suggested most of the work related to wear and tear. It wasnt 
surprised that a car of this age and mileage should have wear and tear and it did not agree 
this meant the car had faults that it, MBNA was responsible for putting right. That said, there 
was some work that it agreed should have been done by the supplier in order to make sure 
the car reached the relevant standard, that is to make sure the car was of satisfactory quality. 
That being so, MBNA as a goodwill gesture was prepared to pay for these repairs which had 
cost £1,498 in total. Miss E declined this offer.I looked at Miss Es complaint in two separate provisional decisions. In the first provisional 
decision I said.
My first provisional decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I wanted to point out that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the 
parties and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point 
made by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on 
what I think are the key issues here.
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored
it. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach 
what I think is the right outcome. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The agreement in this case is a regulated consumer credit agreement  so we can consider 
a complaint relating to it. In particular, Miss E paid for the car using a form of credit that gives 
her rights under Section 75. Section 75 says, amongst other things, that in certain 
circumstances if the debtor has, in relation to a transaction financed by a credit agreement, 
any claim against the supplier in respect of a misrepresentation or a breach of contract, then 
she has a like claim against the credit provider.
I think its important to set out my role here. In considering a complaint about a financial 
services provider, Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under 
Section 75. In deciding whats a fair way to resolve Miss Es complaint, Ive taken Section 75 
into account. But that doesnt mean Im obliged to reach the same outcome as, for example, 
a court might reach if Miss E pursued a claim for breach of contract. This service is an 
informal alternative to the courts and operates differently from them.
Further, the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is also relevant to this complaint. It says that 
under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is 
satisfactory. This provision applies to the car that P sold to Miss E. Miss E says that P
breached this provision and she has a like claim against MBNA as against P for this breach.
To be considered satisfactory, the goods would need to meet the standard that a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description of the 
goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. So, it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
As I have already said, the car was ten years old and had 83,000 miles on the clock when it 
was sold. I think a reasonable person might normally expect a second-hand car of this age 
and with this mileage to be rather more careworn than a brand-new car and to have some 
wear and tear.That said, the descriptions applied to the car are also relevant. I dont think it is fair or 
reasonable in the circumstances to discount what P said as being advertising puff. Rather it 
was making representations about the quality of the car. In the circumstances, I am satisfied 
these representations also became terms of the contract. And when I look at what P said 
about the car, I think any reasonable person might have expected that this particular car 
would have very little in terms of wear and tear due to the work that was done under the 
warranties, due to how the condition of the car was described, and the careful attention the 
car seemingly received from its previous owner. In addition, I think a reasonable person 
might have also expected that the car would run for quite a while without needing any sort of 
repair.
So, Ive thought about if all of this is what Miss E actually most likely got, and I dont find that 
she did. I say this for the following reasons.
Right from the get-go Miss E was complaining about the damage to the rear bumper. The 
cars finish was described as beautiful, the photo in the advert showed no damage to the 
bumper and neither did the video. The way I see it there are three most likely possibilities, P 
caused the damage, Miss E caused the damage, or the car transporter did. I think given that 
Miss E complained about the bumper straightaway I dont think it is likely she caused the 
issue herself. The car moving company appears to be a specialist in transporting cars, and 
whilst I cant completely discount that it caused the damage I think given its expertise it was 
unlikely to damage a car it had the care of. Moreover, given that the car was it seems, with P 
longer than it was with the car mover, I think on balance the damage most likely happened 
while the car was with P.
A car with a damaged bumper is not a car with a beautiful finish. I think that is a breach of 
contract by itself. But that is not all. Miss E also complained straightaway about the problems 
with the handbrake and the starter issue. P seems to have tried to blame Miss E for these 
issues, based on the correspondence between Miss E and P that I have seen. But I think it is 
significant that in the end, P agreed it would put these issues right although it wanted to do 
the repairs itself. I dont think it would have taken this approach if it wasnt accepting it was 
responsible to put things right especially given the increasingly combative tone of its 
communications with Miss E. Given the nature of the faults I can understand why Miss E was 
worried about driving the car and the fact that she has shown she drove the car so little, 
supports what she says about this point. A car that needed repairs so soon to such key 
components, did not on balance, meet the relevant quality threshold, I find.
Further still, Miss E has supplied us with an invoice from a garage for work she had done 
(she had tried another garage earlier than this, but it appears it kept the car without doing the 
work, I see no reason to doubt what Miss E says about this). When I look at the scope and 
nature of the work required I find it hard to reconcile it with the description of the car, as 
being one that was hard to find fault with. Even if P had not described the car in such
glowing terms, I would still find the car was not of satisfactory quality when sold in the
circumstances. The combination of faults made the car unroadworthy and therefore not of 
satisfactory quality.
MBNA suggests Miss E has not been consistent in what she has complained about. I dont 
see it that way. It is correct that she did not complain about everything from the beginning. 
But it seems she did complain about each of the issues as she found out about them. I cant 
fairly say it undermines the weight I give to her account because she did not complain about 
faults she did not know about from the start.I also dont agree that MBNAs offer to pay for some of the repairs goes far enough. In the 
circumstances, I dont agree that the car ought to have needed any of the repairs that Miss E 
has paid for, not just the ones MBNA are prepared to pay for.
That said, I take on board, that it is not clear what further repairs the car is going to need to 
bring it up to the standard that it should have reached. It does not seem proportionate that 
MBNA should have to pay for repairs that in total are going to add up to around the purchase 
price of the car. Moreover, there is no guarantee that even the proposed schedule of works 
will bring the car up to the required standard. It is neither fair nor reasonable to say MBNA 
must take on an open-ended responsibility for repairs.
For all of these reasons, I find it is fair and reasonable that Miss E be allowed to reject the 
car and that MBNA must refund her for the purchase price of the car. If Miss E has not 
already paid off the amount she paid for the car then MBNA must rework her credit card 
account as if she had never made the purchase. If she has already paid off the amount she 
paid for the car, MBNA must refund the purchase price and add interest to that sum. The 
interest to run from the date of purchase to the date of settlement.
In addition, it is fair and reasonable that MBNA must refund Miss E for all the repairs she has 
done and paid for so far, but she must do no further repairs even the repairs where she tells 
us the parts have been ordered. Plus, it must refund her the cost of transporting the car 
abroad to her overseas home and the cost of towing the car to the garage. Miss E has shown 
she put new trackers on the car, shell not now get the benefit of these so MBNA must 
compensate her for this too.
It seems reasonable to me that while Miss E was not able to use her car she had to use
alternative means of transport. But it is not clear to me why she had to reasonably use taxis 
for long journeys instead of public transport. That was her choice to make but I dont find it 
fair and reasonable to ask MBNA to cover the bill for this.
Miss E suggests that, at times the, the customer service MBNA provided in the course of 
looking at her complaint about its response to her claim has fallen below the standard that 
she is entitled to expect. In particular, she has had difficulties with some of its systems. But 
MBNA is permitted to make its own decisions about what systems it uses, all I can look at is 
if she has been treated unfairly as a result. And whilst I can see that its systems have 
sometimes caused her frustration, I dont agree that she has been treated unfairly as a result 
of MBNAs use of these systems. It follows that I have no proper basis for asking MBNA to
I said the redress I intended to make was as follows:
My provisional decision is that I currently intend to come to the following decision, namely 
that MBNA Limited must.
1. Refund Miss E for the purchase price of the car £15,609. If Miss E has not already paid off 
the amount, she paid for the car then MBNA must rework her credit card account as if she 
had never made the purchase. If she has already paid off the amount, she paid for the car 
MBNA must refund the purchase price to her directly and add interest to that sum. The 
interest to run from the date of purchase to the date of settlement.
2.Arrange to collect the car from Miss E at no cost to Miss E.
3.Refund Miss E for the repairs that she has paid for so far as at the date of this provisional 
decision.
4.Refund the cost of transporting the car overseas £650.
5.Refund her for the cost of towing the car to the garage.
6.Refund her for the cost of the trackers.7.MBNA must pay interest on the refunds in 3,4, and 5 above from the date of payment until 
the date of settlement.
8. The interest paid on the refunds in 1,3,4, and 5 above should be at the rate of 8%
simple per year.
The responses I received to the first provisional decision
I invited both Miss E and MBNA to respond to my first provisional decision and they both did. 
I summarise below their respective responses.
Miss E rejected the suggestion from MBNA that she had not been consistent in the issues 
she was complaining about. Miss E pointed out that she had supplied us with photos given to 
her by the company that moved the car which showed, in her opinion, that the bumper 
damage had been there before it picked up the car. 
Further, Miss E indicated that she wanted to do further repairs to the car, repairs she 
considered to be absolutely necessary for the safe use of the car. Also, she explained why, 
in her opinion she had been obliged to use taxis rather than public transport to get around. 
Moreover, Miss E went on to tell us about expenses she had incurred to make her car 
compliant with the laws of the country in which she lives. In addition, she reiterated how 
difficult she had found dealing with this whole matter and why that was.
In brief MBNAs response covered the following issues. It wanted to know if we had got a 
experts report from P. It appears according to it that P had been willing to supply one.
In addition, MBNA suggested that some of the issues Miss E complains about are wear and 
tear items. On that basis it didnt agree I had proper grounds to say the car was not of 
satisfactory quality due to their presence. 
MBNA suggested it was inappropriate to require it to take possession of the car and pointed 
out that the logistics of doing this would be difficult for it. It suggested I had given no clear 
reason for finding that P caused the damage to the bumper. Later it said it was not even 
clear what redress it was being asked to provide. Finally, our contact at MBNA told us they 
were going to take no further action until they got further instructions from colleagues in 
MBNA.
My second provisional decision
In order to deal with the comments and new information I received in response to my first 
provisional decision, I issued a second provisional decision. This is what I said in my second 
provisional decision.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank both Miss E and MBNA for their responses to my provisional decision. It has been 
particularly helpful that each of the parties took the time to set out their views on the redress 
which I proposed in my provisional decision, so that I have been able to gain a fuller 
understanding of their respective positions and concerns about some elements of the 
proposed redress.
Once again, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint, including the responses to 
my provisional decision, in far less detail than the parties and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by all the parties involved. No 
discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here.
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
I recognise that Miss E is upset by the suggestion made by MBNA that she has not always 
been consistent in her complaint. However, I already dealt with this issue and explained why 
I did not agree with MBNAs stance in my first provisional decision.
MBNAs stance seems to be that there is not enough information to suggest the bumper 
damage was caused by P. I disagree for the reasons I already went through in my first 
provisional decision. I think there is no benefit in repeating what I said here again, in any 
event, Miss E has sent us the photos which she says the car remover took at the time and I 
have no reason in the circumstances to doubt what she said about this. For all of these 
reasons and the reasons I set out in my first provisional decision, I find it likely that P did 
cause the bumper damage.
I already went through the reasons why I found that the car was not of satisfactory quality in 
my first provisional decision. MBNAs response to it suggests it thinks I should have asked 
for P to provide an experts report. I think that would have got us no further, P is not an 
impartial third party, quite the opposite. I also dealt with the wear and tear point MBNA talks 
about in my first provisional decision and again I dont think it is necessary to repeat those 
points again here. It was open to MBNA to have instructed its own independent expert to do 
a report it did not. But it has had a fair chance to do so. But in any event I have concluded 
that I have sufficient information already to make a finding about this point without further 
information being required. 
Moreover, to be considered to be of satisfactory quality under the relevant law the car would 
need to conform with any description given to the car. In my first provisional decision I talked 
about how the description of the car had been a representation that formed part of the 
contract. But this point is in addition to that. P described the car in one way, but the car did 
not fit with that description so this too I find is a breach of contract.
For all these reasons and the reasons, I set out in my first provisional decision I find that the 
car was not of satisfactory quality when sold.
In my first provisional decision I focused on breach of contract but for completeness, I will 
also mention misrepresentation in more detail now. Misrepresentation in this context is a 
false statement of fact made by P that Miss E relied on to her detriment. I think in the written 
statements it made and in the photo and video P was representing that the car was indeed a 
car that any buyer would struggle to find anything wrong with. In particular, I think it was 
representing, at the very least, that despite its age and mileage the car would be safe to drive 
and would not need immediate repairs I think it was also representing that the finish was 
good. I am satisfied given the timing, nature and extent of the repairs that Miss E has had 
done so far this representation was a false statement of fact that Miss E relied on to her 
detriment. It follows that it is fair and reasonable that MBNA take responsibility for this and for 
making things right.
Ive thought again about redress since both parties have commented on this. Miss E tells us 
she had to pay £3,350 to make the car legal to drive in the overseas country she is currently 
living in. This sum is far beyond what I understand it costs for example to reregister a car in 
that country. She also tells us she had to spend 150 Euros to test that the car was safe to drive in that country. I would on the face of it consider that these are consequential losses 
which she ought to be able to ask MBNA to pay. I also consider these costs to be as costs 
she would not have incurred but for the misrepresentation, so it would be fair and reasonable 
to ask MBNA to refund these too. But at the moment I dont have sufficient information such 
as invoices to show she did incur these costs and that what they were for. On that basis, 
currently, I cant fairly ask MBNA to pay for these costs.
Miss E wants to do more repairs. That is her choice to make. But it is not fair and reasonable 
to say that MBNA has to pay for such repairs, given there is nothing to show that the repairs 
will put things right. Miss E knows that I have stopped the clock because otherwise MBNA 
would be facing an open-ended bill for repairs that will not necessarily remedy the breach of 
contract nor put right the misrepresentation. I repeat again here MBNA should only have 
responsibility for those repairs Miss E did up until and including 13 September 2021.
Moreover, I have looked at what Miss E has said about her use of taxis. She suggests the 
public transport system in the country where she is living is not as extensive as in the UK. 
She also suggests on one particular occasion when she had to do what she calls an 
essential viewing of a house neither her start location nor her destination were connected to 
public transport. However, in the circumstances, given that her country of residence is an 
advanced developed nation, I am not persuaded that public transport was not a reasonable 
option.
I dont doubt that MBNA might find it difficult to take possession of the car. But that is not a 
persuasive reason for saying that in this instance, I should not follow the usual approach of 
this service in cases such as this one. It is being asked to refund Miss E for the car it follows 
it is fair it should have the benefit of the possession of the car.
I have not been persuaded, for the moment, by any of the new arguments raised in response 
to my first provisional decision. It follows, in this second provisional decision I have come to
the same conclusions for the same reasons as I did in that decision.
As with my first provisional decision, I invited Miss E and MBNA to respond to my second 
provisional decision. As far as I am aware this service has received no response from MBNA 
to my second provisional decision. This service did receive a response from Miss E. 
In brief, Miss E indicated that she considers it unfair that I have said MBNA must only refund 
her for the repairs that she had done as at the date of my first provisional decision (13 
September 2021). She tells us she has done further work since and wants a refund for this 
work too. Miss E reiterated she wants a refund for the taxi fares she paid. Miss E sent in 
information to show that in August 2020 she paid £3,350 to register her car in the overseas 
country where she is living. Miss E underlined that she is now experiencing financial 
difficulty. She suggested that she is contemplating taking legal action.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Miss E for her response to my second provisional decision. I note that we appear not 
to have received any further responses from MBNA beyond its initial response to my first 
provisional decision. However, I am satisfied that both parties have now had a fair 
opportunity to respond to both of my provisional decisions.Once again given that we have received extensive submissions from the parties I want to 
underline that Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the 
parties. Further, Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single 
point made by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive 
focussed on what I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Repairs undertaken by Miss E after 13 September 2021
I recognise that Miss E has done further repairs which she considers to have been strictly 
necessary in order to drive the car safely. It appears these repairs were done on 30 
September 2021. I also note she suggests more repairs are also vital for the same reasons.  
I appreciate that Miss E may consider she had no choice but to carry out the repairs. But she 
was also aware of my findings on this issue from the point when I issued my first provisional 
decision on 13 September 2021. In particular, I had found that  I did not consider it was 
proportionate to ask MBNA to pay for any further repairs given the proposed cost and given I 
was not persuaded that any further repairs that Miss E had suggested would make the car of 
satisfactory quality. Therefore, if I agreed with her suggested approach, MBNA would be 
facing taking on an open-ended responsibility for more and more repairs which were unlikely 
to put things right. I did not consider this was fair and reasonable.
It follows that Miss E did the further repairs at her own risk knowing there was a possibility 
that I would not be persuaded that it was fair and reasonable to ask MBNA to refund her. In 
the circumstances, for the reasons I have already gone through, I dont agree it is fair and 
reasonable to require MBNA to pay Miss E back for the repairs she chose to do after 13 
September 2021.
Use of taxis
Miss E has rejected the idea that she could have used public transport for her journeys. But 
in the circumstances, given she lives in a developed country with a well-established public 
transport network, I am not satisfied that she was obliged to make her journeys by taxi. It 
follows I dont agree it is fair and reasonable to ask MBNA to pay for these journeys which 
she chose to make using this form of transport.  I am not upholding this part of Miss Es 
complaint.
Registration fee
Miss E has provided information to show she paid a fee of £3,350 to register her car in her 
country of residence. This information was provided to MBNA too by us. In the 
circumstances, I am satisfied Miss E was obliged to make this payment in order to use her 
car. I am also satisfied that by reason of being supplied with a car that was misrepresented 
and is not of satisfactory quality which she is now going to have to hand over to MBNA she 
will have been caused a loss here. This loss flows directly from misrepresentation and the 
breach of contract which it is fair and reasonable to hold MBNA to account for. It follows it is 
fair and reasonable MBNA should now refund Miss E the £3,350. 
I am aware Miss E mentioned making a payment of 150 Euros in relation to the registration 
of the car, but I have not received any further information about this fee. I am not therefore 
upholding this part of Miss Es complaint.Beyond the point about the registration fee I have not been persuaded by any of the further 
submissions I received in response to my two provisional decisions. It follows that for the 
reasons given that I have come to the same conclusions as I did in those provisional 
decisions.
My final decision
My final decision is that MBNA Limited must.
1. Refund Miss E for the purchase price of the car £15,609. If Miss E has not already paid
off the amount, she paid for the car then MBNA must rework her credit card account as if
she had never made the purchase. If she has already paid off the amount, she paid for
the car MBNA must refund the purchase price to her directly and add interest to that
sum. The interest to run from the date of purchase to the date of settlement.
2. Arrange to collect the car from Miss E at no cost to Miss E.
3. Refund Miss E for the repairs that she has paid for so far as at 13 September 2021.
4. Refund the cost of transporting the car overseas £650.
5. Refund her for the cost of towing the car to the garage.
6. Refund her for the cost of the trackers.
7. Refund the cost of the car registration £3,350.
8. MBNA must pay interest on the refunds in 3,4,5,6 and 7 above from the date of payment
until the date of settlement.
9. The interest paid on the refunds in 1,3,4, 5, 6, and 7 above should be at the rate of 8%
simple per year.
If MBNA considers it is legally required to deduct income tax from that interest, it must send
a tax deduction certificate, if it is able to do this, with the payment so that Miss E can reclaim 
the tax if she is able to.
Miss E should refer back to MBNA if she is unsure of the approach it has taken, and both
parties should contact HM Revenue & Customs if they want to know more about the tax
treatment of this portion of the compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 February 2022.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman