DRN-1117518
 
The complaint
Mr K complains that Barclays Bank PLC (Barclays) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy in 2005.
What happened
Mr K took out a credit card in 2004. Around a year later - in 2005, he took out a PPI policy. 
This policy covered Mr K if he was off work due to an accident, sickness or if he lost his job.
The policy cost £0.79 per every £100 of the outstanding balance on Mr Ks credit card and 
would have paid out 10% of that balance each month if he made a successful claim for up to 
12 months.
Our adjudicator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. Mr K disagreed with this view 
and asked that his matter be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision. He said that he 
never agreed to the PPI - Barclays had no proof. He also told us about other cases when 
Barclays had said it had mis-sold the PPI.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account in deciding 
this case. 
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Im sorry to disappoint Mr K but I 
will explain why.
As the policy was sold over 14 years ago not all the information about this sale is available. 
That isnt surprising or unusual as businesses arent required to keep information indefinitely. 
Where the information is incomplete, I will make my decision based on the balance of 
probabilities - that is whats more likely to have happened taking into account the evidence 
available, what both parties have told me and also thinking about what we know about these 
types of sale at the time.
The first thing Ive thought about is whether Mr K had a fair choice about buying the PPI. 
Hes told us he never agreed to buy the policy and he said he was advised if he didnt take 
out the PPI he wouldnt be approved for the credit.
Barclays has told us that the credit card was taken out in July 2004. It says the PPI was 
added at a later date - in July 2005, during a telephone conversation. So, I think Mr K would 
have realised he didnt need the PPI in order to take out his credit card. Barclays doesnt 
have a call recording from the time, but it has referred to us to the call script that would have 
been used at that time. I think its more likely that script would have been followed and 
represented the discussion the representative had with Mr K. The script would have given 
Mr K the option to say no if he didnt want the policy. Ive also considered that the PPI would have appeared on Mr Ks credit card statements. If he was unsure about what it was or if he 
didnt want the cover, he could have raised it with Barclays at the time. I havent seen 
evidence that he did so. Taking all this into consideration I think its more likely that Mr K 
agreed to take out the cover, even if he cant remember doing so now after so long.
Both parties agree this was an advised sale. This put more responsibility on Barclays for 
how it sold the PPI. It meant that Barclays had to take reasonable steps to make sure it was 
suitable for Mr Ks circumstances.
To help me decide whether the policy was a good fit for Mr K, Ive thought about the terms 
and conditions of the policy, and Mr Ks circumstances at the time of the sale. Taking all this 
account I think it was suitable for him.
Mr K was eligible was for the policy. And as he has told us he was working and in good 
health, he wouldnt have been affected by any of the limitations or exclusions in the policy 
terms, which might have made it more difficult to make a successful claim.
Mr K has told us he would have received three months sick pay from his employer if he was 
off work. He also says if he hadnt been able to work his family and friends could have 
helped him to make his credit card repayments. But this policy would have paid out for 12 
months, longer than his sick pay from work lasted and in addition to it. So, I cant say this 
policy was unsuitable. And whilst I have no doubt his family and friends would have wanted 
to help, this type of help cant always be guaranteed for so long and as and when he might 
have needed it, so I still think the policy would have been useful.
Mr K has also said PPI wasnt explained to him properly, and he was unaware of the specific 
cost of the policy. As well as making sure it was a good fit for Mr Ks circumstances, 
Barclays also had to give him enough clear information so that he could make an informed 
choice about whether he wanted it. I havent got the call recording, so I cant say exactly 
what Mr K was told on the phone. So, its possible not all the information was as clear as it 
could have been. But thats not enough for me to uphold this complaint. I next need to 
consider whether having more information would have changed Mr Ks mind. I dont think it 
would have done. I say that because as I have explained I think Mr K chose to buy the 
policy. And for much the same reasons as I think the cover was suitable for him, I dont think 
having better information would have put him off buying the policy.
Ive taken everything Mr K has told us into account, including what hes said about other 
policies which have been found to be mis-sold. But each case is considered individually on 
its own merits and the facts that apply in one case do not necessarily apply to another.
So, all in all I dont think Mr K lost out financially because of anything Barclays did wrong and 
I dont uphold this complaint.
 
 
 
 
 
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 January 2020.
Nicola Woolf
Ombudsman