DRN-4116832
The complaint
Mr L complains about the value AXA Insurance UK Plc placed on his car following a claim on 
his car insurance policy.  
What happened
Mr L was hit in the rear so claimed on his car insurance policy with AXA. AXA reviewed the 
claim and accepted it. It said due to the damage to Mr Ls car it would be deemed what is 
known as a total loss. AXA made an initial offer for the market value of his car, which Mr L 
didnt accept, the offer was then increased to £11,480. Mr L said the market value AXA 
offered for his car was too low and complained but accepted the £11,480 so he could buy 
another car. 
AXA reviewed the complaint and said it had used two motor valuation guides which valued 
Mr Ls car between £7,018 and £12,110. AXA therefore stood by its offer of £11,480, 
however it recognised it could have handled the claim better and paid Mr L £250 
compensation. Mr L didnt think this was good enough and referred his complaint here. He 
said he couldnt find a car for less than £15,000 and provided links to online adverts for cars 
for sale. 
After the complaint was referred to this service, AXA reviewed its position on the complaint 
and said it didnt think it had paid enough for Mr Ls car. It therefore increased its offer to 
£13,500. Our investigator looked into the complaint and found this new offer was higher than 
the values provided by the motor valuation guides we use. He also said he couldnt see any 
adverts from around the time Mr Ls car was deemed a total loss, as the links had expired. 
So he thought the offer of £13,500 was fair. 
Mr L didnt agree, he said he wouldnt have been able to replace his car for less than 
£15,000 and so AXA should pay this amount. 
As Mr L didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ls policy say that if AXA deem his car a total loss, it will pay
him the market value. It defines market value as the cost of replacing your car with
another of the same make and model and of a similar age, mileage and condition at the time 
of the accident or loss.
Our service doesnt value cars. Instead we check to see that the insurers valuation is fair
and reasonable and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. To do this we tend to
use relevant motor trade valuations guides. I usually find these persuasive as theyre based 
on nationwide research of likely sales prices.
The four motor valuation guides we use gave values of £9,095, £10,796, £11,530 and 
£12,035. I can see Mr L has said it would cost around £15,000 for a like for like car, 
unfortunately the links to the adverts provided no longer work so Ive not been able to see 
what they showed from the time his car was a total loss. AXA has also offered £13,500 for 
his car, which is above the valuations given by all the motor valuation guides. Im therefore 
satisfied its a fair and reasonable valuation in the circumstances. 
I appreciate this isnt the answer Mr L was hoping for, but for the reasons explained Im not 
persuaded AXAs final offer of £13,500 is unfair. However, I can see his cars valuation was 
increased at least twice and AXA acknowledged he didnt have the best claims journey. AXA 
has already paid £250 compensation for this; Im satisfied thats a fair and reasonable 
amount for the distress and inconvenience caused by AXAs poor claim handling. It therefore 
follows Im not going to tell it to pay any more. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I uphold this complaint. I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to 
pay Mr L £13,500 as the market value for his car, subject to any applicable policy excess, if 
not already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2023.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman