DRN-3046114
The complaint
Mr S complains about the private medical insurance cover offered to him by BUPA 
Insurance Limited. Hes also unhappy with various other aspects of service provided to him 
by BUPA. 
What happened
In January 2021, Mr Ss private medical insurance provider transferred its business to 
BUPA. After the transfer took place, there was some confusion around what would be 
covered. Mr S was led to believe hed need to pay for a consultation himself, when this 
wasnt the case. BUPA apologised and offered Mr S £100 compensation for its error. 
Mr S was unhappy with the policy that BUPA transferred him onto. However, BUPA refused 
to transfer him to a different policy without underwriting him.
Mr S needed surgery, which BUPA agreed to cover. But BUPA wouldnt cover the surgery at 
his specialists preferred hospital, as the hospital wasnt included under his policy. Mr S said 
this delayed his surgery, as his specialist needed to make arrangements to do the surgery at 
another hospital.
Mr S had open claims for two conditions. He thought the two claims ought to be linked, but 
BUPA refused to do so. Mr S was unhappy about this, and also that BUPAs staff member 
looked at his medical information relating to this when dealing with his complaint.
Finally, Mr S had asked BUPA to contact his healthcare providers to ask them not to chase 
him for payments. Despite this, some of the providers continued to contact him about his 
outstanding invoices. 
Our investigator didnt recommend Mr Ss complaint be upheld. He thought BUPAs offer of 
£100 was reasonable for the error it had made. In relation to the other issues, our 
investigator thought BUPA had acted fairly.
Mr S didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has kindly taken the time to provide detailed submissions to this service. Id like to 
thank him for that, and also reassure him that Ive taken all of that information into account, 
though Ive only summarised the information within this decision. This reflects the fact that 
our service, wherever possible, aims to be informal.
Transfer to BUPA 
In January 2021, Mr Ss previous healthcare provider transferred its business to BUPA. 
Mr Ss existing policy continued until its renewal date in April 2021, though BUPA was 
responsible for providing the cover from January 2021. Although Mr S is unhappy that BUPA 
continued to provide cover under his existing policy terms until the renewal date, I dont think 
there was anything wrong with this. 
After Mr Ss existing policy ended in April 2021, he was moved to a BUPA policy (that Ill call 
Policy X), though this included similar benefits to the policy hed previously held. Mr S is 
particularly upset about this, because the policy places a lifetime cap on non-surgical 
treatment he can have for one of his conditions. 
I do appreciate Mr Ss disappointment with the cover that BUPA offered him from April 2021, 
and his reasons for that. However, as our investigator has explained, this was a business 
decision that BUPA was entitled to make. 
Mr S says he thinks BUPA has breached the Equality Act 2010. It isnt for me to decide 
whether BUPA has breached the Equality Act 2010, as this is for a court to decide. However, 
I do need to take into account the law when deciding whether BUPA has treated Mr S 
reasonably, which would include the Equality Act 2010. 
The Equality Act 2010 sets out protected characteristics, including disability. One of Mr Ss 
conditions is considered a disability. The Act explains that discrimination arising from 
disability occurs where a person is treated unfavourably because of something arising in 
consequence of their disability, and it cant be shown that the treatment is a proportionate 
means of achieving a legitimate aim. 
Here, BUPA transferred all policyholders under the previous policy to Policy X, without taking 
into account their health. Consequently, I dont think BUPA treated Mr S unfairly because of 
his disability. 
Error by BUPA
Mr S was undergoing treatment when the transfer of business took place. He had a 
consultation authorised in December 2020 by the previous provider. That consultation took 
place on 6 January 2021. 
A few days later, BUPA mistakenly advised Mr S that it wouldnt be able to pay for the 
consultation because his specialist wasnt fee-assured. It was correct that the specialist 
wasnt fee-assured (in other words, the specialist hadnt agreed to charge within BUPAs fee 
limits). However, the specialist was recognised by BUPA which meant that BUPA would pay 
for the consultation, up to its fee limits. 
Mr S was understandably upset by BUPAs error. However, I see that BUPA corrected its 
mistake a few days later. BUPA has apologised to Mr S for its error, and offered him £100 
compensation. Im satisfied that was a reasonable response. 
Linking claims
Mr S wanted BUPA to link his claims for his two conditions. Ive read the letter written by 
Mr Ss specialist and I appreciate the specialist said there may be a unifying diagnosis. I 
note that he was arranging investigations to find out if that was the case. 
However, the information from Mr Ss specialist doesnt say that a unifying diagnosis had 
actually been found. So I think BUPA acted reasonably by keeping the claims separate. Though if this changes in the future and a unifying diagnosis is found, BUPA has confirmed it 
will link the claims at that point. That seems fair.
Accessing Mr Ss medical information
When BUPA was investigating Mr Ss complaint about its refusal to link his claims, its staff 
member reviewed the relevant medical information to see if BUPAs decision had been 
reasonable. 
Whilst Mr S is unhappy about this, I dont see anything wrong with BUPA doing this. Without 
having sight of the information, BUPA wouldnt have been able to look into Mr Ss concerns. 
BUPAs refusal to cover surgery at a certain hospital
Mr S was due to have surgery. His specialist works out of a private hospital (Ill call this 
Hospital A), however that hospital wasnt covered by Mr Ss policy. That meant the 
specialist needed to make arrangements to do the surgery at another hospital which was 
covered by Mr Ss policy (Ill call that Hospital B). I can understand this wouldve caused 
inconvenience, but Im satisfied that BUPA acted within the policy terms here. 
The policy explains that if a member decides to have treatment at a hospital which isnt 
included on the hospital list, then the insurer would pay up to the amount it wouldve 
expected to pay for a hospital covered by the policy. Mr S thinks BUPA ought to have 
exercised its discretion here and agreed to pay the hospital directly (and then requested any 
shortfall from him), without requiring him to self-fund and then claim reimbursement. 
Whilst I can understand why Mr S wanted BUPA to take this course of action, the policy 
terms dont say that the insurer needed to do this. Although Mr S has made the point that 
BUPA has a tariff agreement in place with Hospital A, this is in relation to a different policy 
which includes treatment at Hospital A. I therefore dont find that BUPA did anything wrong 
in this respect.
Mr S is also unhappy that BUPA stated his specialist worked out of both Hospital A and 
Hospital B. He says that statement wasnt correct as she didnt work out of Hospital B and 
had to apply for rights to work there. Whilst it seems BUPA had understood from phone calls 
with Mr S that his specialist worked out of Hospital B, I see that he quickly corrected BUPA. I 
dont think Mr S was impacted by this. 
Outstanding invoices
Mr S had exceeded his outpatient benefit amount, and so it was Mr Ss responsibility to 
cover any further invoices. Mr S wanted BUPA to contact the providers to let them know that 
he had an ongoing complaint, and to request that they put the invoices on hold until the 
outcome of the complaint was known. BUPA has confirmed it did this. However, some of the 
providers did then contact Mr S and ask him to pay the outstanding invoices. 
Whilst I recognise Mr S found this upsetting, I agree with our investigator that BUPA isnt 
responsible for the actions of third parties. I understand that once Mr S had contacted the 
providers directly, they agreed to put his invoices on hold. 
Mr S has recently told this service that hes been chased for invoices that shouldve been 
covered by BUPA, and now have been. If Mr S wishes to complain about this, he should 
raise his concerns with BUPA in the first instance.
Mr Ss request not to be contactedBUPA made Mr S aware that it had updated his providers about his complaint, however it 
said that he was responsible for paying further invoices, and that it didnt have any control 
over demands for payment made by the providers. 
Mr S responded to say he had received some awful news that week regarding one of his 
conditions. He also said the invoices werent his liability to settle, and told BUPA that it must 
make the billing team aware that he wasnt to be contacted for invoices. Mr S said he didnt 
want another email about it. 
Mr S then sent a further email to BUPA to say one of its staff members had been in touch 
with one of the billing teams the previous day, but they hadnt given the provider the details 
of his complaint with BUPA. He said he didnt want to hear any more about it until the 
investigation had concluded.
BUPA responded to Mr S six days later. It confirmed the email was the last one it would be 
sending about the matter, but explained that if it received invoices that werent covered then 
it would need to reject them and update the provider. BUPA confirmed that when it receives 
invoices, it would advise providers of his request not to be chased for payment.
Mr S was upset to receive BUPAs final email on the matter, as he was in hospital that day. 
Thats unfortunate, though I dont think BUPA couldve known that from the email chain (I 
understand the staff member that responded doesnt work in the claims department and so 
wouldnt have been aware of treatment that Mr S was having). The staff member was aware 
that Mr S had received some bad news the previous week though, which is presumably why 
they left it six days before responding to him. 
Given that Mr S was expecting no further contact from providers in relation to outstanding 
invoices, I dont think it was unreasonable for BUPA to confirm that it would be rejecting any 
invoices that werent covered. Or that it let him know that it would tell providers not to chase 
him for payment as and when it received invoices (rather than contact those providers before 
it had received invoices). 
My final decision
My final decision is that BUPA Insurance Limited has already made an offer to pay £100 to 
settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that BUPA Insurance Limited should pay £100 (if it hasnt already done 
so).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman