DRN-3560700
The complaint
Mrs M complains, through her representative, about First Equity Limited. Shes unhappy with 
the losses shes suffered on her portfolio and thinks that shes been given unsuitable advice 
and hasnt been treated fairly. 
What happened
Mrs M became an advisory client of First Equity in 2018. Shed followed her adviser there 
after he joined from another firm (Firm A). She complained to First Equity in 2020 and said, 
in summary, that the adviser hadnt correctly assessed her attitude to risk (ATR), hadnt kept 
her updated, had invested in unsuitable shares and traded excessively in order to earn 
higher commission. First Equity didnt uphold the complaint, so Mrs M asked us to look into 
the matter. 
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators who upheld it. He noted that Mrs 
M had disputed most of the information the adviser had noted in the know your client (KYC) 
documents. He thought that she wasnt in a position to take the level of risk that the adviser 
had recorded and pointed to a previous fact find stating she was a low-risk investor. 
He didnt think her circumstances at the time - not many liquid assets outside of her portfolio 
and wanting to retire in a few years - left her much time to recoup any major losses. He 
noted that her husband dealt with communicating with the adviser about any trades on her 
behalf and didnt think hed been given a chance to fully consider the risks associated with 
each trade.
First Equity didnt agree with his findings and said, in summary:
If there had been a switch from lower risk investments to higher risk investments, 
then this happened before Mrs M before their client and referred to the lack of 
information about what her ATR was in 2017 just before she became their client. 
Mrs M had argued that the information in the KYCs was inaccurate. However, the risk 
profile had been completed in person and was signed by Mrs M as being accurate. 
Theyd had regular calls, meetings and emails with Mrs M and her husband to keep 
them up to date which would have given ample opportunity for Mrs M to consider her 
position and ask for the risk levels to be corrected. However, she did not raise any 
issues regarding her risk profile at any point.
They didnt agree that the recommendations were unsuitable for Mrs M. They thought 
it was likely that her liabilities were lower than stated in the 2018 Fact Find as they 
would have been shared with her husband. And they also highlighted that the section 
of the Fact Find where she answered no when asked if she would face financial 
hardship if she lost the money she invested. 
They thought that Mrs M understood what was being dealt with across her accounts. 
Shed dealt in the stock market for over 25 years and was a reasonably experienced 
investor. The KYC report shed completed stated (regarding trades per month) that 
she had "dealt daily if appropriate", and therefore she would have known that the 
investments being proposed were not low risk investments. 
Mrs M had access to an online system which would have confirmed the value of her 
investments, in addition to receiving statements twice yearly. 
They had regular calls with Mrs M and her husband, some of which were quite long 
in duration, where matters were discussed at length and showed that the adviser 
gave options when presenting trades. 
Mr and Mrs M had brought a large portfolio when they became clients of First Equity 
which included a sizeable equity portfolio, not just investment/unit trusts and other 
lower risk investments. Mrs Ms portfolio continued to be dealt with in a consistent 
manner which did not indicate any change to her overall risk profile. If she was 
unhappy with the portfolio and the information provided in the KYCs, then any 
concerns or queries should have been raised at the time but they were not.
KYCs were completed in 2018 and 2019 and Mrs M signed to say that they were an 
accurate record of her financial situation, investment objectives and attitude to risk. 
Theyd developed the KYC in accordance with COBS 9  Suitability, and in doing so 
theyd paid due consideration to Mrs Ms knowledge and experience of the 
designated investments and/or services to be provided, her financial situation and 
investments objectives and attitude to risk. They were entitled to rely on the 
information and the KYCs stated that Mrs M understood that the quality of their 
advice may be affected if she did not provide complete information. Therefore, it was 
reasonable for First Equity to rely on the KYC's contents.
Their position was that Mrs M's trading was suitable and in line with her risk profile. 
Any decision otherwise would not be fair or reasonable as all of the 
contemporaneous documentation indicated that Mrs M classified herself as a high 
risk investor, or at the very least knew that shed been so classified, and yet despite 
this (and despite being aware that the adviser was recommending higher risk 
investments) she didnt raise any concerns. 
If, despite their submissions, the complaint was still upheld, it would not be fair and 
reasonable for them to be held responsible for redress in respect of investments that 
were taken out on Firm A's advice. As such, they should only have to pay redress in 
respect of investments taken out by Mrs M on their advice. Further, if Mrs M really 
was a lower risk investor, at most redress should be based on a 50/50 split of the 
Income Total Return Index and the one-year fixed rate bond index.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id firstly think it may be helpful to point out that this decision doesnt address any of the 
concerns raised about the advisers actions while he was employed by Firm A - it solely 
relates to his actions while at First Equity.
At the heart of this complaint is the issue of whether or not Mrs M should have been advised 
to embark upon the advisers chosen strategy. In order to determine this, I must consider her 
circumstances at the time. In addition to Mrs Ms testimony, Ive also reviewed the 
documentation that was completed when she became a client of First Equity.The KYC that Mrs M completed said that she was aged 57, in full time employment with a 
monthly disposable income of £3,500 and was looking to retire in seven years time. She 
jointly owned properties valued at around £1,300,000 with an outstanding mortgage of 
£151,000. She had 25 years investment experience and typically completed 20 trades per 
month with an average trade size of £5,000. 
It noted that she had medium risk investments valued at £90,000, £50,000 with First Equity 
and the balance elsewhere. She had a medium risk portfolio with an asset allocation of 70% 
medium risk and 30% high risk. Regarding her attitude to risk and goals, it was noted that 
she:
Wanted the best long-term returns she could get and expected periods where the 
value of the investments might suffer extended falls
Wasnt concerned by falls in value and would expect to recover any falls by the time 
she sold her investments
Wouldnt suffer severe financial hardship if she were to lose the money shed 
invested
I note what Mrs M has said regarding how the KYCs were completed. Shes said, in 
summary, that she has never traded and the forms were completed by the adviser when she 
met him with her husband in a pub at short notice. The adviser filled in all the information 
whilst coaching the answers and had no interest in having an in-depth conversation about 
her financial plans or her true financial position. 
I have no reason to doubt what shes said but I must also give weight to the written 
evidence. Mrs M signed the KYC document to confirm, amongst other things, that the 
information was an accurate record of her circumstances and that the quality of the advice 
may be affected if she hadnt provided complete information. 
That being said, I have taken into account the fact find her husband completed with Firm A in 
2017. I appreciate that it was completed about her husband but I think its relevant given that 
all the subsequent fact finds/KYCs show that they have a similar ATR and investment 
objective. That fact find recorded that his ATR was low, and I think its more likely than not 
that her circumstances would have been similar. 
The 2018 KYC completed by First Equity said that her existing ATR was medium but didnt 
state which risk profile would be applied to her account. The 2019 KYC said her existing 
ATR was high risk/medium and stated that a high risk profile would be applied to her 
account.
An adviser has certain obligations under the regulators Conduct of Business Rules (COBS) 
rules and Principles for Businesses (PRIN). Some of the key rules Ive considered in 
determining if the advice was suitable are:
COBS 9.2.1: which says, in summary, that a firm must ensure that a recommendation, or a 
decision to trade, is suitable for its client. And when doing so, they must obtain sufficient 
information about the client's knowledge, experience, financial situation and objectives
COBS 9.2.2: which broadly says, among other things, that a firm needs to get enough 
information from the customer to be able to make sure the recommendation meets their 
objectives, theyre able to bear any related investment risk and they understand the risks 
involved. COBS 9.3.1: 1) A transaction may be unsuitable for a client because of the risks of the 
designated investments involved, the type of transaction, the characteristics of the order or 
the frequency of the trading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading. 
The strategy that the adviser recommended was to invest her entire portfolio with First 
Equity in company shares, some of which were traded on the Alternative Investment Market 
(AIM). This had the impact of exposing Mrs Ms portfolio to a high level of volatility with the 
potential to make large losses very quickly. I dont think this was appropriate for her 
circumstances at the time, despite what was recorded in the KYCs completed by First 
Equity. She clearly had some investment experience but had previously been a low risk 
investor so the strategy represented a significant increase in risk and I havent seen where 
she was made aware of its potential impact. 
Ive also taken into consideration the impact of the charges generated by frequency of the 
advisers trading activity - in 2019 alone there were around 70 trades resulting in charges 
which equated to around a third of the value of her original portfolio. I havent seen where 
the adviser made Mrs M aware of the impact of his chosen strategy, which meant that there 
was potential for loss if the growth on the portfolio didnt exceed the cost of the charges. 
Taking everything into account, Im not persuaded that Mrs M was in a fully informed position 
and I think the advisers strategy exposed her to too much risk. I think she could have taken 
some risk but exposing her entire First Equity portfolio to the risks created by direct equity 
trading - including AIM shares - wasnt suitable for her circumstances at the time and 
therefore First Equity must do something to put things right.
I note the points First Equity have made regarding any potential redress. But I dont see any 
reason to depart from the redress methodology the investigator proposed. I think its fair to 
compare the return on Mrs Ms portfolio with a medium risk benchmark to try and fairly 
determine the return she would have received if shed been suitably advised. 
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put 
Mrs M as close to the position she would probably now be in if she had not been given 
unsuitable advice.
I take the view that Mrs M would have invested differently. It is not possible to say 
precisely what she would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out 
below is fair and reasonable given Mrs M's circumstances and objectives when she 
invested.
What must First Equity do?
To compensate Mrs M fairly, First Equity must:Compare the performance of Mrs M's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
First Equity should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
Mrs M First 
Equity 
PortfolioNo longer in 
forceFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return IndexDate 
transferred 
inDate 
transferred
out8% simple per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to the 
date of 
settlement
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a 
return using the benchmark.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mrs M wanted Capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified 
indices representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government 
bonds. It would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk 
to get a higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mrs M's circumstances and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that First Equity Limited should pay the amount 
calculated as set out above. First Equity Limited should provide details of its calculation to 
Mrs M in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Marc PurnellOmbudsman