DRN-3677494
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Zurich Assurance Ltd didnt inform them their premiums may 
need to increase significantly so that they could keep the same level of cover on their whole 
of life policies. 
What happened
An independent financial adviser (IFA) was responsible for the sale of this policy; however, 
Zurich is responsible for its administration. Im aware theres no separate complaint against 
the IFA relating to the sale. 
This decision will only deal with the administration aspect of the policy in respect of Zurich. 
In February 2020 Mr and Mrs B took out two whole of life plans provided through Zurich. 
Mr Bs policy provided a sum assured of £10,000 with an initial monthly premium of £48.54. 
Mrs B was sold the policy with a £15,000 sum assured for an initial monthly premium of 
£42.43.   
In January 2021 Mr and Mrs B were informed that their premiums would be increasing from 
March 2021, which they queried. In January 2022, Zurich got in touch to say that there would 
be a further premium increase from March 2022. Mr and Mrs B got in touch with Zurich to 
question the increase. 
Zurich replied on 18 January 2022 and provided an explanation of the premium increase. 
Following this, it sent its final response on the matter in February 2022. In short it said 
Mr and Mrs B applied for whole of life policies with the sum assured increasing each year in 
line with the retail prices index (RPI). Further, it said, the sum assured has increased each 
year in line with RPI and the premium has been calculated to support the new sum assured.  
One of our Investigators considered the complaint and in summary didnt think it should be 
upheld. He said the point-of-sale documentation confirms the RPI option was added, and the 
terms and conditions were included with the welcome pack Zurich sent. He didnt think 
Zurich had acted unfairly in increasing the premiums. 
Mr and Mrs B disagreed with the outcome as they said they had provided evidence that they 
had been charged more than the RPI, and Zurich introduced additional charges via its terms 
and conditions. 
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions; Im not upholding this complaint. 
Im not persuaded Zurich has done anything wrong by increasing the premiums in line with 
its terms and conditions.
But before I explain further why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Mr and Mrs Bs strength of feeling about this matter. Mr and Mrs B have 
provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and considered 
carefully. However, I hope they wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be 
the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Mr and Mrs B and Zurich, and reach what I think is an 
independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.  
I can only consider the points that are material to this complaint, namely the administration of 
the policy by Zurich. Im unable to consider the suitability of the policy and the advice given 
at the point of sale. The IFA had the responsibility to make sure any recommendation made 
was suitable for Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances and needs. 
Mr and Mrs B complain that their premiums increased more than they had elected for. They 
had agreed to an increase in line with inflation but have said that the increases are far more 
than this. Theyve also said that they were not able to view the terms and conditions of the 
policy until after the sale. 
Although it was the responsibility of Mr and Mrs Bs IFA to ensure the policy was explained 
properly and was suitable, Zurich still had to provide information that was clear, fair and not 
misleading. Ive taken a look at the information Mr and Mrs B were provided and I dont think 
Zurich has done anything wrong. 
The terms and conditions of the policy set out specific situations when premiums wouldnt be 
guaranteed. One of these situations apply to Mr and Mrs B, their premiums are indexed, this 
means the cover increases each year in line with RPI to a maximum of 10% in any year:
You can choose for your cover to increase each year by 3%, 5%, or in line with the Retail 
Prices Index (RPI). If you choose to increase your cover by the RPI, any increase will be 
limited to a maximum of 10% in any year.
The terms go on to explain: 
Your premiums will go up each year by 2% for each 1% increase in cover we provide   
Zurich has explained it calculates the RPI for the previous 12 months, but it does this using 
known values from four months before the anniversary date. This is done to allow it to 
calculate the figures and issue them whilst then giving you enough time to consider them 
and respond. For example, it said the RPI change between 1 October 2020 and 
1 October 2021 was about 6% and this was reflected with the increase in cover. 
The terms explain that premiums increase by 2% for each 1% increase in cover provided, so 
as the cover during that period increased by 6% it follows that the premium would increase 
by 12%. It is the level of cover that increases in line with RPI and not the monthly premium. 
Im satisfied that Zurich applied an increase in premiums thats in line with its terms and 
conditions, so hasnt done anything wrong.  
It wouldve been Mr and Mrs Bs IFAs responsibility to explain this to them. But Zurich did 
make it clear that the option to increase cover couldve been taken off by Mr and Mrs B and 
they had the option to change to level cover.
Further, Ive also looked at annual statements Mr and Mrs B wouldve received, it states: 
Your cover goes up automatically each year in line with the Retail Prices Index (RPI). Your 
premiums will also change to support this increase. If there is no change in RPI, your cover 
and premiums will remain the same.On balance Im satisfied the documentation supplied by Zurich was reasonably clear, 
unambiguous and not misleading. As the policy provider I dont believe it was obliged to do 
any more. The decision to increase the premium is based on actuarial considerations, I can 
see it has explained how the premium increases were calculated and I think this is a matter 
for Zurich to decide. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs B will be unhappy and I realise my decision isnt the outcome they 
wanted but on the face of the available evidence Im unable to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 March 2023.
 
Rajvinder Pnaiser
Ombudsman