DRN-3330185
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain Interactive Brokers (UK) Ltd (IB) unfairly closed their trades due to 
insufficient margin causing them a financial loss.  
What happened
On 15 May 2020 Mr and Mrs K had two options open on the price of Amazon shares  a 
long put and a short put. Shortly before expiry, IB updated the margin requirement for 
Mr and Mrs Ks account. It used a projected expiration exposure to do this. This projected 
exposure estimated the likely price of Amazon shares when the options expired, and 
therefore estimated the accounts equity exposure in light of the options which would be 
automatically exercised. 
In Mr and Mrs Ks case, it assumed that the options would expire with only the short put in 
the money, and the long put out of the money. As a result, it estimated that Mr and Mrs K 
would end up with a long position for 1000 Amazon shares. It calculated the required margin 
Mr and Mrs K needed, and concluded that this was around $590,000. As Mr and Mrs K did 
not have that amount of margin in their account, IB proceeded to close Mr and Mrs Ks 
positions due to insufficient margin. 
Mr and Mrs K complained. In short, Mr K said that on expiry his overall position would never 
have been to take possession of the Amazon shares in light of his long put, and that in 
reality his risk was limited to the difference between his long and short put strike price. This 
amounted to $10,000 for which he had the required margin. 
IB looked into his complaint, and disagreed. It issued a final response letter in which it 
explained how it had calculated his total projected exposure once his options expired, and 
why it acted in line with the terms when closing out his positions before expiry. 
Mr and Mrs K disagreed and referred their complaint to this service. One of our investigators 
looked into the complaint, and also concluded that IB had done nothing wrong. In short, he 
agreed that it was for IB to set the relevant margin and take action when accounts were 
found to have insufficient margin to keep positions open. In this case, whilst he acknowledge 
Mr and Mrs Ks believe that their risk was limited, he considered that IB was justified in the 
way it calculated the post expiration exposure  and therefore, it didnt do anything wrong 
when it liquidated the positions. 
Mr K didnt agree. He maintained that the maximum risk his account was exposed to was the 
difference between the two strike prices, and not the $590,000 total exposure that IB had 
estimated.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Ks strength of feeling on this issue, but Im sorry that I dont have much to 
add to what the investigator has already said. 
I should make clear to Mr K that my role isnt to tell IB how it should go about setting its 
margin requirements for specific products, nor to interfere with what are essentially its 
commercial decisions about how it manages risks. My role is look at whether Mr K was 
treated fairly and reasonably in the circumstances, given the terms of the account, what IB 
was required to do by the regulator and what Mr Ks responsibilities were. 
IB was required to follow the rules set out by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in the 
Conduct of Business Rules (COBS). 
COBS 22.5.10 set out the way in which IB needed to set margin requirements for its retail 
clients, including Mr and Mrs K. In particular, it specified that IB needed ensure that Mr and 
Mrs K posted margin of at least 20% of the value of the exposure that the trade provided 
when the underlying asset is a share  in this case Amazon shares. 
COBS 22.5.12 explains that exposure refers to the total value of the exposure  in other 
words, it is not a reference to a loss or potential loss. 
COBS 22.5.13 explains that in circumstances where a retail clients net equity in an account 
falls below 50% of the margin requirement, the firm must close the retail clients open 
positions as soon as market conditions allow. It also explains that net equity is the sum of 
the retail clients net profit and loss on their open positions and the retail clients deposited 
margin. 
In this case, IB has explained that the expiration exposure refers to the overall exposure to 
options positions that will be exercised or assigned (and are already in the money). It also 
includes positions that may be exercised or assigned based on a percentage distance from 
the strike-price. In my view, this is consistent with the minimum requirements outlined in 
COBS and which IB needed to comply with. 
Ive also seen the way IB carry out these calculations using these assumptions, and as Ive 
said above, it isnt for me to make a finding about that  other than to confirm that it applied 
this methodology to Mr Ks trades. 
In Mr Ks case, I can see that using this methodology, IB predicted that the only option in the 
money would be his short put  and therefore, hed be left with a long position on expiry. The 
value of the shares in question was such that IB predicted hed need $590,000 of margin to 
be able to keep that long position open. I appreciate that Mr K has made reference to his 
maximum loss, but thats not what IB was basing its margin calculation on  as Ive said 
above and is set out in COBS, this total exposure included the possibility of Mr K needing to 
take possession of 1000 Amazon shares. And whilst Mr Ks loss on expiry of both options 
may have been limited, IB was essentially using a worst case scenario when deciding how 
much margin Mr K needed on expiry of the options. 
In taking into account the rules Ive outlined above and IBs explanations, Im satisfied that 
this approach was fair and reasonable  and was in line with the commercial discretion the 
regulator has given firms when deciding what margin to require from retail customers. 
Ive also taken into account that Mr K was able to monitor this projected exposure on his 
account, and there are ample resources on IBs website which explain how this calculation is 
carried out and how to monitor it  including how to mitigate the risk of liquidation. I would 
add that IB has provided evidence that shows that Mr K has experienced this type of 
liquidation on two occasions in the past when options he bought were nearing expiry. This means that Mr K was aware at the time that IB would take this approach to his trades  
and so Im not persuaded it would be fair to ask IB to pay him compensation. Ultimately, as 
Ive said above, IB has some discretion as to how it decided to calculate the margin it 
required on specific markets or for specific types of trades, subject to the minimum levels 
specified by the FCA. Mr K needed to satisfy himself that he was aware of what these 
requirements were before deciding to trade. Im satisfied that he had the necessary 
information to be able to do this, and was aware from previous experience that IB would 
adopt this type of worst case scenario when predicting his account exposure on expiry of 
his puts. 
For these reasons, whilst I understand why Mr K is unhappy, Im not persuaded IB has done 
anything wrong. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 April 2023.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman