DRN-2568122
The complaint
Ms C complains about how Barclays Bank UK PLC dealt with her chargeback request.
 What happened
Ms C says Barclays didnt raise a chargeback for a holiday she paid for to Florida. She says 
she was told by the Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) that she couldnt make a claim to it for part 
of the holiday cost, and asked Barclays to raise a chargeback. Ms C says she was told she 
was out of time for doing so but Barclays still asked her for evidence of the booking. She 
complains about how Barclays dealt with her when she spoke to it and that it wasnt clear in 
what it was saying. Ms C would like a refund for the holiday cost of just under £2,000.
Barclays says Ms C made the payment to a travel company I will call TC on 11 June 2018, 
but the company went into liquidation on 23 September 2019.It says it was outside either the 
120 or 540-day rule for raising a chargeback when Ms C called it in January 2020. Barclays 
accepts it didnt deal with Ms C and the calls as it should and has offered £50 compensation 
for that part of the complaint. It says it told Ms C on a number of occasions it couldnt raise a 
chargeback but said it would review any evidence she wanted to send it. Barclays says Ms C 
told it that she would be refunded the flight and hotel cost by the CAA, but it wouldnt refund 
attraction tickets. 
Ms C brought her complaint to us and told us her chargeback amount was for £1,983 and 
she would have gone through a different route if told about the time limitations, and says she 
wasnt told about them.
Our investigator upheld the complaint in part and listened to all of the calls between Ms C 
and Barclays. The investigator thought Barclays told Ms C on a number of occasions it 
couldnt raise a chargeback for her and explained the chargeback rules. The investigator 
thought the 540-day limit had passed from the date of booking and 120 days had passed 
from the date of TCs liquidation. But thought Barclays could have been clearer in explaining 
that and so thought it should increase its compensation offer to £100. The investigator 
thought Barclays didnt tell Ms C that she couldnt complain to other bodies or for example 
make an insurance claim and that it tried to assist Ms C by asking for further evidence from 
her.
Ms C doesnt accept that view and in summary says if Barclays had told her it couldnt make 
a chargeback, she could have gone down a different route to reclaim her money. She says it 
would have been a fraud to make separate claims for the money and that she wasnt told 
about the 540-day rule. And Barclays by asking for further information, meant it wasnt 
possible to make a different claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so I have come to a similar overall view to that of the investigator. I realise Ms 
C will be disappointed by my decision and about how strongly she feels about what took 
place.
A chargeback is not a right but is a voluntary scheme run by the card providers and not, as 
in this case, Barclays. We take the view that a chargeback should normally be raised unless 
it is reasonably clear that one is unlikely to succeed. There are strict time limits for raising a 
chargeback as the investigator has explained, which are normally 120 days from the date of 
the transaction and an overall total of 540 days.
I have listened to all of the calls between Ms C and Barclays and I dont think Ms C ever 
made clear which transaction she was disputing and when the transaction took place. Im 
satisfied Ms C told Barclays that the CAA wouldnt pay for the park attraction tickets, but it 
would for part of the holiday. Im also satisfied that Ms C was asked how much the amount 
she was claiming and when the transaction took place but wasnt clear about either. I can 
see that there was a payment to TC on 12 June 2018 for £1,985 and payments for park 
attractions in May and August 2018 for £878 and £490 which were to a different company. I 
dont think Ms C has told us or Barclays how much of the total holiday cost has been 
refunded and how much remained and if the park attraction tickets were used by someone 
else.
I appreciate that Ms C says she wasnt told about the time limits by Barclays. But Im 
satisfied that Ms C was told on a number of occasions that Barclays wouldnt be able to raise 
a chargeback and explained that during the second call between them. And during the fourth 
call told Ms C about the 120 and 540-day limits on raising a chargeback. I have also looked 
carefully at Barclays final response letter dated 17 February 2020 and Im satisfied that it 
made clear that it couldnt raise a chargeback and explained the reasons why. So, I dont 
think Barclays has misled Ms C and was clear about its reasons for refusing to raise the 
chargeback. And I think Barclays was reasonably entitled to conclude that any chargeback 
would have been unlikely to have succeeded due to the time limits being exceeded.
There is no dispute here that Barclays didnt deal with part of the complaint as it should. I 
have no doubt Ms C was caused inconvenience by that, but Im satisfied Barclays has fairly 
apologised for its customer service issues. I think the investigators recommendation of £100 
compensation fair and reasonable for that part of the complaint. I appreciate its not the main 
part of this complaint, and of course its up to Ms C if she wishes to accept it.
I appreciate Ms C says Barclays action have prevented her from taking alternative action to 
reclaim her money. I have made clear that Im satisfied Barclays made its position clear in 
January and February 2020 in a number of calls and in its letters to Ms C. And that it was Ms 
Cs choice not to try alternative methods of getting her money back. I also appreciate Ms C 
says it would have been fraudulent to try multiple methods to get the money back, but I cant 
fairly hold Barclays responsible for Ms C deciding not to try those alternatives. And think Ms 
C ought reasonably to have realised that a chargeback wasnt going to be raised by Barclays 
at the latest in February 2020, which would have given her time to consider the other 
avenues she says she could have taken.
Overall, I find Barclays was clear in telling Ms C it couldnt raise a chargeback. I can see that 
Ms C now has a copy of the telephone calls between her and Barclays in which I find she 
was told on a number of occasions that a chargeback couldnt be raised. And I have made 
clear that Barclays told Ms C the same information in various e-mails and in its final 
response letter.
Putting things right
Barclays should pay £100 compensation in total in respect of the customer care issues its accepted. I dont think its clear if Barclays paid the £50 compensation it previously offered, 
and I make clear if it has then it should pay a further £50 making £100 in total.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and order Barclays Bank UK PLC to 
pay Ms C £100 compensation in total. Ms Cs acceptance of this decision would be in full 
and final settlement of this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman