DRN-3667142
The complaint
Mrs Y complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited trading as Moneybarn irresponsibly granted 
her a conditional sale agreement she couldnt afford to repay. 
The agreement was entered into jointly by Mrs Y and Mr Y. Mrs Y has explained that Mr Y 
has since passed away. Therefore, this complaint has been set up in Mrs Ys name.
What happened
In September 2016, Mrs Y (jointly with the late Mr Y) acquired a used car financed by a 
conditional sale agreement from Moneybarn. The agreement required 58 monthly 
repayments of around £162. The total repayable under the agreement was around £9,400.
Mrs Y says that Moneybarn didnt complete adequate affordability checks. She says if it had, 
it would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Moneybarn didnt agree. It said that it 
carried out a thorough assessment which included credit checks and verifying the joint 
monthly income through payslips and bank statements. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Moneybarn didnt 
act unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
Mrs Y didnt agree and said she hadnt been able to access her credit report or bank 
statements from the time. She said she had tried to remove herself from the agreement in 
2017 but his hadnt been allowed. She then had to borrow from family to settle the 
agreement. 
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am very sorry to hear of the circumstances underlying this complaint and I appreciate that 
both with the split from the late Mr Y and then his passing, it must have been a very difficult 
period for Mrs Y. However, this complaint is about whether Moneybarn did anything wrong 
by providing the initial agreement and so while I am truly sorry to hear of the distressing time 
Mrs Y has suffered for me to uphold this complaint I would need to be satisfied that 
Moneybarn had acted unreasonably by providing the finance.   
Moneybarn will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
Before granting the finance, Moneybarn verified Mrs Ys income through copies of payslips 
and the late Mr Ys income through his bank statements. Mrs Y was paid weekly, and four 
payslips were received which gives income information for around a month. The bank 
statements provided covered a period from 22 June to 19 August. Based on this information 
Moneybarn recorded a joint monthly income of just over £2,000. I do not find this 
unreasonable.
Moneybarn carried out a credit check but hasnt provided a copy of the results. It has noted 
that while there were historic defaults the most recent was 53 months prior to application and 
that payments were being made towards this. It said the results showed no recent missed 
payments. Unfortunately, Mrs Y hasnt been able to provide a copy of her credit report and 
based on the information provided by Moneybarn, I do not find that the results raised 
concerns that meant the finance shouldnt have been provided. 
While Moneybarn did gather information about the joint income it didnt ask about 
expenditure. Although it did complete a credit check this wont have indicated what the 
regular living expenses were. It did have information available about the late Mr Ys 
expenses from his bank statements, but it didnt have any information about Mrs Ys 
expenses. Based on the information contained in the bank statements the late Mr Ys 
expenses were around £900. So, considering the joint income and the expenses information 
gathered I cannot say that the agreement would have appeared affordable. However, 
without knowing what Mrs Ys regular committed expenditure was Moneybarn wouldnt have 
got a reasonable understanding of whether the agreement was affordable or not. It therefore 
didnt complete proportionate checks. 
Ive considered what Moneybarn would likely have found out if it had completed reasonable 
and proportionate affordability checks. Weve asked Mrs Y to provide us with evidence of her 
financial circumstances at the time the lending was taken out. However, she hasnt been 
able to access this and so I do not have enough information to fairly determine what 
proportionate checks would likely have shown Moneybarn. 
As Mrs Y hasnt been able to demonstrate that the agreement was unaffordable, I cant 
reasonably conclude that Moneybarn ought to have known she would struggle to make the 
repayments. Im therefore not persuaded that Moneybarn acted unfairly in approving the 
finance. 
Mrs Y has also complained that Moneybarn wouldnt remove her from the agreement when 
she requested this in 2017. I can understand why she wished to be removed as she was no 
longer in a relationship with the late Mr Y. However, as she was a joint party to the 
agreement, I cannot say that Moneybarn did anything wrong by not allowing her to be 
removed and saying she remained jointly liable. 
In conclusion, while I understand this has been a difficult situation for Mrs Y, without further 
evidence to show the agreement was unaffordable at the outset, I do not find I can uphold 
this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman