DRN-2183636
The complaint
Mr W complains that Capital One (Europe) plc wouldnt lend him more money by extending 
his existing credit limit, but it was prepared to lend him more money by opening a new card 
account for him. 
What happened
Mr W said that he had taken out a credit card with Capital One in 2013, which had a credit 
limit of £200. He said hed been paying the minimum on the card for years. He told us hed 
asked Capital One to raise his credit limit, but it wouldnt. Then he applied for a new card 
with Capital One, and it said yes. It opened a second card for him with a new £200 limit. 
Mr W said if he wasnt allowed a credit limit increase, then he shouldnt have been given a 
new card either. He thought that Capital One had been irresponsible by lending him this 
money. 
Capital One said it has different criteria for increasing a credit limit and issuing a new card. 
Mr W met the requirements for a new card, but not for increasing the limit on his old card. 
Capital One didnt think it lent to Mr W irresponsibly. It noted that Mr W had now paid off the 
debt in full and closed the card account. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said that hed understood 
Mr W was only complaining about the second card. He said hed checked, he didnt think 
that Capital One was right to say that Mr Ws other debts were all in order, with no defaults 
or county court judgements. Mr W had a default dated November 2015. But the credit file 
also showed several other loans between this date and when Mr W took out the new card, 
and all of those were settled satisfactorily. 
Our investigator said that Capital One had only lent Mr W £200, and that meant a minimum 
repayment of only £5 per month. Mr W did have several other loans going out at the same 
time, but he had an income of £35,000 at the time. So our investigator didnt think this 
minimum payment per month wouldve caused financial difficulty for Mr W. 
Our investigator also looked at how the card had been managed by Mr W. He had paid the 
minimum payments as requested and on time, and had often paid more than the minimum. 
Our investigator didnt think Mr W was in financial difficulty after the card was opened for 
him. So our investigator didnt think Capital One had to do any more.
Mr W said he still wanted to know why Capital One wouldnt increase his credit limit on his 
other card, but would give him a new card. Our investigator said that Capital One just applies 
different criteria to those two different decisions. Mr W still didnt think that Capital One had 
been responsible, he said his first card was right up to the limit for years. Mr W said that on 
another card he had been told he was in persistent debt, and that card provider was 
threatening to close the account. 
Because Mr W and our investigator didnt agree, this case was passed to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
I can understand Mr W wanting to know why Capital One would lend him £200 on a new 
card, when hes told us it wouldnt offer to extend his existing credit limit by £50. And I know 
Mr W thinks that refusing to lend him more money on his existing card casts doubt on 
whether Capital One shouldve lent to him through a new card. But Capital One has told us it 
simply has different criteria for the two different sorts of lending.
Capital One doesnt have to lend Mr W more money. So if it will lend to him through a new 
card, but not through extending his existing credit limit, then I dont think that would 
automatically be unfair or unreasonable. 
Mr W said that the second card account shouldnt have been opened, and he thought this 
was irresponsible lending. So I have also looked at whether Capital One shouldve lent to Mr 
W when he applied for his second card in 2017. 
Ive looked carefully at Mr Ws credit history from the time. I know that theres no suggestion 
that Mr W wasnt managing his existing card. He was also using a high level of short term 
credit. That can be a sign of financial difficulties, although, as Capital One said, Mr W was 
largely repaying those debts successfully. 
I need to balance against this that Capital One only offered Mr W a very modest amount of 
credit. And I also note that Mr W did manage this new card successfully. He paid more than 
the minimum, and he has now paid off and closed the card. 
Ive considered these factors carefully, and I dont think it was irresponsible of Capital One to 
grant Mr W a new card in 2017, with a credit limit of £200. I know that Mr W will be 
disappointed, but that means I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2020. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman