DRN-3515487
The complaint
Mr D complains that Studio Retail Limited (SRL) have provided poor customer service and 
about issues involving arrears on his account. Hes also unhappy theyve delayed in sending 
him information and complains about issues linked to a refund they sent. Mr D also 
complains SRL threatened to default his account and he continued to receive catalogues 
despite requesting them to stop sending marketing information. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont go over it in great 
detail. However, in summary, Mr D held an account with SRL which allowed him to purchase 
items. Mr D made a number of complaints to SRL, he says he didnt receive call backs and 
he received a default notice and was charged a £12 late fee. Mr D says he made a Subject 
Access Request (SAR) but SRL delayed in sending him information. Mr D also complained 
about the method used by SRL to send a refund, incorrectly threatening to default his 
account which led him to repay the outstanding amount sooner and also sending him 
catalogues when hed asked them not to send these. SRL responded and accepted their 
service had fallen below a reasonable standard and offered £50 compensation. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr D. She agreed SRL had made errors and 
recommended they pay £300 compensation. Mr D disagreed so the matter has come to me 
for a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. And, I think the investigators 
recommendation here is a fair way to resolve matters. I understand Mr D will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
Firstly, Ive looked at the service given to Mr D. My role requires me to say how a complaint 
should be settled quickly and with minimal formality and so Ill focus on what I consider to be 
the crux of the complaint. The key facts about the complaint arent in dispute. SRL have 
admitted they got things wrong when they didnt return calls which were promised, the time 
taken to collect items and arrears incorrectly showing on his account which led to a late fee 
being charged and sending a default notice. SRL have refunded the late fee and have 
ensured Mr Ds credit file wasnt impacted. The only issue I have to decide is whether their 
offer to put things right is fair and reasonable.
I think its right that SRL should compensate Mr D for the upset and inconvenience caused 
by their poor service. To help decide what a fair and reasonable level of compensation 
should be, Ive looked at the errors by SRL and what the impact of those errors have been. 
SRL accept they didnt return Mr Ds calls but explain that its not always possible for a 
manager to call back every customer. I do acknowledge there might be factors which might 
lead to a business being unable to return all calls within a given timeframe, for example, 
where the demand for calls is unexpectedly high and the business has limited resource. But, 
I would still expect a business in those circumstances to manage a customers expectations 
about the likelihood of a manager returning a call. In this case, SRL accept calls werent 
returned despite Mr D being promised they would. So, I think this has caused Mr D to 
become frustrated at the communication with SRL, particularly at a time when Mr D was 
already worried about being incorrectly told his account was in arrears. 
I can see SRL accept, when Mr D was sent notice of arrears and a £12 fee was charged to 
his account, he didnt actually owe any money. SRL have taken some steps to resolve this 
by refunding the fee and also ensuring no adverse information is recorded against his credit 
file. I think the steps taken here are reasonable, but Mr D has been left upset and frustrated 
by this error as he was led to believe there was money outstanding on his account. And, 
because he then received continuous emails and text messages asking for the outstanding 
amount to be paid and how late payments would impact his credit file, he decided to pay this 
sooner than he needed to. I do acknowledge why this has had an impact on Mr D. Firstly, 
any communication about arrears will understandably be upsetting and worrying, but 
particularly so in this case where Mr D wasnt in arrears. And, secondly, theres the 
inconvenience caused to Mr D in having to pay the outstanding balance almost five months 
sooner than he needed to in order to stop SRL chasing him for payment.  
I can see Mr D started requesting information under a SAR from SRL from May 2021 and 
SRL did respond to these. Mr Ds concern here though is around the delay, he says requests 
were made before May 2021. SRLs notes dont show this but Ive considered Mr Ds 
testimony together with the information I do have. This shows that the problems giving rise to 
Mr Ds complaint started in December 2020 when he ordered bedding which was faulty.     
Mr D then experienced issues in relation to the return of the bedding, his account going into 
credit beyond the limit, and being told this could lead to a default. Its clear Mr D was chasing 
SRL for updates and also raised a complaint at the time. So, given that Mr D was clearly 
worried about what was happening, I believe its more likely than not he wouldve asked for 
information to help him understand what was happening on his account. 
Mr D asked to be removed from SRLs marketing and, while SRL confirm this request was 
actioned on their system immediately, Mr D did continue to receive catalogues. SRL say 
these are sent six months in advance and are already pre-packaged and ready to be 
distributed. And, SRL say this would make it difficult for them to locate Mr Ds individual 
catalogues to remove. I do accept why this would be a difficult task but SRL are aware of 
their own processes so, when Mr D asked to be removed from their marketing, I believe they 
shouldve been aware that, in light of their mailing process, there remained a possibility Mr D 
would still receive some catalogues. Had this been explained to Mr D, I think this wouldve 
avoided the frustration caused to Mr D when receiving further catalogues.     
I can see Mr D was owed a refund and system notes provided by SRL show the refund has 
been made. I note Mr D feels SRL should pay him 8% simple interest for the period he was 
without his funds. He says the money became owed to him from December 2020 as that is 
when he told SRL about the faulty items and he says he wanted a refund at this point. He 
says it was SRLs errors which led to the items not being collected and the refund being 
delayed. 
I do acknowledge Mr Ds testimony around the problems he faced in SRL arranging 
collection of the items but I havent seen any evidence that Mr D wanted a refund at that time 
as opposed to the funds being credited to his account. Ive seen Mr D asked for a refund in 
February 2021 and the refund was made within a reasonable period thereafter. In addition to 
this, SRL say they cant provide a refund to a card until a plan has matured  in this case, 
that wouldve meant May 2021. I understand Mr D wanted the refund to be made to his card 
so if SRL were to apply their policy, Mr D wouldnt have received the refund until May 2021  but he actually received it before this. So, I dont believe it would be fair for SRL to pay 8% 
interest on the refund for the period Mr D was without the funds.   
Taking all the information into account, I think SRL should pay compensation to Mr D for the 
upset, frustration and inconvenience caused. Given the issues have been resolved now and, 
given theres no ongoing issues or anything which I think will have a longer and lasting 
impact on Mr D, I believe compensation of £300 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  
I understand Mr D will be disappointed, and I acknowledge his reasons for why he believes 
the compensation should be higher. I wish to reassure Mr D Ive read and considered 
everything he has sent in, but if I havent mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, it 
isnt because I havent seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference 
it to explain my decision. This isnt intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of the 
informal nature of our service. 
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that SRL have made errors which have had an impact on Mr D. So, in 
addition to the £50 already paid to Mr D, they should pay an additional £250 for the upset, 
frustration and inconvenience  bringing the total paid for this complaint to £300.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Studio Retail Limited must pay £250 
compensation to Mr D, bringing the total paid to £300. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2022.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman