DRN-4024772
The complaint
T, a limited company, complains about the way that Barclays Bank UK PLC handled its 
business account.
T, is represented in its complaint by a director, Mr W.
What happened
Mr W explains that although he lives overseas, T is registered in the UK. In 2022, Barclays 
carried out a Know Your Customer (KYC) exercise which involved asking T for information 
about its business.
T responded to the KYC request but in September 2022, Barclays asked for additional 
information. After Barclays didnt hear back from T, it wrote again and at the end of October 
2022, Mr W contacted Barclays. 
Mr W says he provided the additional information later in November 2022. Around the same 
time, Mr W contacted Barclays to find out why two money transfers hadnt gone ahead. Mr 
W says Barclays told him it might be because T was trying to transfer the money to a 
cryptocurrency business registered both in the EU and Malta. Mr W says that after checking, 
Barclays told him that the transfers had been blocked because Ts company information 
wasnt up to date.
Mr W says that after speaking with someone else at Barclays, he was told that it couldnt 
give him more information about Ts account being blocked and that a letter was being 
drawn up to send that day.
Mr W says Barclays told him in mid-November 2022, that it hadnt yet sent a letter about 
blocking Ts account but then he received three letters dated earlier that month. So, Mr W 
thinks that Barclays backdated the notice of closure letters. 
After Mr W complained to Barclays, it said it decided to close Ts account as T wasnt 
compliant with the account terms and conditions. Barclays wouldnt give any further 
explanation except to confirm that its decision was in line with the terms and conditions of 
Ts account.
Barclays told Mr W that the KYC process was managed by a third party so the 
correspondence wouldnt have been available to staff when Mr W spoke with Barclays in 
November 2022. It apologised for giving Mr W the wrong information about when letters had 
been sent and credited Ts account with £50.
The investigator didnt recommend that Ts complaint be upheld. In summary, he said 
Barclays has a legal and regulatory duty to keep up to date information about its customers. 
So, the investigator didnt think Barclays had done anything wrong when it asked T for the 
KYC information. 
The investigator thought Barclays acted within the terms of Ts account when it flagged two 
payments for review. The investigator thought that Barclays was allowed to close an account 
after giving notice and without explaining why it had reached that decision.
The investigator told Mr W that Barclays made the decision to close Ts account on 8 
November so he didnt think it had backdated any letters.
Mr W is unhappy with the investigation outcome. He doesnt understand why Barclays 
wouldnt accept an address in the UK as a legal address. Mr W thinks an individual in 
Barclays, who he says had previously tried to cancel Ts account, is responsible for the 
account closure. 
Mr W says Barclays hasnt given an adequate explanation of why it didnt transfer money as 
requested. Mr W says Barclays restriction of transfers to buy cryptocurrency is anti-
competitive and against UK and EU laws and regulations. 
Overall, Mr W thinks that Barclays position is at odds with the UK Governments stance on 
supporting UK business abroad. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done so 
using my own words. Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the key issues. The rules 
that govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt mean Ive not considered 
everything that both parties have given to me.
I do understand Mr Ws wish to highlight problems that he and other customers have faced 
with Barclays and other banks. Mr W thinks that in closing accounts and preventing 
cryptocurrency transactions, Barclays is in breach of UK and EU laws and regulations, as 
well as regulations laid down by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). But its not the role 
of this service to tell a business how to run its security procedures  it would be for the 
regulator  the FCA  to make decisions about the way Barclays policies and procedures are 
carried out. My decision is limited to whether Barclays has treated T unfairly and if so, 
whether its already done or offered enough to put things right.
Like the investigator, I dont have any reason to conclude that Barclays backdated any 
correspondence that it sent to T about the account closures. Barclays notes indicate that it 
made the decision to close Ts account around 8 November 2022 and the closure notices 
that Ive seen are dated 8 and 9 November 2022. I appreciate they arrived together a few 
weeks later but as they were sent to an address overseas, it doesnt seem unusual for the 
post to have taken a few weeks to arrive. Barclays apologised for any miscommunication 
about not having generated the letters when Mr W spoke with the bank and paid £50. I think 
this was fair so I dont require Barclays to do any more. 
Barclays Business Customer Agreement sets out its power to close an account by giving 
notice: 
We can close an account (and stop providing any services and end this agreement) 
by giving you at least two months notice. 
Barclays is entitled to close a customers account without giving a reason  as can a 
customer. Im satisfied that Barclays gave T two months notice of its intention to close the 
accounts. Although this was frustrating for T, I dont find that Barclays made a mistake or that it must explain why it took the decision.
Similarly, under the terms of Ts account, Barclays is allowed to not follow payment 
instructions from a customer in certain circumstances including where there are internal 
controls in place. 
I appreciate that Mr W would like to know the exact reasons why Barclays withheld the 
payments and closed Ts account, but as far as Im aware, neither Barclays nor I are obliged 
to give these. I should also say that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. 
This can be where the information is commercially sensitive or it contains security details. 
Some of the information Barclays has given to us is information I consider should be kept 
confidential. 
Overall, Ive seen nothing to suggest that Barclays decision to withhold the payments and 
close Ts account was made unfairly. So, I dont require Barclays to take any action in 
response to Ts complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2023.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman