DRN-2329672
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy about the way National Westminster Bank Plc handled his fraud claim. Hes 
also unhappy that NatWest closed his account.
What happened
In April 2019, Mr M was the victim of a distraction fraud. Mr M used his bank card in a 
machine to pay for parking whilst he attended a hospital appointment. After hed done so he 
was approached by a man who told him hed be fined for parking where he had left his car. 
And told him he needed to use the car parking machine located in the hospital grounds. 
Mr M believed what the man said, convinced he might be fined £150, he went with the man 
to use the parking machine. On his way to the machine a second man joined him and 
confirmed what hed been told by the first man.
Mr M put his bank card in the parking machine, entered his registration number and PIN  
being careful to hide his PIN as best as he could with his hands. The machine appeared to 
take Mr Ms card. Mr M then put a second bank card in the machine and the same thing 
happened. Mr M started to walk around the machine looking for a contact number to report 
what happened. Whilst he did so he noticed that the two men had walked quickly away from 
the machine. Soon after Mr Ms card was used to make four fraudulent transactions. Mr M 
reported what had happened to the hospital security guard and was told that fraudsters were 
tricking people to use the machine and stealing bank cards. As a result of the fraud, £1,600 
was taken from Mr Ms account.
 
Mr M complained to NatWest about what had happened. And he asked the bank to refund 
him the £1,600. NatWest investigated Mr Ms fraud claim but said Mr M hadnt taken 
adequate care of his banking security information  his PIN, so it wasnt willing to refund him. 
NatWest also decided to close Mr Ms account.
Mr M complained to NatWest and maintained that he hadnt carried out the disputed 
transactions or that hed been careless when entering his PIN into the car parking machine  
he said hed clearly been the victim of thieves and had reported the matter to the police. 
Mr M tried to obtain CCTV footage from the hospital car park and the venues where his card 
had been used to support his fraud claim. But NatWest continued to decline his claim. 
Mr M made numerous phones and wrote several emails and letters to the bank about his 
fraud claim to appeal the banks decision. Mr M says he had great difficulty working out how 
to contact NatWest, he was passed from pillar to post each time he spoke to someone at the 
bank and when he did speak to staff, they were rude, dismissive and unhelpful. And the 
bank didnt keep him updated about what was happening. So, he brought his complaint to 
our service.
Initially one of our investigators looked at Mr Ms complaint and said NatWest hadnt done 
anything wrong when it declined his fraud claim. However, we looked again at the circumstances 
of Mr Ms complaint and obtained more information from him. After looking at everything again 
the investigator said Mr M hadnt been grossly negligent when hed entered his PIN and used his 
bank card in the car park machine. So, we asked NatWest to refund the disputed transactions to 
Mr M. The investigator also said NatWest had provided Mr M with poor service and should pay 
him £100 compensation for the trouble and upset hed suffered. The investigator didnt think the 
bank had done anything wrong when it closed Mr Ms account.
 
NatWest agreed to refund the disputed transactions to Mr M along with interest for loss of use 
of his funds and pay him £100 compensation. Mr M was happy the bank had agreed to refund 
his money. But he said the £100 compensation doesnt reflect the amount of trouble and upset 
hed suffered. He said hed been to a great deal of trouble trying to secure CCTV footage and 
speaking to the police in efforts to get the bank to refund him. Hes also said the whole matter 
has taken a toll on his health. And that the bank told him to contact the police to sort things 
out. So, he feels NatWest should pay him additional compensation. He also wants the bank to 
reopen his bank account. 
As no agreement could be reached, the matter has come to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 The investigator wrote a detailed view that sets out the full facts, the transactions, and the 
evidence. Mr M and NatWest have read the investigators view. So, I wont repeat every 
detail here, only those which form the basis of my decision. However, I can assure Mr M that 
Ive read the file, including his most recent comments and evidence.
Firstly, Im pleased to see that NatWest has agreed to refund Mr M the money he lost as a 
result of the fraudulent transactions  a total of £1,600. Its also agreed to pay Mr M interest 
at a rate of 8% for loss of use of his funds, which Mr M has accepted. So, I need only 
address Mr Ms remaining complaint points  whether NatWest should do more to put things 
right and whether it treated Mr M fairly when it closed his account
Mr M wants NatWest to pay him more compensation. He says the bank didnt deal with his 
fraud claim well and he says he had to do all the donkey work to support his fraud claim. 
And the bank simply told him to report the matter to the police. Hes explained he went to the 
venues where his card was used by the fraudsters. And went back to the hospital to speak to 
security staff to try and get CCTV footage so that he could provide this to the bank. He says 
he spent a great deal of time going to the police  all to try and show hed been the victim of 
fraud and help catch those responsible. Although the police confirmed they couldnt find the 
offenders  Mr M says he spent a lot of his time trying to sort out what had happened.  All of 
which he feels should have been done by the bank. This has caused him a lot of stress and 
impacted his health. 
As Mr M was the victim of fraud.  I dont think it was unreasonable for NatWest to tell Mr M to 
report the matter to the police. Afterall, the police are best placed to conduct criminal 
investigations which includes gathering evidence such as CCTV footage and identifying 
those responsible  its their job. Mr M has provided copies of emails he sent to NatWest and 
the police asking them to share information. And kept them up to date with his enquiries. In 
response, I can see that the bank was keen to obtain any information from the police to 
assist Mr Ms fraud claim such as CCTV footage and it cooperated with the investigation via 
its police liaison department. 
I appreciate Mr M was very proactive and went to good deal of trouble and effort to try and 
assist the investigation and obtain evidence of the fraud - he spoke to security staff at the hospital, visited the venues where his card was used by the fraudsters to obtain CCTV, 
submitted photographs of the parking machine, and maintained contact with the police. I 
know Mr M feels that the bank should have been making the enquiries he undertook and that 
he was doing all the donkey work. I can understand why Mr M feels as he does. He was 
doing his level best to convince the bank he wasnt responsible for the fraud.  But I can see 
NatWest checked whether any useful evidence had been provided to its police liaison team 
when looking into Mr Ms fraud claim. And I wouldnt have expected them to do more whilst it 
was still investigating whether the transactions were fraudulent and how they happened. 
Its clear from what Mr M has told us that he feels strongly about his complaint. Being the 
victim of fraud, is stressful. And I dont doubt that this has been a very worrying and 
upsetting time for Mr M, especially as NatWest initially declined his fraud claim. But having 
looked at the circumstances of this case, I dont think it would be fair to say that NatWest 
caused all the trouble and upset Mr Ms experienced. After all, NatWest didnt carry out the 
fraud which resulted in Mr M losing his money. 
However, turning to the customer service provided there have clearly been some issues. 
NatWest has already agreed that it did not handle things well. And should have provided
Mr M with better service. It agrees that Mr M wasnt provided with updates and he had to 
continually chase the bank, and when he did speak to the bank, he was passed from pillar to 
post, which caused him trouble and upset. And although it no longer has any call recordings 
of conversations with Mr M it accepts the service Mr M received fell short of what Mr M 
wanted. Its unfortunate that no recordings are available. But I think its fair to say this added 
to Mr Ms worry at an already stressful time and I agree some compensation is appropriate 
for this. NatWest has agreed to pay Mr M £100 compensation for the trouble and upset he 
suffered as a result of its poor service. Overall, I think this offer is fair, and so I wont be 
asking the bank to do anything more. 
I then turn to the banks decision to close Mr Ms account. Its generally for banks to decide 
whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any 
particular customer. Unless theres a very good reason to do so, this service wont usually 
say that a bank must keep customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had 
their account closed.
NatWest has explained that it is a normal part of its process to carry out further checks after 
a fraud claim is raised, which included looking at information recorded at credit and fraud 
prevention agencies. Following completion of these checks NatWest decided to close Mr Ms 
account. And on 25 April 2019, it told Mr M that his account would be closed in 14 days. 
Having looked at the information, I dont think this was unreasonable. So, whilst I can 
appreciate Mr M was no doubt upset, I dont think NatWest acted unfairly when it decided it 
no longer wanted to offer Mr M an account. So, Im not going to tell the bank to re-open it. 
 
Putting things right
As NatWest have previously agreed to refund Mr M the disputed transactions. NatWest 
should put things right by:
Refunding Mr M the disputed transactions sum of £1,600
Pay Mr M 8% simple interest from the date of the transaction to the date of 
settlement
Pay Mr M £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused
 My final decision For the reasons given above, National Westminster Bank plc should put things right for 
Mr M in the way that Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman