DRN-1811228
 
The complaint
Ms C is unhappy that Volkswagon Financial Services (UK) Limited ('VWFS') charged her for 
damage to a car.
What happened
In January 2016 Ms C got a new car. It was financed in part with a hire-purchase  agreement 
through VWFS. 
Later Ms C decided to voluntarily terminate the agreement. The car was collected to be 
taken to auction in January 2020. An initial inspection was completed when the car was 
picked up.
After the car was picked up a further inspection found damage  three of the alloy wheels -
 right-hand rear, left-hand rear and right-hand front. The inspection said all three alloys were 
scratched outside of fair wear and tear guidelines. Ms C was charged £36, not including 
VAT, for each wheel.
Ms C complained to VWFS in February 2020. It issued its final response letter the next day. 
This said VWFS had looked at the photos from when the car was inspected and thought the 
charge on the right-hand rear wheel shouldn't stand. But, it said the other two alloys had 
damage that was outside the fair wear and tear guidelines. It sent Ms C a new total charge 
of £86.40.
Ms C was unhappy with this and brought her case to our service. Our investigator didn't 
uphold the complaint. He said he thought it was clear there was damage to the two alloys 
that VWFS were still charging Ms C for.
Ms C disagreed. She said the initial inspection when the car was collected didn't show any 
damage. And she sent in a photo and a video of the car which she said was in good 
condition. Our investigator reviewed the photo and video and said this didn't change his 
opinion.
Ms C remained unhappy, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I don't think this 
complaint should be upheld. I'll explain why.
After our investigator issued their opinion, Ms C raised a concern that VWFS attempted to 
take the charge from her bank account unsuccessfully. This didn't form part of Ms C's 
original complaint - so I haven't considered this further in this decision.What I need to decide in this case is whether it's reasonable for VWFS to charge Ms C 
for damage to two alloy wheels.
When thinking about what would be 'acceptable wear and tear' for the car, I've considered 
the guidance from the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA). The 
BVRLA's fair wear and tear guide, in relation to alloy wheels, says:
"Scuffs to up 50mm on the total circumference of the wheel rim and on alloy wheels are 
acceptable"
I've considered the photos of the two alloys from when the car was inspected. These both 
have clear scuff marks on the wheel. I appreciate there isn't a measuring device included in 
these pictures to see the exact length of the scuffs. But, having thought about the photos I'm 
satisfied it's clear there are scuffs of over 50mm on both wheels. It follows I'm satisfied the 
damage falls outside of the BVRLA guidelines for fair wear and tear.
I've thought about what Ms C said about the damage not being noted on the form when the 
car was collected. But, it isn't unusual for a more thorough inspection to take place later on 
once a car has been picked up. The collection and the inspection report are dated on the 
same day. On balance, I don't think it's most likely that the alloys were damaged during the 
time between the car being picked up and the second inspection. I think the damage is more 
likely to have happened at some point when Ms C had the car.
I've considered the photo and video Ms C sent in. But, neither of these is particularly clear. 
Neither focuses on the alloys. The photo is from quite far away, so I can't see the alloys in 
detail. And the video appears to have been taken when the car was either very damp or 
when there was a frost, so it's difficult to see any potential marks clearly. Thinking about this, 
neither the photo nor the video change my opinion.
Finally, I've considered what the agreement Ms C signed says about the charges. In the 
terms and conditions it says:
"You will be responsible for any damage to or deterioration of the Vehicle which is excess of 
fair wear and tear and commensurate with the age and mileage of the Vehicle"
I think from this Ms C agreed to be responsible for any damage to the car.
In summary, I'm satisfied the damage on the alloy wheels falls outside the fair wear and tear 
guidelines. I'm satisfied it's most likely this damage happened when Ms C had the car. And, 
I'm satisfied Ms C agreed to be responsible for the damage under the agreement. Thinking 
about all of this, I don't think VWFS did anything wrong by charging Ms C as it did.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 June 2020.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman