DRN-3163094
The complaint
Miss D complains that AWP P&C SA (AWP) declined her travel insurance claim. My 
references to AWP include its agents which includes its claim and complaint handler.   
What happened
In January 2020 Miss D booked a trip to Sri Lanka then Bali for 9 March to 9 April 2020. On 
9 February 2020 she bought a single trip Campbell Irvine travel insurance policy, insured by 
AWP.
On 17 March 2020, while Miss D was in Sri Lanka, the Foreign, Commonwealth and 
Development Office (FCDO  formerly the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO)) 
advised against all non-essential travel abroad due to Covid-19.
On 23 March 2020 while Miss D was still in Sri Lanka the FCDO advised all British travellers 
to return to the UK immediately due to Covid-19. Around the same time the Sri Lankan 
government announced their border closure due to Covid-19. Miss D told us her scheduled 
return flights were cancelled. She cut short (curtailed) her trip and got a flight back to the UK 
on 24 March 2020.
When Miss D returned home she claimed on her policy for her flights from Sri Lanka to Bali 
and from Bali to the UK and her holiday cost in Bali. She says she cant get a refund for 
those costs. 
AWP declined the claim on the basis the policy excludes any claim if Miss D was travelling to 
a country where the FCDO had advised against all but essential travel.
Miss D complained to us. She said at the time she went to Sri Lanka there was no FCDO 
advice against travel to the country, if there had been she wouldnt have gone, and she 
returned home as the FCDO advised. She wants AWP to pay her claim.
Our investigator asked AWP for its file for this complaint several times but it didnt send its 
file. So our investigator assessed the complaint on the information she had which included 
the policy document AWP sent to Miss D when it responded to her complaint. 
Our investigator highlighted to AWP that it appeared it hadnt sent Miss D the correct version 
of the policy when it responded to her complaint. On the evidence our investigator had she 
said AWP unfairly declined the claim and recommended AWP reassess the claim as if 
covered under the cancellation/curtailment section of the policy. 
AWP didnt respond to our investigators recommendation so the matter has been passed to 
me to make a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules and guidance
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS). 
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly.
ICOBS also says that insurers should give consumers appropriate information about a 
policy in good time and in a way that is easy to understand. This should include an 
Insurance Product Information Document (IPID), giving a consumer a summary of certain 
things  including excluded risks.
The relevant documentation
The only policy document Ive seen is the document AWP sent to Miss D when it responded 
to her complaint. That document includes a general exclusion for claims directly or indirectly 
caused by: 
17. Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) or any mutation of the disease.
But at the time Miss D bought the policy, 9 February 2020, I think its highly unlikely the 
policy included that Covid-19 exclusion. I say that because generally it was only on or after 
11 March 2020, when the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 to be a pandemic, 
that insurers declared Covid-19 to be a known risk. So I think its probable the policy 
document Ive seen is an updated version of the policy Miss D took out on 9 February 2020. 
Our investigator highlighted this issue in her view letter to AWP but it didnt respond.
Ive made this decision on the basis that the policy terms and conditions relevant to Miss D 
are as detailed in the policy Ive seen apart from the general exclusion relating to Covid-19. 
AWP hasnt told us otherwise and its had the opportunity to tell us.  
The policy document says that under the cancellation or curtailment section theres cover for 
irrecoverable travel, accommodation, prebooked excursions, tours and events up to the 
policy limit if a trip is curtailed for specific reasons which are listed. 
Miss D curtailed her trip because while she was abroad the FCDO advised against all but 
essential travel to her destination and intended destination (she was due to travel to Bali 
shortly after the 23 March 2020 FCDO advice). The FCDO also advised British travellers to 
return to the UK immediately. Those events arent one of the policys specific, listed insured 
events for which curtailment cover is provided. This means the Miss Ds claim isnt covered 
under the terms and conditions of the policy. 
However, having taken into account industry guidelines and the relevant law, I dont think its 
fair or reasonable in the circumstances for Miss D to have no cover when she had to curtail 
her holiday. Ill explain why.
Page 14 of the policy has the following General Exclusion:
Travelling to a country, specific area or event  to which the Travel Advice of the 
British Foreign and Commonwealth Office or World Health Organisation has advised 
against all travel or all but essential travel unless agreed by or on behalf of the 
insurer.
AWP referred to this exclusion to decline the claim in its final response letter to Miss D and 
from my experience its likely this exclusion was present in the applicable policy document at the point of sale to Miss D.
As AWP hasnt provided a IPID for this complaint Ive looked at the IPID issued for these 
AWP policies. Our investigator sent AWP the IPID we were considering and it hasnt told us 
the document is the wrong one for Miss Ds policy. Page 2 of the IPID states the following 
under Where am I covered:
You will not be covered if you travel to a country or region where the Travel Advice 
Unit of the British Foreign and Commonwealth Office or the World Health 
Organisation has advised against travel, unless otherwise agreed with the insurer.
This exclusion means if Miss D had remained abroad she would have been acting against 
FCDO advice and she would have had no cover whatsoever under her policy. So if Miss D 
had remained abroad the policy would have been of no use to her. 
The effect of this exclusion is that Miss D wasnt covered if she followed FCDO advice and 
curtailed her trip, but she also had no cover if she remained abroad.
I dont think the exclusion of cover from claims arising from changes to FCDO advice was 
clearly highlighted to Miss D in the IPID, and I dont think this was easily understandable 
from the policy documents either. The curtailment section of cover in the policy Ive seen 
doesnt list changes in FCDO advice as an exclusion so Miss D would need to read the 
terms and conditions of the policy from beginning to end to understand the full effect of the 
policy. I dont think this is fair or reasonable, and I think a reasonable consumer would 
expect an exclusion like this to be brought to their attention in a more prominent and 
transparent way.
Overall, I think the way the documents were presented means the combined effect of the 
policy wasnt clear to Miss D. She had no cover at all when FCDO advice changed and 
I think this created a significant imbalance between the rights of the consumer and the rights 
of the insurer. I dont think this is fair and I dont think its likely Miss D would have bought the 
policy if she realised there would be no cover under the policy if FCDO advice changed after 
the cover was purchased.
Putting things right
I think it would be fair and reasonable for AWP to treat the claim as covered under the 
cancellation/curtailment section of the policy and to reassess Miss Ds claim under the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy. AWP should disregard the above exclusion for 
claims relating to Covid-19. As Ive said, I think that exclusion probably wasnt in the policy at 
the time Miss D bought the policy. Even if the Covid-19 exclusion was in the relevant policy it 
would have been a very unusual exclusion in a travel policy at the time and Ive no evidence 
that the exclusion was highlighted to Miss D so it wouldnt be fair for AWP to rely on that 
exclusion to decline the claim.
Miss D should note that as the policy covers irrecoverable costs as part of AWPs 
reassessment of her claim it may want her to provide evidence from the airline/s and holiday 
provider that the costs she claimed arent refundable.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint on the evidence I have.I require AWP P&C SA to reassess Miss Ds claim as if it were covered under the 
cancellation/curtailment section of the policy subject to the remaining policy terms, but not 
the exclusion relating to claims arising from Covid-19.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 February 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman