DRN-4371148
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs B complain about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limiteds (RSA) delay in 
dealing with their claim under their buildings insurance policy. 
Mrs B has acted as the main representative during the claim and complaint process. So, for 
ease of reference, I will refer to any actions taken, or comments made, by either Mr B or  
Mrs B as Mrs B throughout the decision. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so I wont go into detail but will 
summarise the key points. There was significant damage caused to Mrs Bs home following 
a fire. She reported this to RSA who appointed a loss adjuster  who Ill refer to as   
company S  to manage the claim. Around 15 months into the claim, Mrs B complained to 
RSA as she felt things were taking too long and referred to specific stages within the claim 
where she felt RSA had delayed. She said there was initially a delay in RSA accepting 
liability for the claim, and they didnt help find or fund alternative accommodation (AA) 
during the early stages of the claim. Mrs B also complained about there being delay in 
erecting scaffolding  which she said led to further damage. She said shed received a quote 
from a scaffolding company a couple of days after the fire, but RSA declined this. Mrs B 
said, since RSA accepted the claim, progress had been slow. She felt this was down to RSA 
splitting the works into three separate phases; 1) strip out works, 2) roof rebuild, and 3) all 
other reinstatement work. She said this led to a time-consuming two step approval process 
for each phase. Mrs B also complained about delays in approving the schedule of works 
(SOW) for phase 3 of the reinstatement works. 
RSA responded and explained, due to the size of the claim and the extent of damage, a 
forensic report was required to determine the cause of the fire. They said claims of this 
nature need to be checked for the exact cause and its normal process to place a claim on 
hold while waiting for a forensic report. RSA said they do note however that, during the 
interim, company S did carry out an initial attendance so they did try and move the claim 
forward as much as they could. RSA said they note, during this time, Mrs B arranged her 
own hotel and then AA at her own expense. RSA explained this is again normal process and 
they wont pay for any AA until such time that cover is confirmed. They said once cover was 
confirmed, they did offer to reimburse the hotel costs, but this was declined. They said, once 
the claim was assessed and it was clear that the AA limit on the policy would be exceeded, a 
final payment was made. They said they acknowledge this has now become a financial cost 
for Mrs B while the works are ongoing, but they can only settle up to the amount on the 
policy. 
RSA acknowledged Mrs Bs complaint about the delay in erecting the scaffolding and 
explained these costs couldnt be approved until cover was confirmed and liability agreed. 
They said once the scaffolding costs were approved, there were delays due to the location of 
trees and the access and space required to facilitate the scaffolding. They said these trees 
were subject to preservation orders, so the delays were outside of RSAs control. RSA said 
the delay in erecting the scaffolding and putting the tin hat in place meant the property did 
suffer damage from the elements, and it was some time before safe entry could be gained. 
They said this did result in further damage to the contents inside the property, but the delays 
in getting the property protected and the strip out works underway wasnt due to RSAs 
handling of the claim. 
In relation to Mrs Bs concern about delays in scoping, approving and the tendering process 
followed at each stage of the claim, they said these are normal processes when handling an 
insurance claim, and all repair elements need to be checked at each stage to ensure that the 
policy terms are adhered to. They acknowledged the phase 3 costs came in much higher 
than anticipated due to increases in materials and contractor rates. They said a referral to 
RSA for approval was needed and was again part of the normal process. They said, as the 
phase 2 works were still ongoing while the phase 3 costs were being reviewed, there was no 
detrimental impact on the progress of the claim. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr B and Mrs B. She thought RSA had caused some 
delays and recommended they pay £450 compensation. RSA agreed but Mr B and Mrs B 
disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. And, I think the investigators 
recommendation is a fair way to resolve matters. I understand Mr B and Mrs B will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
My role requires me to say how a complaint should be settled quickly and with minimal 
formality and so Ill focus on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint and the main 
areas of dispute. 
Delay in accepting liability 
I can see Mrs B reported the incident to RSA on 27 September 2021 and a site meeting took 
place two days later  and this included company S, a structural engineer from a surveying 
company and a fire forensic investigator. A drone survey was also commissioned to assist 
the surveyor as well as potentially assisting in the forensic investigation. Company S provide 
a progress report on 8 October, and this notes theyre still awaiting the results of the drone 
survey and the forensic report. The information provided by RSA shows the fire report wasnt 
then received until 13 October  and a decision was then made two weeks later to accept 
liability for the claim. 
Its clear from the reports provided by RSA there was significant damage caused to Mrs Bs 
home. Given the nature of the claim, the damage caused and the size of the claim, I dont 
think it was unreasonable for RSA to commission a report from a forensic expert  and its 
not unusual or uncommon for insurers to take such steps to establish the cause and whether 
it falls within the policy terms and conditions. While I accept any repair work would be left in 
abeyance until a liability decision was made, I cant say there was a complete pause on all 
claim related work. 
I can see a site meeting took place and company S, while waiting for the drone survey 
results and the fire forensic report, did prepare a detailed report setting out a description of 
Mrs Bs home, the extent of damage and thoughts on the reserve to be held for any 
reinstatement works. So, up to the forensic report being received, I cant say there were any 
avoidable delays on the part of RSA. Once the report is received though, it takes two weeks for RSA to make a decision on 
liability. I havent been provided with any information or explanation for why it took RSA two 
weeks. While Im not saying two weeks to make a decision would always amount to delay, 
Im saying it was an avoidable delay in the circumstances of this case. I say this for two 
reasons. Firstly, perhaps the most important decision for a customer when making a claim is 
the insurers decision on whether to accept a claim. A customer will understandably be 
anxious to know whether their claim will be covered  and particularly in this case which 
involves significant damage to Mrs Bs home. Secondly, its clear Mrs B was anxious about 
things moving forward and wanted RSA to consider erecting scaffolding to protect her home. 
So, knowing its a very important decision for Mrs B in her circumstances, and she wants 
things moving forward, I think RSA shouldve treated this with a degree of urgency and 
looked to have made a liability decision sooner than they did. 
Delay in erecting scaffolding 
The information Ive seen shows Mrs Bs home was deemed structurally unsafe and needed 
scaffolding to stabilise the site. I can see a quote was received on 4 October and was 
approved on 27 October. Mrs B explains a quote was received from a scaffolding company a 
couple of days after the incident, but this was declined by RSA in favour of seeking further 
quotes for comparison. Mrs B says RSA didnt act quickly or decisively and were more 
concerned about any cost saving rather than protecting her home. I do acknowledge Mrs Bs 
concern but its not uncommon for insurers to request more than one quote with a focus on 
those which are not only suitable but also competitively priced. So, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for RSA to take this approach. And, I dont think it was unreasonable for them 
to hold off from authorising any scaffolding until at least cover had been confirmed.     
 
I can see the scaffolding company then encountered some initial problems. They noted there 
were trees surrounding Mrs Bs home which needed to be cut to allow enough space for the 
scaffolding to be erected  but the trees are subject to tree preservation orders, and 
company S note this hinders the erection of scaffolding. A report from company S says any 
tree work will require a formal planning application to be submitted to the local authority for 
approval before any progress can be made. Company S say a further visit is being arranged 
for an independent specialist scaffolder to consider whether a new design for scaffolding 
might be possible. Then consent to limited planned tree works was given and the scaffolding 
started. The information shows a surveying company had issued an invoice for their services 
which includes liaising with the local authority, design and contract administration and 
discussions with various parties. The scaffolding was then completed in early January 2022. 
I acknowledge Mrs B is concerned about the progress here, but it appears there were 
unforeseen and unexpected circumstances here which led to delays  and these were 
outside of RSAs control. Information provided by RSA shows the issues involving the trees 
and the tree preservation order, and how this caused initial delay with installation and 
subsequent redesign necessary to provide for a bespoke cantilevered scaffold/tin hat 
arrangement to accommodate the trees and the boundary overhang at a higher cost than 
was anticipated. I acknowledge Mrs Bs frustration, and in particular her concern about 
ongoing damage which was being caused to her home and contents at the time. I can see 
company S has acknowledged there was notable deterioration to Mrs Bs home due to 
rainwater ingress. But the information shows the tin hat protections to enclose Mrs Bs home 
couldnt be installed until the resolution of the tree preservation orders issue. 
So, I cant say RSA have acted unreasonably here in observing any legal requirements 
surrounding tree preservation orders. And while I agree this led to the erection of the 
scaffolding not being completed sooner, I cant say RSA were responsible for this. 
Delay in authorising scope of worksI can see Mrs B is concerned about RSAs decision to split the works into three components, 
and she feels the approvals process built into each stage meant things didnt progress in a 
timely manner. I acknowledge Mrs Bs concern about the tender and approvals process but, 
from the information Ive seen, its clear the reinstatement works required to bring Mrs Bs 
home back to its pre-loss condition were significant  and I think this is evidenced by the 
total repair costs incurred by RSA to date. Its not uncommon in cases where the 
reinstatement works are extensive for an insurer to divide the works into separate phases 
and carry out a tender exercise for each. Its not unreasonable for an insurer to want to carry 
out a tendering process to assess suitability and costs  and then to engage the services of 
any suitable contractor they feel is competitively priced. 
That said, I would still expect an insurer to progress a claim promptly and avoid any 
unnecessary delays. I can see Mrs B is concerned about phase 3 of the reinstatement works 
- particularly about the SOW being approved by RSA in July 2022, going out to tender, only 
for RSA to then raise queries in November about the tender returns. 
The information shows RSA received the SOW for phase 3 of the works in July 2022 and 
gave approval for this to go out to tender. The information shows there were three tenders 
for the phase 3 SOW for the main reinstatement which were received towards the end of 
September. Company S then carry out a detailed review of the tender returns in October and 
also undertake a further site visit with the surveying company in November to cross check 
provisional allowances included in the SOW. I can see company S request further particulars 
to establish and substantiate the basis of valuation of the provisional sum allowances 
included within the SOW and to ensure the scope correctly details the like for like 
reinstatement of damage having regard to necessary upgrades required to meet building 
regulation standards. 
Having received the information requested, Company S then confirm to RSA the SOW 
appears factually correct. Company S then report to RSA and say limited contractor 
availability and the current broader market pricing levels have combined to create a situation 
where RSA are being asked to consider the acceptance of a tender presented at a level 
substantially higher than would be considered appropriate for the works required. Company 
S ask RSA to consider whether to appoint a specific contractor, and this is then approved at 
the start of December. 
I acknowledge Mrs B says this was frustrating as RSA had sight of the SOW in July but 
didnt raise any concerns or look to make any enquiries at this stage, despite noting they 
might need to raise queries with the surveying company about some provisional allowances. 
It appears the costs quoted by the contractors following the tendering exercise is what led to 
RSA wanting to review this further. I dont think its necessarily unreasonable for an insurer 
to do this given that the costs quoted were significantly higher than what RSA were 
expecting. And I can see the surveying company did point out to RSA the level of market 
pricing and theyd identified general cost increases on tender returns of 25% - 30% over the 
last 18 months. 
But in this case, RSA did have sight of the SOW in July and, as highlighted by company S in 
their report following their review, this does accurately reflect the works required. So, I think 
it wouldve been reasonable for RSA to have raised any questions or concerns at this point. 
I acknowledge RSA say they cant be expected to have foreseen the increase in costs, but 
RSA is an insurer and its been widely publicised that increase in labour costs and materials 
have impacted the level of claim costs being incurred by insurers. Having had sight of the 
SOW, which included the provisional allowances, and knowing about the current market 
trends in terms of costs, I dont think its unreasonable to expect RSA to have been aware 
the costs might be higher than expected and to have started any review into the SOW 
sooner.Alternative Accommodation   
Given the extent of damage to Mrs Bs home, it was rendered uninhabitable. Initially Mrs B 
and her family lived in a hotel while a liability decision was being made. I dont think it was 
unreasonable for RSA to not cover any AA at the time as a decision on liability was still 
pending. RSA say they did then later offer to cover the hotel costs once liability had been 
confirmed, but this was declined. Mrs B and her family then moved into a rental property, 
and I can see RSA have made payments in stages which have reached the maximum 
available under the policy limit. 
Mrs B says she has always acknowledged the policy limit  and this isnt in dispute. She 
says her concern is that, as a result of this limit being reached, RSA were no longer 
motivated to progress her claim at pace. Mrs B believes its unfair she has to fund her AA 
while RSA can delay progress knowing there arent any financial repercussions in the form 
of funding any AA.  
I do acknowledge Mrs Bs concerns and, generally, we would expect AA to be covered until 
the property becomes habitable or safe again, subject to the limit in the policy. Sometimes 
repair works take longer to finish than what was estimated at the beginning of the claim. And 
in cases involving significant damage to a property, there might well be occasions where 
additional work becomes necessary due to unforeseen and unexpected reasons. In this 
case, I acknowledge the repairs have taken longer than Mrs B wouldve liked, but for me to 
consider any continuity of AA payments, I would need to see RSA, or their agents, have 
caused unnecessary and avoidable delays  and in this case, and beyond what Ive said 
about the liability decision above, I cant say they have. I note Mrs Bs concern about RSA 
losing motivation but, from the information Ive seen, I cant say theres any evidence of 
undue delays.  
Taking this all into account, I think Mrs B has been caused upset and frustration by RSA not 
making a liability decision more promptly and by not making enquiries into the phase 3 SOW 
sooner. In relation to the liability decision, I have to take into account any impact was limited 
to around two weeks. In relation to the phase 3 enquiries, while I think a review couldve 
been considered sooner, I cant say this had a wider impact as I can see phase 2 works 
were still ongoing during the period RSA were carrying out a review. So, while I 
acknowledge Mrs B was left frustrated at RSA not identifying a review might be necessary 
sooner, I cant say this led to the claim stagnating or otherwise slowing down. That said, I 
can see these errors have had an impact on Mrs B during a period when she was clearly 
anxious and frustrated with how long things were taking. So, I think compensation of £450 is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
I wish to reassure Mrs B Ive read and considered everything she has sent in, but if I havent 
mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or thought 
about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. This isnt 
intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of the informal nature of our service.
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that RSA have made errors in not making a liability decision more 
promptly and by not making enquiries into the phase 3 SOW sooner. So, they should pay  
Mr B and Mrs B £450 compensation for the upset and frustration caused. My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited must 
pay Mr B and Mrs B £450 compensation.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman