DRN-3326112
The complaint
Mr C complains that Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc didnt notify him about congestion charges 
hed incurred in a timely manner.
What happened
In December 2019 Mr C was supplied with a car and entered into a hire agreement with HC.
In October 2020 HC notified Mr C about several congestion fines incurred in September 
2020 and advised Mr C that it would pay these and that he would be re-charged. This 
brought to light a further seven outstanding congestion fines incurred between July  
September 2020.
Mr C complained to HC. He said that he had set up auto pay to pay all congestion charges 
automatically and hadnt realised that there was an issue with his auto pay because HC 
hadnt told him about any of the fines until October.
In response, HC acknowledged that due to a system error, it hadnt notified Mr C about the 
fines incurred between July  September in a timely manner. It said it would waive these 
charges, totalling £1680. It said the remaining charges for fines between 15-25 September 
remained payable.
Mr C wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service. He said that if hed 
been notified of the charges sooner, he wouldnt have incurred the fines in September.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said he thought HC had acted fairly by 
waiving the fines incurred between 9 July  9 September, but said that because Mr C had 
been sent a recharge latter in August, he ought to have been aware that there was an issue 
with his auto pay and that it was his responsibility to make sure it was set up correctly.
Mr C didnt agree. He said he hadnt received a recharge letter in August and that the first 
time he was aware of the fines was in October 2020.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the hire agreement. These say that HC can 
recharge Mr C for any fines or charges it has to pay in respect of the car.
Mr C doesnt dispute HCs contractual right to recharge him. But he says that if HC had 
notified about the charges promptly, he wouldnt have incurred the later charges.
HC acknowledge that it failed to notify Mr C about the fines incurred between 9 July  9 
September within the relevant time period for the reduced rate to be paid. It has waived 
these charges. But in relation to the fines incurred between 15-25 September HC says that 
these are the responsibility of Mr C.
Ive thought about whether HC has acted fairly here. In relation to the charges incurred 
between 9 July  9 September, Im of the view that HC failed to notify Mr C about these 
within a reasonable period of time. If HC hadnt already agreed to waive these charges, I 
would be asking them to put things right. As it stands, HC has waived these charges, so I 
wont be asking them to do anything further in relation to these.
Ive thought about whether HCs right to recharge the fines incurred between 5-25 
September has been compromised by its failure to notify Mr C about the earlier charges 
within a reasonable time. I can see that HC sent Mr C a recharge letter in August 2020. 
Because of this, I think Mr C ought to have known that he hadnt been paying charges via 
the autopay system. I think it was Mr Cs responsibility, once he had been sent the recharge 
letter, to take steps to make sure that his auto pay was set up correctly or that he otherwise 
paid the congestion charges by another method.
Mr C has said that he didnt receive a recharge letter in August 2020. Hes questioned 
whether it was appropriate for HC to send the recharge letter by post, when all other 
correspondence had been emailed to him. I cant see anything in the terms and conditions of 
the hire agreement which specifies how HC should communicate with Mr C. The recharge 
letter is correctly addressed and Ive no reason to think it was returned undelivered to HC. 
Based on everything Ive seen, Im satisfied that HC acted fairly by waiving the fines incurred 
between 9 July  9 September. Im satisfied that a recharge letter was sent to Mr C in 
August 2020, and this letter ought to have out Mr C on notice that there was an issue with 
the payment of his congestion charges. Im satisfied that HC notified Mr C about the 
September charges within a reasonable period of time. Therefore, I wont be asking HC to 
do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman