DRN-3441092
Complaint
Mrs S has complained about loans AvantCredit of UK, LLC (Avant Credit) provided to her. 
She says the loans were unaffordable.
Background
Avant Credit provided Mrs S with an initial loan for £2,000.00 in April 2014. This loan was 
due to be repaid in 18 monthly instalments of just over £182. Mrs S was then provided with a 
second loan for £8,000.00 in July 2015. This loan was due to be repaid in 48 monthly 
instalments of just under £400. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed Mrs S complaint and he thought Avant Credit shouldnt 
have provided Mrs S with either of these loans. So he thought that Mrs S complaint should 
be upheld. Avant Credit accepted our adjudicators finding on loan 2 but disagreed with his 
findings on loan 1 so the case was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
As the parties are in agreement that loan 2 shouldnt have been provided this decision will 
only be looking at whether Avant Credit acted fairly and reasonably when providing loan 1 to 
Mrs S.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mrs S complaint. 
Having carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Mrs S complaint. Ill explain 
why in a little more detail.
Avant Credit needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Avant Credit needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether    
Mrs S could afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
The information Avant Credit has provided suggested that it carried out a credit check before 
providing loan 1. The results of which showed that Mrs S was already significantly indebted 
and had a history of taking out payday loans. Furthermore, while theres some suggestion 
the purpose of this loan might have been debt consolidation there is no indication of which 
debts Mrs S was going to consolidate. So its unclear to me how or what was going to be 
consolidated and more crucially how this was going to improve Mrs S financial position. 
This leaves me persuaded by what Mrs S has said about already being in a difficult financial 
position at the time of loan 1 (as well as loan 2 which Avant Credit already accepts this is the 
case). And while its possible Mrs S impaired credit file reflected her choices rather than any 
financial difficulty, Id add that my experience of these types of cases suggest this is unlikely, 
in the absence of any reasonable or plausible arguments from Avant Credit, Ive been 
persuaded to accept Mrs S version of events. 
As this is the case, I do think that Mrs S existing financial position meant that she was 
unlikely to be able to afford the payments to loan 1, without undue difficulty or borrowing 
further. And Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would more like than not 
have shown Avant Credit that it shouldnt have provided loan 1 to Mrs S. As Avant Credit 
provided Mrs S with loan 1 (as well as loan 2 which it has already accepted it should have 
provided), notwithstanding this, Im satisfied it failed to act fairly and reasonably towards her. 
Mrs S ended up paying interest, fees and charges on a loan she shouldnt have been 
provided with. So Im satisfied that Mrs S lost out because of what Avant Credit did wrong 
and that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Avant Credit needs to do to put things right for Mrs S
Having thought about everything, Avant Credit should put things right for Mrs S by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges Mrs S paid on loan 1;
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to loan 2 from the outset. The 
payments Mrs S made, whether to Avant Credit or any third-party debt purchaser, 
should be deducted from the new starting balance  the £8,000.00 originally lent. If 
Mrs S has already repaid more than £8,000.00 then Avant Credit should treat any 
extra as overpayments. And any overpayments should be refunded to Mrs S;
if an outstanding balance remains on loan 2 after all adjustments have been made, 
Avant Credit can use the compensation due from loan 1 to reduce and/or clear any 
amount owing on loan 2;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded payments from the date they 
were made by Mrs S to the date of settlement;
removing all adverse information it recorded on Mrs S credit file as a result of loan 1. 
Avant Credit should also remove all adverse information if recorded on Mrs S credit 
file as a result of loan 2, if after all adjustments have been made no outstanding 
balance remains on this loan. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Avant Credit to take off tax from this interest. Avant 
Credit must give Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for 
one.
Id also remind Avant Credit of its obligation to exercise forbearance and due consideration if 
it intends to collect on an outstanding balance, should it buy the debt back from any third-party debt purchaser and one remains, after all adjustments have been made to the account 
and its the case that Mrs S is currently experiencing financial difficulty.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mrs S complaint. AvantCredit of UK, LLC 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman