DRN-2587438
The complaint
Mr F says MBNA Limited mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 2001 on the phone. This was 
three years after Mr F applied for his card. It gave him accident, sickness and unemployment 
cover.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. Mr F disagreed so the
complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to the adjudicators view Mr Fs representative said we have used a lot of 
assumption in favour of the business due to not having enough information. 
I have weighed up the available evidence from both sides. As some of it is incomplete, my 
decision is reached based on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on what I 
consider is most likely given the evidence we do have and what we know about how MBNA 
sold PPI at the time. As an independent and impartial organisation we dont act on behalf of 
either consumer or banks - theres no benefit for us to find in favour of one party over the 
other.
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed
it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Fs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr F says he doesnt remember PPI being agreed or mentioned. He would not have 
knowingly agreed to the insurance. But Mr F took it out around three years after his credit
card account started in May 1998. So I think he would have understood it was a separate 
optional product. Theres no call recording but Ive looked at the sales script that was
used at the time. This shows the adviser was instructed to ask for Mr Fs consent to add
the cover onto his account more than once during the call. There was nothing in the
script that could reasonably have led Mr F to believe the PPI was mandatory. And Ive
found no evidence to suggest the script wasnt followed. Overall, I think its most likely MBNA 
made it clear the PPI was optional and Mr F agreed to take it. I can understand he might not 
remember this given how long ago the sale was.
MBNA didnt recommend the PPI to Mr F, so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for him.
It was up to him to decide if he needed it, bearing in mind his other ways to make his
repayments if he wasnt working.
MBNA had to provide clear, fair and not misleading information so Mr F could make an
informed decision. Its possible not all the information MBNA gave Mr F about the PPI was 
as good as it should have been. However it seems Mr F wasnt affected by any of the main 
exclusions or limitations so its unlikely more information on them wouldve have
changed his decision. The policy was reasonably priced for the benefit it offered and 
apparently affordable so I dont think better cost information would have changed his 
decision. 
The PPI would have paid out for up to 12 months for all successful accident, sickness and 
unemployment claims - in addition to any sick or redundancy pay Mr F was entitled to from 
his employer. Mr F said he had a car and other assets he could sell, but the PPI would have 
meant he didnt need to take such an extreme measure at what might already have been a 
difficult time. He said his partner, family and friends would have helped but thats not suitable 
alternative protection. Its not guaranteed, and peoples circumstances can change. So, on 
balance, I think the PPI would have been useful in his circumstances.
Overall, I think its most likely Mr F would have bought the policy even if better information 
had been provided.
But MBNA has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr F because:
MBNA got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI
premium) - so it should have told Mr F about that. Because MBNA didnt tell Mr F, 
that was unfair.
To put that right, MBNA has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so MBNA Limited does not have to pay back all of the cost
of the PPI to Mr F.
But MBNA Limited does have to pay back to Mr F any commission and profit share it got that
was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont
award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman