DRN-4353717
The complaint
Mrs T is complaining about Moneybarn No.1 Limited.  She says they shouldnt have lent to 
her as the loan was unaffordable. 
What happened
In November 2016, Mrs T took out a conditional loan agreement with Moneybarn, to finance 
the purchase of a car. She paid a deposit of £400 and borrowed £4,595 to pay the cash 
price of £4,995. The agreement required her to make 41 monthly repayments of £205.03. 
Mrs T missed a payment in January 2017 when a direct debit bounced. But she went on to 
make up the arrears and then settled the agreement early, taking out a new agreement with 
Moneybarn for a different vehicle in July 2018. 
Mrs T paid a deposit of £856 for the new agreement, borrowing £7,139 to cover the cash 
price of £7,995. This agreement required her to make 59 monthly payments of £239.27 but 
she started to struggle in April 2019, with a bounced direct debit in that month and then 
again in June 2019. Mrs T made most of the monthly payments that followed up until 
September 2021 but then missed two further payments and Moneybarn terminated the 
agreement in November 2021. 
In January 2023, Mrs T complained to Moneybarn, saying they were irresponsible in lending 
to her in both 2016 and 2018. For the avoidance of doubt, this decision only deals with 
Moneybarns second lending decision. 
In response to Mrs Ts complaint, Moneybarn said theyd done a full credit search with one 
of the credit reference agencies. They said this showed Mrs T had some defaulted accounts 
but the most recent was 25 months prior to her application and there were no other credit 
accounts with adverse information. They said the credit report also showed Mrs T had a 
County Court Judgment (CCJ) against her but this was dated 14 months before her 
application. 
Moneybarn added that theyd checked Mrs Ts income by reviewing the payslips shed 
provided and calculated a maximum monthly repayment of around £330 to allow for Mrs Ts 
non-discretionary expenditure. That led to them decide that the actual monthly repayment of 
£239.27 was affordable for Mrs T. 
Mrs T wasnt happy with Moneybarns response so brought her complaint to our service and 
one of our investigators looked into it. Her view was that Moneybarn had carried out 
proportionate checks and made a fair lending decision. Mrs T wasnt happy with our 
investigators view  she said we hadnt commented on the fact that Moneybarn hadnt 
collected the car until a year after terminating the agreement, and even then she had to 
prompt them to do it. 
Our investigator put this complaint point to Moneybarn but received no further comment or 
information. Reflecting on the information received from Mrs T, our investigator said shed 
didnt think this had caused Mrs T any loss. Mrs T remained unhappy and asked for an 
ombudsman to look into her complaint  and its come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and acknowledging itll be disappointing for Mrs T, Im not upholding her 
complaint for broadly the same reasons as our investigator - Ill explain below.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets out in a part of its handbook known as CONC 
what lenders must do when deciding whether or not to lend to a consumer. In summary, a 
firm must consider a customers ability to make repayments under the agreement without 
having to borrow further to meet repayments or default on other obligations, and without the 
repayments having a significant adverse impact on the customers financial situation. 
CONC says a firm must carry out checks which are proportionate to the individual 
circumstances of each case. 
Did Moneybarn carry out proportionate checks?
Moneybarn said they carried out the following checks:
reviewed Mrs Ts credit file; and
verified Mrs Ts income by looking at her payslips.
Whether or not these checks were proportionate depends on various factors, including the 
size and length of the loan, the cost of credit, and what Moneybarn found.
Moneybarn havent kept a copy of the credit file they looked at but theyve told us it showed 
Mrs T had a CCJ from 14 months prior to the lending decision and a default from 25 months 
prior. They said there was no other adverse information on the credit report and Mrs Ts 
borrowing levels were moderate. 
Because Moneybarns copy of Mrs Ts credit report isnt available, Ive looked at the credit 
report Mrs T provided. Because of the time thats passed this only gives an indication of 
Mrs Ts credit status for the last twelve months prior to her application for this agreement. 
From what Ive seen on the report, I dont think there were any other indicators that Mrs T 
might have been in financial difficulties at the time. The credit report suggests Mrs T didnt 
have significant debts. And the CCJ and default that Moneybarn noted were over a year 
before the lending decision  so Im satisfied that Moneybarn didnt need to place significant 
weight on these. In addition, Moneybarn would have been aware of Mrs Ts payment history 
on her previous agreement  although shed missed one payment, shed then made the 
remainder of the payments on time and then paid off her arrears. 
As well as checking her credit file, Moneybarn verified Mrs Ts net monthly income by 
looking at her most recent two payslips, and the average of the two amounts was £1,325. 
Moneybarn then took a view on whether this left Mrs T with enough income to cover her non-
discretionary expenditure. 
Im satisfied these checks were reasonable and proportionate - while the length of the loan 
was significant and the cost of credit relatively high, the repayments were relatively low  
less than 20% of Mrs Ts income. There werent any indicators from Mrs Ts credit file that 
she was in financial difficulties at the time, and this credit agreement represented an 
increase of only around £40 per month when compared to her previous credit agreement 
with Moneybarn.Did Moneybarn make a fair lending decision?
Moneybarn established that Mrs T had net monthly income of £1,325 per month. Subtracting 
the monthly repayments under the agreement meant shed be left with around £1,085 per 
month to cover her credit commitments and non-discretionary expenditure. 
The credit file showed Mrs T didnt have significant credit commitments so it would have 
been reasonable to expect most of this amount to be available for Mrs Ts non-discretionary 
expenditure. At the time, Mrs T was married and living in private rented accommodation, with 
no dependents. I dont think it was unreasonable for Moneybarn to decide that £1,085 per 
month would be enough for her to live on and to make the repayments on the agreement in 
a sustainable way. It follows that Im satisfied they made a fair lending decision.
Did Moneybarn act unfairly in any other way?
Mrs T has commented that she had children soon after this lending decision and that 
Moneybarn should have checked affordability on an annual basis. But theres no 
requirement in CONC for them to do this. The resulting change in Mrs Ts income wasnt 
reasonably foreseeable for Moneybarn so I cant say they should have factored this into their 
lending decision. 
Mrs Ts also commented that Moneybarn didnt collect the car from her when they 
terminated the agreement. They only collected it when she contacted them almost a year 
later. Ive looked at Moneybarns system notes and it looks like the usual reminders and 
chasers werent sent to Mrs T. I can see Moneybarn had arranged collection of the car in 
November 2021 but Mrs T called to dispute the arrears and told Moneybarn she wanted to 
keep the car. At this point the account was put on hold while the arrears were to be 
investigated and it seems this may have been what led to the collection being delayed.
However, although it appears the late collection was likely down to an error by Moneybarn, I 
cant say this has caused Mrs T any loss. On the contrary, she had use of the car for an 
additional twelve months. Mrs T has queried the balance outstanding and referenced the 
terms and conditions in relation to voluntary termination  but in this instance the termination 
was not voluntary. That means Moneybarn are entitled to all sums due under the agreement 
as set out section 9 of the terms and conditions. I appreciate the vehicle may have been sold 
for a higher amount in November 2021 than in November 2022 and that may have meant the 
sum now outstanding would be lower. But on balance its highly unlikely any reduction in 
outstanding amount would have outweighed the benefit Mrs T had in keeping the car for 
those twelve months. So I dont think she lost out as a result of the delay.
In summary Im satisfied Moneybarn havent acted unfairly. It follows that Im not upholding 
Mrs Ts complaint.
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mrs Ts complaint about Moneybarn No. 1 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2023.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman