DRN-2243420
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy with Aviva Insurance Limiteds (Aviva) decision to treat a theft from his car 
as a fault claim on his car insurance. He also complains Aviva asked him to find a garage to 
carry out repairs to his car and he had to chase the police himself to get updates on their 
investigation. Mr K wants Aviva to remove the fault status from his claim and to give him his 
no claims discount for the past year.
What happened
Mr Ks catalytic converter was stolen from his car, so he reported this to Aviva in October 
2019. 
Aviva treated Mr Ks claim as a fault claim which he says led to an increase in the premium 
he was quoted in the renewal documents. Mr K complained and, in their response, Aviva 
explained the claim was logged as a fault claim because they werent able to make any 
recovery of their costs. Aviva also said they were informed by Mr Ks car manufacturer there 
was a delay in getting a catalytic converter. They said, as Mr K was unhappy with this 
advice, he was given the option of finding his own garage to see if they could obtain the part 
sooner. Repairs were agreed at Mr Ks chosen garage and the repairs completed by them as 
soon as the car manufacturer could provide the part. 
Aviva also said, as Mr K had a claim during this period of insurance he didnt earn any no 
claims bonus. They said, because he had two claims against his policy in two years, this 
would increase the risk presented to Aviva which would affect the premiums charged. Aviva 
didnt uphold the complaint. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr K and felt that Aviva hadnt acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in recording the claim as a fault claim. Mr K disagreed so the matter has come 
to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr K will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
I feel its important to address Mr Ks understanding of the term fault. I can see hes 
concerned about how Aviva can treat a theft as a fault claim. In the insurance industry, the 
term fault refers to a claim which has led to the insurers paying out rather than a 
determination on responsibility on the part of a policyholder. So, when Aviva explained to Mr 
K they had treated the matter as a fault claim, it meant they had paid out costs which they 
havent been able to recover. 
Claim notes provided by Aviva show the details of the discussion they had with Mr K when 
he reported the theft. The notes say Aviva explained to Mr K they would need to know who 
carried out the theft in order to make a direct recovery. The notes record this was a fault 
claim, an excess of £350 would be payable and would lead to 0 years no claims discount. 
There was a further discussion a few weeks later and Mr K was again told by Aviva if they 
could find out who carried out the theft then they could attempt recovery and, if they make a 
successful recovery, the no claims discount wouldnt be affected. 
 
Theres no dispute that Aviva have had to pay costs here for repairs to Mr Ks car, so I dont 
think its unreasonable for them to treat this as a fault claim. Ive seen that Aviva have 
explained this process to Mr K as early as the first notification so I dont uphold this part of 
the complaint. 
Ive seen that Aviva also discussed the availability of a catalytic converter with Mr Ks car 
manufacturer and were told there was a two to three month wait. They explained to Mr K that 
if he could find someone who could carry out the repair quicker, then they would waive the 
non-approved repairer excess if he could provide them with an estimate. I have seen that Mr 
K did then provide an estimate from a garage. I think Aviva acted reasonably in making 
enquiries with the car manufacturer and, given what they were told about the waiting time, I 
dont think it was unfair for them to give Mr K the option of finding his own garage.
 
I understand Mr K reported the theft to the police but they closed their investigation as no 
suspects could be identified. Mr K says he had to chase the police himself for updates and 
feels Aviva shouldve made these enquiries. I can see Aviva did address this and said they 
are more than happy to request details from the police but they feel sometimes its quicker 
for a customer to get details directly. I cant see Mr K then specifically asked Aviva to make 
these enquiries so I dont think theyve acted unreasonably here.   
I note Mr K has been left frustrated here about his no claims discount. His motor insurance 
policy, which sets out the terms and conditions of his policy, explains what happens if a 
claim isnt a policyholders fault. It says if Aviva have to make a payment, they will reduce the 
no claim discount unless theyre able to recover all sums theyve paid from those 
responsible. So, given there has been no recovery here, I dont think its unfair for Aviva to 
have not given Mr K his no claims discount for that year. 
In summary, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint in this matter as Aviva havent acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in the way they handled Mr Ks claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2020.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman