DRN-3432094
The complaint
Mr F complains that hes recently discovered from ReAssure Limited that his pension will 
cease on his death  the annuity is on a single life basis - when he believed his wife would 
benefit and receive a small pension when he died.
What happened
Briefly:
Mr F purchased an annuity in 2002, which was set up on a single life basis.
Mr F complained to ReAssure in 2020 because he discovered that his wife would not benefit 
from his pension when he died, which he says he was led to believe was the case.
ReAssure responded and said the annuity was set up correctly on a single life basis. But in 
response to Mr F referring to a letter he received from the business in 1992, which said that 
Mr Fs wife would benefit from the policy regardless of the type of benefit selected, it said 
there were some issues with the letter and it offered Mr F £200 by way of an apology for the 
incorrect information he received.
Mr F referred his complaint to us and one of investigators looked at all of this. In summary 
they said they didnt uphold the complaint. They said the annuity had been set up correctly 
and referred to the application Mr F completed in which he ticked the box to take out a single 
life policy with no mention of any benefits payable to his wife. They explained that a death 
benefit was available to Mr Fs wife prior to him taking benefits but this ceased when Mr F 
used his pension to buy an annuity. And although they acknowledged ReAssures letter in 
1992 wasnt clear, taking everything into account they thought ReAssures offer of £200 was 
fair.
Because Mr F disagrees, the complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr F, I dont uphold his 
complaint. My reasons are set out below.
Ive firstly looked at the paperwork ReAssure has provided from 2002 when it set up Mr Fs 
annuity. 
Looking at this I can see Mr F received a letter in April 2002, which set out the benefits 
available under his pension  this included an open market option and an in-house annuity 
option. The letter said that pensions were payable  on a single life basis... and that if you 
require any other type of pension annuity please state this on the enclosed Annuity 
Application.
Looking at the annuity application Mr F completed, I can see that under the pension option 
section of the form, Mr F ticked the box for a single life policy, which said Single life- 
ceasing on the annuitants death. There is a separate box underneath, which required 
ticking if a survivors pension was required. A further tick was required in one of four boxes 
provided to indicate the percentage of the annuitants pension required  33%, 50%, 67% or 
100%. These boxes are blank.
Given the above, Im satisfied ReAssure set up Mr Fs annuity policy correctly and as Mr F 
indicated in his application. So no error was made here.
But Mr F has provided a copy of a letter he received from ReAssure in 1992, which he says 
clearly states one of his pension policies was set up in trust for his wife - so it cant be right 
that his pension ends when he dies. Ive therefore considered this carefully.
Looking at this letter I can see it set out the benefits available to Mr F under his then pension 
policies and it also listed the options available to him when he wanted to take his benefits  
this included providing a spouses pension starting on his death in retirement. The letter then 
said:
Whatever you choose at the time of taking benefits will determine whether or not your wife 
will receive your pension on your death. We would like to point out, however, that policy 
number... is actually written under trust for the benefit of your wife which means she will 
benefit from this policy regardless of the type of benefits selected.
ReAssure has acknowledged this wasnt correct. While Mr Fs wife would benefit if he died 
prior to his retirement  but only the first part of this paragraph was correct i.e. his choice of 
benefits at the time would dictate whether his wife received anything on his death.
Mr F has said he considers this letter is a contract so implies ReAssure should pay a benefit 
to his wife. But Im afraid it isnt. I accept the last part of the quoted paragraph is incorrect. 
But Im mindful of the following - firstly the letter was sent to Mr F 10 years prior to him taking 
his benefits, so I question the extent to which Mr F relied on this in 2002 when he took his 
benefits. And secondly the annuity application form Mr F completed was, in my view, clear 
that the single life policy he chose ceased on his death. So if this didnt match Mr Fs 
understanding of what would happen, he couldve queried things at the time.
Id also add that, even if Mr F did believe his wife would benefit regardless of what he chose, 
I wouldve expected him to have indicated on his application in one of the boxes I described 
above, what percentage of his pension he wanted her to have and/or to have included her 
name and details in the application. It strikes me as odd that Mr F would have left that to 
chance if as he says he believed or intended for his wife to benefit in some way.
So overall Im satisfied Mr Fs annuity was set up correctly and that it is on a single life basis. 
As Mr F knows this cannot be changed. 
And while ReAssure gave Mr F partly incorrect information in 1992 when setting out his 
options and benefits at retirement, taking everything into account, and for the reasons Ive 
set out above, I think ReAssures offer of £200 to settle the matter is fair in all the 
circumstances.My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Fs complaint  I think ReAssure Limiteds offer of £200 to 
settle this matter is fair in all the circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2022. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman