DRN-3953661
The complaint
Ms M complains that Monzo Bank Limited wont refund what she says are unauthorised
payments made on her account.
Ms M has brought her complaint with the help of a representative. But for ease of reading Ill
ascribe the representatives comments to Ms M throughout.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. And so Ill only
provide a brief overview of some of the key events.
In November 2021 Ms M reported to Monzo that there were transactions on her account that
she didnt recognise. The following are extracts of the online chat between Ms M and Monzo
with W being the merchant that certain payments had gone to.
12 and 13 November 2021
Monzo: Are there any payments you dont recognise?
Ms M: W, The £500, £124.59 and the £300 as well.
Monzo: Just to double check, did you make these transactions or you do not recognise
them?
Ms M: No didnt make the payment just PayPal ones. So about three payment to W wasnt
me.
15 November 2021
Ms M: I was selling something to a girl on Instagram, she said sent me money so I sent her
PayPal, then she kept taking more and more money off me
Monzo: Just to clarify, did you send her more money or did she have access to your details
in order to take the money herself?
Ms M: She had access to my details I sent her 100 for lawyer and 150 there at the end of
October that was it
16 November 2021
Ms M: She told me she was going to pay for a lawyer and that she would get her
arrested. I only give her a 50 pound and PayPal address so she would send me the money
then more money kept coming out.
21 November 2021
Monzo: to confirm the only payment you have sent yourself is £100
Ms M: Yes only one payment but when I look back more came out from her
Ultimately Monzo said that they were unable to accept Ms Ms allegation that the payments
in dispute were unauthorised and they declined to make a refund. Ms M complained saying
she had lost nearly £2,900. Monzo maintained their position and the complaint was referred
to our service. One of our Investigators recommended that the complaint should be upheld
and that Monzo should refund around £900 worth of payments that went to W. Monzo
disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman to review the complaint. 
In January 2023 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im currently intending to reach a different outcome compared to that of our
Investigator.
Ms M says her loss is around £2,900 but hasnt provided a further breakdown of this amount.
I think the extracts from the chat history are clear that Ms Ms evidence has been
inconsistent and contradictory. Initially just the payments to W are reported as unrecognised
with Ms M accepting she made the payments through PayPal. Ms M later said that she
made certain payments of £100 and £150. Before later stating that the only payment she
sent was one for £100. The impact of this is that it is very difficult for me to place a lot of
weight on Ms Ms testimony as credible evidence as she hasnt been consistent in what
shes said.
The only payments which have been consistently contested as unauthorised are three debit
card payments to W. These were for £124.59 and £500.59 both on 1 November 2021 and
£300.59 on 2 November 2021. These were authenticated using additional 3DS security. And
for these payments Monzo have evidenced that a PIN was provided to facilitate them.
Further to this the evidence from Monzo shows that the payments were authorised from a
device which was fully trusted on their system. I asked Monzo about what is required for a
device to be fully trusted and they explained that this means it is a device from which
theyve received a video selfie confirming the customers identity. So overall, Im satisfied that
the payments to W were correctly authenticated.
Because Ms M hasnt provided plausible and credible testimony as to what has happened
here  I cant rely on her testimony as the basis to uphold this complaint. I can see that
Monzo repeatedly sought clarity from Ms M but nothing consistent or credible was
forthcoming.
As such, I think the decision Monzo reached (that the payments were authorised) was fair.
The payments were authorised by use of a PIN number and on the same device that had
supplied a video selfie to Monzo. So I dont think Monzos conclusion that these payments
were authorised is unfair or unreasonable.
Neither Monzo nor Ms M provided a response to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party provided any further comments or evidence for my consideration, I see no 
reason to deviate from the outcome explained in my provisional decision and Im not going to 
require Monzo to do anything further to resolve this complaint.My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2023.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman