DRN-2501966
The complaint
Mr B complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited, trading as BMW Financial Services (BMWFS). 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint BMWFS, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr B acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then BMWFS, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr B. The car here was 
brand-new so I dont think a reasonable person would expect it to have any faults.
The relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs within the first six months we are to 
assume it was present at the point of supply, when BMWFS were responsible for its quality, 
unless they can demonstrate otherwise. Im persuaded this fault was most likely to have 
been reported to BMWFS within the first six months as, although the job cards that have 
been made available start a few days after the six month period, Mr B explained to BMWFS 
that hed reported the electrical issues to the dealership on several occasions and I think that 
would mean the electrical issues were reported within the relevant period. 
But, even if Im wrong about that, I still think the issues Mr B complained about were likely to 
be present when the car was supplied to him. Mr B complained about electrical issues 
caused by water ingress through the sunroof. I think its more likely the leak was due to 
poorly fitted or poorly sealed components rather than any wear and tear that I think would be 
very limited in such a short period of ownership.
The relevant legislation allows a business one opportunity to repair a car in those 
circumstances. BMWFS attempted to repair the vehicle in March 2020 and it was necessary 
to remove trim and the dashboard. 
Mr B has provided compelling evidence from an independent garage that the repairs havent 
been successful. The garage have confirmed the side airbag is damp and theres still a leak. 
Theyve also confirmed that the dashboard has been damaged and that the front door is 
misaligned.
So, Im persuaded that this car has not been of satisfactory quality and that repairs have 
been unsuccessful. BMWFS should therefore allow Mr B to reject the car.   
Putting things right
BMWFS should collect the car at no cost to Mr B and they should end the finance 
agreement.
Theyll need to refund any deposit Mr B has paid and, as hes been deprived of that money, 
they will need to add interest to that refund.
Mr B has had to commission a report on the cars condition in order to support his claim. I 
think that cost has been incurred as a consequence of the car being of unsatisfactory quality. 
So, BMWFS should refund the cost of that report on provision of receipts from Mr B. They 
should add interest to that refund too.
Mr B has been inconvenienced by these issues. Hes had to take the car back to the 
dealership on several occasions and has had to arrange an independent inspection. Hes 
also had to escalate his complaint to this service when I think it could have been resolved 
earlier. In those circumstances BMWFS should pay him £200 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience hes experienced.
This was a new car and I think the issues Mr B has experienced with it will have impacted on 
his enjoyment of the car. To compensate Mr B for that BMWFS should refund 10% of the 
monthly instalments hes paid to his agreement, but its fair for them to retain the rest of the 
payments as Mr B has had use of the car.
If there were times when Mr B was not kept mobile with a courtesy vehicle BMWFS should 
provide a pro-rata refund of his monthly payments. Id expect Mr B to be able to provide 
evidence of any such periods to BMWFS. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell BMW Financial Services 
(GB) Limited to:allow Mr B to reject the car and end the finance agreement;
collect the car at no cost to Mr B;
refund any deposit that has been paid and add 8% simple interest per year from the 
date of payment to the date of settlement;
refund 10% of all finance payments that have been made in respect of loss of 
enjoyment;
refund the cost of Mr Bs independent report on provision of receipts and add 8% 
simple interest per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
pay Mr B £200 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced;
provide a pro-rata refund of monthly instalments for any time Mr B can demonstrate 
he wasnt kept mobile;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Bs credit file in relation to 
this issue.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 May 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman