DRN-3490177
The complaint
Ms M complains that BLG Wealth Limited (BLG) wrongly advised her to transfer her SIPP 
to a new provider and make two investments into Best Car Parks - a scheme investing in the 
leasehold of car parking spaces in buildings in Dubai.
What happened
In February 2009 Ms M says she was receiving advice from a Mr L1 of Barton Lyle Ltd. This 
was, and still is, a trading style of a different firm to BLG. It appears that this advice led her 
to suffer a £100,000 loss and she dismissed Mr L1 as her adviser. During 2011-12 she says 
one of Mr L1s colleagues, Mr L2, agreed with Ms M to take over as adviser on her Aegon, 
L&G and Sanlam pensions. From what I can see, Mr L2 was not actually authorised by the 
Financial Services Authority (FSA) to give advice to clients at that time.
According to BLGs file notes, Ms M had then received advice, without charge, in May 2012 
from Barton Lyle Wealth to transfer her pensions to a James Hay SIPP. Barton Lyle Wealth 
was, and still is, a trading style of a further different firm to BLG. This advice involved an 
increase in Ms Ms recorded attitude to risk from 6 to 8 on a scale of 1-10. Her investment 
strategy had been most recently reviewed in July 2012 and involved placing part of the SIPP 
in a L&G structured product and self-select funds for the remainder.
I gather that BLGs sole director used to work for Barton Lyle Ltd and Barton Lyle Wealth 
when these were trading styles of other firms, and there are other similarities in staff carrying 
out controlled functions at both firms. This doesnt include Mr L2, as he wasnt officially 
linked to BLG at the time. And there is no discussion about a further SIPP transfer from the 
James Hay SIPP, or subsequent investments which form the basis of this complaint, in the 
Barton Lyle Wealth / Barton Lyle Ltd documents.
On 15 November 2012 Ms M issued BLG, the firm that is the subject of this complaint, with 
an an execution only instruction to transfer her SIPP from James Hay to Westerby Trustees 
(including the structured product in specie). At that time she was aged 47. She provided a 
handwritten note, mentioning in part: I confirm that I have not sought advice from you and 
just wish you to carry out my instructions. Ms M has told us that she believes Mr L2 would 
have dictated what she should put in the letter.
I gather that BLG verified Ms Ms identity on that same day. A couple of weeks later at the 
end of November 2012 Ms M signed new terms of business with BLG and an application 
form to transfer her SIPP. A relevant option was not struck out in the part of the terms of 
business which read (with my emphasis): With regard to investments which we have 
arranged for you, these will be/will not be kept under review.
BLGs sole director was recorded as her financial adviser on the application form. The form 
is completed to say no initial or renewal commission is being taken on the transfer, although 
it appears that 0.5% had originally been written for the renewal commission - and 
subsequently overwritten as zero.
BLG then sent Ms M a headed execution only letter on 3 December 2012, explaining that it 
would usually send a suitability letter after making a recommendation  but in this case 
advice had neither been sought nor given. It said BLG had offered Ms M full advice, which 
she had declined and therefore:
You understand that when buying a contract under these terms, you will not benefit from 
some of the regulatory protection provided when authorised advice is given, and you may 
have no right to redress should the contract turn out to be unsuitable.
The funds totalling £159,200 were transferred between February and April 2013, including
£72,349 retained in specie in the structured product. Of the remainder, £78,000 was then 
invested into an unregulated investment  Best Car Parks (operated by Best International 
Group in Dubai). A further £78,000 was put into Best Car Parks when the structured product 
matured in January 2014.
BLGs files state that an unregulated firm, Pearson Bryce (with whom Mr L2 was associated) 
arranged both car park investments - but that [Ms M] signed a declaration with Pearson 
Bryce which confirmed not regulated and that PB do not provide advice and not covered by 
FSCS [Financial Services Compensation Scheme]. It hasnt provided us with a copy of this.
The second, January 2014 Best Car Parks application form doesnt name BLG but rather 
Pearson Bryce. And it was Mr L2 who wrote to Westerby at that time enclosing the 
application. Although he didnt similarly put his details on the May 2013 Best Car Parks 
application form, he did send it to Westerby under cover of Pearson Bryce correspondence 
(including a non-standard investment questionnaire which Westerby required).
Ms M is very clear in her submissions that Mr L2 and her (now) ex-husband were the parties 
who were advising her in respect of the Best Car Parks investment. She doesnt recall 
meeting the sole BLG director who arranged the SIPP transfer, whereas she says Mr L2 met 
her in a room in BLGs offices when she visited  although the actual advice on Best Car 
Parks was given in Ms Ms own companys offices. She thinks that she would probably have 
signed whatever her ex-husband or Mr L2 placed in front of her at that time, as she relied on 
her ex-husband in pension matters.
Ms M has also demonstrated that Mr L2 was using an email address ...@blgwealth.com in 
2016, and spoke on behalf of BLG at a conference in 2017. She believes that Mr L2 was the 
de facto boss of BLG.
For its part, BLG says With regard to Best Car Park involvement, BLG Wealth was not 
involved at all other than to deal with a request from Westerby to transfer paperwork to Best 
Car Parks. It says Mr L2 worked in his own capacity and didnt represent BLG; only
providing services as a motivational speaker and business adviser to its clients after these 
investments were made, from 2015 onwards. As this was a non-regulated service, he was 
allowed to use a BLG email address. It accepts Mr L2 might also have been in its offices in 
2012, but he has never submitted any SIPP or investment business through BLG.
It appears the investments initially went on to produce income of 9%pa on a quarterly basis. 
But in 2017 they ran into difficulties. After transferring out the liquid funds in her SIPP to 
Scottish Widows, Ms M complained to BLG in March 2018 about advice she said Mr L2 had 
provided. On her annotated copy of BLGs complaint response, where it asserts that it hadnt 
advised her on the investment, Ms M has written Barton Lyle did.
Ms M informed this service that when the car park investment was first mentioned she 
commented it sounds dodgy because it was in Dubai. However, she was very occupied by 
trying to sell her business at the time  and left the arrangements to her ex-husband, and 
now wonders whether he might have been involved in the deceit she considers Mr L2 
perpetrated.One of our adjudicators investigated the complaint and wrote to Mr L2 to request his 
recollections of events, but he didnt reply. This service cannot compel Mr L2 to co-operate 
with our investigation, although it appears he has continued to be in contact with BLG and it 
may be able to obtain comment from him.
Based on the evidence the adjudicator had, he didnt think BLG was responsible for Ms Ms 
decision to invest in Best Car Parks  rather Pearson Bryce was  and he didnt think her 
request to make an execution-only SIPP transfer was one that would have aroused 
suspicion at the time. Ms M didnt initially respond to the adjudicators view, and that 
complaint was closed in May 2019.
In March 2020 a claims management company (CMC) got in touch with us on Ms Ms behalf, 
saying it had found evidence to suggest BLG was in control of the activities the adjudicator 
attributed to Pearson Bryce. The CMC said:
Between January and March 2013, BLG chased Westerby for confirmation of the 
transfer  and asked Westerby to disregard transferring the structured product in 
specie to speed things up.
On 23 May BLGs director informed Westerby that she was having a meeting with 
Ms M that day and she needed a blank BACS form for an investment.
On 28 May Ms M was handed reservation forms for the Best Car Park investment.
On 30 May Mr L2 sent all of this documentation back to Westerby.
On 18 June BLGs director emailed Westerby asking it to send the Best Car Park 
agreements to myself under Pearson Bryce if any clients signatures were required, 
and shed sort them out.
(Where I refer to BLGs director sending correspondence or having discussions in this 
decision, I mean that BLGs company name was used - unless otherwise stated.)
A new adjudicator looked into the further submissions made on Ms Ms behalf. He 
established from Westerby that at the time of the original SIPP transfer, it had been 
contacted by a representative of Global Forestry  and Westerby had queried with BLG Ms 
Ms intentions of making that investment. It appeared that at that time BLGs director was 
acting as the go-between Ms M and Global Forestry. Westerby was chasing BLG for the 
necessary documentation to make that investment. On 23 April 2013 BLG finally asked 
Westerby to confirm to Global Forestry that application forms were not being completed. I do 
however note that Ms Ms husband did invest £99,000 in Global Forestry (and went on to 
invest £52,000 in Best Car Parks also).
Westerby had recorded BLG as Ms Ms financial adviser at the time. And it noted that 
although it thought advice had been given on the transaction, no copy of a suitability letter 
had been received for its records. By June 2013 Westerby was aware that the intended 
investment had changed to a Best Car Parks holding of £78,000. On its non-standard 
investment questionnaire (which Ms M had signed on 27 May) neither the advised nor 
non-advised option had been ticked to describe BLGs involvement.
Westerby then continued to liaise with BLGs director about placing the Best Car Parks 
investment, which is when (as mentioned above) the director requested Westerby send any 
agreements for signature to myself under Pearson Bryce. The agreements were 
subsequently addressed to her at Pearson Bryce in July 2013. Both Best International (who 
already held Ms Ms funds), and in turn Westerby, were still regularly chasing BLGs director 
to return these documents  and these were finally provided in mid-October 2013.
The adjudicator also established that on 13 September 2013, BLGs director emailed Ms M 
stating her intention of researching the market and making a suitable recommendation for 
reinvestment of the structured product proceeds. In early January 2014 Westerby provided a BACS authority to make a new investment at BLGs directors request. But again, this 
paperwork then reached Mr L2 of Pearson Bryce who supplied it to Westerby later that 
month for Ms M to make her second investment.
It was only in June 2015 that Ms M entered into a remuneration agreement for BLG to collect 
initial and ongoing fees from her SIPP  and only in respect of the funds other than the car 
park investments. A BLG report of that month carries out an appraisal of Best Car Parks  
saying (with my emphasis) that the entry price had been 23% below marked value with a 5 
year guaranteed income supplied by certain operators. There is an exit strategy in place, 
allowing owners to sell their car park space at any time, providing complete security in 
your investment. It went on to describe the return as consistent. But it repeats that BLG 
had not given Ms M any advice on that investment.
I note that BLG also appears to have been involved in a transfer of another very small 
money purchase occupational pension for Ms M to Standard Life somewhat earlier, in 
December 2014. BLGs fact find and reports at this time (which again are not the subject of 
the complaint) indicate it thought she was a cautious investor. In fact, when she signed a risk 
assessment questionnaire in April 2015 Ms M said she was upset by changes in the value of 
her investments, didnt like risk, had left all financial planning to her husband previously and 
had never transacted in unregulated investments or on an execution-only basis.
As no final decision had been issued on Ms Ms original complaint, and significant further 
evidence had been provided calling the original conclusions into doubt, we let BLG know that 
an ombudsman would now be issuing a provisional decision to consider the further 
evidence. My provisional decision of 10 December 2021 upheld the complaint on the basis 
that BLG had a conflict of interest in accepting an execution-only instruction which it knew 
had been solicited by a connected unregulated firm. I considered it should have ensured it 
gave Ms M advice on the car park investments, which should have been not to invest. Ill 
revisit my reasoning for making that decision in full below.
Ms Ms CMC accepted my provisional decision. BLG requested a number of extensions to 
the timescale in order to consult its PI insurer. In a partial response on 27 January 2022 its 
director asserted that the CMC had a vested interest in obtaining a settlement and had 
encouraged Ms M to use emotive language and statements in her complaint. She 
questioned Ms Ms claim to be ignorant in financial matters given that she was a sucessful 
businesswoman; Ms Ms lack of recollection of meeting her; her failure to question BLGs 
statements that it was not giving her advice; and the likelihood that she would always have 
invested based on her husbands inclination to do so.
In response, I agreed to supply BLG with copies of the submissions the CMC had provided 
us in full. In my reply I highlighted that it was my role to weigh up whether the arguments 
being made were plausible and persuasive, and I wasnt of the view that I was being 
influenced by emotive language. I also didnt think being a successful businesswoman 
necessarily went hand in hand with being clued up on pensions. It was for me to consider, 
on the basis of the evidence in front of me, the extent to which Ms M understood the 
arrangements she was entering into.
Although BLG indicated it was in further discussion with its PI insurer, it responded again on 
22 February to say that it would now not be providing anything further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
According to the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) register the company that Ms M believes gave the advice (Barton Lyle Ltd) was only ever authorised as an appointed representative 
of other firms  and only until December 2007, when any record of Mr L2s controlled 
functions on that register also ends. However and confusingly (given that it still exists as a 
limited company) Barton Lyle Ltd has also been a trading style of a second regulated firm 
from November 2007 to present  including in 2009, where Ms M has evidence of advice 
from that firm on a transfer between two personal pensions. It had traded from the same 
address that BLG subsequently began trading from in 2014.
That second regulated firm went into administration in 2011 - around the same time as BLG 
was established. And also from the same address, Barton Lyle Wealth has been in use as a 
trading style of a third regulated firm from November 2011 to present. There is evidence of a 
fact find and letter from Barton Lyle Wealth regarding a proposed transfer from Ms Ms 
other occupational pension in February 2012: it seems this was the transfer which didnt 
proceed at that time but was subsequently carried out by BLG. 
The letter about the proposed transfer in February 2012 was signed as Operations Director 
for Barton Lyle Wealth by the person who is now the director of BLG. The reasonable 
conclusion here is that BLG acquired Ms M as a client as a result of Barton Lyles 
businesses transitioning from being a trading style of these two other regulated firms, to 
being authorised in its own right. The February 2012 advice was given under the other 
regulated firm because the newly-established BLG didnt gain its FCA permissions until 
August 2012. And I can see that some of the employees and/or individuals carrying out 
controlled functions at all three firms (although not Mr L2) have remained the same.
BLGs position is that Ms M gave it execution-only instructions to carry out a SIPP transfer 
and that it can rely on the handwritten execution-only declaration that Ms M wrote. Im not 
inclined to rely on this sort of declaration at face value without a clear understanding of how 
the consumer reached their decision. Such a statement is more persuasive if its plausible 
that they would not reasonably have needed to rely on advice when deciding to invest.
Its also relevant to take into account the knowledge and experience of someone signing 
such a statement. In this case, Im not persuaded Ms M was an experienced or 
knowledgeable investor and was, through her own admission, reliant to some degree on her 
husbands input into investment decisions. I also need to consider where the information 
Ms M got to make her decision came from  and what that says about the likelihood that 
BLG knew she was getting advice from individuals connected to it.
The most plausible reason for Ms M to switch her SIPP provider  given that no fee or 
commission was apparently taken for the switching part of the advice  was that Westerby 
permitted the proposed investment in (initially) Global Forestry and it was believed James 
Hay would not. Ms M was also an existing client of a previous incarnation of Barton Lyles 
business. So taking all of these things into account, I think this is unlikely to be a case where 
she (or her ex-husband) had found the investment themselves, unassisted, and then 
approached a new advising firm out of the blue to issue an execution-only instruction.
Whilst I have taken into account the possibility that Ms M might have heard of the Global 
Forestry investment idea from her husband, the question still arises as to how he first heard 
of it. From what I understand, he was also an existing client of the previous Barton Lyle 
incarnation. And he actually went on to invest in Global Forestry  the originally intended 
investment at the time of Ms Ms SIPP transfer  although Ms M didnt.
I havent seen whether Ms Ms ex-husbands investment was also processed by BLG on an 
execution-only basis. But if it was, I think there would equally be a concern as to whether he 
would plausibly have been an execution-only investor, or he was prompted into investing by 
BLG or those connected to it. He wasnt, as far as I am aware, working in the financial 
services industry  he was a director of the same company as his wife (in a completely different industry sector).
Global Forestry was a specialist investment that wouldnt typically be marketed directly to the 
general public. It would be much more likely in my view that Ms M and her ex-husband were 
introduced to the idea of investing in Global Forestry by Mr L2 and/or BLGs director  
potentially in both of these individuals capacity working for Pearson Bryce. So, as Im 
inclined to proceed on the basis that Pearson Bryce likely promoted and/or recommended 
the Global Forestry investment to Mr and Ms M in the first instance, I find Ms Ms testimony 
plausible that Mr L2 instructed her what to write in her execution-only instruction addressed 
to BLG. So what does that mean for BLGs role in this transaction?
BLGs director denies that she acted in any capacity for Pearson Bryce  seemingly against 
clear evidence running to the contrary, including her name appearing on its letterhead.
Instead, she says that I established BLG Wealth as my own firm and approached [Ms M] to 
establish a relationship with BLG Wealth. I acknowledge here that there are some conflicts 
here with Ms Ms testimony, as she doesnt have a recollection of BLGs director coming to 
her office (although Ms M seems to accept she may be mistaken). But in any event, I would 
also question what BLG maintains it was approaching Ms M about  if Pearson Bryce gave 
the advice, and BLG then received an execution-only instruction.
BLG maintains Ms M signed a declaration with Pearson Bryce which confirmed Pearson 
Bryce wasnt regulated, didnt provide advice and wasnt covered by FSCS. However and 
despite the apparent connection between the two businesses  its clear Mr L2 was still in 
contact with BLG at the time of this complaint  BLG has been unable to provide a copy of 
this document. That calls into question whether Ms M reasonably understood at the time that 
people she believed were associated with BLG were actually carrying out business for her 
as Pearson Bryce.
Given that its likely Pearson Bryce already knew which SIPP provider would accept this type 
of investment, why did BLG need to be involved in processing the switch of provider at all? 
On 29 March 2019 BLG told us, [Mr L2] was not involved in [Ms Ms] transfer of pension 
provider as this was regulated advice (my emphasis). When so much of the evidence is in 
conflict here, I think that is a rather glaring admission.
It doesnt necessarily amount to an admission that BLG also advised Ms M (or her husband) 
to invest in what was initially Global Forestry, and then became Best Car Parks. But I do 
think it shows BLG was aware that a transfer between two SIPP providers being carried out 
by an independent financial adviser will typically involve advice  and that would be the 
expectation of the providers receiving the request.
In response to a query the adjudicator asked it, Westerby said:
We did not require a financial adviser to advise on the establishment of a SIPP, or any 
investments within it. However our policy was (and remains) that any investments into higher-risk, 
non-standard assets would only be permitted where we understood that a regulated financial 
adviser was providing advice, or where the client met the FCAs definition of a high net worth 
and/or sophisticated investor.
However, in the internal Westerby Investment Risk Assessment form, there is a section at 
the end which says:
Post agreement instructions to admin:
Ensure an investment disclaimer is issued.
If no IFA is involved ensure an execution only letter is issued.
Ensure any other requirements laid down are received in full.
The other requirements arent specified here. So whilst the picture here as to Westerbys actual requirements at the time seems rather confused, its reasonable to conclude in my 
view that Pearson Bryce and BLG did proceed based on a belief they had at the time that a 
regulated IFA would need to be associated with Ms Ms new SIPP, to prevent problems 
arising when it received instructions to invest in non-standard assets. Yet at the same time, it 
seems to me that BLG didnt want to be associated with the advice that was likely being 
given by Pearson Bryce to actually make these investments. 
I dont think this was an appropriate way for a regulated firm to behave when it is bound by 
the clients best interest rule (COBS 2.1.1R) in making the arrangements for Ms Ms SIPP. 
For a start, BLG should have been aware that any role Pearson Bryce had, as an 
unregulated firm, in arranging for SIPP funds to be placed in these investments  let alone 
advising on them  was in breach of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA). A 
SIPP is a specified investment for the purposes of that Act. It should have appreciated that it 
was being used as a conduit to legitimise the placing of these investments within the SIPP.
I can see why Ms Ms investment instructions werent queried by Westerby: its own internal 
documentation recorded BLG as the IFA; that Ms M wasnt a professional investor; but that 
she had sought advice on this transaction [from BLG]. Westerby didnt ask to see a suitability 
letter, so it didnt evidently realise that its understanding was incorrect and BLG had actually 
acted on an execution-only basis. But BLG in my view knowingly allowed the impression that 
Ms M was its advisory client to be created, in order to eliminate the possibility that the 
investments (from which Pearson Bryce would then benefit) would not go ahead.
The regulatory difficulty created for BLG by these arrangements is perhaps best summarised 
in the actions of its PI insurer. A note on BLGs file says the insurer had asked BLG to 
revisit the questions on our renewal as one of the questions asked had we given advice 
on a SIPP whereby we did not know what a client would be investing in  to which I had 
answered no. They want me to now confirm whether this was accurate or not in view of [Ms 
Ms] complaint and that we did not give her the advice in relation to Best Car Parks
I have not yet responded to this  I do not feel from the information we have on [Ms M]s file 
that this is a problem - as the notes suggested that she wanted to self-invest into funds.
This seems to me to be an intentional misreading of what was actually going on at the time, 
and an artificial separation of the roles the same individuals played for both Pearson Bryce 
and BLG. On the facts of this case, BLG did know what Ms M wanted to invest into  having 
likely had these investments promoted to her by Pearson Bryce. First it was Global Forestry 
and this then changed to Best Car Parks before Ms M invested.
BLGs director displayed a familiarity with the car park investment in the later report she 
issued to Ms M (as BLG), suggesting that it had been attractively priced, with guaranteed 
income, liquidity at any time and complete security. If that gives some indication of how the 
investment had originally been described to Ms M by Pearson Bryce (whether or not by the 
same individual), it should have prompted any regulated firm to carefully consider whether it 
was acting in Ms Ms best interests by facilitating the SIPP transfer.
Self-investment gives the impression that Ms M knew what she was doing, when it should 
have been apparent that she was not an experienced investor. Whether or not her husband 
was inclined to make similar investments, Ms M was a client of BLG in her own right. It 
should have appreciated the importance of her taking advice based on her own 
circumstances rather than her husbands. And the advice up to that point had likely been 
given in breach of FSMA by the unregulated business for whom BLGs director also worked.
In my view BLGs actions here also conflict with what BLG must do under the FCAs 
Principles for Businesses (PRIN), including:
Principle 1 - conduct its business with integrity;Principle 6 - pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly;
Principle 7 - pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading;
Principle 8 - manage conflicts of interest fairly, both between itself and its customers and 
between a customer and another client.
BLG had a clear conflict of interest given its parallel staff involvement in Pearson Bryce. I 
consider there were only two viable ways for it to proceed in dealing with Ms Ms pension 
transfer whilst also managing that conflict of interest. These were either to:
- Decline to get involved in the transfer at all; or
- Address the conflict by not accepting Ms Ms business on an execution-only basis. 
And instead agree to give her regulated advice on the suitability of transferring to a 
SIPP, taking into account the intended investment she would make with that SIPP.
The letter BLG wrote to Ms M at the time says that it had offered her full advice, which she 
had refused. The extent to which that was a genuine offer and BLG had explained the extra 
protection she was foregoing by not taking it is far from clear  particularly as even a letter 
from Pearson Bryce on a similar point has not surfaced. Given the lack of persuasive 
evidence here, Im not satisfied Ms M would have appreciated the benefit of regulated 
versus unregulated advice for herself.
More importantly I dont think BLG should have proceeded on this basis of this letter  it 
should still have declined to get involved unless it was able to give advice. As proceeded to 
act on the transfer without giving advice, its therefore fair and reasonable in my view to hold 
it to the standard of the advice it should have given. And crucially, its well-established that 
the suitability of transferring to a SIPP cant be viewed in isolation.
COBS 9.2.2R in the FCA handbook required a firm giving advice to have a reasonable basis 
for believing that the transaction meets the clients investment objectives; is such that they 
are able financially to bear any related investment risks consistent with their investment 
objectives; and is such that they have the necessary experience and knowledge in order to 
understand the risks involved in the transaction.
Ms Ms objectives at the time of transferring to the SIPP cant in my view be separated from 
the investments her SIPP was going to make. I note this was also a view shared by the 
regulator in January 2013 when it issued an alert about this advice model, saying that:
Financial advisers using this advice model are under the mistaken impression that this process 
means they do not have to consider the unregulated investment as part of their advice to invest in 
the SIPP and that they only need to consider the suitability of the SIPP in the abstract. This is 
incorrect.
The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable advice generally requires consideration of the 
other investments held by the customer or, when advice is given on a product which is a vehicle 
for investment in other products (such as SIPPs and other wrappers), consideration of the 
suitability of the overall proposition, that is, the wrapper and the expected underlying investments 
in unregulated schemes. It should be particularly clear to financial advisers that, where a customer 
seeks advice on a pension transfer in implementing a wider investment strategy, the advice on the 
pension transfer must take account of the overall investment strategy the customer is 
contemplating.
if you give regulated advice and the recommendation will enable investment in unregulated 
items you cannot separate out the unregulated elements from the regulated elements.
As an inexperienced investor I cant see that it could ever be arguable that it would be 
suitable advice for Ms M to invest initially 50%, which later increased to nearly 100%, of her 
SIPP into unregulated investments. I say this in particular considering that when it has
conducted thematic reviews into the sale of unregulated collective investment schemes (UCIS)11, the regulator gave an example it found of good practice as being a firm which 
limited exposure to these investments to 3-5% of a portfolio. Proportions as high as those 
involved in this case were heavily criticised in such reports. Given that in 2015 BLG thought 
Ms M was a cautious investor, I think it unlikely any exposure to this type of investment 
would have been appropriate for her at all.
At the time of the switch to Westerby, Ms M already held a James Hay SIPP which would 
have allowed her to continue to hold the structured product which BLG itself had not advised 
her on, and the range of self-select funds which BLG mentioned she had at the time. I 
consider these would adequately have met her needs  and a SIPP transfer was not 
necessary to access unregulated investments that did not meet her needs. And had BLG 
undertaken to give Ms M suitable advice Im satisfied that she would have followed that 
advice. Not least, because in order to adequately address its conflict of interest I think BLG 
would have needed to point out  in a way it currently is unable to demonstrate it did  that it 
was the regulated firm and Pearson Bryce was not.
Had Ms M remained in the James Hay SIPP, having had the benefit of regulated and 
suitable advice from BLG, I see no reason to conclude that she would have made the 
second investment into Best Car Parks (or anything similar to it) when her structured product 
later matured. Indeed theres reason to think James Hay would not have permitted such an 
investment. I think it most likely that Ms M would have continued to reinvest the proceeds of 
her structured product in a range of self-select funds, appropriate to her attitude to risk.
Ive considered everything BLG has said in response to my provisional decision. 
Notwithstanding the gaps in Ms Ms recollections of dealing with BLG, I have significant 
concerns in this case as to how she has been treated as BLGs client. Im not satisfied that 
BLG has appreciated the regulatory requirements and expectations around giving suitable, 
regulated advice on investments held within a SIPP. 
I would expect to find a particularly compelling reason for a client, who should have been 
given suitable advice but was not, to then not follow the suitable advice once given. BLG 
suggests that Ms M would always have invested in the car parks because of her husbands 
involvement, but her own testimony suggests she did have some reservations about the 
investment. I think those would have been compounded when BLG gave her suitable advice 
that this was not an appropriate investment for her to be making. On the balance of 
probabilities, I dont consider Ms M would have gone ahead with the investments if 
appropriately advised.
Putting things right
My aim is that Ms M should be put as closely as possible into the position she would 
probably now be in if BLG had treated her fairly.
I think Ms M would have invested differently within her existing James Hay SIPP. Its not 
possible to say precisely what she would have done, but Im satisfied that what Ive set out 
below is fair and reasonable given Ms M's circumstances and objectives when she invested.
What must BLG do?
To compensate Ms M fairly, BLG must:
Compare the performance of each of Ms M's investments in Best Car Parks with that 
of the benchmark shown below.
A separate calculation should be carried out for each investment. If the fair value is 
greater than the actual value, there is a loss. If the actual value is greater than the fair 
1 FSA Unregulated Collective Investment Schemes: Good and poor practice report (July 2010)value, there is a gain. Losses and gains should then be combined. If there is an overall 
loss, that is the amount of compensation payable.
BLG should add interest as set out below.
If there is a loss, BLG should pay into Ms M's pension plan to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into 
the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If BLG is unable to pay the compensation into Ms M's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a 
taxable income. So, the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any income 
tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an adjustment to ensure the compensation 
is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to HMRC, so Ms M wont be able to reclaim any of 
the reduction after compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Ms M's actual or expected marginal 
rate of tax at her selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Ms M is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected 
retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Ms M would have been 
able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the 
compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Pay Ms M £400 for distress caused by failing to treat her fairly in this pension transfer, 
leading to the substantial losses she's suffered.
Investment 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Best Car 
Parks - first 
holdingStill exists 
but illiquidFor half the 
investment: FTSE 
UK Private 
Investors Income 
Total Return 
Index; for the 
other half: 
average rate from 
fixed rate bondsTo be 
ascertained 
(follows 
Pearson Bryce 
instruction on 
30 May 2013)Date of 
my final 
decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if not 
settled within 28 
days of BLG 
receiving Ms Ms 
acceptance)
Best Car 
Parks - 
second 
holdingStill exists 
but illiquidFor half the 
investment: FTSE 
UK Private 
Investors Income 
Total Return 
Index; for the 
other half: 
average rate from 
fixed rate bondsTo be 
ascertained 
(follows 
Pearson 
Bryce 
instruction on 
8 January
2014)Date of 
my final 
decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if not 
settled within 28 
days of BLG 
receiving Ms Ms
acceptance)
For each investment:
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid or payable from the investment at the end date.
It may be difficult to find the actual value of the investment. This is complicated where an 
investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open market) as in this 
case. BLG should take ownership of the illiquid investment by paying a commercial value 
acceptable to the pension provider. The amount BLG pays should be included in the actual value before compensation is calculated.
If BLG is unable to purchase the investment the actual value should be assumed to be nil for 
the purpose of calculation. BLG may require that Ms M provides an undertaking to pay BLG 
any amount she may receive from the investment in the future. That undertaking must allow 
for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the pension plan. 
BLG will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
What remains of the Westerby SIPP only exists because of the illiquid investments in Best 
Car Parks. In order for the SIPP to be closed and further SIPP fees to be prevented, the 
investments need to be removed from the SIPP. Ive set out above how this might be 
achieved by BLG taking over the investments, or this is something that Ms M can discuss 
with Westerby directly. But I dont know how long that will take.
Third parties are involved and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. To provide 
certainty to all parties, I think its fair that BLG includes in the loss calculation an upfront lump 
sum equivalent to five years worth of SIPP fees (calculated using the previous years fees). 
This should provide a reasonable period for the parties to arrange for the SIPP to be closed.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, BLG should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those 
rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any additional sum that Ms M paid into the investment should be added to the fair value
calculation at the point it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the investment should be deducted 
from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any 
return in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to 
keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if BLG totals all those payments and deducts that figure 
at the end.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Ms M wanted capital growth with a small risk to her capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to her capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Ms M's risk profile was in between, in the sense that she was prepared to 
take a small level of risk to attain her investment objectives. So, the 50/50 combination 
would reasonably put Ms M into that position. It does not mean that Ms M would have 
invested 50% of her money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of index tracker 
investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the sort of 
return Ms M could have obtained from investments suited to her objective and risk attitude.My final decision
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, plus any interest and/or costs that I consider appropriate. If 
I consider that fair compensation exceeds £150,000, I may recommend that BLG Wealth 
Limited pays the balance.
Determination and award: I intend to uphold the complaint. I consider that fair 
compensation should be calculated as set out above. My provisional decision is that BLG 
Wealth Limited must pay the amount produced by that calculation up to the maximum of
£150,000 (including distress or inconvenience), plus any interest on that amount as set out 
above.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation exceeds 
£150,000, I recommend that BLG Wealth Limited pays Ms M the balance, plus any interest 
on the balance as set out above.
If BLG Wealth Limited does not pay the recommended amount, then any investments 
currently illiquid should be retained by Ms M. This is until any future benefit that she may 
receive from the investments together with the compensation paid by BLG Wealth Limited 
(excluding any interest) equates to the full fair compensation as set out above.
BLG Wealth Limited may request an undertaking from Ms M that either she repays to BLG 
Wealth Limited any amount Ms M may receive from the investment thereafter, or if possible 
transfers the investment to BLG at that point.
Ms M should be aware that any such amount would be paid into her pension plan so she 
may have to realise other assets in order to meet the undertaking.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If BLG deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Ms M how much has been taken off. BLG should give Ms M a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Ms M asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2022.
 
Gideon Moore
Ombudsman