DRN-3128041
The complaint
Ms M complains that G2I Ltd trading as GOT2INSURE.COM (G2I) declined a claim under 
her motor insurance.
G2I appointed a third party company to investigate Ms Ms claim. For the avoidance of 
doubt, any reference to G2I includes its agents, including the claims investigator.
What happened
Ms M had a motor insurance policy with G2I. In December 2020, Ms M parked her car in a 
side street near her home. She returned to her car a couple of hours later and found it in the 
middle of the road, with significant damage to the front of the car. The car had apparently 
been driven into two parked cars and abandoned. The owners of the parked cars were at the 
scene and the police had been called. Ms M contacted G2I to claim for the damage to her 
car. 
G2Is engineers inspected the car. It found the damage to the car meant it wasnt 
roadworthy. Given the estimated cost of repairs, it deemed the car a write off. However, 
G2Is investigators werent satisfied that Ms Ms car had been stolen and declined the claim. 
It said:
Ms M told its investigator she locked the car using her electronic key fob. 
She heard the central locking system activate and saw the indicators flash to show 
the alarm was locked and alarmed. 
She also said she had possession of both sets of car keys.
G2Is engineer found no evidence of forced entry or tampering with the ignition 
switch or lock.
The engineer found that the cars mechanical steering lock (immobiliser) was 
activated when the key was removed from the ignition.
The car doesnt have keyless ignition so it wouldnt have been possible to enter or 
take the car without a key.
The cars profile makes it unlikely it would be targeted in a sophisticated high-tech 
theft that would leave the locks and ignition undamaged.
Ms M wasnt happy with this and brought a complaint to this service. She said she doesnt 
understand why G2I wont settle her claim given her car was written off. Shes also unhappy 
about how long it took G2I to review her claim and how long this left her without a car. She 
says the whole process has been emotionally distressing.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Ms Ms complaint should be upheld. She reviewed 
G2Is investigation and thought its decision to decline the claim was fair. She also thought 
the time it took G2I to investigate the claim was reasonable.
Ms M disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
G2I declined Ms Ms claim because the damage to her car wasnt covered by her policy. Ive 
got to decide if this was fair. 
Ms Ms car had a blade style key for both the car locks and ignition. As G2I says, this rules 
out keyless theft. I agree with this. I also agree with G2I that its highly unlikely the car 
couldve been unlocked and started without some evidence of forced entry to the car, or 
damage to the ignition. I note the engineers report that the cars immobiliser was activated 
when the key was removed from the ignition. This again makes it extremely unlikely the car 
couldve been taken without a key or damage to the ignition. Overall, Im satisfied that G2Is 
investigation was thorough and its findings were reasonable.
G2I referred to Section B, page 13 of the policy booklet. This gives examples where Ms M 
isnt covered. Paragraph 6 says: Loss or damage caused by theft or attempted theft if your 
car was taken by a member of your family or household.. I think Paragraph 3 of the same 
section is also relevant: Loss or damage caused by theft or attempted theft if your car was 
not switched off, properly locked or if any window, roof opening, removable roof panel or 
hood was left open or unlocked.
These terms mean that Ms Ms policy doesnt cover her where either someone she knew 
took it or it was left unlocked. Given the findings of G2Is investigation, I think its likely that 
what happened fell into one of these two categories. In the circumstances, I think it was 
reasonable for G2I to rely on these policy exclusions. So I dont think G2I acted unfairly 
when it declined Ms Ms claim.
Finally, Ms M is unhappy with how long it took G2I to investigate her claim. Ms M reported 
the damage to her car in December 2020; the investigation ended in March 2021. Given the 
need to appoint an investigator, gather information  including an engineers report  and 
follow up with Ms M, I dont think this was unreasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 March 2022. 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman