DRN-2596565
Complaint
Miss W has complained about loans Oakbrook Finance Limited (trading as Likely Loans) 
provided to her. She says Likely Loans didnt properly undertake affordability assessments 
before providing these loans.
Background
Likely Loans provided Miss W with a first loan of £3,000.00 in April 2018. This loan was due 
to be repaid in 24 monthly instalments of £196.58. In March 2019, Miss W approached Likely 
Loans for a further £2,500.00. Miss W was provided with a total loan amount of £4,460.57, 
which included £1,960.57 to settle the outstanding balance on loan 1. This loan was due to 
be repaid in 24 monthly repayments of £292.29. In October 2019, Miss W approached Likely 
Loans for a further £1,000.00. Miss W was provided with a total loan amount of £4,685.93, 
which included £3,685.93 to settle the outstanding balance on loan 2. All of the loans had an 
APR of 59.9%  
One of our investigators reviewed what Miss W and Likely Loans had told us. And he 
thought that Likely Loans hadnt done anything wrong or treated Miss W unfairly. So he 
didnt recommend that Miss Ws complaint be upheld. Miss W disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsman to look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Ws complaint.
Likely Loans needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Likely Loans needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Miss W could afford to repay before providing this loan. Our website sets out what 
we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. 
Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of 
how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Likely Loans says it agreed to Miss Ws applications after she provided details of her 
monthly income and some information on her expenditure. It says it cross-checked this 
against information on a credit search it carried out and all of this information showed          
Miss W could to comfortably make the repayments she was committing to. On the other 
hand, Miss W has said she couldnt afford the payments.
The first thing for me to say is that Likely Loans has provided a record of the credit search 
information it received for loans 1 and 2. Miss W says she had a history of payday loans, 
defaults and a county court judgement against her. But Likely Loans searches only showed 
a single historic default. And crucially, according to the credit searches, Miss Ws debt totals 
at the time of the applications was reasonable in comparison to her income and they 
appeared to be reasonably managed. 
I accept these searches may not have picked up everything about Miss Ws circumstances. 
But this may be because Miss W appears to have been provided with credit using different 
details. And the information she provided Likely Loans with wont have pulled through that 
information. That said loans 2 and 3 were provided while previous loans were outstanding 
and I think this means it would have been reasonable and proportionate for further checks to 
have been carried out for those loans. So Ive looked at the bank statements Miss W has 
provided to get an idea of what such checks might have shown.
Having done so, it seems to me that Miss W did have sufficient disposable income to make 
the monthly repayments to loans 2 and 3, once her contractual and non-discretionary 
commitments were deducted from her income. In reaching this conclusion, I have taken into 
account the amounts Miss W was gambling. But even when allowing for these transactions, 
it seems to me that she still had enough to make her loan repayments. 
As this is the case, I dont think that Likely Loans did unfairly provide these loans to Miss W - 
it carried out proportionate checks for loan 1 and reasonably relied on what it found out 
which suggested the repayments were affordable. And for loans 2 and 3, I think further 
checks would simply have shown Miss W had the disposable income to make the required 
payments. Equally, bearing in mind the amount she owed, her overall indebtedness to Likely 
Loans didnt appear to be increasing unsustainably either. 
So overall I dont think that Likely Loans treated Miss W unfairly or unreasonably when 
providing her with her loans. And Im not upholding Miss Ws complaint. I appreciate this will 
be very disappointing for Miss W. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision 
and that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 March 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman