DRN-3829453
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as D, complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited 
has unfairly charged an excessive additional premium on his commercial motor insurance 
policy.
Mr J, a director of D, brings the complaint on Ds behalf. For ease I will refer to Mr J 
throughout this decision.
What happened
Mr J took out a commercial motor insurance policy for a van. This policy is insured with 
Admiral. The policy renewed providing cover from 28 February 2022 for a year. 
In early March 2022, the van was involved in an accident outside the home of one of the 
employees. The accident was reported to Admiral. When it checked the details, it noted that 
the address was different to the one it had listed for where the van would be kept. Mr J 
confirmed that the employee had in fact moved address prior to the renewal.
When Admiral updated the address details on its system, this showed that if Mr J had 
informed them of this change, it would have charged an additional premium of nearly £500. 
So, it informed Mr J this now needed to be paid. Mr J was unhappy with this as he said that 
the increase was too high. Mr J made a complaint to Admiral, but it didnt change its stance 
on the matter. So, he brought the complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think Admiral had to do anything more. 
She said that under the Insurance Act 2015 (the Act), Mr J had a duty to make a fair 
presentation of the risk to the insurer when taking out a policy by volunteering information. 
She found that Mr J hadnt done that when he failed to provide the new address of his 
employee to Admiral at the renewal. 
But she did say the Act didnt allow Admiral to charge an additional premium as an 
acceptable remedy in these circumstances  the remedy detailed in the Act was that Admiral 
could limit the amount for reimbursement of any claims to the proportion of the premium that 
had been paid already. However, she felt Admirals option to charge the additional premium 
to allow Mr J to receive full claims payment was probably more advantageous to him. She 
also said that Admiral had shown that the amount charged for the additional premium was in 
line with what it would have charged other consumers. In conclusion she didnt think Admiral 
had acted unfairly.
Mr J disagreed with our investigators opinion as he said he thought the additional premium 
was still too high. As no agreement could be reached, the matter has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr J bought this policy, he had a responsibility  under the Insurance Act 2015 (the 
Act)  to make a fair presentation of the risk. And for Admiral to take any action at all it 
needs to show Mr J didn't do this and that he made what's known as a qualifying breach. 
Under the Act a qualifying breach is a breach for which the insurer has a remedy against the 
customer because they would either not have sold them the policy or would have done so on 
different terms.
When Mr J renewed the policy, he didnt make any changes to the address where the van 
was kept overnight. But his employee had already changed address by this point, so at the 
time of renewing the policy, the information provided to Admiral was incorrect. Admiral has 
confirmed that, if Mr J had provided the correct details, it would have charged a higher 
premium at the renewal. Because of this I dont think that Mr J made a fair presentation of 
the risk.
For Admiral to take any action it needed to show that it would have either not insured the 
vehicle or done so but on different terms. Admiral has provided evidence to show if Mr J had 
told it about the new address at renewal, it would have charged an additional premium. Im 
therefore satisfied that Mr J has made a qualifying breach under the Act.
The remedies available to Admiral depends on whether the misrepresentation is deliberate 
or reckless, or neither deliberate nor reckless. In the Act a qualifying breach is considered 
deliberate or reckless if the insured: 
 knew that it was in breach of the duty of fair presentation, or 
 did not care whether or not it was in breach of that duty.
Admiral has said that it understands these types of mistakes can happen and therefore it 
hasnt considered this as deliberate or reckless. I think that is the right thing to do, in the 
circumstances.
In cases like these where the risk is not acceptable to the insurer, the Act details the 
remedies an insurer can take. For cases where the insurer has shown it would have charged 
a higher premium, it may take a proportionate approach to claims. The Act doesnt allow 
Admiral to in fact charge the additional premium instead. So, Admiral charging an additional 
premium in this type of situation doesnt meet the requirements of the Act. 
However, as our investigator advised, as this was at the beginning of the insurance policy 
year and as a claim was already in existence, paying the additional premium may actually 
have been more cost effective than only being covered for a proportion of any claim. In the 
circumstances, as this may have given Mr J an advantage, then I think it was reasonable 
that Admiral offered the additional premium as a remedy to this situation. However, if Mr J 
would rather have paid a proportion of any claims made within that policy year, he can go 
back to Admiral to request this change.
Mr J has also complained about the amount Admiral has charged for this additional premium 
as he says the new address is only a short distance away. Admiral has explained that the 
premium is calculated based on statistical models which look at the claims experience in 
different areas. 
Insurance companies calculate their premiums to cover likely claims under an insurance 
contract, with a margin on top to ensure the viability of the insurer. Each company is free to 
take into account different factors when working out what it needs to charge. This service doesnt have the power to tell an insurer what its insurance should cost, it just needs to show 
that it has treated its customers fairly. 
Admiral has provided evidence to show the difference in rating between the two addresses 
and Im satisfied that the additional premium is in line with what other customers in similar 
circumstances would have been charged. So, while I appreciate this will be disappointing for 
Mr J, I dont think he has been treated unfairly by Admiral when calculating this increase to 
the premium. 
My final decision
For the reasons stated above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2023.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman