DRN-3958469
The complaint
Mr L complains that Tandem Home Loans Ltd (Tandem) lent to him irresponsibly as he had 
a significant gambling problem and numerous debts at the time he took out his secured loan.
Mr L took the loan out with 1st Stop Home Loans Limited, which subsequently became Oplo 
HL Ltd, and is now Tandem, so I will refer to Tandem throughout my decision for ease. 
What happened
Mr L took out a second charge mortgage for £50,000 with Tandem through a broker in April 
2019 in order to consolidate debt. 
Mr L doesnt believe that Tandem carried out the necessary checks and says that, had it 
done so, it would have seen that he was a vulnerable customer with a significant gambling 
problem. Mr L says that his bank statements would have flagged this issue. He also says 
that he had a history of taking payday loans, credit cards and high street loans totalling 
hundreds of thousands of pounds and they were all on his credit file.
Mr L also doesnt believe that a proper valuation was carried out on the property, which 
meant that the combined amount for the loan offered by Tandem and his first charge 
mortgage was well above the actual value of his property. He says that a full valuation of the 
property would have flagged this issue.
Mr L says that he has missed several payments over the course of the loan. He has also 
paid a significant amount of fees which have been added to the loan and he will now have to 
pay back three times the amount he borrowed due to the interest. Mr L would therefore like 
the fees, charges and interest on the loan, along with any negative information on his credit 
file, to be removed.
Tandem says that it took Mr L through a robust underwriting process which demonstrates 
that it lent to him responsibly. It says that it conducted a full income and expenditure (I&E) 
assessment with Mr L and verified his income at the time of the loan as evidenced by his 
payslips. It conducted a full affordability assessment to account for all debt remaining, 
essential expenditure and living costs along with other outgoings it was made aware of. 
Tandem says that it uses government guidelines to estimate basic household essentials and 
living costs unless advised that they were higher or it found evidence of them being higher. 
Tandem says that as part of its process to ensure it was lending responsibly, it also 
conducted a creditworthiness assessment to highlight how Mr L had managed his existing 
and previous debts as outlined within his credit file. It said in its final response to Mr L that 
there were no recorded County Court Judgments (CCJs) or defaults registered. It also said 
that all debt repayments evidenced on the credit search, in Mr Ls bank statements or 
additional debts declared were included in the affordability assessment. However, in its 
submissions to this service Tandem says that the loan was approved under its bank 
statement bypass process without the need for supporting bank statements.
Tandem says that it could see that Mr L had got into a payday cycle and Mr L told it 
(through the broker) that this stemmed from when he had to help his parents due to health 
issues and he had recently helped them move which was the reason behind the recent 
loans. Mr L had advised that they were now settled but he recognised that his credit had 
become unmanageable. Although there were two previous missed payments on a personal 
loan, Tandem says that all other credit had been maintained and Mr L told it that he would 
clear the outstanding personal loan arrears from his recent bonus. Tandem says that 
consolidating Mr Ls debts put him in a better financial position.
Tandem says that there was no indication that Mr L declared that he had a gambling 
problem to it when he applied for the loan. It says that it carried out appropriate checks but 
that it was not obliged to carry out a forensic assessment of Mr Ls financial circumstances. 
Tandem says that it must take information provided to it by a customer in good faith and it 
believed Mr L when he told it the background to his past financial difficulties and had no 
reason to doubt his explanation, which it describes as plausible. It says that there was 
nothing in the checks it did that should reasonably have alerted it to suspect that Mr L had a 
gambling problem and that he had the opportunity to disclose this but chose not to do so. It 
says the customer must take responsibility for the accuracy of the information provided to it. 
Tandem says that Mr Ls credit file showed no recent missed payments or arrears and there 
were no defaults or CCJs evident so it must assume that his gambling transactions did not 
have a detrimental impact on his finances. 
In relation to the valuation, Tandem says that it conducted an online realtime valuation on 
13 April 2019 which showed a value range of £299,000 to £334,000. It therefore says that 
the market value of £316,000 attributed to Mr Ls property was within this range. Tandem 
says that it does not obtain full valuations. It has provided a copy of its internal policy for 
acceptable valuations for different loan amounts and it says that the confidence level of Mr 
Ls valuation fell within its acceptable parameters for a loan of £50,000. 
Investigators View 
Our investigator looked at the case and concluded that Tandem hadnt acted fairly. He found 
that in view of the information shown on the credit report, and taking a common-sense view, 
Tandem did have reason to doubt the information it had been provided by Mr L about his 
expenditure and that simply asking for an explanation was not sufficient. The investigator 
therefore took the view that the checks were inadequate and that Tandem ought to have 
asked for further information in relation to Mr Ls increasing debt. This would include 
reviewing copies of his bank statements to verify his expenditure and evidence his financial 
position before it agreed to lend to him. 
Had Tandem requested bank statements, they would have shown that Mr L was in a cycle of 
payday loans, that there were lots of gambling transactions and that there were no outgoings 
towards day to day living costs (which Mr L says he was funding through credit cards). The 
investigator found that, had Tandem carried out sufficient checks and seen this information, 
it would not have been able to show that the loan was sustainable for Mr L. Overall, the 
investigator found that Tandems decision to lend was irresponsible because the borrowing 
was unaffordable and unsustainable. 
In relation to the valuation of the property, our investigator accepted that the use of a 
desktop valuation wasnt unusual within mortgage lending. However, Mr L had provided 
evidence showing valuations on similar properties in his area which were lower and the 
investigator also used a valuation tool himself which showed an estimated value of 
£300,000, compared to the £316,000 used by Tandem. Although this was not significantly 
lower, the investigator considered that he would expect a more robust approach given that 
the loan to value (LTV) was just under 90%. Given the rest of the evidence available, he 
concluded that the property may have been valued at a lower amount had a full valuation 
been conducted.  
In order to put things right, the investigator recommended that Tandem should remove all 
interest and charges applied to the loan and that any payments made by Mr L should be 
treated as payments towards the capital amount. He also recommended that Tandem 
remove any negative information about the loan from Mr Ls credit file. 
Tandems ResponseTandem disagrees with this so the case has come to me to make a decision. It says that it 
had no common-sense reason to doubt the information provided by Mr L as the explanation 
was plausible.
It says that its loan consolidated all outstanding unsecured debt and broke the cycle of short-
term lending which was evident from the credit file. It says that there were cash advances of 
£101,000 over the last 36 months but only £4,000 in the last 12 months, which it says was a 
significant decrease so, whilst a higher current figure may have indicated a gambling 
problem, this was not the case with Mr L. It says that although there was a history of 
consolidation loans and payday lending, it took the view that it was prepared to offer this 
consolidation loan in order to assist Mr L in resolving his financial difficulties. 
Tandem says that MCOB doesnt state that bank statements must be obtained but provides 
examples of how credit commitments should be corroborated (MCOB 11.6.13 (2)), including 
by making a credit reference agency search. It says that it corroborated Mr Ls credit 
commitments through the credit file, which is in line with the guidance. 
It says that there is an obligation on the customer to be open and honest with the information 
provided and it appears that Mr L was not. As Tandem says that it had no reason to doubt 
the accuracy of what Mr L said in his application, from the information it did gather it 
determined that the loan was sustainable. It disagrees that the loan could be harmful due to 
Mr Ls gambling as it says that it cleared his outstanding debt and created a significant 
monthly saving. 
In relation to the valuation, Tandem says that the desktop valuation fell within its policy 
parameters. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at the evidence I agree with the investigators view for broadly the same 
reasons and I've explained my reasons further below.
The loan taken out in April 2019 by Mr L was for £50,000 over a term of 240 months. The 
monthly repayment was £605.87, with the total amount repayable being £145,406.80. It was 
on a fixed rate of 12% for 5 years followed by a variable rate and with an APRC of 14.4%.
Tandem says that the purpose of the loan was for debt consolidation. Once the consolidated 
debts had been replaced by the loan repayment of £605.87, it says that the I&E assessment 
showed a saving of £2,400 a month on existing debt repayments and monthly free cash of 
£520.25 after the loan repayment to Tandem. Tandem says that this showed the loan 
repayment was affordable. 
Mr Ls secured loan is a regulated mortgage contract which means that the regulators rules 
on mortgage lending (known as MCOB) apply. At the time Mr L took out the loan, these 
rules set out  in summary  that its the responsibility of the lender to carry out a detailed 
affordability assessment. MCOB sets out some of the key requirements, including (but not 
limited to):
A lender must assess whether a consumer will be able to pay the mortgage 
repayments, not just at the start but over the term
A lender must not enter into the mortgage agreement unless it can demonstrate 
that the mortgage is affordable for the consumer
A lender must take full account of the customers income, and must obtain 
adequate evidence of the income declared by the consumer A lender must take full account of the customers committed expenditure (credit 
and contractual commitments) and take reasonable steps to obtain details of the 
customers actual outstanding commitments 
A lender must take full account of the customers basic essential expenditure and 
quality of living costs of the customers household
The rules set out requirements and guidance in relation to the assessment of a consumers 
expenditure. In particular, MCOB 11.6.12 sets out that for the purposes of its assessment of 
whether the customer will be able to pay the sums due a lender may generally rely on any 
evidence of income or information on expenditure provided by the customer unless, taking a 
common sense view, it has reason to doubt the evidence or information. In other words, its 
acceptable for a lender to rely on information about expenditure given by an applicant 
without seeking evidence to corroborate it  unless there are grounds to doubt what is said.
It is accepted by Tandem that it didnt request any bank statements from Mr L to corroborate 
his expenditure and the loan was approved under its bank statement bypass process 
without the need for supporting bank statements. Tandem says that the relevant rules dont 
require it to request bank statements and that it corroborated Mr Ls credit commitments 
using the credit file.
I would accept that  in obtaining Mr Ls credit file  Tandem did take reasonable steps to 
obtain details of his actual credit commitments as it was required to do under MCOB 
11.6.13. However, I think once Tandem obtained the credit report that should have led it to 
question what Mr L had said about his expenditure  on credit commitments and living and 
other expenses  for a number of reasons which I will expand upon below. 
I can see that the broker provided Tandem with information relating to Mr Ls 
creditworthiness which explained that he had taken payday loans in 2013-15 due to financial 
difficulty following a relationship breakdown but had got out of the cycle about two years 
later. The broker said that the payday loans started again in 2017 as Mr L had to help his 
parents and they needed to move out of their home due to their health issues. The broker 
said that recent credit in the form of three personal loans was also used to help cover costs 
to move his parents. It explained that the reason for missed payments was due to the 
outgoings being much higher due to a large amount being paid on high interest payday loans 
and that Mr L wanted to consolidate all of his high interest credit into one manageable 
payment.
In its rationale to approve the loan, Tandem reiterated the information provided by the broker 
and said that, although recent payments had been missed, this was due to Mr L being 
overcommitted helping his parents move property and that this loan would be saving him 
£2,400 per month on his outgoings.
Ive looked at the credit report which was available to Tandem at the time of Mr Ls loan 
application. The summary showed that Mr L had opened 13 accounts in the last six months, 
that he had £101,334 of cash advances in the last 36 months, £4,012 cash advances in the 
last 12 months, 38 credit searches in the last 12 months, and that he was making minimum 
payments.
Tandem relies on the fact that the cash advances had decreased to around £4,000 in the 
last 12 months (compared to over £101,000 over the last 36 months) to support its position 
that this didnt indicate a gambling problem. However, it was clear from the credit report that 
a number of other sources of funding had been obtained within the previous 12 months. This 
included three significant unsecured loans around six months before this loan was taken  of 
£14,000 on 10 October 2018, £20,960 on 12 October 2018 and £12,557 on 17 October 
2018. 
In addition to the £47,500 of personal loans taken out in October 2018, the credit report 
showed that Mr L had obtained various other sources of funding. One of Mr Ls credit cards which had previously been cleared had gone from a zero balance to £8,673 in January 2019 
and was now over the credit limit and another previously cleared credit card had gone from a 
negative balance to £2,232 in December 2018. Mr L had also taken out a new credit card on 
17 October 2018 which was now over the limit of £5,800. The credit report showed that he 
had also taken short term loans of £3,996 and £750 in November 2018; of £1,280 £1,500, 
£1,000 and £60 in December 2018; of £1,000, £215 and £200 in January 2019; and of £600 
and £683 in February 2019. These are all within six months of the lending in April 2019.
Tandem says that although there were two previous missed payments on a personal loan, 
all other credit had been maintained by Mr L. I disagree with this. In addition to the two 
missed payments on one of the personal loans, the credit report shows that the last payment 
had been missed on three of Mr Ls credit cards, that he was over or close to his limit on a 
number of credit cards and that he was only making minimum payments. So I dont think its 
reasonable to say that Mr L was maintaining his other credit commitments sustainably.
Whilst the loan reduced Mr Ls monthly expenditure by consolidating some  but not all  of 
his debts, it increased his overall indebtedness by £11,700. It also meant that the debt was 
secured against his home over 20 years which would add a significant amount of interest to 
the amount he initially borrowed and mean that his home could be repossessed if he was 
unable to maintain his repayments.  
I note that the debts consolidated by Mr L were largely for credit cards and short-term loans. 
His credit report indicated that he appeared to have consolidated credit card debts 
previously and then used them back up to the credit limit again shortly thereafter as set out 
above. Whilst a lender cannot be held responsible for whether a customer closes a credit 
card account or reuses the funds available after paying off the debt, I think in the 
circumstances of this case it should have raised further concerns that this pattern might be 
repeated following this lending  impacting Mr Ls ability to manage this loan. This is 
particularly in light of the fact that  after the consolidation payments were made  a further 
£11,700 was being paid to Mr L directly rather than being used to consolidate some of the 
large personal loans which remained. 
I can see that Mr L sent an email to Tandem on 13 April 2019 questioning the fact that the 
total value of the consolidation payments didnt add up to the £50,000 he was borrowing and 
asked what happened to the remaining balance. It is not clear if Tandem responded to this 
or questioned why Mr L needed the additional £11,700 given that the purpose of the loan 
was to consolidate debt  or whether it considered requiring him to use this amount to 
consolidate some of the personal loans that would otherwise remain outstanding. 
Tandem has said that the explanation given by Mr L for his past financial difficulties was 
plausible and that it had no reason to doubt what he said. It also says there was nothing in 
the checks it did which should reasonably have alerted it to the fact that Mr L had a gambling 
problem. Tandem has said that it took the information provided by Mr L in good faith and 
suggests that it was Mr Ls responsibility to disclose his gambling problem but he chose not 
to do so. It is Mr Ls responsibility to declare relevant information as part of his application  
but it is the lenders responsibility to ensure that the loan is affordable for the customer, and 
to carry out proper checks to make sure it is. It is clear from the regulations outlined above 
that a lender must take into account a number of factors when assessing affordability. 
Given the significant amount of credit taken by Mr L in the period shortly before he applied 
for this loan and the frequency with which he continued to use short term loans and credit 
cards even after having borrowed £47,500 in October 2018, I think this ought to have led 
Tandem to question what Mr L had said about borrowing money to help his parents move  
or at least to make further checks to confirm it. I therefore think that the information available 
from the credit file should have prompted Tandem to ask further questions about Mr Ls 
circumstances and requested supporting information. This is because  taking a common-
sense view  Tandem had reason to doubt the evidence or information it had been provided 
by Mr L.For the reasons above, I dont think Tandem carried out adequate checks having regard to 
the information it held about Mr Ls financial circumstances, particularly given the large 
amount of the loan and the fact it would be secured against his home. Whilst MCOB doesnt 
say that a lender must obtain bank statements, it is good practice within the mortgage 
industry for a lender to obtain bank statements to verify the expenditure information 
provided. In the circumstances of this case I think it would have been prudent for Tandem to 
request Mr Ls bank statements in order to verify his expenditure. 
Ive looked at Mr Ls bank statements from 20 December 2018 until the loan was advanced 
on 16 April 2019. These show a significant amount of short-term loans (including some 
which were not present on his credit file) and gambling transactions. Between 24 December 
2018 and 1 April 2019, Mr L took out 14 short term loans ranging from £60 to £1,500 and 
amounting to over £8,000 in total. Whilst I accept some of these may have been taken to pay 
off other debts, the amounts and frequency of the loans indicate that Mr L was not managing 
his debts sustainably. 
I also note that there were a number of monthly direct debits shown on the statements (for 
three insurance payments, three telecommunications providers and a football club) which 
may not have been reflected in the figures used for Tandems I&E assessment. Some of this 
may have been discretionary expenditure which Mr L could stop to service this loan  but 
that wasnt considered or discussed with him. The statements do not appear to show 
outgoings for day to day living expenses and Mr L has since indicated that these were paid 
using credit cards. The majority of payments out of the account were for either paying off 
credit commitments or gambling.
The statements also showed that in the three months before Tandem approved the loan, Mr 
L incurred bank fees for using an unarranged overdraft, arranged overdraft and for an unpaid 
transaction fee. These fees amounted to £86 in March 2019, £78 in February 2019 and £46 
in January 2019. This again suggests that Mr L was not maintaining his credit commitments 
well. 
Most notably from looking at the bank statements, these show a significant amount of 
gambling transactions in the period before the loan was approved. In the three months 
between 21 December 2018 and 31 March 2019 the statements show at least £9,395 of 
gambling transactions (for payments identified as being directly to gambling organisations)  
in addition, there are a number of payments from the account via mobile phone transactions. 
By way of example, these included gambling transactions totalling £1,600 on 24 December 
2018 and £4,000 on 25 December 2018. Mr L then took two short-term loans totalling £2,750 
on 27 December 2018 and made a further gambling transaction of £150. Likewise, on 31 
December 2018, Mr L took out two short-term loans totalling £460 and spent £200 on 
gambling transactions. On 31 January 2019, he took out a short-term loan of £200 and then 
on 1 February 2019 spent £900 on gambling transactions whilst he was already over £1,000 
into his overdraft. These examples indicate that Mr L was clearly not managing his debts 
sustainably and that he potentially had a significant gambling problem.
While some of these debts would have been consolidated into this loan, and therefore the 
lending would improve Mr Ls immediate position, I think the evidence of the statements 
shows that Mr L had a pattern of borrowing to consolidate debt and then immediately 
running up further borrowing, and borrowing to fund gambling and debt repayments. Had 
Tandem considered any of this evidence, I think it ought reasonably to have questioned 
whether the same pattern would recur with this loan  making the loan unsustainable. And 
given the amount of this loan, and that it was secured on his property, the impact of that on 
Mr L could be significant. I think this ought to have led Tandem to question whether it was 
responsible to lend in these circumstances.
Ive also looked at Mr Ls bank statements from after the loan was given. These show that in 
the three weeks after the loan was advanced by Tandem (including the £11,700 directly to him) he took out a total of £5,500 over four new short-term loans and also opened a new 
credit card with a cash advance of £3,000. This reinforces my conclusion that Tandem 
should have considered whether it was likely this pattern would continue as part of its 
lending decision.
Tandem has confirmed that Mr L has dipped in and out of arrears during the period of the 
loan but says this is not something it could have foreseen when it approved the loan. 
Tandem says that Mr L paid the loan on time for seven months until December 2019 when 
the account fell into arrears. However, I can see from the notes from collections that Tandem 
was chasing arrears as early as October 2019 due to an unpaid direct debit that month. Mr L 
called Tandem in November 2019 to indicate that he had some financial difficulties the 
previous month but said that he would bring the account back up to date by the middle of 
December 2019. Mr L contacted Tandem again in January 2020 to indicate that he had 
approached a debt advice agency due to his financial difficulties. Mr L informed Tandem in 
December 2021 that he was experiencing financial difficulty, but he expected this to be 
temporary. 
I think the information supports that the loan was not affordable or sustainable for Mr L and 
that it was not assisting him by consolidating some of his debts. I disagree that Tandem 
could not have foreseen these financial difficulties at the time it approved the loan. It is my 
view that had Tandem requested the bank statements for the period before the loan was 
taken  as I think it ought to have done in the circumstances  it would not have been able to 
demonstrate that the loan was affordable or sustainable for Mr L. 
Overall, I dont think it was reasonable for Tandem to offer Mr L the loan secured against his 
home. I am of the view that it didnt carry out sufficient checks and, had it done so, it would 
have shown that the loan was unaffordable and unsustainable for Mr L and should not have 
been offered. In all the circumstances I think Tandem lent irresponsibly. 
In relation to the valuation figure used for the property, Tandem says that the value of 
£316,000 attributed to Mr Ls property was in the middle of the range given by the desktop 
valuation and that the confidence level for this fell within its policy parameters for a loan of 
this amount. It therefore believes that the type of valuation and amount attributed was 
appropriate. 
Mr L has provided some examples of sale prices for similar properties in his area. These 
show that for 2019, with the exception of one property, nothing sold for more than £300,000. 
An online valuation tool showed a value of £300,000. 
Given the information available, it may well be that the property may have been valued at a 
lower amount had a full valuation been conducted. And given the high LTV of just under 90% 
including Mr Ls first charge mortgage, I might expect Tandem to take this into account when 
determining whether it was appropriate to lend in the other circumstances of this case. The 
fact that Tandem says the valuation met the requirements of its internal policy doesnt of 
itself mean it has acted fairly. However, given that I am of the view that this loan was mis-
sold in its entirety, it will be unnecessary for me to come to any specific conclusion in relation 
to this aspect. 
Putting things right
Whilst I dont think the loan should have been given, Mr L has had the benefit of the money 
borrowed, so I think it right that he should have to repay that amount. However, had the loan 
not been given then he would not have had to pay the fees, charges or interest incurred on 
this. 
In order to put things right, Tandem should therefore treat all payments made by Mr L as 
payments towards the capital amount of the loan. It should not include any borrowing for 
fees and charges.I recognise that this is not an ideal way of putting things right  it doesnt take into account 
the fact that Mr L did consolidate some (though by no means all) of his existing debts, and 
has therefore, through my award, saved interest on that debt he would otherwise have paid. 
However, given the interest rates charged by Tandem, and the difficulty of estimating what 
Mr L would have paid towards other debts, I think its reasonable to take a relatively simple 
approach to resolving this matter by simply saying that Tandem should not retain fees and 
interest on money it ought not fairly to have lent. Im satisfied that this is as close to fair 
compensation as it is reasonably possible to get in this case. 
So I recognise that there is likely to have been some saving through consolidating high-
interest short-term loan and credit card debt into the secured loan, albeit I dont think I can 
accurately estimate that saving, and I dont think its likely to be very substantial. However, 
my award for financial loss will result in Mr L having paid no interest on any of the 
consolidated debt. In recognition of the fact that this may, to some extent, leave Mr L over-
compensated, I do not intend to award further compensation for any distress and 
inconvenience in addition to that award. 
In light of the above, I require Tandem to do the following:
Tandem should calculate the amount borrowed without any fees or charges 
(£50,000). It should then treat any payments made to it by Mr L as payments towards 
this capital amount. 
If this results in an overpayment, Tandem should pay Mr L simple annual interest of 
8%* on any overpayments, running from the date they were paid to the date of 
settlement.
If there is still a balance outstanding, Tandem should agree a suitable repayment 
plan with Mr L.
Tandem should remove any information about the loan from Mr Ls credit file.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Tandem to take off tax from this interest. Tandem 
must give Mr L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I uphold this complaint against Tandem Home Loans 
Ltd and require it to put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Rachel Ellis
Ombudsman