DRN-2243159
The complaint
Mrs B complains about Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limiteds decision to turn down her 
income protection claim.
What happened
Mrs B is a member of her employers group income protection policy, the aim of which is 
to pay a benefit in the event that she couldnt work in her own or a suited occupation 
because of accident or illness. The policy had a waiting period of 52 weeks.
In July 2018 Mrs B stopped work in her sedentary role because of illness. She 
submitted a claim, but this was turned down by Aviva as it didnt think the medical 
evidence supported that she met the policy definition of incapacity. Mrs B appealed, and 
so Aviva arranged for her to attend an Independent Medical Examination (IME). 
Following this, Aviva maintained its decision to decline her claim. Unhappy with this, 
Mrs B brought a complaint to this service.
I issued a provisional decision on 25 September 2020. My provisional findings were:
The policy defines incapacity as:
The members inability to perform on a full or part time basis the duties of his or her job 
role and other occupations for which they are suited by reason of education, training or 
experience, as a result of illness or injury.
Job role is defined as:
A members job role with the policyholder at the time incapacity starts.
For me to require Aviva to pay the claim, Mrs B must therefore show that she wasnt able 
to carry out the material and substantial duties of her role or another role to which she 
was suited by way of education, training or experience throughout the 52-week waiting 
period because of illness.
Ive therefore looked at the medical evidence.
Mrs B suffers with a degenerative back condition. She had back surgery in 2012, 
however she explains that her condition worsened over the next few years.
I see that in the month before Mrs B stopped work, she saw her GP as she was still 
experiencing widespread joint pains. Her GP referred her to a consultant 
rheumatologist.
At the time Mrs B stopped work, she went to her GP and explained she was experiencing 
worsening neck symptoms, as well as new pins and needles in her left hand. Her GP 
signed her off work.
In August 2018, Mrs B attended a rheumatology clinic. Her diagnoses were listed as 
cervical and lumbar spondylosis, fibromyalgia/chronic fatigue syndrome, and low mood 
and anxiety. A consultant rheumatologist said they had explained to Mrs B that she had 
fibromyalgia and how it was best managed. Mrs B was then discharged from the 
rheumatology clinic.
Although the consultant recorded the symptoms Mrs B described, they didnt comment 
on how they affected her ability to work.
In September 2018 Mrs B was seen by a neurological team, and an MRI scan was 
carried out. Her spinal cord was normal and so Mrs B was discharged from neurology 
back to her GP for conservative management. Her GP noted they had fully explored 
neuropathic pain medication options over the years, and Mrs Bs current regime was the 
best they had found whilst balancing side effects.
Based on the above evidence, I can understand why Aviva turned down the claim. Whilst 
it is clear that Mrs B was experiencing symptoms, the evidence didnt explain why those 
symptoms prevented her from working. However, when Mrs B appealed against Avivas 
decision, she explained how her symptoms impacted her. I think it was therefore 
reasonable for Aviva to arrange for Mrs B to have an IME with a specialist who could 
examine her and also take into account her past medical history before offering an 
opinion about her ability to work.
Aviva arranged for Mrs B to attend an IME in June 2018, which was a month before the 
52- week waiting period ended. The IME took place with Dr M, a consultant in 
occupational medicine. Dr M acknowledged that Mrs B had multiple pathologies, however, 
he thought she could undertake an undemanding sedentary role in a well designed 
workplace with regular breaks from her computer work and if possible to be considered for 
alternative work with considerably less computer work.
Aviva asked Dr M if Mrs B could carry out her own role. In response, Dr M said On the 
balance of probabilities, she would probably have difficulty undertaking her most recent 
role due to the amount of computer work required, however if this could be substantially 
reduced then she may be able to return to this role.
Ive not seen any evidence that Mrs Bs role could be adjusted so that her time spent on 
the computer could be substantially reduced. She worked in a call centre and was 
required to use the computer to do her role. Im therefore satisfied that, based on Dr Ms 
evidence, Mrs B couldnt work in her previous role.
However, Aviva also asked Dr M about some other occupations that it thought may be 
suitable for Mrs B, given her work history. Those were administration assistant, payroll 
administrator and data entry clerk. Dr M responded to say he thought she could 
undertake such work as an administrative assistant or payroll administrator, but he didnt 
think the duties of a data entry clerk would be suitable, given the amount of time that 
would be spent using a computer.
Aviva also asked Dr M if, after reviewing the medical information, he thought Mrs B was 
able to work for certain periods within the 52-week waiting period. Dr M acknowledged 
that Mrs Bs symptoms do fluctuate, though he said it could have been possible for her to 
have worked on much reduced hours during the time of her incapacity, however he 
couldnt be certain in that respect.
In respect of going back to work, Dr M thought Mrs B could initially work 10 hours a 
week with a gradual reintroduction of her hours up to 28 after two months or so.Aviva suggested three possible roles that it thought Mrs B was suited to do  
administration assistant, payroll administrator and data entry clerk. I understand that prior 
to her current role, Mrs B had spent many years working in financial services. I think it 
was therefore reasonable for Aviva to conclude that Mrs B was suited to these roles. 
Crucially, Dr M thought that Mrs B could perform two of those roles (administration 
assistant and payroll administrator). Based on this, I think it was reasonable for Aviva to 
conclude that Mrs B could carry out a suited occupation, and therefore didnt meet the 
policy definition of incapacity.
However, Dr M didnt think Mrs B could return to work immediately. Instead he thought 
she could initially work 10 hours a week, and then gradually increase this over the 
following two months. He also couldnt be sure whether Mrs B could have worked during 
the 52-week waiting period, though its apparent he thought she couldnt have worked her 
usual 28 hours per week.
I think a fair solution here would be for Aviva to treat Mrs Bs claim as though she had 
returned to work for 10 hours a week following the date of the IME report and then 
increased her hours gradually until the end of a two-month period. As the waiting period 
would have ended within that timeframe, I think Aviva ought to pay her a proportionate 
settlement from the end of the waiting period until that two-month period had ended, plus 
interest.
I asked both parties to provide me with any further comments they wished to make. 
Aviva said it disagrees with my recommendation that it pay proportionate benefit to Mrs B 
because she didnt return to work, as required by the policy terms for proportionate benefit 
to be payable. It says that if Mrs B returns to work in the future, then so long as this is 
within a reasonable period of this decision, it would be willing to pay the two months 
proportionate benefit at that point. 
Mrs B responded to say she doesnt have any further evidence, though she does think 
that insurers ought to make it clear to claimants what information is required to support a 
claim at the outset.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy terms say that for proportionate benefit to be payable, the member would need to 
be following their job role on a part-time basis or following any other occupation, and that this 
has resulted in a reduction in earnings.
Mrs B didnt return to her job (or any other job) after the IME. Therefore, strictly speaking, no 
proportionate benefit is payable under the policy. However, Dr M found that Mrs B couldnt 
return to work on a full-time basis during the waiting period, yet when Aviva maintained its 
decision to decline the claim, it didnt advise Mrs B/her employer that a proportionate 
payment would be made if she returned to work. If it had done, this may well have impacted 
her decision to attempt a phased return to work. Taking this into account, I remain of the 
view that a fair and reasonable outcome here would be for Aviva to pay proportionate benefit 
as set out in my provisional decision.
Putting things rightI require Aviva to treat Mrs Bs claim as though she had returned to her role for 10 hours a 
week following the date of the IME report, and then increased her hours gradually over the 
following two months. As the waiting period would have ended within that timeframe, Aviva 
should pay a proportionate settlement from the end of the waiting period until the two-month 
period had ended. 
Interest should be added at the rate of 8% simple per annum from the date each payment 
would have been due to the date of settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint in part. I require Aviva Life & Pensions UK 
Limited to pay a proportionate settlement as Ive described above. 
If Aviva considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mrs B how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs B a certificate 
showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2020.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman