DRN-2772579
The complaint
Ms B complains that she was mis-sold a Flex Plus Account (FPA) in 2015 by Nationwide 
Building Society (Nationwide).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the adjudicator for these reasons:
In my view its more likely than not that Ms B was aware that fee free accounts were 
available from Nationwide and other banks and financial institutions as they were widely 
advertised. So, if Nationwide had tried to force Ms B to have a fee-paying account and she 
didnt want one, I think she would have declined and gone elsewhere. So, I think Ms B knew 
he had a choice and chose to take out the FPA.
Ive seen no evidence that Nationwide carried out an assessment of Ms Bs circumstances 
or made a recommendation to Ms B. And this service has seen evidence that Nationwide 
generally sold FPAs on an information only basis. So, I think its more likely than not that 
Nationwide did not recommend the FPA to Ms B or advise her to take it out.
As this was a non-advised sale, Nationwide was only required to provide Ms B with enough 
information to make an informed choice about what she was buying. And I think its more 
likely than not that it did. I say this because Ms B says that she had had a meeting in a 
branch about the FPA and was shown a video about it. Nationwide has also provided 
evidence that it sent her a welcome pack and that Ms B discussed pre-existing medical 
conditions at the time in the context of the benefits.
The FPA benefits included worldwide family travel insurance, car breakdown cover, mobile 
phone insurance, extended warranty, and id theft protection. Ms B says she didnt use any of 
the benefits. She says that she didnt have a car and her pre-existing medical conditions 
wouldve stopped her using the travel insurance. But the breakdown service provided cover 
for any car she was in whether she owned it or was driving or not. The travel insurance didnt 
automatically exclude pre-existing medical conditions, it only required them to be raised in 
advance with the insurer and Ms B had the opportunity to do so at the time of sale. And the 
mobile phone insurance didnt require the phone to be registered.
So, I can see why she wouldve been interested in the FPA; she did enjoy the cover whether 
she made a claim or not; and she couldve closed the FPA at any time but didnt for many 
years.
Ms B has referred to getting into debt due to Nationwides actions, but she hasnt raised this 
with Nationwide and therefore that aspect of her complaint is not covered by this decision.
Ms B has also said that she tried to close her account but wasnt allowed to. Nationwide 
says it has no record of any request to close the account. But it has provided evidence that it 
sent her a reminder letter every year, inviting her to make contact if she was unhappy with 
the FPA, and providing contact details. Ms B hasnt put forward any evidence of trying to 
close her account other than what she has said; So, although I dont doubt Ms Bs honest 
recollections, I think its more likely than not her memory is mistaken on this.
So, in my view, Ms B chose to take out the FPA based on the information Nationwide 
provided. I dont think Nationwide omitted to tell her anything that would have put her off 
buying the FPA. And I dont think Nationwide has done anything wrong in this case.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Ms Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2021.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman