DRN-1640363
The complaint
Mr M complains about Zurich Insurance PLC (Zurich) regarding the way his claim following 
a burglary has been handled following a burglary. He feels that Zurich has not acted 
transparently with him and has requested unreasonable and inappropriate information before 
determining his claim. He wants Zurich to progress his claim on the information he has 
already provided. 
What happened
In 2015, Mr M insured his home and contents with Zurich. He subsequently renewed his 
policy annually. 
His policy and renewals required that Mr M notified Zurich of any proposed building, 
restoration, renovation and/or maintenance woks where the estimated value of all phases of 
the work exceeded £100,000, or where the work involved structural alteration to the building 
or outbuilding. 
Mr M did not make any declarations. 
In early 2019, Mr M discovered a burglary at his home. A number of high value items were 
taken, including around £70,000 worth of jewellery, and around £10,000 to £20,000 in cash. 
Mr M reported the burglary to the police. 
Mr M then notified Zurich. A loss adjuster from Zurich attended Mr Ms home and made 
enquiries of Mr M and his family. 
Zurich asked Mr M for further information, regarding works which had been carried out at his 
home, and about the source of the cash which had been stolen. Mr M responded to these 
queries.
Zurich then appointed a claims investigator who met with Mr M and his family and took their 
account of what had happened. The claims investigator later provided a draft witness 
statement to Mr M, including a declaration of truth. The claims investigator requested 
information and evidence regarding the building works which had been carried out at the 
property and other information to assist in valuations. 
Mr M and his family felt that the representative from Zurich had been aggressive and 
inappropriate in their questioning. 
Mr M submitted a complaint to Zurich, setting out that he felt that Zurichs approach was 
inappropriate.
Zurich sent its final response in March 2019. Zurich did not uphold Mr Ms complaint and 
detailed that Zurich needed the requested information in order to reach a conclusion on 
liability. 
Mr M was not happy and contacted us. He raised several concerns, including that 
aggressive interview techniques were used, that the claim had been referred to the Claims 
Investigation Unit and he felt that Zurich had not been transparent in respect of the reasons 
for this. He queried the relevance of the questions about the works, and felt that he had 
responded sufficiently to other queries. He also felt that Zurich had made inappropriate use 
of a witness statement and felt that it was being used to cross examine his account, rather 
than to support his claim.
One of our investigators has looked into this matter and set out her view to the parties. This 
was that there was no evidence of an unreasonable delay from Zurich in progressing the 
claim, and it appeared that the information being requested by Zurich was pertinent to the 
claim decision. The investigator therefore felt that Zurich had not acted unreasonably. 
Mr M did not accept this view. He made additional submissions indicating that he did not 
think his initial points had all been addressed and asked than an ombudsman make a 
decision on his case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also made enquiries with the parties as to what has happened since on the claim 
since this matter was referred to us. The parties have responded and explained that the 
claim has not progressed since early 2020. Initially this was due to Mr M wishing to await our 
view on the handling of the claim, and then latterly because Zurich has declined to take parts 
of the claim forward while awaiting our view. 
I appreciate Mr Ms concern about this case. He has suffered a substantial loss totalling 
around £100,000 and of course he will be keen to see the claim resolved. He has made a 
number of points to us which he wishes to be specifically addressed, and these all relate to 
the approach Zurich has taken to the investigation of the claim, and whether Zurich has 
acted proportionately and transparently in its investigation to date. I have therefore looked at 
the complaint holistically and considered whether Zurich has acted reasonably in its 
consideration of the claim so far. 
I have also borne in mind that the claim has not yet been concluded and that if, when there 
has been a decision made on his claim, Mr M wishes to complain about any specific aspect 
of the decision and any impact he feels there has been on the outcome of his claim, then he 
would be able to raise a complaint at that time. 
Looking at the way the claim was initially handled I agree with the investigators view, that 
Zurich began processing this claim in a reasonable time. For a claim of this size it was not 
unusual for a loss adjuster to be appointed and an investigation carried out into the loss. I do 
not criticise this. 
I note that the claim was transferred to the Claims Investigation Unit around 8 days after the 
burglary, and that the investigation unit then made an appointment to meet with Mr M to 
obtain information about the loss. 
The business has provided a timeline of the main points of communication in this claim and 
this shows that the claim was being progressed at a reasonable pace. Zurich asked Mr M for 
further information in early February 2019 and gave its explanation for why this information 
was needed. During his visit, the Loss Adjuster had identified a rear extension to the property which was 
around a year old and had cost around £150,000. Due to the extension, it was noted that the 
property was now under insured, and that the works had not been reported to Zurich at 
renewal, as required by the policy. 
Zurich emailed Mr M in late January 2019, in advance of their appointment. Zurich explained 
what information it would be seeking and that, following the appointment, the notes would 
then be typed up into a witness statement. Zurich advised that details of the renovation 
works would be needed, as would original documents for the items claimed for, including 
safe details and jewellery receipts / valuations.  
At the appointment, Zurichs agents took notes of the information provided. This included 
some discussion of the extension, which contractor undertook the works and how payments 
were made. 
Following the appointment, Zurich sent Mr M a copy of the witness statement based upon 
their notes for amendment and signature. Zurich explained that if Mr M or his wife wished to 
make amendments to please provide an explanation for those amendments. Zurich also 
asked further questions regarding the extension, and requested documents such as invoices 
to demonstrate the payments made. It also asked for evidence of the amount of cash held in 
the safe and authority to approach one of Mr Ms contractors to discuss the claim. 
At that point, Mr Ms broker advised him not to respond as the broker did not consider some 
of the information requested to be relevant. There was further correspondence between Mr 
Ms broker and Zurich over the relevance of the questions. 
Since the complaint was made to us there seems to have been little further communication 
or cooperation between the parties towards resolving the claim. 
Zurich has maintained that the information and evidence it has requested is reasonable and 
relevant to its determination of the claim.
Reviewing the information requested, and which remains outstanding, this information is 
clearly relevant to Zurichs investigation of the claim, for the reasons it has given to Mr M.  
Zurich has demonstrated that the extension works would be relevant to the underwriting and 
risk of the policy and may have resulted in different terms or premiums being applied. I 
therefore think it was reasonable for Zurich to make further enquiries into those works before 
it makes its decision on liability. 
As this information, and authority to make further enquiries, does not appear to have been 
provided, I do not think that Zurich has been able to progress its claim. 
Zurich has also demonstrated its responsibility to make enquiries into a large cash sum that 
was held at home. I do not think it unreasonable to require this information. 
The evidence currently available shows that Zurich has explained why it requires the 
outstanding information and evidence, and these explanations are reasonable. I cannot 
comment on the manner of Zurichs agent during the appointment, but as this interview was 
to inform a witness statement I can imagine the questions were thorough, and may have felt 
intrusive. I have not seen evidence that the questioning was excessive however, and the 
resultant witness statement includes relevant and potentially relevant details, so I think it 
likely that the questions were relevant to the claim.  Overall, I have not seen evidence that Zurich has acted inappropriately in its handling of the 
claim, and I do not criticise it for not being able to progress the claim while it awaits required 
information. 
Consequently, I agree with the investigators view and do not uphold the complaint. 
I appreciate that Mr M will be disappointed by this decision, but I hope that the parties will 
now be able to move forward and conclude the claim. 
I would expect Zurich to progress matters promptly once it receives the outstanding 
information (or confirmation that Mr M cannot provide the requested information) from Mr M.  
Mr M will, of course, be entitled to complain about any aspect of the decision reached by 
Zurich, once that decision has been made. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint and do not ask Zurich 
Insurance PLC to do anything further in respect of this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2021.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman