DRN-3323466
Complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc trading as M&S Bank (M&S)
didnt do more to help him when he was the victim of a scam.
Background
In early 2020, Mr B was looking for investment opportunities having taken a tax-free lump
sum from his pension. His online research led him to a website of a firm that was promoting
investments in (amongst other things) cryptocurrencies, like Bitcoin.
Unfortunately, this firm wasnt being operated by a legitimate investment business but a
scammer. He found the website to be professional and persuasive. He tested the water by
making a payment of £250 using a debit card and was given access to a trading platform
showing the performance of his investments and he was assigned a broker who would
handle investment advice for him.
It was during his conversations with this broker that Mr B was persuaded to invest more
money to obtain a greater return. Over the course of around one month, Mr B was
persuaded to invest £68,000. With each payment, Mr B purchased cryptocurrency which
was deposited into his account with a genuine cryptocurrency exchange. He then used his
account with this other business to transfer the cryptocurrency to the scammers.
This came to light when the scammer told him that there had been a worrying drop in the
value of investment and that he should insure his portfolio. This would cost him £26,000.
Mr B was anxious to not lose what he believed hed gained and so he reluctantly paid this
fee. He was assured that his money would be accessible once this had happened  but that
didnt prove to be the case. Instead, the scammers created new barriers to him accessing
his investment.
Around this time, Mr B discussed the situation with a close family member who advised him 
that this was highly likely to be a scam. He notified M&S immediately. M&S investigated and 
said it would reimburse 50% of his losses. It accepted it couldve done more to protect him 
from this scam, but it considered that Mr B shouldve exercised greater caution and carried 
out checks before agreeing to make the payment. Mr B was unhappy with the response from 
M&S and so he referred a complaint to this service. Hed read about the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM) code and considered that he was entitled to a full refund.
His case was looked at by an Investigator who didnt uphold it. The Investigator said that this
type of payment wasnt covered by the CRM code. He also noted that the outbound
payments Mr B made from his M&S account hadnt gone to the scammers, but to a separate
account that he controlled. The Investigator concluded that Mr Bs losses hadnt come about
as a result of any failings on the part of M&S, but because of an action he later took with an
account he held with an entirely different business. Mr B disagreed with the investigators
opinion. He said that M&S shouldve queried these payments with him before allowing them
to be processed.
Because Mr B disagreed with the investigators opinion, the complaint was passed to me to 
consider. 
I took a different view to the Investigator and so, in order to give both sides the opportunity to 
comment, I issued provisional findings on 27 January 2022. I said:
Its common ground that Mr B authorised the scam payments, albeit he only did so 
because he was duped by the scammer. These payments were authorised and so, 
while Mr B didnt intend for the money to go the scammers, under the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017 and the terms and conditions of his account, hes 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes 
of practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I 
consider M&S should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to 
counter various risks such as fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs 
that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other 
things). This is particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and 
scams in recent years, which banks are generally more familiar with than the 
average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or 
in some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect 
customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Mr B has also made reference to the fact that M&S has signed up the Lending 
Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code. Unfortunately, 
these transactions arent covered by that code. The code says a customer should be 
compensated if theyve fallen victim to an Authorised Push Payment (APP) scam. 
The code says that an APP scam refers to a transfer where the customer paid funds 
to another person for what they believed were legitimate purposes, but which were in 
fact fraudulent. In this instance, the transfers in question were not to the scammer, 
but to a separate account controlled by Mr B. I recognise that he was subsequently 
duped into transferring those funds out of that account to the scammers. But the way 
that the CRM Code is written makes it clear that these transactions are not covered 
by it and so M&S isnt required to consider his case under the CRM.
However, as Ive outlined above, good industry practice required M&S to be on the 
lookout for unusual or out of character transactions that might have suggested Mr B 
was at risk of fraud or financial harm. Ive therefore gone on to consider whether 
M&S shouldve done more to protect Mr B from the scam he fell victim to.
The investigator said that his losses didnt materialise directly from the M&S account. 
He thought that this meant M&S couldnt be held liable because their failure to 
intervene couldnt be described as the effective cause of the loss because hed first 
transferred money to another account which he controlled. However, I dont agree 
with that conclusion. Even though Mr B was transferring funds to a cryptocurrency 
account in his own name, I still think M&S had an obligation to consider whether those payments were out of character or indicated that Mr B might be at risk of 
financial harm.
The Financial Conduct Authority and Action Fraud published warnings about 
precisely these sorts of cryptocurrency scams in mid-2018. By January 2019, 
cryptocurrency scams continued to increase in frequency. By the time Mr B started 
making his payments, M&S ought reasonably to have had a good enough 
understanding of how crypto scams tend to work  including the fact that their 
customer is often duped into moving money to a legitimate crypto exchange or 
account in their own name before moving it on again to the fraudster. Therefore, Im 
satisfied that M&S shouldve had mechanisms in place to detect and prevent this 
type of fraud at the time Mr B was making his payments.
Having said that, I dont think M&S wouldve had any reasonable basis for intervening 
in this specific case. Although Bitcoin is not a mainstream asset, that doesnt mean 
that anyone buying it is necessarily at risk of fraud. The mere fact that Mr B was 
spending money on Bitcoin wouldnt justify M&S making further enquiries before 
allowing these payments to be made.
I wouldve expected M&S to be on the lookout for a significant change in spending 
behaviour
or out of character transactions that indicated Mr B was at risk of fraud. With the 
benefit of hindsight, we now know that Mr B was being tricked into transferring assets 
to a scammer  but I dont think M&S couldve been expected to identify that at the 
time. I say that because the statements for the account show that the only activity on 
them related to Mr Bs investments in cryptocurrency. He used another bank account 
for his daily spending. Although these payments may have represented a radical 
change in his spending behaviour, it wouldnt have been possible for M&S to have 
known that that was the case. Its knowledge about his spending was restricted to the 
activity he had on this account.
Overall, having taken all of the evidence and arguments into consideration, Im not
persuaded that M&S can fairly and reasonably be held liable for Mr Bs losses in 
these circumstances and so Im not intending to ask it to refund them in full. I know 
that M&S has already offered to reimburse 50% of his losses and Mr B is free to 
accept this offer if he wants to do so.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither M&S nor Mr B responded to my provisional findings, so I dont see any reason to 
depart from them. Im therefore issuing a decision not upholding this complaint. Mr B 
remains free to accept the partial offer of compensation that M&S has already made.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2022.
 
James KimmittOmbudsman