DRN-2565215
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain that Clydesdale Bank Plc wont refund money they lost when they fell 
victim to a scam.
What happened
In April 2020 Mr and Mrs F fell victim to a scam.
Based on the submissions of both parties, I understand the fraud occurred as follows.
Mr and Mrs F were looking to have work done on their driveway. They contacted a builder, 
who they found through an advert on a sponsored page on a social media platform. The 
builder attended their property and priced up the job, which included work on a driveway and 
pathway. 
Mr and Mrs F agreed a price with the builder of £3,700 for the work to be completed and 
they decided to go ahead. The builder told Mr and Mrs F, he would need an initial deposit of 
£2,000, which he said was for materials, with the remaining £1,700 to be paid on completion 
of the work. The builder asked that the £2,000 initial payment be made by bank transfer. 
Believing the builder to be genuine, Mr and Mrs F went ahead and on 3 April 2020 made a 
payment for £2,000, via mobile banking, to the account details the builder had given them. 
But unknown to them at the time they were falling victim to a scam.
As time went on, Mr and Mrs F didnt receive delivery of the materials for the work. They 
continued to communicate with the builder, who initially said it was a problem with the 
suppliers, but then when things still werent resolved, Mr and Mrs F have said the builder 
made various excuses for the materials not being delivered, the work not starting and for 
them not receiving a refund. Mr and Mrs F have said they tried to contact the builder 
frequently, but eventually their number was blocked.
Mr and Mrs F reported the scam to Clydesdale who contacted the bank that had received 
the funds. The receiving bank initially told Clydesdale this was a buyer/seller dispute and it 
was unable to assist. But when Clydesdale contacted it again, the receiving bank responded 
to say that no funds remained, as the money had been cleared out on the day the payment 
was made.
Mr and Mrs F complained to Clydesdale and it issued its final response on 2 October 2020. It 
said it was unable to uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint. Clydesdale said it wasnt able to 
recover any money from the receiving bank and that it wasnt able to refund the money Mr 
and Mrs F had lost.
 
Mr and Mrs F then brought their complaint to our service and one of our investigators looked 
into things. Our investigator didnt think Clydesdale could have done anything to prevent the 
scam  she didnt consider the payment Mr and Mrs F made was particularly out of the 
ordinary, or so unusual that it should have raised Clydesdales suspicions. And she didnt 
think Clydesdale missed an opportunity to identify the payment could potentially have been 
in relation to a scam. Our investigator also thought Clydesdale did what it could to try and 
recover the funds from the receiving bank.
Mr and Mrs F didnt accept our investigators view and so the complaint has been passed to 
me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the
time.
I know Mr and Mrs F have referred to other cases that this service has looked into. But I 
would point out that, while on the surface complaints may seem quite similar, each complaint 
is determined by its own individual circumstances. Here, as Im required to do, Ive looked at 
the individual circumstances of Mr and Mrs Fs complaint.
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Mr and Mrs F, and I can understand entirely why 
they feel so strongly that this money should be returned to them. But having thought very 
carefully about Clydesdales actions, I think it did act fairly and reasonably in allowing the 
transfer to leave the account. I also dont think it could have done any more than it did to try 
and recover the money. 
Having considered everything, Im not going to uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint. I do 
appreciate how disappointing this will be for them, and I dont underestimate the impact that 
this fraud has had on them. But I dont think I can fairly and reasonably say Clydesdale 
should reimburse Mr and Mrs F the money they have unfortunately lost to the fraudster. Ill 
explain why.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and
conditions of the customers account. And I have taken that into account when deciding what
is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story and taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider Clydesdale should fairly and reasonably: 
- Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
- Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
- In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
This means that, particularly with the increase of sophisticated fraud and scams in recent  
years, there are circumstances where a bank should fairly and reasonably take additional 
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to 
make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.
In this case, I need to decide whether Clydesdale acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings 
with Mr and Mrs F, when they made the transfer to a fraudster and when they reported the 
fraud, or whether it should have done more than it did.
In making the payment through her mobile banking, Im satisfied Mrs F authorised the 
transaction. Because of this, Clydesdale had an obligation to follow the instruction. But there 
are some situations in which it should reasonably have had a closer look at the 
circumstances surrounding the transfer - as Ive explained, I consider that as a matter of 
good practice Clydesdale shouldve been on the lookout for unusual and out of character 
transactions.
Clydesdale has a difficult balance to strike in how it configures its systems to detect unusual 
activity or activity that might otherwise indicate a higher than usual risk of fraud. But on 
balance, I cant fairly say that the transaction was so unusual or suspicious that it ought to 
have alerted Clydesdale that Mr and Mrs F were at risk of financial harm. 
Having looked through bank statements for the six months leading up to the scam, I agree 
the scam payment for £2,000 is a larger payment compared to what is usually made from 
this account. But, I can see a credit, for £10,000, was received into the account to facilitate 
the transfer and when thinking about this, I need to keep in mind that it is not untypical for 
consumers to move money into their accounts in order to make one-off transactions
I can also see the scam payment didnt clear the account balance or leave it in a negative 
position, which can often be an indicator that somebody may be at risk of falling victim to a 
scam. Ive also thought about the fact the payment was sent to a new payee. But I dont find 
that a payment to a new payee was in itself so suspicious and unusual that Clydesdale 
ought to have been concerned Mr and Mrs F were at risk of fraud or financial harm. 
Overall the payment for £2,000 simply doesnt look so unusual or suspicious to me that I 
think Clydesdale ought to have intervened. As a result, I dont think Clydesdale acted 
unreasonably in not making enquiries about the payment before processing it. There isnt 
enough here for me to think Clydesdale should have suspected Mr and Mrs F might be 
about to fall victim to a fraud.
Ive gone on to think about whether Clydesdale did what it shouldve done once Mr and Mrs 
F reported to it that they had been the victim of a scam. Ive looked into the attempts 
Clydesdale made to recover the money, once Mr and Mrs F reported the scam. I understand 
Mr and Mrs F have asked a number of questions about the receiving bank account, but my 
decision here focuses solely on Clydesdale and whether I think it did what it ought to have 
done. In order for me to be able to fairly ask Clydesdale to refund the money to Mr and Mrs 
F, I need to be satisfied that Clydesdale should have acted sooner in trying to recover the 
money. And if I dont think it acted soon enough, I need to decide whether it made any 
difference.
In this case I can see Clydesdale raised the claim against the receiving bank on the same 
day Mr and Mrs F reported the scam to it. I understand the receiving bank initially said it thought this was a buyer/seller dispute  but it also responded to Clydesdale to say that no 
funds remained, as they had been cleared from the account on the same day as the 
payment had been made. So, Clydesdale wasnt able to recover the money Mr and Mrs F 
had paid the fraudster. From what Ive seen, Im persuaded Clydesdale did what it should 
have and didnt miss an opportunity to recover any funds. 
Its very unfortunate Mr and Mrs F have lost this money to what is a cruel scam, and I 
understand the whole experience has been deeply upsetting for them and I dont 
underestimate their strength of feeling. But in the circumstances, I dont think I can fairly or 
reasonably say Clydesdale should have done more to prevent Mr and Mrs F from losing this 
money. So I dont think it would be fair for me to ask Clydesdale to refund the loss.
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint 
against Clydesdale Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman