DRN-2801887
The complaint
Mrs C says the advice given and the arrangements made by Insight Financial Associates 
Limited (Insight) to switch her personal pension funds into a London & Colonial (L&C) Self-
invested Personal Pension (SIPP) and to facilitate investment in an unregulated collective 
investment scheme (UCIS) was unsuitable.
What happened
Mrs C started working for Insight Private Finance (part of the Insight Group) in 2011. It 
seems she worked with a close relation (Mr Z) who was a mortgage broker. Insight were in 
contact with her personal pension provider Standard Life from 2011. And early in 2012 she 
sought advice from it about her pension arrangements. I understand she wasnt satisfied 
with the performance of her existing fund.
Mrs C signed a letter of engagement with Insight in February 2012. And at the same time, it 
completed a confidential financial review with her. It gathered information about her 
circumstances, objectives and risk appetite. A Financial Planning Report it subsequently 
prepared for her on 12 March 2012 identified her objective as wanting to switch her personal 
pension to a SIPP so she could invest in land for development.
Ultimately, Mrs C was persuaded to switch her personal pension funds into a SIPP with L&C, 
with the money being used to invest in a UCIS. A list of transactions from her provider show 
her Standard Life funds of over £54,000 were switched into her new arrangement on 6 
March 2012. Insights fees were paid a few days later. And on 23 March 2012 £30,000 was 
paid from her SIPP to purchase an interest in land for property development in the UK. A 
further tranche of £11,000 was invested in the same asset group in November 2013.
Mrs C complained to Insight in 2019 about the charges it been making against her SIPP 
account for ongoing advice  she said she hadnt received services for a long time. Insight 
said shed brought her complaint too late and the Investigator at this Service agreed.
Mrs C then raised a different complaint about Insight. She said that the advice it had given 
her in 2012 to switch her personal pension into a SIPP for the purpose of investing in a UCIS 
had been unsuitable. She says this has caused her financial detriment.
Insight responded to Mrs C in November 2019. It said shed brought her complaint too late 
for it to be considered by this Service.
Our jurisdiction to consider Mrs Cs complaint
The Dispute Resolution rules (DISP) which determine which complaints can be considered 
by this Service are set out in the regulators handbook. The rules include time limits by which 
complaints must be made. The DISP rule in this case is DISP 2.8.2. It says:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service:
-more than:
osix years after the event complained of; or (if later)
othree years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought 
reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint; 
unless:
-in the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time limitswas the 
result of exceptional circumstances
Its not disputed that the event - the advice in 2012 for Mrs C to switch her personal pension 
funds into a SIPP enabling the investment in development land - took place more than six 
years before she first raised her complaint in 2019. But Insight says she also became aware, 
or ought reasonably to have become aware, of cause to complain more than three years 
prior to this.
Another Ombudsman has already investigated whether we have jurisdiction for Mrs Cs case 
and concluded we do have authority to consider it. Ive reviewed the position again and I 
wont be rehearsing all the arguments he made, but Ive reached the same conclusion.
Insight says Mrs C had understanding of the risks around the investment at the time of its 
advice because of her employment background (with Insight Private Finance) and the fact 
that Mr Z was a close relative.
Even if, as Insight has asserted, Mrs C was a mortgage broker, its not clear how this 
shouldve triggered her awareness that she may have cause to complain about its pension 
advice. And it hasnt articulated why her relationship with Mr Z wouldve done so either. Like 
the Ombudsman. Im not persuaded that these matters were telling in terms of our 
jurisdiction, although I will return to them when considering the merits of her case.
In thinking about the three-year test I need to decide when Mrs C became aware, or ought 
reasonably to have become aware, that she had a cause to complain. And having 
established that date, determine whether she brought her complaint within three years of it. 
Insight is essentially arguing Mrs Cs awareness starts at the point she was advised. There 
is a fundamental problem with its position.
When considering if Mrs C had a cause for complaint that means whether she had, or ought 
reasonably to have had, knowledge there was a problem; that she had suffered or may have 
suffered a loss; and that someone was responsible for this problem (and who that was).
If Mrs C had been concerned during the advice process, its unlikely she wouldve gone 
ahead with the switch at all. Theres no evidence she thought there were problems with the 
service she received from Insight in 2012  indeed from the information weve seen, it seems 
she was happy to proceed.
Ive also considered whether the performance of her investments ought to have caused her 
concern. The investments were sold with expected maturity dates, and the earliest of these 
was in 2016. And the type of investments were such that they wouldnt have shown an 
increase in value over time, as the profit was projected to be made when the land was sold.
So, Im satisfied that even though she received annual statements which showed some loss 
in value from charges being applied, she wouldnt have realised she had cause to complain 
about the advice until the end of the year shed expected the first investment to mature but 
didnt, and this was 2016. As she complained to our service in October 2019, and this was 
within three years of the end of 2016, Mrs C made her complaint in time.After the Ombudsmans decision confirming our jurisdiction to consider Mrs Cs case, an 
Investigator considered the merits of her complaint. She upheld it, identifying several failures 
in Insights advice and processes.
Insight refuted the Investigators findings and conclusions. For example, it says it didnt give 
Mrs C advice about the investments she made in development land. It says shed already 
made that decision and its role had simply been to identify a SIPP provider to satisfy her 
objectives.
Amongst other matters, it noted documentation shed completed which showed she was a 
self-certified sophisticated investor. It also raised the influence of Mr Z on her decision 
making. And her own expertise in financial matters.
So, Mrs Cs complaint has been passed to me for review and a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im upholding Mrs Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
How does the regulatory framework inform the consideration of Mrs Cs case?
The first thing Ive considered is the extensive regulation around transactions like those 
performed by Insight for Mrs C. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for 
businesses, which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in 
the FCA Handbook). These include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 3, which requires a firm to take reasonable care to organise and control its 
affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems.
- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms like Insight. As such, I 
need to have regard to them in deciding Mrs Cs complaint.
Further, COBS 2.1.1 R requires a firm to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with the best interests of its clients, in relation to designated investment business carried on 
for a retail client. The definition of designated investment business includes arranging 
(bringing about) deals in investments.COBS 9.2.1R sets out the obligations on firms in assessing the suitability of investments. 
They are the same things that I look at when reaching a decision about whether the advice 
was suitable. In summary, the business must obtain the necessary information regarding: 
the consumers knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the advice; 
their financial situation; and their investment objectives.
When I consider a case where someone has switched their personal pension, I look at their 
circumstances at the time. Why were they interested in switching? Were those wants or 
needs reasonable? And so, should the adviser have recommended the switch?
Each case is different, but Id expect the switch to be in Mrs C s best interests to make the 
advice suitable. And in this regard, Id expect to see a comparison was made between her 
old pension and the new one.
In 2009 the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), then the Financial Services Authority, 
published a checklist for pension switching that I think is still helpful today. It highlighted four 
key issues it thought should be focussed on:
-Charges - has the consumer been switched to a pension that is more expensive 
than their existing one(s) or a stakeholder pension, without good reason?
-Existing benefits - has the consumer lost benefits in the switch without good 
reason? This could include the loss of ongoing contributions from an employer, a 
guaranteed annuity rate or the right to take benefits early.
-Risk - has the consumer switched into a pension that doesnt match their recorded 
attitude to risk (ATR) and personal circumstances?
-Ongoing fund management - has the consumer switched into a pension with a 
need for ongoing investment reviews but this was not explained, offered or put in 
place.
In July 2010 the FCA issued guidance about unregulated investments in a Good and Poor 
Practice report. This contained examples of good practice in relation to unregulated 
investments, for example where a firm had robust controls in place and limited client 
exposure to 3% to 5% of their portfolios, where those clients had been assessed as being 
suitable for unregulated investments. An example of bad practice given by the FCA was 
where up to 100% of a clients holdings were invested in a single UCIS.
Mrs C was invested in UCIS, giving her an interest in development land in the UK. This was 
high-risk investment, it being illiquid and subject to counter-party and development risks. So, 
I think FCAs report findings are relevant to my consideration.
Its also important to review the FCAs specific stance on advice provided about SIPPs. For 
example, in January 2013 it issued an industry alert which said:
It has been brought to the FSAs attention that some financial advisers are giving advice to 
customers on pension transfers or pension switches without assessing the advantages and 
disadvantages of investments proposed to be held within the new pension. In particular, we 
have seen financial advisers moving customers retirement savings to [SIPPs] that invest 
wholly or primarily in high risk, often highly illiquid unregulated investments
Financial advisers using this advice model are under the mistaken impression that this 
process means they do not have to consider the unregulated investment as part of their 
advice to invest in the SIPP and that they only need to consider the suitability of the SIPP in 
the abstract. This is incorrect. The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable advice 
generally requires consideration of the other investments held by the customer or, when advice is given on a product which is a vehicle for investment in other products (such as 
SIPPs and other wrappers), consideration of the suitability of the overall proposition, that is, 
the wrapper and the expected underlying investments in unregulated schemes..
If, taking into account the individual circumstances of the customer, the original pension 
product, including its underlying holdings, is more suitable for the customer, then the SIPP is 
not suitable. This is because if you give regulated advice and the recommendation will 
enable investment in unregulated items you cannot separate out the unregulated elements 
from the regulated elements. There are clear requirements under the FSA Principles and 
Conduct of Business rules.
Although the alert was issued after the advice given to Mrs C, it wasnt new guidance; it was 
the regulator re-stating its position.
Did Insight adhere to the regulatory requirements placed on it?
In short, I dont think Insight met the regulatory requirements placed on it. Ill explain why.
Insight had to obtain information from Mrs C in order to understand essential facts about her. 
In order to advise her to switch her personal pension into the SIPP with L&C and facilitate 
investment in a UCIS, it had to believe that:
- The service or recommended transaction met Mrs C s investment objectives 
(including her attitude to risk, the purpose of investing and how long she wanted 
to invest for).
- Mrs C was able to financially withstand the investment risks.
- Mrs C had the necessary experience or knowledge to understand the risks 
involved.
Based on the available evidence, Insight didnt meet these obligations.
At the time of the Financial Planning Report, Mrs C was 40 and its recorded that she 
expected to retire when she was 67. She was married with one dependent child and another 
on the way. Its recorded that she was unemployed and on maternity pay  we know shed 
worked for the Insight Group in 2011. She had no plans to return to work in the near future.
Mrs C and her husband had a home worth nearly £500,000 and an outstanding mortgage 
around £250,000. They had a buy-to-let property valued at around £170,000, with a 
mortgage of about £130,000. She was also recorded as having savings of £100,000.
Mrs C had a personal pension with Standard Life, this had total a total fund transfer value of 
over £51,000. She had no other pension provision at the time. It was noted that she hadnt 
wanted to discuss projected retirement income at the time.
Insights Financial Planning Report identified Mrs Cs objective in the following terms:
You intend to retire fully in around 27 years time at age 67. You have an existing personal 
pension with Standard Life which is paid up and you want to transfer this to a SIPP in order 
to purchase sustainable land through [Mr Z]. I have given you no advice regarding the 
suitability of this investment for your personal circumstances.
Insight went on to recommend that Mrs C switched her pension to an L&C SIPP, knowing 
what her investment plans were. But it was in a good position to have analysed, tested, 
challenged and advised her about what was in her best interest for retirement planning. It 
knew pension pots built up over many years are to provide for a retirement income.It was Insights role to discern what Mrs Cs wants and needs were and why. Its role wasnt 
simply to facilitate what she wanted without any critical thinking. It had to use due care and 
skill. It had to do these things because it had to act in her best interests. It hasnt 
demonstrated that it met these obligations.
I cant see that it really got to grips with her objectives for retirement planning. Stating that 
she wanted to switch her pension funds was a means, but to what ends? Presumably she 
wanted to maximise her retirement funds. Given her age, circumstances and assessed 
attitude to risk, which was medium to high, that might seem reasonable. But Id still have 
concerns about Insights approach.
Theres no record of what income Mrs C would need in retirement. Ive seen no evidence of 
an attempt by Insight to get to the bottom of this important question. I think this wouldve 
been important to her being able to take an informed decision about what to do with her 
personal pension funds.
Ive not seen a convincing attempt by Insight to help Mrs C understand what options were 
available to her to improve the performance of her Standard Life pension. I can see an 
analysis was undertaken, but I cant see it was shared. There were many alternative funds 
available for her to change her exposure profile and likely returns with the same provider, 
especially given the time horizon she was working towards.
I cant see Mrs C had any experience of investing in land. And certainly for her to have 
ended up in a position where all her committed pension funds were placed in this asset 
class in a UCIS, meant all her eggs were in one basket. A lack of diversification added 
substantial risk and this shouldve been advised on by Insight.
The FCA illustration of good practice was to allow for perhaps around 5% of someones 
funds to be invested in these sorts of assets (where they are experienced investors). Mrs 
Cs UCIS consumed the bulk of her SIPP funds. And theres no evidence she was an 
experienced investor.
Its clear Mrs C approached Insight for advice about moving her personal pension to a SIPP 
so she could invest in a UCIS. It knew what she was contemplating, but effectively says it 
wasn't responsible for the investment advice.
I disagree with the argument Insight makes here. The regulatory position is clear. It had 
a duty to act honestly, fairly and professionally in the best interests of Mrs C. And to 
take reasonable steps to ensure the recommendations it made were appropriate. It 
couldnt do this without considering the suitability of the investments being proposed.
My conclusion here is supported by the alert issued by the then regulator in January 
2013. And although the alert was issued after the advice given to Mrs C it wasnt new 
guidance; it was the regulator re-stating the position.
Insight couldnt ignore Mr C s intention of investing in development land. If it didnt 
consider this to be suitable in her circumstances, it shouldve said so - rather than 
presuming that the switch was necessary for this to happen. It had a duty to consider the 
suitability of the whole transaction, not simply limit its advice to choosing the best SIPP 
provider. Insight hasnt exhibited the duty of care it owed Mrs C.
Insight shouldve provided Mrs C with an explicit recommendation not to proceed with the 
switch of her pension funds into the L&C SIPP, the purpose of which was to invest all her 
personal pension plan funds into unregulated holdings. It failed to do this.Instead, Insight made arrangements for the switch of Mrs Cs personal pension plans into 
the SIPP. It signed off the applications using its authorisation details. It transmitted the 
necessary applications.
In doing all this, Insight was aware Mrs C was being exposed to significant risks in the 
investments it was facilitating. It knew these funds could be illiquid, meaning she might have 
difficulty getting access to her pension funds. The investment was specialised, out of the 
ordinary and reliant on third parties. And it was subject to valuation uncertainty.
In its last submission to this Service Insight said it had managed to track down paperwork 
which showed Mrs C had signed a Self-certified Sophisticated Investor Form with the 
company which had introduced her to the UCIS investments. The form is dated 9 February 
2012, so around the same time of her engagement with Insight and prior to the advice it 
gave her.
Im sceptical of the self-certification Mrs C signed. Certainly, theres nothing in the fact-find 
Insight conducted which suggests she fulfilled the criteria to be eligible as a sophisticated 
investor. For example theres no evidence she was a member of a syndicate of business 
angels; I cant see she had more than one investment in an unlisted company; theres 
nothing on file which showed shed worked for at least two years in the private equity 
sector or in financing small and medium sized enterprises; or that she was a director of a 
company with an annual turnover of at least £1 million.
I also note theres no reference to Mrs C being a self-certified sophisticated investor in 
Insights Financial Planning Report. I wouldve expected such a reference had it been 
relying on this in the advice process. It didnt, and as Ive already set out, in providing her 
with recommendations about her pension arrangements it also needed to give her advice 
about where her funds would be invested. It failed to do this.
In its final response to Mrs C, Insight said that as a mortgage broker shed have had a full 
working knowledge of the investment risks she wanted to take on. She told us that she 
started working for Insight Private Finance in 2011 for 1 day a week as a renewals 
administrator and was about to have her second child. She said she didnt qualify as a 
mortgage broker until 2017. And that she no experience of investments.
The paperwork Insight provided is more supportive of Mrs Cs version of events than its 
own. For example, an application to become an appointed representative of another firm in 
2015 details her then current role as a client coordinator with responsibility for renewals 
and client meetings. It states she started the role in January 2012. And that she achieved a 
general professional qualification (not in mortgage brokerage) in July 2015.
Even if Mrs C had been a qualified mortgage broker at the time Insight gave her advice in 
2012  and as weve established she wasnt  I cant see how this wouldve provided her 
with expertise in pensions and investments. And its own fact-find didnt suggest she had 
such knowledge. Thats what she was paying Insight to provide her.
Insight has highlighted Mrs Cs family relationship with Mr Z. He was a mortgage broker at 
the firm she worked for. Its case is that even if it had recommended she shouldnt have 
switched her pension, shed have gone ahead anyway. That because she was influenced 
in her decision by him.
A problem here for Insight that it didnt provide a clear recommendation for her not to 
proceed with the investment it knew she was contemplating. Ive also thought about what 
Mrs C told us about the situation:[Mr Z] had nothing to do with this, [Mr Y] started it off as he tried to get me to invest my 
pension money into off plan property in Cape Verde (thank god I didn't!), my husband was 
with me when [Mr Y] started this conversationMy mother came with me when 
Insight/Strategic Placements held a dinner to promote [the UCIS investments] in a very posh 
restaurant [Mr Z] is also in dispute with Insight, he left the company in 2018To my 
knowledge [he] did not receive any commission [in relation to the transaction that is the 
cause of this complaint].
Its not unreasonable for Insight to question the impact of Mr Zs influence on Mrs Cs actions 
in 2012. But it hasnt done enough to satisfy me with evidence that this wouldve been the 
determining factor in this case. If it had recommended that she didnt switch her personal 
pension, as it shouldve done, I think its more likely than not shed have followed its advice. I 
say this because its unusual for a lay person to seek professional advice then go against the 
recommendations received.
Although it hasnt affected my decision, Id also note for Insights benefit that oddities and 
inconsistencies in the case it has brought had the potential to undermine the case it tried to 
make. For example, its insisted throughout that it had no role in the investments Mrs C 
made. Yet its failed to respond to the existence of an application related to the second 
UCIS investment she made in 2013 which bears its details. There also been a lack of 
clarity about its dealings with other elements of the Insight Group.
To conclude I dont think the switch of Mrs Cs pension funds could sensibly be regarded as 
fair to her. As such I think Insight failed to meet the regulatory requirements when providing 
her with advice and making the arrangements. So, taking all the circumstances of the case 
into account, its reasonable to uphold this complaint against Insight and for it to put things 
right.
Putting things right
Mrs C needs to be returned to the position she wouldve been in now - or as close to that as 
reasonably possible  had it not been for the failures which I hold Insight Financial 
Associates Limited responsible for.
If Insight had done everything it shouldve, on balance I dont think Mrs C wouldve switched 
funds from her Standard Life personal pension into the L&C SIPP and the UCIS, and so she 
wouldnt have suffered the illiquidity, value uncertainty and financial loss shes now facing.
In arriving at what I think is fair redress Ive tried to weigh all these matters. So, Insight 
Financial Associates Limited must put things right in the following way:
1. Calculate a notional loss Mrs C has suffered as a result of making the switch
Insight should obtain the notional value of Mrs Cs Standard Life pension plan at the date 
of calculation, assuming she wouldve remained invested in the same funds. So, as if her 
plan hadnt been switched to the L&C SIPP.
If there are difficulties in obtaining a notional valuation then the FTSE UK Private Investors 
Income Total Return Index - prior to 1 March 2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income 
Total Return Index - should be used as Im satisfied its a reasonable proxy for the type of 
return that couldve been achieved if Mrs Cs pension had remained invested in her 
previous plans. And its consistent with her attitude to risk.If Mrs C has made withdrawals from her SIPP, or pension contributions, then after 
confirming the detailed position, the value Insight obtains, or the calculations Insight makes 
should assume such adjustments would still have occurred and on the same dates.
The adjusted, as appropriate, like for like difference between the notional value of Mrs Cs 
former personal pension plan and the equivalent current value of her SIPP including any 
investments and cash held (see step 2), will be her basic financial loss that Insight needs 
to redress.
2. Pay a commercial value to buy any investments which cannot currently be redeemed
To close Mrs Cs SIPP and avoid ongoing fees, the investments need to be crystallised. To 
do this Insight should ask the SIPP provider to determine an amount its willing to accept as 
a commercial value for the investments held and Insight can then pay this to take 
ownership.
If Insight is unwilling or unable to purchase the appropriate share, the value should be 
assumed to be nil for the purposes of the loss calculation. In this instance, where Insight 
has compensated Mrs C fully in line with my assessment, then it may ask her to provide an 
undertaking to account to it for the net amount of any payment the SIPP may receive from 
its investment. That undertaking should allow for the effect of any tax and charges on the 
amount she may receive from the investment and any eventual sums she would be able to 
access from the SIPP. Insight will need to meet any costs in drawing up this undertaking.
3. Pay an amount into Mrs Cs SIPP so that the transfer value is increased by the loss 
calculated (resulting from 1 and 2) or pay her an equivalent cash sum notionally adjusted 
for tax
If compensation is paid into Mrs Cs SIPP, payment should allow for the effect of charges 
and any available tax relief, so that she is in the same position as if shed stayed in her 
original personal pension plan.
If paying compensation into Mrs Cs SIPP would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance and/or the plan is closed and Insight takes on her investment, then it should 
pay her compensation as a cash sum. In doing so it should make a notional deduction to 
allow for income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mrs Cs actual or expected marginal 
rate of tax at her selected retirement age. For example, if Mrs C is likely to be a basic rate 
taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate 
of tax. However, if Mrs C would have been able to take TFC, the reduction should only be 
applied to 75% of the compensation.
Insight should also pay interest on the loss calculated from the date of calculation to the 
date of payment at 8% simple. Income tax may be due on this interest. If Insight deducts 
tax it should provide Mrs C with a tax certificate.
Insight should also provide details of its calculations to Mrs C in a clear format.
4. SIPP fees
The SIPP only exists because of the illiquid investment. In order for the SIPP to be closed 
and further SIPP fees to be prevented, the investment needs to be removed from the SIPP. 
Ive set out above how this might be achieved by Insight taking over the investment, or this is something that Mrs C can discuss with her SIPP provider directly. But I dont know how long 
that will take.
Third parties are involved and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. To provide 
certainty to all parties, I think its fair that Insight pays Mrs C an upfront lump sum equivalent 
to five years worth of SIPP fees (calculated using the previous years fees). This should 
provide a reasonable period for the parties to arrange for the SIPP to be closed.
Distress and inconvenience 
Mrs C was worried when she found out there were problems with her pension 
arrangements. She then had to spend time trying to get things sorted out. In 
recognition of this Insight should pay her £350 for the trouble and upset its caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im upholding Mrs Cs complaint. And I require Insight 
Financial Associates Limited to pay her the redress Ive provided for in this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2022. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman