DRN-3397997
The complaint
Mr T complains Metro Bank PLC wont reimburse a transaction he says he didnt make or 
otherwise authorise. 
What happened
Mr T had an account with Metro.  On 9 February 2021 he called Metro after discovering a 
£910 transaction had been made from his account. There were also some other much 
smaller transactions which Mr T disputed, following this, but which arent subject to this 
complaint. 
The transaction had been made on 17 January 2021 to Enumis Ltd, an electronic money 
issuer.  Mr T needed to make further transactions from his account and that was when he 
noticed the missing money. He called Metro to report this. 
The call handler asked Mr T about the transaction and whether he made it. Mr T didnt 
answer immediately and when pressed he explained it had been for a delivery but that the 
payment hadnt gone to the delivery service. The call handler clarified whether hed made  
the payment, and again Mr T didnt answer immediately and when pressed again he 
explained he was thinking; ultimately he said he didnt recognise the payment.  When asked 
to confirm he didnt make the payment, he confirmed not. 
He was later called by a fraud investigator who wanted further detail. As the payment went to 
a new payee not only were Mr Ts card details needed but also a One Time Passcode (OTP) 
to actually set up the new payee to facilitate the payment; they wanted to check if the OTP 
had been received. Although Mr T informed them he hadnt requested it, the call handler 
needed to press for a response about whether it had been received. Mr T ultimately 
confirmed he had received it but hadnt seen it at the time. 
Mr T further explained a device in the household had malware. The fraud investigator 
queried this further and was told the household device (which wasnt Mr Ts) had malware; it 
could be accessed by anyone and wasnt password protected. Metro asked for evidence of 
this. It also asked Mr T if anyone had known his card details or whether he shared the OTP. 
Mr T confirmed he never shared his details and doesnt know how anyone came by the 
information needed to carry out the transaction. As a result Metro declined to reimburse the 
transaction and didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint about that. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint either. She concluded there was no apparent 
point of compromise  how a third-party was able to obtain the details needed to set up a 
new payee and complete the transaction. She therefore concluded Mr T made the payment 
or otherwise authorised it. 
Mr T has asked for a final decision. In summary:
He reiterates that he didnt make the transaction in question and that he ought to be 
refunded.  
He has since closed his account with Metro. 
He believes the outcome is unjust and ridiculous and wants the matter rectified 
immediately. 
There was no seller in this matter, and he wasnt buying anything and he didnt 
authorise any transfer for a delivery. 
The transfer should have been investigated before being allowed to be paid.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations; the regulators rules, guidance and standards, the codes of practice; and, 
where relevant, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant times.
I know Mr T is unhappy about whats happened and feels very strongly that he ought to be 
refunded. Although I have only summarised whats happened above, I have considered 
everything provided. 
The event complained of took place in January 2021, so of particular relevance to my 
decision are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs)  which apply to 
transactions like the ones made from Mr Ts account. Ive considered the relevant 
provisions of the PSRs alongside the contractual terms and conditions of Mr Ts account.
Taking those into account there are two key questions relevant to my consideration:
1. Was the transaction authorised by Mr T; and
2. If it wasnt, did Mr T fail with intent or gross negligence to comply with his 
obligations under the PSRs, to comply with the terms and conditions of 
the account, or to keep the personalised security details safe?
If the answer is no to both points, then Metro should refund the disputed sum. However, if 
I find Mr T made, or otherwise authorised the transaction, I dont need to consider point 2 
above.
The account terms and conditions set out what is required when making a faster payment, 
as was the payment method here. They set out that the below is required:
The sort code and account number of the payees account. 
The date the payment is to be taken from your account.
The payees name.
The payment amount (if known).
Any reference identifying the payment (including a reference to you or the payee).
As the payment in question was to a new payee, additional procedures also needed to be 
followed. Metro has explained that in order to set up a new payee, a code, sent as an 
OTP, is needed as are certain digits from the long card number. 
Metro has provided evidence to show that it sent the OTP code needed to set up the 
payee in question to Mr Ts mobile number. And whilst Mr T says he never requested it, 
he has confirmed receiving it, although he says he never saw it at the time.
I have also considered that Mr T has explained that a device in the household had 
malware. This was a different device to his phone.  Its not clear if this was the device used to make the payment or not. And Mr T hasnt provided any persuasive evidence to 
show the device had actually been infected with malware. 
But even if I accept the device did have malware that doesnt explain how the payment 
was made. Mr T has said that no one else had his account details or knows or has access 
to them. And he says he never shared the OTP. This means there is no explanation for 
how a fraudster would have known the information needed to be able to log into his 
account, obtain the OTP code needed to set up the new payee, or use his card details to 
help facilitate the payment. Having malware on a device doesnt account for this. 
It's clear that whoever carried out the transaction had access to all of Mr Ts security 
credentials and the OTP to enable the payment to be made. In the absence of any 
plausible explanation for how an alleged fraudster came by Mr Ts banking account 
information and security credentials, I find the most likely explanation is the transaction 
was carried out by Mr T, or someone authorised to do so on his behalf. This means I find 
Mr T consented to the payment. 
As I have found the transaction was most likely carried out by Mr T, or that he authorised 
someone else to carry it out on his behalf, I find no basis on which to say Metro ought to 
refund the disputed sum to him. It follows that I make no award against Metro. 
I appreciate Mr T will be very disappointed with this outcome, not least because he 
needed the money for other matters and is adamant that he didnt make the transaction. 
My decision on this matter is the final stage in our process, and as such we cant enter 
into any further correspondence about it. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2022.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman