DRN-2706649
The complaint
 Miss S is unhappy that a car supplied to her under a hire purchase agreement with PSA 
Finance UK Limited, was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
In April 2019, Miss S was supplied with a brand-new car through a hire purchase agreement 
with PSA. She paid a £250 deposit and part exchanged her existing car for £5,400. The 
agreement was for £20,588 over 48 months; with 47 monthly repayments of £329.05 and a 
final payment of £9,497.41.
Miss S said she started having problems with the car about a month after taking possession 
of it. Between May 2019 and June 2020 the car went back to the dealership for repair on a 
number of occasions. Each time Miss C had complained of a noise when she turned the 
steering wheel. And on each occasion the dealership had carried out repairs to try and fix 
the problem.
In June 2020, Miss S complained to PSA about the car and the service shed received from 
the dealership. And she asked if she could reject the car as the dealership had been given 
plenty of opportunity to repair it. PSA said the dealership wasnt prepared to accept a 
rejection because they believed the problem was with a part of the car that hadnt been 
repaired yet. And they wanted the opportunity to attempt this repair first. But the dealership 
also offered Miss S the opportunity to part exchange the car.
Miss S wasnt happy with PSAs response, and she wanted to reject the car, not part 
exchange it. So she brought her complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said that, from the evidence shed seen, she was satisfied there was a 
problem with the car when it was supplied to Miss S. And this problem was ongoing, despite 
the dealership having made multiple attempts to repair it. The investigator explained that the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) allows one chance at repair, and that this repair has 
already been attempted. So she thought it was fair that Miss S was allowed to reject the car.
The investigator also said that Miss S wasnt able to use the car, and hadnt had the use of a 
courtesy car, for a period of six days. So she thought PSA should refund her the equivalent 
of six days payments, plus interest. She also said that PSA should refund Miss S the deposit 
shed paid, plus interest; and pay her an additional £200 to compensate her for the trouble 
and upset shed been caused.
PSA didnt agree with the investigators view. They felt the dealership should be given the 
opportunity to fully inspect the vehicle in order to establish the root cause of the issue 
reported and that Miss S would be provided with a courtesy car while this took place. They 
dont think that, without this inspection, its possible to link to current problem with the car to 
the original issue. So any conclusions drawn at this point would be speculative and 
insufficient to justify rejection of the vehicle.
Because PSA didnt agree with the investigator, this has been passed to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Miss S was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to look into complaints about it. 
The CRA says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve been of a satisfactory quality 
when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, PSA are responsible.  Whats 
satisfactory is determined by what a reasonable person would consider satisfactory given 
the price, description and other relevant circumstances. In a case like this, as the car was 
brand-new, it would be reasonable to expect the car to be free of any defects, and to remain 
so for a reasonable time after supply.
The CRA also says that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, where 
a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed that the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless PSA can show otherwise. So, if I thought the car was faulty 
when Miss S took possession of it, and this made the car not of a satisfactory quality, itd be 
fair and reasonable to ask PSA to put this right.
Its not disputed that Miss S was having problems with the car from shortly after it was 
supplied to her, or that the dealership who supplied the car attempted to repair it on more 
than one occasion before Miss S complained to PSA.
Miss S was complaining there was a noise when she turned the steering wheel, and Ive 
seen job sheets that show me the dealership investigated this on four occasions:
21 May 2019  investigation into a noise coming from the car when the steering 
wheel was turned  greased steering wheel and replaces suspension mount.
26 July 2019  investigation into a noise and a juddering wing mirror  wing mirror 
replaced
12 September 2019  investigation into a knocking noise from the front of the engine 
 suspension mount replaced.
15 June 2019  investigation into a noise from the front of the car  annual service 
carried out and replaced shock absorber.
Ive seen that Miss S says the front ant-roll bar links were replaced in July 2019, but the job 
sheets dont make it clear that this happened. Miss S has also provided a letter from an 
independent garage, dated 3 September 2020, which says theres a knocking/crunching 
noise when the car is in full lock, either left or right. It also says that the noise is coming from 
suspension top mounts which have recently been replaced, however due to poor material 
the noise has reoccurred.Miss S took possession of the car on 25 April 2019. And Im satisfied the evidence shows 
that she had problems with it from shortly after this date. As the car was brand new, it was 
reasonable for Miss S to expect it to be free from defaults and defects for a reasonable 
period of time. No reasonable person would expect a suspension fault to occur after only a 
few weeks, so Im satisfied that car wasnt of a satisfactory quality when it was supplied to 
Miss S. And PSA need to do something to put this right.
I understand that PSA and the dealership think that the current fault with the car is different 
to the original fault in 2019. And they believe the CRA allows them the opportunity to try and 
resolve this fault before Miss S can reject the car.
But section 24 of the CRA is quite clear about the right to reject after repair. 24(5)(a) 
explains that there is the right to one repair, and 24(6)(a) explains that this applies whether 
there is one fault or more than one. So whether the current fault is the same as the original 
fault or not, PSA and the dealership have had the one chance to repair the car allowed them 
by the CRA. And, as that repair failed, Miss S has the right to now reject the car.
While there have been problems with the car, Miss S was still able to drive it. So I think its 
only reasonable that she should pay for this usage. So I wont be asking PSA to refund all of 
the payments she made. But I will be asking then to refund her the equivalent of two days 
payments for May 2019, and a further four days payments for June 2019  her car was 
being repaired during these times and Miss S wasnt supplied with a courtesy car to keep 
her mobile. So she was paying for something she didnt have use of.
And while Miss M had use of the car, she was also put to the inconvenience of having to 
return it for repair on more than one occasion; and for having to drive a car with a fault that 
hadnt been repaired. The investigator recommended PSA pay her £200 for the trouble and 
upset shed been caused. I think thats reasonable in the circumstances, and Ill adopt this 
recommendation as part of my final decision.
Putting things right
 PSA should now arrange to do the following:
end the agreement with nothing further to pay.
collect the car at no cost to Miss S.
remove all record of the agreement from Miss Ss credit file.
refund the £250 deposit and £5,400 part exchange contribution to Miss S.
refund Miss S the equivalent of six days payments, to compensate her for the period 
of time she was without use of the car.
pay 8% simple yearly interest on the above, to be calculated from when Miss S made 
the payments to the date of the refund.
Pay Miss S an additional £200 to compensate her for the trouble and upset shes 
been caused.
My final decision For the reasons explained, I uphold Miss Ss complaint. PSA Finance UK Limited must 
follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 June 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman