DRN-4410955
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy that AWP P&C SA has declined a claim they made on a private 
medical insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs S has an aggressive form of Multiple Sclerosis (MS). Shes been receiving treatment but 
developed new lesions which indicated that the treatment was failing. She was considered 
for a form of stem cell treatment called Haematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation (HSCT).
HSCT was available to Mrs S on the NHS but there was a backlog of over four to six 
months. So, she sought cover for the treatment under a group private medical insurance 
policy. The claim was declined on the basis that it was experimental or unproven. Mrs S 
complained but AWP maintained their decision to decline the claim. So, she made a 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator looked into what had happened. She didnt think AWP had acted unfairly 
when the claim was declined. Mrs S didnt agree and asked an Ombudsman to review her 
complaint. In summary, she said that HSCT was part of recommended treatment for MS. 
In October 2023 I issued a provisional decision. I said: 
AWP has a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt 
reject a claim unreasonably.
The policy terms and conditions say that there is an exclusion for experimental or 
unproven treatment or drug therapy which is defined as:
Any form of treatment or drug therapy which in our reasonable opinion is 
experimental or unproven, based on generally accepted medical practice.
Neither experimental or unproven is further defined by the policy. So, theres no 
further clarification in the policy about what criteria is used to determine if a treatment 
is experimental or unproven.
Based on the available evidence Im not persuaded that AWP has fairly relied on this 
exclusion. Thats because I dont think it was reasonable to conclude the treatment 
was experimental or unproven.
Mrs S could have been offered the treatment on the NHS. The letter from her 
specialist sets out why Mrs S met the relevant criteria for HSCT treatment on the 
NHS. It also explains that there are currently a number of NHS centres offering 
treatment in the UK and that over 300 procedures have been carried out. Im satisfied 
that Mrs Ss consultant has particular expertise in this area and note that he is a UK 
lead for the European group for Blood and Marrow Transplantation for autoimmune 
conditions.
Theres no evidence that Mrs S was referred to a clinical trial  she was considered 
eligible for HSCT treatment due to the failure of the other treatments. The NHS has 
criteria for who can access HSCT, but I dont think that automatically means the 
treatment is experimental or unproven. The fact that its available on the NHS makes 
me think its most likely to no longer be considered experimental or unproven.
Ive also taken into account the NICE guidelines which say that further research into 
HSCT has been discontinued. However, I bear in mind that the treatment is now 
available on the NHS. And Mrs Ss consultant has explained that the treatment has 
been commissioned in the NHS since 2011. Hes also said that the NICE guidelines 
are currently in draft so will refer to HSCT in the future. In any event, I find the other 
evidence provided by Mrs Ss consultant persuasive. So, Ive placed more weight on 
the evidence from the consultant than the information in the NICE guidelines. And, as 
Ive outlined above, theres no requirement in the policy for the treatment to be 
subject to the NICE guidelines.
In the particular circumstances of this case, I dont think its reasonable to conclude 
the treatment is experimental or unproven.
Putting things right
AWP needs to put things right by:
Settling the claim in line with the remaining policy terms
Paying 8% simple interest per annum from the date the claim was rejected 
until the date of settlement.
If AWP considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs S how much its taken off. It should also 
give Mr and Mrs S a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Mr and Mrs S said that they didnt have anything further to add and believed that Id 
interpreted the evidence in the way they understood it. AWP didnt respond to my provisional 
decision. So, I need to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As AWP and Mr and Mrs S havent added any further substantive comments theres no 
reason for me to reach a different conclusion to those which I reached in my provisional 
decision. 
I remain persuaded, for the reasons Ive outlined in my provisional decision and above, that 
AWP unreasonably declined the claim. So, Im upholding this complaint.
Mr and Mrs S ought to be aware that they may need to provide further documentation to 
AWP to enable them to assess the claim.
Putting things right
Within 28 days from the date on which the Financial Ombudsman Service notifies AWP that 
Mr and Mrs S have accepted my final decision it needs to put things right by:Settling the claim in line with the remaining policy terms
Paying 8% simple interest per annum from the date the claim was rejected 
until the date of settlement.
If AWP considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs S how much its taken off. It should also give Mr and 
Mrs S a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint and direct AWP P&C SA to put things right as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman