DRN-2435129
The complaint
Mr W complains that Evergreen Finance London Limited  trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk, lent 
to him irresponsibly.
What happened
MoneyBoat lent to Mr M twice and here is a brief summary of those approved loans. 
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Highest 
Repayment
1 14/01/2020 18/03/2020 6 £200.00 £56.86
2 30/03/2020 Outstanding 6 £1,000.00 £309.50
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that MoneyBoat had not done 
anything wrong. His view was that Mr Ms complaint ought not to be upheld. 
Mr M disagreed and said that he had a lot of outstanding debt at the time, and that the 
second loan was much larger than the first one and required him to pay about £310 a month 
compared with around £57 a month. 
The complaint remained unresolved and was passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We have set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
 
MoneyBoat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it did not lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could include several different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers 
income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough 
checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that MoneyBoat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include: where a customers income is particularly low; where the repayments are 
particularly high; and/or where the frequency of the loans and the length of time over which a 
customer has been given loans need to be looked at: repeated refinancing could signal that 
the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable.
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. But I do not think that this is applicable to 
Mr Ms circumstances as he was approved for two loans. 
I have carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
I appreciate that Mr M feels strongly about his financial circumstances at the time he applied 
for Loans 1 and 2 with MoneyBoat. He has said he thinks that MoneyBoat ought to have 
asked for copies of his bank statements before lending and those would have demonstrated 
that he was unable to afford these loans. 
In its final response letter to Mr M, MoneyBoat explained that it had relied on his declared 
income and his expenditure amounts. It had carried out credit searches and copies of those 
searches for January and March 2020 have been sent to us. I have reviewed them. 
MoneyBoat has explained that it increased his expenditure figures to take account of the 
information it had seen in the credit search results reports. Here is a summary of what Mr M 
declared and what MoneyBoat added in to the equation when assessing affordability. 
 
Income Rent/ 
MortgageCredit Food Transport Other Expenses 
increased byDisposable 
Income
1) £1480 £100 £112 £110 £70 £22 £386 £680
2) £1488 £100 £112 £110 £90 £36 £352 £688
For both loans, even with the increase in the expenditure figures based on proportionate 
checks carried out by MoneyBoat, still it would have looked as though Mr M was able to 
afford these two loans. I realise Mr M does not agree but it would be disproportionate, in my 
view, to expect MoneyBoat to obtain copies of, and scrutinise, his bank statement 
transactions in addition to what it had already done.
So I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2021.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman