DRN-3633888
The complaint
Mr M complains that Portal Financial Services LLP gave him unsuitable advice to transfer
two pension schemes to a Self-Invested Personal Pension.
What happened
Mr Ms complaint was considered by one of our investigators. He sent his assessment of it to 
both parties in November 2021. The background and circumstances to the complaint were 
set out in that assessment. But in summary, the advice Mr M received was documented in a
suitability letter dated 22 September 2011. The suitability letter said, amongst other things, 
that Mr M:
Was in his mid-fifties, married and employed earning approximately £10,000 per 
annum.
Had a retirement age of 65.
Owned his own home with a mortgage balance of around £50,000. He had a small 
credit card balance of £700.
Had a defined benefits pension scheme with a transfer value of £25,637. And a 
defined contribution scheme valued at £14,839.
Wanted to access his tax-free cash in order to conduct home improvements.
In addition, Mr Ms objectives were recorded as being to:
Use your existing pension plans to provide an income at a later date and to take 
your Tax-Free Cash entitlement immediately.
Retain a residual fund that remains invested until such a time that you require an 
income in your retirement.
Ensure that you have a good awareness of investment opportunities available to you.
Ensure your portfolio reflects your current Risk & Reward profile.
Have access to a system which will monitor the performance of your investments.
Be kept informed of the performance of your portfolio.
Have your portfolio rebalanced in line with your Risk & Reward profile.
Consolidate your investments, as far as reasonable, to facilitate clearer and simpler 
reporting on investment performance.
Mr Ms attitude to risk was recorded as being Moderately Cautious. This was described as:
Moderately Cautious investors typically have low to moderate levels of knowledge about 
financial matters and quite limited interest in keeping up to date with financial issues.
The letter said the critical yield  the rate at which the transferred funds would have to grow 
in order to provide the same returns as those being given up by transferring  was high 
(15.8%) and extremely unlikely to be met. The recommendations section of the letter said  
that the transfer was still being recommended as:
during our telephone conversation you advised me that you are aware of the downfalls in 
taking your benefits now but due to your current circumstances you would like to take your 
benefits immediately; in accordance to your wishes, I recommend:
That you transfer your existing pension fund to a Self Invested Personal Pension 
(SIPP).
That you take your full 25% Tax Free Cash entitlement from your arrangement.
You leave the residual fund invested until such a time when you require an income
The funds recommended for investment were:
49% Raithwaites Hypa Fund
5% Hypa Asia Fund
16% Venture Oil International
15% EOS Solar Energy
15% Cash Deposit
The suitability letter said whilst some of the investments were Unregulated Collective 
Investment Schemes (UCISs) and Mr M didnt meet the definition of a person who was 
exempt under the relevant regulations, they could still be recommended as advice had been 
given by a qualified firm to ensure that they were suitable.
The letter went on to explain the fees and costs involved in the transfer. 5% of the transfer 
value was payable as an initial charge. There was an ongoing adviser charge of 1% per 
annum. There was a setup fee of 0.2% of the fund after tax free cash had been paid. And  
an annual admin fee of 0.55% (reducing to 0.5%) of the fund value plus £80.
The investigator also asked Mr M to provide further information: He said:
He had no dependents
Was employed with monthly expenditure of about £700/800 
Had a repayment mortgage on a property worth £70,000 costing £180-£200 per 
month
His partners information and circumstances were not considered at the time
Without the advice received he would have left the existing plans in place.
The funds from the defined contribution and defined benefit schemes were transferred in 
October 2011. Tax free cash of £10,168 was paid to Mr M, with the remaining funds invested 
as outlined above. 
Our investigator thought that Mr Ms complaint should be upheld, as he didnt think that the 
advice given by Portal had been suitable. He referred to COBS 19.1.6 which provided:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits
occupational pension scheme whether to transfer or opt-out, a firm should start by
assuming that a transfer or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider
a transfer or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary
evidence, that the transfer or opt-out is in the client's best interests.
COBS 19.1.7 said:
When a firm advises a retail client on a pension transfer or pension opt-out, it should
consider the clients attitude to risk in relation to the rate of investment growth that would
have to be achieved to replicate the benefits being given up.
And COBS 19.1.8 said:
When a firm prepares a suitability report it should include:
(1) a summary of the advantages and disadvantages of its personal recommendation;
(2) an analysis of the financial implications (if the recommendation is to opt-out); and
(3) a summary of any other material information.
The investigator said the contemporaneous evidence was limited. But he said the suitability 
letter had explained that the critical yield figure was high, and as such the transferred funds 
were extremely unlikely to grow at a rate that would allow the funds to provide benefits 
equal to those lost upon transfer.
The investigator said the advice was given during the period when the Financial 
Ombudsman Service was publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss 
assessments where a complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. He said 
whilst businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension 
transfers, he considered they provided a useful indication of what growth rates would have 
been considered reasonably achievable when the advice was given in this case.
The suitability letter said the investment return (critical yield) required to match the defined 
benefits scheme at retirement date was 15% per year. This compared with the discount rate 
of 5.5% per year.
The investigator also referred to the industry standard projection rates used at the time of the 
advice. These were 5%, 7% and 9% for the lower, mid and upper rate returns respectively.
The investigator said no transfer analysis report had been provided by Portal, so it wasnt 
possible to assess the accuracy of the critical yield figure referred to in the suitability report. 
However he said such a high critical yield figure almost certainly meant that the transferred 
funds were likely to provide reduced pension benefits when compared to the ceding scheme.
The investigator said Portal recommended the transfer to enable Mr M to access his tax-free 
cash for home improvements. He said he would have expected more details about what 
home improvements were required, their cost and likely timeframe. He said when Mr M 
complained his representative had said Mr M has confirmed that no alternatives were 
discussed with him regarding other ways to generate cash such as a bank loan. [Mr M] has 
confirmed that he did not use the TFC to make home improvements nor was he desperate 
for the cash.The investigator noted that the suitability report had said both a loan and a re-mortgage had 
been discounted as ways of raising money as Mr M did not want to pay interest. However 
the investigator said these options were only discussed at a high level; there was no detail 
about the amount of capital required, the timeframe involved or likely interest rate costs.  He 
said this would have allowed Mr M to make an informed comparison about the costs of 
borrowing the funds required to the costs of the pension transfers  both in terms of outright 
costs and the lost guarantees.
The investigator said it also wasnt recorded whether Mr M could have taken the benefits 
from his defined benefits scheme and accessed the tax-free cash available from it at the 
time he transferred. If so he could have retained the valuable guaranteed income from it for 
life. The investigator said although it was recorded that Mr M didnt need or want an income 
at the time of advice, without the relevant information about what those benefits looked like 
Mr M wasnt in a position to make an informed decision about it.
The investigator said there was very little discussion in the suitability letter as to why the 
defined contribution scheme should be transferred. Although the new pension scheme 
allowed access to tax-free cash with the remainder of the fund being left invested, it wasnt 
apparent why this wasnt available through the existing scheme. There was no discussion 
about the existing underlying investment funds, their performance or a cost comparison 
between the ceding and new schemes.
The investigator said he didnt think the evidence available supported the advice to
transfer the defined contribution scheme being suitable. And he thought if Portal had advised 
Mr M to retain the defined benefits pension it was unlikely that Mr M would then have gone 
ahead with switching the defined contribution scheme.
The investigator also said he had concerns about the recommendation of complex UCIS 
investments given Mr M was an unsophisticated, lower risk investor. There was no 
information either in the suitability letter produced at the time of advice or the subsequent 
information provided by Mr M that suggested such high-risk investments could be 
considered appropriate. Mr M hadnt held this type of investments before. And he couldnt be 
considered a high net worth individual. The investigator said the investments didnt match Mr 
Ms assessed attitude to risk in 2011 which was recorded as Moderately Cautious.
Overall, the investigator thought the advice to transfer both pension schemes was 
unsuitable. He thought Mr M should have remained in his existing schemes. 
Portal responded to say that it didnt think we had jurisdiction to consider the complaint as it 
hadnt been made within the relevant time limits.
I issued a decision on our jurisdiction to consider the complaint on 12 July 2022. My decision 
was that the complaint had been referred to us in time and we could consider it. I asked both 
parties to let me have any further evidence or arguments that they wanted me to consider 
before I made my final decision. 
No further evidence or arguments were provided.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator that the complaint 
should be upheld, and largely for the same reasons.
I dont think the advice to transfer/switch the two pensions was suitable in the circumstances. 
Mr M was advised to switch to a SIPP and invest in non-standard, specialist investments. 
Like the investigator, I dont think the investments recommended for Mr M were aligned to 
his Moderately Cautious attitude to risk. The suitability letter described Moderately 
Cautious in the following manner:
 Moderately Cautious investors typically have low to moderate levels of knowledge
about financial matters and quite limited interest in keeping up to date with financial
issues. They may have some experience of investment products, but will be more
familiar with bank and building society accounts than other types of investments.
 In general, moderately cautious investors are uncomfortable taking risk with their
investments, but would be willing to do so to a limited extent. They realise that risky
investments are likely to be better for longer-term returns.
 Moderately Cautious investors typically prefer certain outcomes to gambles. They
can take a relatively long time to make up their mind on financial matters and may
suffer from regret when decisions turn out badly.
The suitability letter said the Raithwaite and Hypa funds were Unregulated Collective 
Investment Schemes (UCIS) and their promotion was restricted. It said Mr M wasnt in the 
category of persons that these types of investment could be promoted to. But that it thought 
the investments were suitable for Mr M. 
The Raithwaite Hypia Fund was described as a specialist investment. It invested in a hotel 
development and was designed to yield 8% per annum. It described it as being low to 
medium risk and it said it would provide an average compound return of 11% once capital 
growth and income were taken into account. 
The Hypa Asia Fund invested in offplan villas and hotel rooms which, it was said would be 
resold at higher prices once the building was complete. It was designed to run over three 
years and return between 50-100% on the original investment. There was added currency 
risk and so it was described as being medium to high risk. 
The Venture Oil Investments Ltd Fund was said to pre-purchase crude oil at an agreed set 
price and then be sold this back the open market. The suitability letter said that oil was at 
that time selling for over $100 per barrel. It said it had conducted due diligence on the oil 
producers and it believed that over the investment period, the price of crude oil was likely to 
increase. 
EOS Solar Investments Ltd Fund invested in a solar thermal power development in Cyprus. 
The fund had contracted to sell electricity at a fixed price over a 25-year period. It was 
designed to yield 8% per annum for three years and 10% per annum thereafter. It was 
denominated in Euros.
In my view all four funds presented significant risks to capital. And the combination of funds 
presented significant risks overall, and clearly a greater degree of risk than Mr M had agreed 
to take. So the investments recommended werent suitable for Mr M. 
Mr M had largely guaranteed benefits in his defined benefits scheme. This would appear to 
align to his moderately cautious attitude to risk. And was consistent with his circumstances; 
he was on a modest income, no other pension provision was recorded, and he had little capacity for loss. There would needed to have been good reason for him to be suitably 
advised to give up those guaranteed benefits. 
Given the critical yield required on the defined benefit scheme there was little prospect of Mr 
M improving on the pension that would otherwise have been payable from it. In my view the 
benefits of a transfer didnt outweigh the risks given Mr Ms clear preference for a moderately 
cautious degree of risk. And Ive seen no persuasive evidence of any significant benefit 
gained from the switch of the defined contribution scheme. 
So for the reasons outlined above and by the investigator, I dont think Portal Financial 
Services LLP met its obligations under the COBS rules; Im not persuaded that the advice to 
transfer/switch was suitable in the circumstances.
Putting things right
My conclusion is that a fair outcome would be for the business to put Mr M back, as far as
possible, into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr M 
would have remained in the two original pension schemes but for Portals unsuitable advice. 
Fair compensation
Defined Benefits Scheme
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for 
non-compliant pension transfer advice. The consultation closed on 27 September 2022 with 
any changes expected to be implemented in early 2023.
In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/19 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers 
it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress. 
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 whilst the consultation takes place. 
But until changes take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their 
compensation to be calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that may come into 
force after the consultation has concluded.
Weve previously asked Mr M whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with the current guidance or wait for the any new guidance /rules to be published. 
Mr M has chosen not to wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle his complaint. 
Im satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr M.
Portal should therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension
review guidance, as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ms acceptance of the decision. 
Portal may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ms 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ms SERPS/S2P 
entitlement. 
If this demonstrates a loss, compensation is payable.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr M within 90 days of the date 
Portal Financial Services LLP receives notification of his/her acceptance of my final decision. 
Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 
90 days, that it takes Portal Financial Services LLP to pay Mr M.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. 
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect Portal Financial Services LLP to carry out a calculation in 
line with the updated rules and/or guidance in any event.
Defined Contribution Scheme
Portal should contact the original pension provider to obtain a notional value for the benefits 
transferred assuming that Mr M hadnt transferred out of it.
This should be compared with the relevant proportion of the SIPP  i.e that value derived 
from the transfer from the defined contribution scheme. 
If the notional value assuming the pension hadnt been transferred is greater than the actual 
value of the relevant part of the SIPP, a loss has occurred, and compensation is payable.
Both of the above calculations can be complicated where the investments held are illiquid. 
(meaning they cannot be readily sold on the open market), as their value might not be able 
to be determined. That appears to be the case here.
To calculate the compensation, Portal should agree an amount with the SIPP provider as a
commercial value, then pay the sum agreed to the SIPP plus any costs and take ownership 
of the investment. If Portal is unable to buy the investment, it should give it a nil value for the
purposes of calculating compensation. The value of the SIPP used in the calculations should
include anything Portal has paid into the SIPP and any outstanding charges yet to be applied 
to the SIPP should be deducted.
In return for this, Portal may ask Mr M to provide an undertaking to account to it for the net 
amount of any payment he may receive from the investment. That undertaking should allowfor the effect of any tax and charges on what he receives. Portal will need to meet any costs 
in drawing up the undertaking. If Portal asks Mr M to provide an undertaking, payment of the 
compensation awarded may be dependent upon provision of that undertaking.
In my view the SIPP only exists because of the illiquid investments. In order for the SIPP
to be closed and further SIPP fees to be prevented, the investment needs to be removed 
from the SIPP. Ive set out above how this might be achieved by Portal taking over the 
investment, or this is something that Mr M can discuss with the SIPP provider directly. But I 
dont know how long that will take.
Third parties are involved, and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. To provide
certainty to all parties, if Mr M still has the SIPP I think its fair that Portal pays Mr M an 
upfront lump sum equivalent to five years worth of SIPP fees (calculated using the previous 
years fees). This should provide a reasonable period for the parties to arrange for the SIPP 
to be closed.
If the redress calculations above demonstrate a loss, the compensation should if possible be 
paid into Mr Ms pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr M as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to Mr Ms likely income 
tax rate in retirement  which is presumed to be 20% here. So making a notional deduction 
of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Portal Financial Services LLP deducts 
income tax from the interest, it should tell Mr M how much has been taken off. Portal 
Financial Services LLP should give Mr M a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if 
Mr M asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
Portal Financial Services LLP should also pay Mr M £300 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused to Mr M by the loss of pension and disruption to his retirement planning.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
I order Portal Financial Services LLP to calculate and pay compensation to Mr M as I have 
set out above under Putting things right
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2022.
 
David Ashley
Ombudsman