DRN-1478532
 
complaint
Mr S says Stagemount Limited, trading as Quid Market at the time, irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about one loan Quid Market provided to Mr S in November 2011. A 
summary of Mr Ss loan history, as evidenced by Quid Market, is as follows:  
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
1 06/11/2019 outstanding 3 £300.00 £140.79
Our adjudicator thought about Mr Ss complaint and felt Quid Market had lent to him
responsibly, and so didnt uphold his complaint. Mr S disagreed saying his credit report at 
the time showed he was already heavily in debt and had several other outstanding short-
term loans, so Quid Market shouldve considered this in its affordability assessment and 
decided not to lend to him. 
As Mr S has disputed the initial assessment the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Quid Market needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly.
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Mr S could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Quid Market should fairly and reasonably
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These
factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Quid Market was required to
establish whether Mr S could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Mr Ss complaint.
why I think Quid Markets checks were proportionate for Mr Ss loan
Mr Ss loan was for £300.00 and as per the loan agreement his maximum monthly 
repayment during the term was £140.79. Ive seen a record of the information Mr S provided 
when he completed his loan application. Mr S said he had a monthly income of £1,200.00 
and monthly expenses of £650.00. So, after deducting his regular monthly outgoings this 
means he was left with a disposable income of £550.00. So, it looked like he had enough 
disposal income to make his payments under this loan agreement.
Mr S has provided evidence that he was heavily in debt and had several short-term loans 
with other providers at the time. Mr S also provided some bank statements to evidence his 
financial difficulties at the time. Therefore, Mr S says that Quid Market shouldnt have lent to 
him. Had Quid Market completed a full review of Mr Ss financial circumstances, I think this 
is something it ought to have uncovered. But, at this point in the lending relationship I think it 
was reasonable for Quid Market to have relied on what Mr S told it about his income and 
expenditure, and I think it was reasonable of Quid Market not to investigate Mr Ss 
circumstances any further at this point. 
It is of course possible that had Mr S taken further lending then Quid Market, as a 
reasonable lender, ought to have carried out further, more in-depth checks at that point. But 
considering Mr S hadnt taken out any prior loans with Quid Market, I dont think it had yet 
reached the stage where it needed to carry out further checks, such as verifying this 
information or enquiring into her wider financial circumstances.
I havent seen any evidence or other information that Quid Market collected at the time of his 
loan applications that shows its likely it was made aware of any financial problems Mr S 
mightve been having. Or anything that wouldve prompted it to investigate Mr Ss 
circumstances further. So, I think it was reasonable for Quid Market to rely on the 
information it obtained.
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the affordability assessment Quid Market carried 
out for Mr Ss loan was proportionate. And I think its decision to lend to Mr S in these 
circumstances was reasonable. So, Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint.my final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont think complaint should be upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2020.
 
Sienna Mahboobani
Ombudsman