DRN-3213382
The complaint
Mr O complains about MS Amlin Insurance SEs decision to decline a claim made under his 
marine insurance policy.
What happened
Mr O has a marine insurance policy underwritten by MS Amlin and sold to him by a third 
party. This covers damage to a boat he owns. The third party also sold Mr O legal protection 
cover as part of the same package, although this part of the policy is underwritten by a 
different insurer. 
In early April 2021, Mr Os boat took on a large amount of water whilst moored overnight. He 
made a claim to MS Amlin, who arranged for the boat to be inspected.
MS Amlin declined the claim following receipt of the surveyors inspection report. This said 
the damage was due to wear and tear, gradual deterioration and/or lack of reasonable 
maintenance.
Mr O asked MS Amlin to reconsider. He said the damage was likely caused by a collision 
with a submerged object  probably during the boats return to harbour after his most recent 
trip. He said there were signs of such a collision on the boats hull.
MS Amlin asked the surveyor to take another look at the boat. He did so and reported back 
that he could find no evidence of recent damage consistent with an underwater collision.
Mr O made a complaint to MS Amlin about their decision to decline the claim. He also asked 
to use his legal protection cover to commission an independent expert inspection.
When MS Amlin maintained their decision was correct - and pointed out that the legal 
protection policy didnt provide cover for claims made against Mr Os own insurer  Mr O 
brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into it and didnt think MS Amlin had done anything wrong. Mr O 
disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know this will disappoint Mr O, but I dont think MS Amlin have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in declining his claim based on the evidence available to them. Ill explain why.
MS Amlin commissioned an expert to inspect the boat. His view was unequivocal. He noted 
several issues with the boat. And he gave a plausible and cogent explanation for how the 
water ingress may have occurred.
Both MS Amlin and Mr O are very familiar with the reports findings, so I have no intention of 
quoting them in detail here. Suffice to say there was a bracket attached to the bottom of the 
boat which supported a sounding device. That bracket appears to have been fitted fairly 
badly, using materials that would deteriorate, inappropriate fixings, and a lack of sealant.
That essentially meant that when one or more of the screws fixing the bracket failed  as 
they were very likely to do in time - there would be open hole into the interior of the boat.
It wasnt unreasonable for MS Amlin to conclude, on the basis of that report, that the claim 
should be declined. Again, I wont quote the policy terms in any great detail. I think both 
parties are aware - and accept  that the policy covers accidental damage but does not 
cover damage resulting from wear and tear, gradual deterioration or poor maintenance.
I can understand Mr Os frustration about the damage to his boat. And I imply no criticism of 
Mr O here  it seems the bracket in question was fitted before Mr O purchased the boat. But 
I cant say that MS Amlin did anything other than consider the claim carefully, appoint an 
appropriate expert and make a decision on the claim in line with the experts findings.
Indeed, when Mr O asked MS Amlin to re-consider their position because, according to him, 
there was evidence that the boat had been involved in a collision with an underwater object, 
they asked their expert to carry out a further inspection. 
He concluded that there was no evidence of any damage consistent with the vessel striking 
an underwater object. He noted in particular that the bracket in question was not bent, the 
screws which had held it in place were loose, not stripped and neither the surrounding 
brackets or the sounding device itself were damaged in any way.
Mr O also maintained that his boat had been well-maintained and serviced. MS Amlin were 
willing to consider any evidence to that effect, but Mr O told them all the boats maintenance 
records and service logs were irretrievably damaged when the boat sank and so had been 
thrown away.
So, at the point they made their decision on Mr Os claim, the evidence available to AS Amlin 
all pointed to the fact that the boat sank due to poor maintenance and gradual deterioration 
or wear and tear.
Mr O says the surveyor appointed by MS Amlin isnt independent and has a vested interest 
in ensuring that the claim wasnt met. It is open to Mr O to commission an alternative expert 
surveyor to inspect his boat. Im sure MS Amlin would consider the findings of any further 
report  and indeed any further evidence Mr O can provide to substantiate his claim.
Mr O asked to use the legal protection cover he has as part of the policy sold to him by the 
third party to pay for an independent expert surveyor to carry out an inspection.
MS Amlin pointed out to Mr O  in their final response to his complaint about their decision to 
decline the claim  that there is an exclusion in that policy which says no cover is provided to 
pay for claims against the policyholders insurer.
Of course, Ive seen the policy terms for that legal protection cover and on the face of it I 
cant see any reason to disagree with what MS Amlin have told Mr O. I think its very unlikely 
that he would have cover to commission expert or legal advice in these circumstances.
However, I should point out that the legal cover is underwritten by a different insurer  not 
MS Amlin. And if Mr O wants to make a complaint about not being able to use that cover, he 
would need to address that to the other insurer, not to MS Amlin.In terms of our own process, that means that this decision is solely and entirely about Mr Os 
complaint about MS Amlins decision to decline his claim. Under the rules which govern the 
way our service operates, I am not in this decision considering  and indeed could not legally 
consider - any complaint against the other insurer.
I have to apologise to Mr O because I think we could have made this clearer to him earlier in 
the day (when we first had the policy terms in hand). But he is entitled to make a separate 
complaint about the other insurer should he wish to do so.
Before he does that, I would suggest he takes a very close look at the terms of the legal 
protection cover. Id also ask him to take into account that, as our investigator advised him, if 
he does commission a further report  and that persuades MS Amlin to settle the claim in his 
favour  we would normally expect that MS Amlin would then refund the cost of the expert 
report to Mr O.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2022.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman