DRN-3331524
The complaint
B, a limited company, complains about the way that HSBC UK Bank Plc has requested 
information, and which has led to its account being closed.
What happened
B says that it tried to respond to HSBCs requests for information. But it was unhappy that a 
member of staff made a mistake which it says led to its account being closed. It had to start 
things all over again and it thought the process and requirements were unreasonable and 
the opposite of protecting it.
HSBC said it had a legal requirement to show that it knew and understood who its customers 
are. And that it operated a safeguard exercise to collect and check information to help 
protect against fraud and financial crime. It had set out what it wanted from B, but it accepted 
that in August 2021 there had been a spelling mistake in an email address sent. And some 
confusion about whether B would be getting a call back or not. Bs account was closed. In 
response to the complaint the account had been reinstated and the deadline for providing 
the information extended. It had paid B £50. When the complaint was referred to this service 
HSBC increased its offer and said it would pay a further £150.
Our investigator didnt recommend that HSBC do anything more that it has now offered to. 
He said that we wouldnt be requiring HSBC to change its processes as B wanted and this 
wasnt our role. And he thought the compensation was reasonable. He said he wouldnt be 
able to look at what had happened after the final response to the complaint: that would need 
to be raised with HSBC first.
B didnt agree. It said it had never accepted £50 and £200 in total wasnt sufficient. It had 
submitted the information in June 2021. It received a call from someone purporting to be 
from HSBC asking for more information. It was suspicious especially due a mistake in an 
email address sent later with a request. The director who took the call expected a call back. 
This didnt happen, and the account was restricted from 18 August 2021 to 6 September 
2021. The account was reinstated but it was then told that it would need to input all the 
information again. And it explained that the account was suspended again. B said it was 
being harassed and this was continuing. It wanted this to stop and to get a letter of apology.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 10 February 2022. I said I wasnt 
intending to change the outcome, but I wanted to explain my reasons for this. I set out below 
what I said.
As our investigator has said we are considering the position up to the final response from 
HSBC to Bs complaint. I knew that there have been further issues but those arent 
something I was looking at here. And HSBC would need to be able to respond to those first. 
I fully appreciated that B sees them as a continuation of past problems.
I could see that HSBC wrote to B in January 2021 about the safeguard exercise. And in 
February 2021 wrote to say that B would need to complete the information by 7 May 2021. It 
sent reminders about this in March and April 2021. On 10 May 2021 it wrote to B to say that 
as it hadnt been in contact the account would be closed on 16 July 2021 and this was notice 
in line with the terms and conditions. As B had been in contact after that it wrote on 21 July 
2021 to say that the closure date would be extended until 19 August 2021. But closure could 
be avoided if B called with the information by 12 August 2021. 
A director of B took a call from a member of HSBC staff on 2 August 2021. There was a 
discussion about the information. And an email sent to B asking for information. This email 
address had a spelling mistake and the directors of B were worried that this was a phishing 
attempt. They also expected to receive a call back. No further action was taken, and the 
account was closed.
HSBC agreed that the account could be reinstated on 6 September 2021. I understood B 
had to set up its regular payments again. A 30-day extension was provided to complete the 
requirements. B complained about what had happened and that it had to start the online 
form again. HSBC sent a final response stating that B had been told on 6 September 2021 
that it would need to do so. And as it hadnt been completed HSBC sent a text message 
about it. The deadline was extended to 14 November 2021. As Id said I wasnt looking at 
what happened after the final response letter of 14 October 2021.
my assessment
I didnt doubt that there would be an element of inconvenience to any customer being 
required to complete this information. But I didnt have a basis to say that the requests were 
unreasonable and werent a legitimate way of HSBC fulfilling its regulatory requirements. So, 
I said I wouldnt be making any comments on its overall process, but I would look at any 
parts of that process that may have failed.
B said that it completed the form on 27 June 2021. I understood the form was returned to it 
for more information. HSBC wasnt satisfied with any response. And it extended the deadline 
and made clear in my view that there was further information required. It followed this up 
with a call. I appreciated B thought that this was suspicious. It could have checked on the 
authenticity of it when the call back it expected didnt come. I didnt see given its suspicions 
that it could reasonably think that the safeguard exercise was complete. 
HSBC accepts the error with the email address and that there was an element of 
inconvenience. But that it closed the account as it had told B it would. It has offered £200 for 
the inconvenience. And this reflects that B had to start again with the information. Having 
found out what happened the account was reinstated, and B was given additional time.
I said I thought that HSBCs response to what happened was reasonable. Either B 
suspected the call and email as bogus and so that the requirement hadnt been met and it 
could have followed this up. Or if it didnt suspect this then it could have responded to the 
email. It did neither as far as I could see. I didnt think I could reasonably find as a result that 
HSBC is responsible for the consequences of its account being closed. I thought B had a 
reasonable opportunity and notice period to meet these requirements even given some 
difficulties.
HSBC has offered B £200 in total and thats not less than I might otherwise have awarded. 
So, I knew B would be disappointed when I said that I wouldnt be asking HSBC to do more 
than this.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC said it didnt have anything else to add.
B said it was sad, worrying and inexplicable that this service didnt believe it could do more 
than make a financial penalty. It expressed concern about what it would do if asked again for 
this information.
My assessment of compensation isnt as a penalty but as an amount to reflect the 
inconvenience and impact for B based on my findings. I see no reason to depart from those 
provisional findings and I remain of the view that I wont be increasing the amount of 
compensation.
My final decision
HSBC has made an offer now to settle the complaint which I think is fair in all the 
circumstances. So, my decision is that I require HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay B a further £150 
making a total of £200 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman