DRN-3824519
The complaint
Mr Ps complained, on behalf of his late wifes (Mrs P) estate, that Legal and General 
Assurance Society Limited (L&G) unfairly declined to pay the terminal illness benefit 
including in the late Mrs Ps life policy.
What happened
In October 2003, Mrs P bought a life policy from L&G.  The policy was for a 17 year term, so 
expired in October 2020.  It provided a sum assured of £100,000 on death, or upon 
diagnosis of a terminal illness  provided the diagnosis was made at least 18 months before 
the end of the policy and it gave the insured a life expectancy of 12 months or less.
Mrs P was diagnosed with cancer in 2014 and started a prolonged course of treatment.  
Sadly, she suffered a relapse in 2017, at which point the cancer was no longer curable.  She 
had further palliative chemotherapy in 2018 and 2019.  An MRI scan at the end of April 2019 
showed this had had no effect and Mrs P was offered palliative radiotherapy.  
Mrs Ps doctor has since confirmed the average survival rate for someone with Mrs Ps 
condition was between nine and twelve months from April 2019.  Mrs P sadly passed away 
in early 2021.
Following her death, Mr P discovered the paperwork relating to the policy and submitted a 
retrospective claim to L&G for the terminal illness benefit.  L&G declined the claim as they 
said the policy definition of terminal illness required a life expectancy of no greater than 12 
months.
Mr P made a subject access request on behalf of the estate.  He didnt get the information 
he was expecting.  So he complained to L&G about this, and about their handling of the 
estates claim.  L&G responded by explaining the steps theyd had to take to provide Mrs Ps 
information.  
In relation to the claim, L&G said the terminal illness benefit would only have been payable 
where Mrs Ps life expectancy was 12 months or less.  And the benefit wasnt available in 
the last 18 months of the policy  which started in April 2019.  Because Mrs P didnt pass 
away until early 2021, L&G said it was clear there had been no claimable event while the 
policy was in force.  
Mr P didnt accept L&Gs conclusions and brought the estates complaint to us.  He told us 
he wanted L&G to pay the claim.  
Our investigator considered the estates complaint and concluded L&G didnt need to do any 
more to resolve it.  She said the policy was clear that Mrs P needed to have received a 
terminal diagnosis, and that this reduced her life expectancy to no more than 12 months, by 
no later than April 2019.  So she concluded Mrs P hadnt met the criteria to make a terminal 
illness claim. 
Mr P didnt agree with the investigators view.  So Ive now been asked to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding the complaint Mr Ps brought on behalf of Mrs Ps 
estate.  I know this will be upsetting for Mr P.  But I hope it will help if I explain the reasons 
for my decision.
Ive read the policy terms.  The relevant part says:
If the Life Assured has an advanced or rapidly progressing incurable illness, where in the 
opinion of an attending Consultant and our Chief Medical Officer, the life expectancy is no 
greater than 12 months. Legal & General will make an advance payment of the Sum 
Assured. This benefit will not be available during the 18 months immediately before the 
expiry date.
The expiry date was 6 October 2020.  So the terminal illness benefit wasnt available after 7 
April 2019.
I appreciate Mrs P was diagnosed a number of years before this.  And Ive seen 
correspondence from her oncologist confirming that her cancer was considered incurable in 
2017.  However, she received chemotherapy after this with aim [sic] of improving 
symptoms and survival.  So I cant say she met the policy criteria at this point.
The oncologist confirmed in a letter this treatment continued until March 2019 and then    
Mrs P received palliative radiotherapy from June 2019.  And she confirmed the average 
survival from that point was between nine and 12 months.  
Ive thought very carefully about this correspondence.  While the letters are written by       
Mrs Ps specialist, both are dated several months after she passed away.  They refer to an 
average survival rate, rather than being specific to Mrs Ps situation.  
The policy term quoted above refers to the opinion of both an attending consultant and 
L&Gs Chief Medical Officer (CMO) on life expectancy being sought.  So I asked L&G to 
send me their CMOs opinion.  Theyve now provided this.
The CMO has said: 
Following recurrence in May 2017, the disease was controlled on chemotherapy, but it 
became resistant in October 2020. From that date, LE [life expectancy] would be considered 
to be less than 12 months, rather than that being the case in April 2019.
Im satisfied from this theres no agreement Mrs Ps life expectancy met the criteria for 
paying a terminal illness claim before April 2019.  So I think L&Gs decision not to pay the 
claim was reasonable.  And, on that basis, I dont think they need to do any more to resolve 
the complaint Mr Ps made on behalf of Mrs Ps estate.   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding the complaint Mr P has made on behalf of 
Mrs Ps estate about Legal and General Assurance Society Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Ms P 
to accept or reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 Helen Stacey
Ombudsman