DRN-2303514
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Gain Credit LLC (trading as Drafty) gave him unaffordable loans. 
What happened
Mr W approached Drafty for a credit facility in June 2018. Mr W was given a facility with a 
£1,000 credit limit. This was a running credit account where a consumer could either request 
funds up to their agreed credit limit in one go or take multiple drawdowns up to their limit.
Mr W says he has encountered some problems repaying the facility and I can see that,
based on the information given to us by Drafty, an outstanding balance remains.
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Ws complaint. He thought the checks Drafty carried
out before granting the facility were proportionate. 
But he thought the way Mr W used his facility showed it had become unsustainable over 
time  and this point was reached by 29 November 2018. By now, the adjudicator thought 
Drafty would have seen that Mr W had taken out a large number of withdrawals within a 
short period of time  suggesting his financial position had changed. So, our adjudicator 
thought Drafty should have stopped him from taking any further drawdowns.
Drafty agreed with our adjudicators opinion, and subsequently made an offer to settle the 
complaint which seems in-line with the adjudicators recommendations.
It appears that Mr W has agreed with our adjudicators opinion but has asked for an 
ombudsmans decision mainly because he disputes the settlement figures provided by 
Drafty. Drafty says that Mr W will still have a balance to repay, whereas, Mr W says given 
the amount he has repaid from the uphold point Drafty is due to pay him a small refund.  
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a final
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time the facility was provided.
To begin with, both Drafty and Mr W seem to accept our adjudicators opinion, that Drafty 
wasnt wrong to approve Mr Ws running credit facility from the outset. It also appears that 
both Drafty and Mr W agree with the point at which the facility has been upheld by our 
adjudicator  29 November 2018. So, I dont think there is any need for me to repeat the 
reasons why the complaint has been upheld from 29 November 2018. 
But I understand that Mr W feels he has made more payments to his outstanding balance 
than the figures provided by Drafty. So, in order to resolve Mr W concerns, I think Drafty 
should provide Mr W with a detailed breakdown of its calculations and the figures it has 
come to.  
This will assure Mr W that he is receiving all the interest back which he paid from 
29 November 2018 until the complaint is settled as no interest shouldve been added to the 
facility from this date. And that is what the redress below does. 
Mr W has also told us that daily interest is still being charged on his loan, and that he is still 
receiving emails and texts asking for payments, despite Drafty suspending his account. So 
Drafty will need to make sure that these charges are removed from the outstanding balance 
Mr W may need to pay. 
I would like to remind Drafty of its obligations to treat Mr W fairly if a repayment plan is 
needed to repay the outstanding balance. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right, Drafty should carry out the following. If Drafty has sold the
outstanding debt it can if it wishes buy this back and then carry out the below. If however, 
this isnt possible, then Drafty will need to work with the third party to achieve the same 
results as below;
A) Remove all the unpaid interest, fees and charges from the account from 
29 November 2018
B) Treat all payments Mr W has made towards his account since 29 November 2018 as 
though they had been repayments towards outstanding principal.
C) If at any point Mr W would have been in credit on the account after considering the 
above, Drafty will need to refund any overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on these payments, from the date they would have arisen, to the date the 
refund is paid to Mr W.
D) If there is an outstanding principal balance, then Drafty can use any refunds 
calculated as part of C to repay this. If a balance remains after this then Drafty 
should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr W. If it has previously 
written-off any principal, then it shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up only 
of principal it has already written-off.
E) Drafty should remove any adverse payment information recorded on Mr Ws credit 
file from 29 November 2018.
F) Provide Mr W with a breakdown of the refund calculations. 
.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Drafty to take off tax from this interest. Drafty must give
Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained above, Im partly upholding Mr Ws complaint.
Gain Credit LLC should put things right for Mr W as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 January 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman