DRN-2227838
The complaint
Miss B has complained to us about a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
on a KwikFit account she took out in January 2003. The policy included cover for 
accident, sickness and unemployment. 
The credit facility for the account was provided by a high street bank, but there has been a 
recent change in the company which is responsible for answering these types of complaint. 
The company now responsible is called AXA France IARD. Ill therefore refer mainly to AXA 
France IARD throughout this final decision, for consistency.
What happened
Miss B says she wasnt given a choice about taking out PPI with her account. 
When our adjudicator first assessed this complaint she thought it may have been mis-sold. 
But, having been provided with some further information she decided it was more likely that 
the PPI hadnt been mis-sold. 
Miss B disagreed and so its been passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Bs complaint. I appreciate she will be 
disappointed, so Ill explain carefully why this is.
Miss Bs card account was taken out by filling out an application leaflet when she was 
visiting KwikFit. Miss B says she was told the PPI came with the account and the 
paperwork was filled in for her which she then just had to sign. She says it wasnt 
properly explained to her and there was no discussion about whether she needed it. 
Im helped by having to hand the actual application form and credit agreement Miss B 
signed to open the account. I can see she signed to apply for the card but, significantly, 
she needed to sign a separate section of the form to show that she wanted to protect her 
account by taking out PPI. I can see she signed this section. So I think its likely that 
Miss B would have realised she didnt need to take out PPI cover to get the card and she 
didnt need to sign this part of the form if she didnt want the insurance. 
So looking at what happened, I think Miss B knew or ought to have known that shed 
agreed to take out PPI at the time she was applying for her store card. 
This is what we call a non-advised sale. This means AXA France IARD needed only to 
provide enough clear information for Miss B to decide for herself whether she wanted the 
PPI cover. I acknowledge it perhaps could have set out the information about the PPI in a 
better way, but overall, I think Miss B probably had access to enough information to allow 
her to make an informed decision.
Miss B told us she had some sickness protection already with her job  being around 
6 months at full pay followed by 6 months at half pay - implying she didnt need any PPI. I 
understand why shes told us this and Ive thought very carefully about the benefits Miss B 
says she enjoyed. But these dont necessarily mean the PPI wasnt of use. She was eligible 
for the cover and not caught by any of the major exclusions we tend to see in some of 
these policies. The cost of the PPI offered was relatively expensive, but the benefits the 
policy offered gave more protection than most credit cards. For example, if shed become 
unable to work or lost her job, the PPI would have paid off 15% of her outstanding store 
card balance each month until she returned to work or until all the balance was returned to 
zero. These benefits would have been in addition to any other means Miss B had in place 
at the time, such as the savings shes told us about. 
Miss B has also told us about a medical condition shed had for some years. Making a claim 
on PPI when theres a history of a previous medical condition can with certain policies 
sometimes lead to a claim being rejected. But I dont think thats an issue here as Miss B 
hadnt needed to take time off work because of it. So I dont think Miss B would have 
changed her mind about buying the PPI even if shed had better or clearer information 
about the cover. 
So overall, I can see Miss B did agree to the policy and its likely that she had to hand the 
basic information about the policy shed need to know when deciding to take it out.  
I recognise it is a difficult time for consumers and Im really sorry to have to give Miss B this 
news. Ive also considered in my decision what Miss Bs representatives have said in 
response to our adjudicators view. But I still dont think its likely that this policy was mis-
sold.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint and I dont require AXA 
France IARD to do anything to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 February 2021. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman