DRN-4168542
The complaint
Ms M on behalf of Miss E complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money 
(Virgin Money) failed to provide appropriate advice regarding the transfer of control of Miss 
Es childs savings account. This resulted in the funds of the account being misappropriated.
 What happened
On 18 June 2012 a child savings bond account (fixed for 5 years) was opened in Miss Es 
name with funds deposited from an inheritance. Miss Es mother was the account operator 
and held the same surname. On maturity of the account if the child is over 16 years old the 
account would need to be closed. 
Once the child reaches 16 years the terms and conditions say they may take control from 
the adult and operate the account. 
The account matured on 19 June 2017 at which point Miss E was around 19 years old but 
hadnt taken control regarding the operation of the account. Virgin Money wrote to Miss Es 
mother about the maturity of the account the month before providing the choices available 
regarding the account. 
Following receipt of this letter Miss E and her mother visited a branch of Virgin Money and 
the account was closed. The closing balance of £34,783 was sent by cheque to Miss Es 
mother who was still the named account operator. This cheque was deposited into a joint 
account held in the names of Miss E and her mother at another bank the following month.
Miss E complained to Virgin Money about this.
Virgin Money said that for Miss E to have taken control of the ownership of the account a 
form known as CB0239 wouldve needed to be completed and signed by both the child and 
adult operator. In Miss Es case this form was never completed, so Miss Es mother 
remained the in control of the operation of the account. Virgin Money also say that it wasnt 
made aware of any issues there might have been between Miss E and her mother.
Miss E was dis-satisfied with this and brought her complaint to this service represented by 
Ms M.
One of our investigators looked into Miss Es concerns and reached the conclusion that 
Virgin Money hadnt done anything wrong as the requisite form to transfer ownership/control 
of the account hadnt been completed so the account remained under the control of Miss Es 
mother. 
Ms M disagreed, she says its been assumed that the information regarding the transfer of 
the account and completion of the form was discussed with Miss E when it wasnt. Ms M 
believes that when the account was closed that the transfer of the account shouldve been 
discussed and offered to Miss E. 
She says failure of Virgin Money to do this has resulted in Miss Es mother misappropriating 
the funds of the account and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided - and I know this will come as a disappointment - Ive 
decided not to uphold Miss Es complaint. 
Ms M has said much regarding the processes that she believes Virgin Money shouldve 
followed or had in place when the account was closed. It might be helpful for me to say here 
that, as we are not the regulator, I cannot make Virgin Money change its systems or 
processes  such as how accounts are operated or the procedure for closing them. We offer 
an informal dispute resolution service and we have no regulatory or disciplinary role.
My role is to look at the problems Miss E has experienced and see if Virgin Money has done 
anything wrong or treated them unfairly. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put Miss E 
back in the position she wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award 
compensation that I think is fair and reasonable.
And although I think its likely that Miss E has been wronged and hasnt received money she 
was entitled to - and this is very sad - from the evidence Ive seen, I dont think this wrong 
has been committed by Virgin Money or that it has treated Miss E unfairly.
The terms and conditions of the account in question require the account to be opened and 
operated by a parent or responsible adult and that only instructions will be accepted in 
relation to the account from the adult. In this case Miss Es mother was the operator of the 
account. 
The account is only available for children up to the age of 16 following which the funds had 
to be withdrawn. The maturity options form says that cheques will be made payable to the 
person registered with it to operate the account on the Maturity Date. 
However, the terms & conditions for the account say that: 
If the child reaches 16 years of age during the Fixed Term they may take over control from 
the Adult and operate the account.
Virgin Money say the process for the child to take over control of their account from the 
adult, after they had reached the age of 16, is that a CB0239 form would be required to be 
signed by both the child and the adult, with the adult agreeing to the child operating the 
account.Miss E says that Virgin Money never informed her about this when she visited the branch 
with her mother when the account was closed. Given the time that has passed and the 
available evidence I dont think I have enough information to make a definite finding on this 
or what was discussed at the time of closure. 
But I dont think this matters, as even if Miss E was informed of the option to transfer the 
operation and control of the account over to herself  I think it wouldve been a pointless 
exercise as this type of account was no longer available to her as she was over 16 and the 
purpose of the visit to the branch was to close the account. But more importantly, she 
wouldve only been able to transfer the operation of the account to herself if her mother 
agreed to this and signed the requisite form. 
And based on what appears to have happened  I think it is unlikely Miss Es mother 
wouldve agreed to it. And I dont think it would be fair to penalise Virgin Money for not 
getting involved in the financial decisions a parent takes regarding their child however right 
or wrong they appear to be. Ive also not seen any evidence that Virgin Money was made 
aware of any difficulties in Miss Es relationship with her mother or that it had any reason to 
suspect Miss Es mother may misappropriate the funds meant for her daughter. 
So I cant say that Virgin Money has made an error or treated Miss E unfairly. It is not in 
dispute that the form wasnt completed to transfer ownership of the account to Miss E and 
this being the case the operation of the account remained with Miss Es mother at maturity. 
This meant she remained in control and the operator of the account and the proceeds of 
which were payable to her.  
So overall and having considered everything I do not think Virgin Money acted unreasonably 
or treated Miss E unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 November 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman