DRN-2361739
The complaint
Mrs E complains that Black Horse Limited mis-sold her payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out alongside a loan in 2009. Black Horse says it 
sold Mrs E the policy by phone.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend upholding Mrs Es complaint. Mrs E disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
Mrs E mainly said that Black Horse had added PPI to her loan without her knowledge or 
consent. She told us that given a choice, it isnt something she wouldve ever felt she 
needed and she wouldnt have knowingly agreed to take it out. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive carefully considered everything Mrs E has told us but Ive decided I dont have strong 
enough evidence to say the policy was mis-sold. 
Heres why I say this.
Mrs E has said the PPI was added without her knowledge or consent  and she couldnt 
remember how shed taken out the PPI. But I cant uphold this complaint just based on what 
Mrs E says. I must look at all the available information and decide what I think is most likely.
It seems she was sold this PPI by phone. Theres no call recording of that phone call so 
I cant know exactly what was said about the PPI.  
But Black Horse has provided a call script which it says its adviser wouldve followed when 
speaking with Mrs E on the phone.
It looks like customers were told at the start that their loan had been agreed in principle 
before there was any discussion about PPI.
After dealing with the loan details, the adviser was then prompted to say: As part of our 
discussion about your loan, I would like to discuss our optional Payment Protection Plan.
The adviser shouldve gone on to explain that customers would be asked a series of 
questions and said: If the answers you give me indicate that you have no need for payment 
protection, I will tell you...
I dont know in Mrs Es case if the adviser followed the script exactly. But it seems clear that 
a call like this took place because Ive seen the record of the answers Mrs E provided in 
response to the questions the adviser asked  and this seems to follow the script. 
So it seems likely to me that this script reflects the type of discussion Black Horse had with 
Mrs E at the time. And I think Mrs E wouldve been made aware during the phone call that 
PPI was optional  although its completely understandable if she has forgotten this now 
given that the call happened over ten years ago.
And looking at Mrs Es loan agreement I can see theres a separate box for PPI headed (in 
bold block capitals) OPTIONAL PAYMENT PROTECTION PLAN. Mrs E signed here next 
to where it said on the form: I wish to purchase the optional Payment Protection Plan 
This section also set out the monthly cost and the level of cover she was taking out  life, 
accident, sickness and involuntary unemployment.
And whats on the loan agreement reflects the answers it seems Mrs E gave when asked 
about her circumstances. The Demands and Needs information recorded for Mrs E shows 
that life cover along with accident, sickness and unemployment was recommended for her  
and that she agreed that recommendation.
So looking at all this information, I havent seen enough to be able to say that Black Horse 
added on PPI to Mrs Es loan without her knowledge or consent. 
On balance, the information Ive seen shows that Black Horse made Mrs E aware that 
having PPI was optional and it was added to Mrs Es loan when she chose to have it.
Black Horse recommended the PPI to Mrs E and I think it was suitable for her based on what 
shes told us about her circumstances at the time. 
In the case of accident or sickness the PPI could have protected the loan monthly 
repayments for up to 24 months  that was a lot longer than Mrs E couldve relied on her 
employer to pay her sick pay. And the policy wouldve paid out at the same time as any sick 
pay, giving Mrs E more financial security in what mightve been difficult circumstances 
especially if she had some extra costs as a result of being off work as a result of illness or 
disability. 
As well as this, the policy offered 12 months protection for the loan repayments if Mrs E lost 
her job unexpectedly and found herself out of work. 
I've taken into account that Mrs E had only worked in her job for around 5 months. But this 
wouldnt have affected her being able to claim on the policy.
I dont know if Mrs E wouldve always had savings to depend on if she wasnt able to work. 
And it looks like the policy couldve paid out for significantly longer than the amount of 
savings Mrs E had wouldve lasted if shed needed to use these to cover her monthly 
outgoings. 
 
So, overall, the PPI was potentially useful. 
Mrs E was eligible for the cover. She was in good health at the time, so she wasnt caught by 
any significant policy exclusions or limitations. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. I cant see any other reason why the recommendation was unsuitable. And given the 
benefits this PPI offered Mrs E, I dont think having clearer information about the policy 
wouldve been enough to put Mrs E off taking it out. 
I think its likely that Mrs E would have still taken the policy out.
This means Black Horse doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs E. But 
Black Horse has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs E because:
 Black Horse got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs E about that. Because Black Horse didnt tell Mrs E, 
that was unfair.
 To put that right, Black Horse has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Black Horse Limited does not have to pay back all of the
cost of the PPI to Mrs E.
But Black Horse Limited does have to pay back to Mrs E any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
I understand it has already done this. So it doesnt need to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 January 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman