DRN-3455975
Complaint
Mr D is unhappy that Metro Bank Plc (Metro) registered a fraud prevention marker against 
him.
Mr D is being assisted in his complaint by his father Mr D Sr.
Background
In February 2018, Mr D received a payment of £1,451.78 into his account. £1,300.00 of 
these funds were immediately withdrawn. And the remaining £150 was also transferred to a 
third-party outside of the United Kingdom (UK) on the same day. 
Metro subsequently received a notification from the third-party bank responsible for sending 
the payment to Mr Ds account stating the payee of the funds had reported being a victim of 
fraud. Metro reviewed Mr Ds account and as a result of its investigation, it decided to close 
Mr Ds account and record a fraud prevention marker.
After learning of the fraud prevention marker, Mr D Sr, on behalf of Mr D, complained that it 
had been applied unfairly. As a result of incorrectly identifying Mr D, Metro said that it hadnt 
recorded a fraud marker against him. As Mr D remained dissatisfied, Mr D Sr referred the 
matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ds concerns. He didnt think that Metro had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr D unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr D Sr, on behalf of Mr D, disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman 
for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that Metro has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of facility  
relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a marker, it isnt 
required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr D is guilty of fraud or a financial crime, 
but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or concern. The 
relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that Metro must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
entered Mr Ds account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. Secondly, 
Metro also needs to have strong evidence to show that Mr D was deliberately dishonest in 
receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment. This 
can include Mr D allowing someone else to use his account in order to receive an illegitimate 
payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was unwitting; there 
should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Mr Ds complaint, I need to decide whether I think Metro had enough 
evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Mr Ds account and that his actions suggest he 
was complicit in this. And having considered everything, I find that Metro did have enough to 
record a fraud prevention marker here. Id like to explain why in a little more detail. 
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that the funds in question, which entered Mr Ds 
account in February 2018, did so as a result of fraudulent activity. So the only matter which 
remains in dispute here is whether Mr D was complicit in allowing his account to receive 
these illegitimate payments. 
Upon being questioned by our adjudicator, Mr D Sr said that his son was being bullied at a 
new college that hed moved to. An older student whod been bullying Mr D and he only 
knew by his nickname, asked for his account details saying his friend needed to withdraw 
money but his bank wouldnt allow him to. Mr D initially refused and he was left alone but 
after a few days the older boy turned violent and Mr D felt he had no choice but to agree to 
provide his account details. A week later the funds were transferred into Mr Ds account and 
Mr D was forced to withdraw the funds at a cash machine. When our adjudicator asked why 
the withdrawal of the funds was made in two transactions, Mr D Sr simply said that his son 
had been forced into withdrawing the funds in two transactions.
Ive thought about what weve been told is Mr Ds version of events. But Im afraid that the 
available evidence doesnt support what weve been told. I say this because due to amount 
being withdrawn, the £1,000.00 withdrawal wont have taken place at a cashpoint.  
Furthermore, £150 of the fraudulent funds appear to have been transferred to an account 
outside of the UK. I think its unlikely that a third-party would have been able to set up a new 
international payee and transfer funds in this way, without Mr Ds co-operation, simply by 
being in possession of Mr Ds sort code and account number, in the way Mr D has appeared 
to suggest. 
So Im afraid the available evidence failing to support Mr Ds version of events together with 
him being unable to provide anything to corroborate what hes said means that I cant 
reasonably conclude he was an unwitting participant here. Instead, I think its more likely 
than not he was complicit in his account receiving fraudulent funds. 
Overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that Metro did have sufficient 
evidence to show that fraudulent funds entered Mr Ds account. And it was also reasonably 
entitled to conclude that it was more likely than not that Mr D was complicit in this. As this is 
the case, I dont think that it was unfair for Metro to record a fraud prevention marker in the 
circumstances that it did and Im not upholding this complaint. 
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr D  especially given Metro initially denied 
recording a fraud marker in the first place. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my 
decision and that hell appreciate why a fraud marker has been recorded against him. 
Furthermore, Mr D might find that hes able to open an account with another bank as long as he applies for a Basic Bank Account, rather than a full Current Account or any such 
equivalent. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman