DRN-3354895
The complaint
Mr A complains about the transfer of the defined-benefits he held in the British Steel Pension 
Scheme (BSPS) to a personal pension. He says he was advised to transfer by Fiscale 
Financial Services Limited (Fiscale) and another financial business (which Ill call Firm J). 
Mr A believes that the advice provided was unsuitable, which has resulted in him suffering a 
significant financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr As employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with 
members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which included 
transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined-benefit 
scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively members were informed they could transfer their benefits to 
a private pension arrangement.
Mr A was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security 
of his preserved benefits in the BSPS. He was unsure what to do and was referred to Fiscale 
by a work colleague. Mr A met with Fiscale in November 2016, following which it referred 
him to Firm J. This was because Fiscale didnt have the necessary regulatory permissions to 
advise him on the transfer of defined-benefit pension schemes.
Firm J ultimately advised Mr A to transfer out of the BSPS in January 2017. Mr A was 
referred back to Fiscale in February 2017 following the completion of the transfer to a 
personal pension. Fiscale then advised Mr A to invest his funds in line with his cautious 
attitude to risk.
In 2020 Mr A, through a representative complained about the advice to Fiscale and Firm J. 
However, Firm J went into liquidation and so Mr As complaint about this business was 
referred to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS).
Fiscale didnt uphold the complaint. In summary it said it hadnt provided Mr A with any 
advice to transfer his pension  it had simply provided advice as to how his funds should be 
invested once the transfer had completed. Fiscale said Mr A was aware that it could not 
provide him with any pension transfer advice, which is why he was referred to Firm J.
Mr As representative referred his complaint to our service, saying Fiscale should be held 
liable for the advice as it was a collaboration or joint venture between the two businesses. 
The representative said Mr A had been verbally advised to transfer by Fiscale, which he 
relied on in making his decision to transfer, and that the transfer of his preserved benefits 
could not have taken place without Fiscale introducing Mr A to Firm J. It said that, regardless 
of any advice given, Fiscale was obliged to treat Mr A fairly, have due regard to his interests 
and manage conflicts of interest, which it failed to do.
Our investigator didnt agree and so didnt uphold the complaint. They said they didnt think 
Fiscales actions had gone beyond that of introducing Mr A to Firm J. And they werent 
persuaded that Fiscale had given Mr A any advice to transfer or that hed relied on such 
advice  all of the evidence pointed to Firm J having given the transfer advice.
As Mr A didnt agree, the complaint was passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to not uphold this complaint for broadly the same reasons as 
our investigator. My reasons are set out below.
My understanding of Mr As representatives position is that Fiscale should be held liable for 
Mr As losses because it verbally advised Mr A to transfer his pension and Mr A relied upon 
that advice. It also argues there was a joint venture between Fiscale and Firm J. And in 
addition, it says Fiscale should be held liable because it didnt treat Mr A fairly or have 
regard to his best interests. Ill address each point in turn.
Did Fiscale advise Mr A to transfer?
Im satisfied Fiscale did not have permission from the FCA to advise on the transfer of 
defined-benefit occupational pension schemes. For this reason, it had an arrangement in 
place with Firm J, where Firm J would provide advice on the transfer of the occupational 
scheme and the client would be referred back to Fiscale for ongoing advice if the transfer 
went ahead.
Having considered the available evidence, Im not persuaded that Fiscale advised Mr A to 
transfer his BSPS benefits.
The evidence shows that Fiscale met with Mr A in November 2016. Fiscale then sent Mr A a 
follow up letter dated 12 December 2016 to confirm what had been discussed. The letter 
said that as had been explained in the meeting, Fiscale didnt have the necessary 
permissions to advise on pension transfers, so it had referred him to Firm J, which did have 
the required permissions. It said that it understood Mr A had arranged to meet with Firm J. It 
went on to say that, if Firm J determined that a transfer was in Mr As best interests, they 
would refer Mr A back to Fiscale to provide ongoing servicing and advice. The letter 
reiterated that Fiscale would not be providing advice on the pension transfer and that it 
would only take regulatory responsibility for Mr As pension for ongoing advice. 
Based on what Ive seen, I dont think Fiscale did anything that could be considered as 
amounting to advice before Mr A transferred his pension. Fiscale met with Mr A once and 
following this meeting it set out clearly in a letter to Mr A what it could and couldnt do. There 
was no reference to any discussion about the viability of a transfer, based on Mr As 
circumstances or objectives. And the letter did not presume that a transfer would go ahead  
it simply referred to the possibility of this, saying only if it was in Mr As best interests.
I understand Mr A says that Fiscale verbally advised him to transfer in its meeting with him. 
But Ive not seen enough to say this is more likely than not, particularly given how clear the 
letter was that Fiscale couldnt advise him on his pension transfer. I think its reasonable to 
assume that if the information in the letter didnt accurately reflect the conversation Mr A had with Fiscale, I think he wouldve said so at the time. But Ive not seen anything to show that 
he did.
I accept its likely that Fiscale and Mr A discussed his objectives and reasons for wanting to 
transfer out of the BSPS, and its possible Mr A believed Fiscale was advocating for the 
transfer of his benefits at this stage. But overall I think Mr A wouldve understood that it was 
Firm J, not Fiscale, that was providing him with advice to transfer his pension. I havent seen 
any evidence to show that Fiscale gave Mr A a personal recommendation, either verbally or 
in writing. The evidence Ive seen shows that it was Firm J that carried out a fact-find, risk 
assessment and ultimately produced a recommendation to transfer out of the BSPS. Fiscale 
didnt provide any advice until after Mr As BSPS benefits had been transferred to a personal 
pension and he needed ongoing investment advice.
Overall, Im satisfied Firm J gave the advice for Mr A to transfer out of the BSPS. And I dont 
think Fiscales earlier involvement should automatically make Fiscale liable for the suitability 
of the pension transfer advice provided by Firm J. It is my view that Firm J remains fully 
responsible for the advice it gave Mr A to transfer.
I have nevertheless considered whether Mr A would have still opted to transfer his benefits 
out of the BSPS to a personal arrangement if Firm J had advised him not to transfer. Mr As 
representative says Mr A was persuaded to transfer based upon his interactions with 
Fiscale. But on balance I dont think Mr A wouldve gone against the advice provided by 
Firm J. If Firm J had provided Mr A with clear advice in writing against transferring, 
explaining why it wasnt suitable for him, I dont think Mr A wouldve acted against that 
advice solely based on his earlier discussions with Fiscale.
In light of what Ive said above, its my decision that it was Firm Js advice that ultimately 
enabled Mr A to transfer. If this advice was unsuitable, then I think Firm J is responsible for 
Mr As losses, which flow from the transfer.
Did Fiscale and Firm J embark on a joint venture?
Mr As representative says a collaboration or a joint venture existed between Fiscale and 
Firm J to facilitate Mr A transferring out of the BSPS and that both businesses remain jointly 
liable for any financial loss Mr A has suffered.
For the reasons Ive already set out above, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to hold 
Fiscale liable for the advice given to Mr A to transfer his BSPS benefits. Although Mr As 
representative states that Mr A was verbally advised to transfer by Fiscale, Im satisfied Mr A 
transferred his BSPS benefits because Firm J advised him to do so, independently of 
Fiscales involvement. So, I think Mr As losses flow from Firm Js advice  not from any 
interaction Mr A had with Fiscale prior to that.
Fiscale did not treat Mr A fairly or have due regard to his best interests
Mr As representative has suggested that Fiscale didnt treat Mr A fairly or act in his best 
interests by partnering with Firm J. It says that Fiscale ought to have known that transferring 
out of a defined-benefit scheme was rarely the right thing to do. Instead, it said it endorsed 
the advice. 
As I have said above, Fiscale did not have the necessary regulatory permission to advise 
Mr A on the transfer of his BSPS benefits. So, Fiscale could not have advised Mr A against 
transferring, based on what it may have generally known about the regulators starting 
position that it wont usually be in a customers best interests to transfer out. As Fiscale 
didnt have the necessary permissions, it referred Mr A to Firm J, which was regulated by the FCA to provide pension transfer advice. I dont think Fiscale could reasonably be expected 
to carry out further due diligence on Firm J, particularly as Firm J had the necessary 
permissions from the FCA to provide this advice. And, as a regulated adviser, it was also 
required to treat Mr A fairly, act in his best interests and provide him with suitable advice.
In conclusion, I havent seen any evidence that it was Fiscales advice that ultimately led to 
Mr As decision to transfer out of the BSPS, without the actions of Firm J. Im also not 
persuaded that Fiscale made an error or treated Mr A unfairly in the role it carried out. 
Because of this, I dont consider it would be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me 
to require Fiscale to pay compensation to Mr A or to take any further action in response to 
this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Ive decided to not uphold this complaint, so I make no 
award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2022. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman