DRN-3408779
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy with Bastion Insurance Co. Ltds handling of his claim for lost car keys.
What happened
Mr A unfortunately lost his car keys. On 23 June 2021 he claimed under the Key Assist 
cover provided by insurer Bastion as part of his motor insurance policy. Bastion instructed a 
network locksmith and a hire car company. The locksmith could attend before the hire car 
could be arranged. But the locksmith cancelled the appointment because it thought Mr As 
behaviour was unreasonable. Bastion assisted Mr A to find his own locksmith, who replaced 
Mr As key on 24 June 2021. 
Mr A complained to Bastion that it had asked too many questions when he called to claim 
and hadnt transferred him to the right people. Bastion said it only asked the questions 
necessary and transferred him correctly. Bastion also said it had reimbursed the £190 
locksmith fee Mr A paid, but could have better explained why it needed his bank details and 
offered Mr A £50 compensation for this. 
Later, Mr A told Bastion he was unhappy its locksmith cancelled the appointment and hed 
not received the £50 compensation yet. Bastion explained it didnt employ the locksmiths 
and couldnt make them do the work, and this locksmith thought Mr As behaviour was 
unreasonable. Bastion said it told Mr A he could arrange his own locksmith and be 
reimbursed. And it had tried to pay Mr A the £50 compensation but the bank details hed 
provided were for a closed account so the payment was returned.
Mr A brought his complaint to our Service. He said Bastion should have provided a hire car 
but instead told him to use his friends car and ask Bastion to reimburse his fuel and bridge 
toll costs. Mr A wanted Bastion to reimburse him for the replacement key, fuel and bridge toll 
costs, and to pay him compensation. 
Bastion told our Service it wouldnt have provided a hire car, as it found a locksmith who 
could replace Mr As key the same day, quicker than a hire car could be arranged. 
Our Investigator thought Bastion settled Mr As claim in a fair and reasonable way. He said it 
provided a locksmith the same day, and when this locksmith wouldnt continue due to Mr As 
unreasonable behaviour, it suggested another locksmith Mr A could contact himself. Our 
Investigator noted Bastion had reimbursed Mr As £190 locksmith fee. 
Mr A asked for his complaint to be referred to an Ombudsman for decision. He questioned 
what evidence there was of his unreasonable behaviour, and suggested it was 
discriminatory of Bastions locksmith to not continue the work it had been instructed to do. 
This complaint came to me for consideration. At my request, Bastion provided further 
evidence, including recordings of calls it had with Mr A and with the network locksmith. On 
22 March 2022 I issued my provisional decision in which I said,
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to Mr As calls with Bastion. Bastion asked Mr A for the information it needed to 
direct his call, progress his claim, and assist with his queries. So I dont think it made any 
errors there. However, Bastion itself says it could have explained to Mr A more clearly why it 
needed his bank details, and its offered Mr A £50 compensation for that. I dont think this 
caused Mr A any significant distress or inconvenience, so I think the £50 Bastion has itself 
already offered is fair and reasonable compensation for that. Based on emails between 
Bastion and Mr A, Bastion has tried to pay £50 to Mr A but this didnt go through because 
Mr As account was closed. Bastion says it will pay Mr A this £50 if he provides his bank 
account details. I think thats fair and reasonable. 
Mr A says he should have been given a hire car. I can see the Key Assist cover terms and 
conditions say Bastion will pay up to £1,500 in any one period of insurance for locksmith 
charges and for car hire up to three days if Mr As vehicle is unusable as a result of lost or 
stolen insured keys. In his calls with Bastion, Mr A explains his situation is urgent because 
his car was parked on a double yellow line, his work equipment was in his car, and he 
needed to travel to work early next morning. 
Its important to note Key Assist cover isnt intended to help with emergency situations. 
Bastion said Mr A could arrange his own locksmith or car hire and ask to be reimbursed if 
this was quicker than Bastion instructing a network locksmith, though it explained Mr A 
would need to provide evidence so Bastion could consider this cost. Once Mr A provided the 
details Bastion needed to progress his claim, Bastion tried to resolve things as soon as 
possible by instructing both a network locksmith and car hire company. Bastion says the 
locksmith could visit more quickly than a hire car could be provided. And given what Mr A 
told Bastion about why this situation was urgent, I think its fair to say a replacement key was 
a better solution for Mr A. Therefore I dont think Bastion did anything wrong here. 
Mr A would like Bastion to reimburse his fuel costs and toll bridge costs. In the calls, Bastion 
told Mr A he could ask for these to be reimbursed, but also said it was unlikely Bastion would 
agree. In a later call, Mr A provided evidence of his fuel costs and toll bridge costs and said 
Bastion had previously told him these would be reimbursed. The agent explained fuel costs 
werent covered but would check if Mr A could be reimbursed. Ultimately, Bastion didnt 
agree to reimburse these costs. The Key Assist cover terms and conditions dont say these 
costs are covered by the policy. And based on the evidence provided to me so far, I think 
these costs were something Mr A would have needed to pay even if his car keys had never 
been lost and hed always been able to drive his own car. So, I dont think Bastion has made 
an error here.
Mr A asks that Bastion reimburse his £190 locksmith costs. Bastion wrote to Mr A on 
29 June 2021 agreeing to pay this cost and asking for his bank details. Bastion has also 
recently told me it paid this to Mr A on 19 July 2021 and hasnt been told the payment didnt 
go through. As Bastion has already paid this, it doesnt need to take any further action here. 
Mr A suggests the network locksmiths refusal to continue with Bastions instruction was 
discriminatory, though Mr A hasnt shared the reasons why he feels discriminated against. 
Bastion says the network locksmith is no longer trading, so its not possible to get further 
details from them. But Bastion has provided recordings of calls between Bastion and the 
locksmith. In these, the locksmith said it wouldnt continue because Mr As behaviour with it 
so far had been unreasonable - it said Mr A was unnecessarily rude and it had spent a long 
time talking to him but hadnt been able to progress things with him. The locksmith gave this 
explanation to Bastion at the time the locksmith was talking to Mr A, it wasnt an explanation 
given at some later time by Bastion itself. Therefore, I think its more likely than not that the 
locksmith cancelled because of what it saw to be Mr As unreasonable behaviour. And theres nothing to suggest that someone else wouldnt have been treated similarly in the 
same circumstances.
Bastion has explained it doesnt directly employ the network locksmiths so it cant make 
them attend. And Bastion called Mr A to explain why the locksmith would no longer be 
attending, and it continued trying to assist Mr A by helping him find his own local locksmith 
and explaining he could ask Bastion to reimburse this cost. This was what Mr A did, and his 
key was replaced the day after he first claimed. 
Taking everything into account, I think Bastion has treated Mr A fairly and reasonably. I 
realise this will be disappointing to Mr A, but Im not intending to ask Bastion to do anything 
further.
Bastion accepted my provisional decision and said it would pay Mr A the £50 compensation 
if he provided it with his bank account details. 
Mr A provided further comments in response to my provisional decision. I think these can be 
summarised as follows:
I hadnt upheld Mr As complaint, so he didnt understand why he was being offered £50 
compensation.
If his behaviour with the locksmith was unreasonable, the locksmith should have 
recorded evidence about that. 
It seems Mr A emailed the network locksmiths chief executive, as theyd said they 
would look into things for him. But he didnt receive a reply and was just told the 
locksmith wouldnt do the work. 
It took a couple of days to replace his car key.
Bastion told him it would provide a hire car but later said it wouldnt.
Im now in a position to make my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As part of this, Ive considered further the comments provided by Mr A in response to my 
provisional decision. But they dont change the conclusions I reached in my provisional 
decision. Ill explain why by addressing each of Mr As further comments in turn.
Mr A asks why he is being offered £50 compensation. As I explained in my provisional 
decision, Bastion itself accepts that in calls with Mr A it could have explained more clearly 
why it needed his bank details. And Bastion itself offered Mr A £50 compensation for that, 
though it made that offer some time ago now, in August 2021. Bastion has previously tried to 
pay this £50 to Mr A but the payment didnt go through because Mr As bank account was 
closed. Bastion has told our Service it will still pay the £50 it previously offered to Mr A if he 
provides his bank account details. I think thats fair and reasonable, so I leave it to Mr A to 
contact Bastion if he would like to receive the £50 compensation.
I acknowledge Mr A says that if his behaviour with the network locksmith was unreasonable, 
then the locksmith should have documented evidence of that. Bastion has explained the 
network locksmith is no longer trading, so its now not possible to get further details from it. 
But while I dont have copies of call recordings or emails between Mr A and the network 
locksmith, I do have recordings of calls between Bastion and the network locksmith made at 
that time and about Mr As behaviour. And in those calls, the network locksmith said it 
wouldnt continue because Mr As behaviour with it so far had been unreasonable - it said Mr A was unnecessarily rude and it had spent a long time talking to him but hadnt been able to 
progress things with him. So as I said in my provisional decision, the evidence I do have 
means I think its more likely than not that the locksmith cancelled because of what it saw to 
be Mr As unreasonable behaviour, and theres nothing to suggest that someone else 
wouldnt have been treated similarly in the same circumstances.
It seems Mr A emailed the chief executive but he says they didnt reply. But I think it would 
have been for Bastion to look into any issues Mr A raised about the service provided by the 
network locksmith. And ultimately, Ive seen that Bastion addressed the issue of the 
locksmith not attending with Mr A. 
Mr A says it took a couple of days to replace his car key. But Mr As Key Assist cover wasnt 
intended to help with emergency situations. And I dont think Bastion took an unreasonably 
long time to resolve Mr As car key issue, as he first contacted it about that on 23 June 2021 
and his car key was replaced the next day. 
Mr A says Bastion told him it would provide a hire car but then later said it wouldnt. Bastion 
did initially instruct both a hire car company and a network locksmith, but it did this in an 
effort to resolve things as soon as possible for Mr A. It became clear that a locksmith would 
be able to attend quite quickly, and Bastion says the network locksmith was able to visit 
more quickly than a hire car could be provided, albeit the network locksmith later said it 
wouldnt visit Mr A. But Mr As own locksmith replaced his car key soon after that. So I dont 
think Bastion did anything wrong in this case by not providing Mr A with a hire car. And as I 
said in my provisional decision, I think a replacement key was a better solution for Mr A 
anyway, given the explanation he gave Bastion about why his situation was urgent.
Taking everything into consideration, Im not asking Bastion to do anything further here. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, Im not upholding this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman