DRN-3898765
The complaint
Mrs W complains about mistakes and poor service provided by Erudio Student Loans 
Limited.
What happened
I recently issued a provisional decision setting out why I intended to uphold Mrs Ws 
complaint. I said: 
Mrs W has two student loans with Erudio. In 2019 arrears accrued following the end of a 
deferment period. A deferment application was approved and arrears were backdated but 
not cleared in full.
In September 2020 Erudio sent Mrs W an annual statement. At this point, the loans were 
subject to deferment. The statement gave details about the monthly payment required when 
the loans werent subject to deferment. The statement also provided the following 
information: 
We will write to you in September each year telling you of the monthly repayments on your 
loan for the next 12 months. This schedule will show any changes in the amount your 
monthly repayment as a result of any change in the interest rate. If you are in deferment 
these amounts will not be payable. We will write to you again 8 weeks prior to the end of 
your deferment to remind you of your monthly repayment when you should also 
receive a new deferment application form in case you wish to reapply.
In March 2021 the Student Loans Company (SLC) wrote to Mrs W and said the deferment 
period was due to end in the coming months. SLCs letter gave the following information:
If you choose not to reapply for deferment repayments will become due as of the current 
deferment end date. You will receive a monthly payment schedule which will advise 
you of the exact repayment details.
The deferment period came to an end in April 2021. Mrs Ws income had increased above 
the threshold required to begin repayments. Mrs Ws explained she was expecting Erudio to 
contact her and give details of the monthly payments, as promised, but no information was 
received.
Erudio sent Mrs W arrears letters and a notice of default due to the arrears on account. Mrs 
W cleared the arrears in July 2021 and complained.
Erudio responded to Mrs Ws complaint and offered her a total of £150. Erudio apologised 
for the way it handled Mrs Ws enquiries in 2019 and delays in responding to her in 2021. 
But Erudio didnt agree it had treated Mrs W unfairly in the run up to the end of her 
deferment.
An investigator at this service upheld Mrs Ws complaint and asked Erudio to pay her a 
further £50. The investigator thought Erudio had given misleading information before Mrs 
Ws deferment period ended in April 2021. Erudio didnt agree so Mrs Ws case was passed 
to me.
I previously issued another provisional decision, endorsing Erudios existing offer. Mrs W 
responded and reiterated her view that Erudio had failed to follow up on its promise to send 
notice of the post deferment payments required.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive reconsidered my 
approach and reached a different conclusion.
Ive previously set out the background concerning Mrs Ws complaint so have been 
reasonably brief above. Id like to confirm that I remain of the view that the £150 
compensation Erudio paid for 2019 service issues and 2021 contact issues is fair.
Ive thought carefully about what Mrs Ws told us concerning the information Erudio sent her. 
Having done so, I agree with Mrs Ws view that the information she was given was unclear 
and misleading. Ill explain why.
Erudios annual statement from September 2020 gave details of the monthly payment 
applicable when the loans werent subject to deferment. As quoted above, the statement 
then specifically says Erudio will write to Mrs W eight weeks prior to the end of the existing 
deferment period and give a reminder of the monthly repayment. That step wasnt taken by 
Erudio.
I understand Erudios claim that this step was fulfilled by SLCs letter. But the statement 
doesnt say SLC will provide the reminder, it says Erudio will. And SLCs letter in March 2021 
(which Mrs Ws told us wasnt received) didnt contain any payment details.
I recently asked Erudio to provide further comment on this point. Erudio responded to say 
that between its annual statement and SLCs correspondence the requirement to make a 
monthly repayment from May 2021 was made clear. Ive read and considered the response 
and supporting information, but I think the wording used was misleading in Mrs Ws case.
Mrs Ws told us she was expecting Erudio to contact her directly in advance of the end of the 
deferment period in April 2021. Im satisfied thats in line with the information Erudio provided 
in the annual statement.
Had clearer guidance or the promised information been given, I think its more likely than not 
that Mrs W wouldve made arrangements to begin repayments from the end of the existing 
deferment period and her loans wouldnt have fallen into arrears.
I can see that Mrs W was upset at finding out there were arrears on her account. And Im 
satisfied the way Mrs Ws loans have been handed has caused unnecessary inconvenience 
too. In my view, the existing award doesnt fairly reflect the impact on Mrs W. So I intend to 
increase the settlement by £150. In my view, that more fairly reflects the impact of the 
distress and inconvenience caused to Mrs W.
I asked both parties to respond with any further information they wanted me to consider 
before I made my final decision. Mrs W responded and confirmed she was willing to accept. 
We didnt hear back from Erudio. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mrs W confirmed she is willing to accept the provisional decision. Mrs W advised that 
whilst Erudio had offered her a total of £150 when responding to her complaints it had only 
paid her £100, leaving £50 outstanding. We didnt hear back from Erudio. 
My provisional decision was made on the basis that Erudios existing offer of £150 should be 
increased by a further £150. That takes the total award to £300. If Erudio hasnt already paid 
the original settlement it offered Mrs W in full, it should take steps to do so when settling the 
complaint. 
As no new information has been provided, I see no reason to change the conclusions I 
reached in my provisional decision. I still think Mrs Ws complaint should be upheld, for the 
same reasons. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mrs Ws complaint and direct Erudio Student Loans Limited to 
increase the total award by £150 (in addition to any compensation already offered). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman