DRN-1708100
The complaint
Mr B complains that Atlanta 1 Insurance Services Limited (AIS) mishandled his motor-
insurance renewal which resulted in him receiving a fine for being uninsured. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
to uphold it, but only in part. Ill explain why.
Mr B says that AIS failed to inform him of his upcoming renewal, or that his policy had lapsed 
due to them being unable to collect his premiums. But AIS has provided us with copies of the 
correspondence sent to Mr B. 
This includes a letter sent on 26 November 2019, which I can see informed him that his 
policy was set to auto-renew on 20 December 2019, and that the premiums would be 
collected using the cred-debit card used for the previous years payment. AIS say they also 
sent emails to Mr B on the same day with policy documentation.
AIS said they attempted to collect the premiums but were unable to do so. Theyve provided 
a copy of the letter they subsequently sent to Mr B on 16 December 2019, when they 
explained:
Unfortunately, we are no longer in a position to automatically renew your policy, as 
we have been unable to obtain payment from the card payment referred to in your 
renewal letter.
It is essential that you contact us as soon as possible to renew your insurance, 
please telephone our renewals team on the number above.
PLEASE NOTE  UNLESS YOU CONTACT US NO COVER WILL BE IN FORCE 
FROM YOUR RENEWAL DATE.
After Mr B failed to contact AIS, they sent further correspondence to his address on 
23 December 2019 stating that his cover had ceased on 20 December 2019. 
Mr B denies ever having received any letter, email or phone call from AIS. But I can see that 
the correspondence sent by letter and email was addressed to the correct place of 
residence/email address for Mr B (which also matches the details we hold for him). And Ive 
got to take into account that the vast majority of correctly addressed mail is safely received 
by the intended recipient. Ive not been made aware of any problems with the postal service 
during this period, and AIS have provided internal screenshots to show the time that the 
emails were sent to Mr B during the relevant period. Ive also got to weigh up the possibility 
that the correspondence could have been overlooked by Mr B at the time, and that its 
unlikely that all of the letters/emails would have failed to reach him. I appreciate Mr B 
strongly disputes this but, on balance, I think its more likely than not that the 
correspondence addressed to Mr B would have likely been received.
Therefore I think he either knew, or ought reasonably to have known, that his policy was due 
to renew in December 2019, and that it had subsequently lapsed (leaving him uninsured) 
when AIS said they were unable to collect the premiums. But although I consider Mr B ought 
to have known the above, it appears that AIS are also unable to evidence that they 
attempted to collect the payment in the first place, so they are not entirely faultless in these 
circumstances.
In any event, assuming that AIS did fail to collect the payment, Mr B was still put on notice 
that he had to get in contact with them to ensure his cover did not lapse. So I dont think they 
can fairly be held responsible for the fine he incurred for being uninsured. But for the 
potential oversight on the part of AIS, our investigator recommended an award of £100 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. AIS have accepted this 
recommendation, and I also consider it to be fair compensation in the circumstances. 
However, for the reasons outlined above, I do not think it would be fair and reasonable to 
direct AIS to pay the penalty Mr B has been charged by the authorities for being uninsured. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint in part and direct Atlanta 1 Insurance 
Services Limited to pay £100 compensation in recognition of the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2020.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman