DRN-3684914
The complaint
Mr W complained that he was given unsuitable advice to transfer his defined benefit (DB) 
British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS), to a personal pension plan.
Niche Independent Financial Advisers Limited is responsible for answering this complaint 
and so to keep things consistent, Ill refer mainly to Niche.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ws employer announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation 
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which 
included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined 
benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their 
benefits to a personal pension arrangement. 
Mr W was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security 
of his preserved benefits in the BSPS. He was unsure what to do, so he contacted 
independent financial adviser Niche for advice in September 2017. 
Niche gathered information about his circumstances and objectives which were broadly as 
follows:
Mr W was almost 51 years old, married and with no dependent children. He was in 
good health.
He lived in a home valued at approximately £110,000, owned jointly with his wife 
which had an outstanding mortgage of around £57,000. The mortgage had 7 years 
left to run. 
Mrs W worked in the public sector. Together they had a joint income of £3550 (net) 
per month and a disposable income of around £700 per month, after expenses. 
The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of Mr Ws BSPS was approximately 
£389,232 and the normal retirement age (NRA) was 65. 
Mr W had expressed an aspiration of paying off his mortgage as soon as possible 
and retiring at the age of 60.
Niche set out its advice in a suitability letter on 25 October 2017. It began by saying that on 
the basis of the financial comparisons alone, it didnt recommend Mr W should transfer out of 
his BSPS. However, it went on to say that, as Mr W had said he wanted to use his pension 
in what it called an entirely different manner, it advised him to transfer out and invest the 
funds in a personal pension plan. Niche said this would allow Mr W to achieve his objectives 
which included paying off his mortgage and retiring at the age of 60.
Mr W accepted this advice and so transferred from his BSPS to a new personal pension. In 
2021 Mr W complained to Niche about its advice, saying he shouldnt have been advised to 
transfer out of his BSPS. In response, Niche said it hadnt done anything wrong and was 
acting on the financial objectives Mr W had at the time. 
Mr W referred his complaint to our Service. One of our investigators looked into the 
complaint and said it should be upheld. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, its 
come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than 
not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Niche's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability and the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
I have further considered that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in 
COBS 19.1.6 that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is 
unsuitable. So, Niche should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate 
that the transfer was in Mr Ws best interests. 
Ive used all the information we have to consider whether transferring away from the BSPS 
was in Mr Ws best interests. And I dont think it was, so Im upholding his complaint.
Financial viability 
As required by the regulator, to demonstrate the financial comparisons between his current 
scheme and transferring out to a personal pension, Niche referred in its transfer analysis to 
critical yield rates.  
The critical yield is essentially the average annual investment return that would be required 
on the transfer value - from the time of advice until retirement - to provide the same annuity 
income as the DB scheme. It is therefore part of a range of different things which help show 
how likely it is that a personal pension could achieve the necessary investment growth for a 
transfer-out to become financially viable. In Mr Ws case, Niche said the critical yield 
required to match his benefits at the age of 65 was 7.83% if he took a full pension. Despite the advice being predicated on Mr Ws apparent desire to retire at age 60, no analysis was 
done on this basis.
Furthermore, the critical yield identified was based on Mr Ws existing scheme benefits - and 
he didnt have the option to remain in the BSPS  he either needed to opt into the BSPS2 or 
move with the scheme to the PPF. But Niches advice was provided on 25 October 2017, by 
which time details of the new scheme had been provided (and was briefly referred to in the 
suitability letter Niche produced for Mr W). Of course, its possible this scheme may not have 
gone ahead, but I still think the benefits available to Mr W through the BSPS2 should have 
been factored in with this advice so that he was able to make an informed decision. 
Nevertheless, in my view, this issue is something of a moot point in this case because from a 
financial comparison perspective, theres no real dispute between the parties that Mr W 
would probably receive lower overall retirement benefits as a result of transferring out to a 
personal pension. Niche itself outlined the likely lower retirement benefits in its own 
suitability letter. It pointed out to Mr W, for example, that, you are likely to be financially 
worse off in retirement by transferring. And I think this situation as regards critical yield 
analysis would have been broadly similar in the case of the planned BSPS2; there would still 
be little point in Mr W giving up the guarantees and benefits available to him through a DB 
scheme only to achieve a lower level of benefits in a personal pension plan. 
Elsewhere in its transfer analysis, Niche also made mention of the PPF, which it described 
as a compensation scheme providing a safety net for pension schemes when the 
sponsoring employer becomes insolvent. It said the critical yield to match the benefits 
available through the PPF at age 65 was 4.29% per year if Mr W took a pension under the 
reduced terms of the PPF  and 3.81% per year if he opted to take a tax-free cash element 
and a further reduced pension. No analysis was provided relating to age 60.
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017 and 
was 4.1% per year for 13 years to retirement, which is well below the main critical yield 
figure of 7.83% Ive referred to above. And the critical yield at age 60 was likely to be even 
higher given the funds would be invested for less time and benefits payable for longer.
Ive also kept in mind that the regulator's upper projection rate was 8%, the middle projection 
rate was 5%, and the lower projection rate was 2%. And at the time, as Niche assessed 
Mr Ws attitude to risk (ATR) as moderately cautious I think a figure at the lower end of these 
projections was most relevant. For further comparison, I note Mr W was ultimately 
recommended to invest in funds with a large and well-known provider. The growth rates it 
projected for a moderately cautious investor were only -0.49% (low), 2.44% (mid) and 5.37% 
(high). 
So, I think its fair to say that from a financial comparison perspective, Niches figures, shown 
in its suitability letter and transfer analysis documents, clearly showed that transferring to a 
personal pension plan would mean Mr W would receive lower pension benefits in the longer 
term, when compared against the BSPS. And I think its safe to say the same is broadly true 
of the BSPS2 scheme, although we dont have corresponding analysis here to show it. However, the above figures showed the critical yield was considerably higher than the 
discount rate and also much higher than the regulators projections, given Mr Ws ATR. Ive 
noted that Niche also said that in order to purchase an annuity to provide benefits of equal 
value to the existing scheme at retirement at age 65, the funds required would be around 
£957,000. So, all these things, in my view, provide a powerful indication of the real value 
Mr W would lose if he transferred out to a personal pension plan.
Of course, to be clear, Niches recommendation that he should transfer out to a personal 
pension was not based on the financial comparisons with his current scheme. Rather, Niche 
said Mr W had entirely different reasons to transfer away, so Ive thought about all the other 
considerations which might have meant a transfer was suitable for him, despite providing the 
overall lower benefits mentioned above. Ive considered these below.
Flexibility and income needs
As Ive said, although the suitability letter initially said that transferring wasnt recommended 
if being considered only on financial comparison grounds, Niche still recommended a 
transfer to a personal pension nonetheless, based on what it said were Mr Ws objectives. It 
listed these as follows:
Transferring out to a personal pension would allow Mr W to achieve his goal of 
retiring at 60.
He would be able to take a tax-free lump sum at 55 which would provide the funds to 
repay his mortgage.
Mr W would be able to access the pension flexibly. He would have complete control 
over his pension, how it was invested, and the level of income he could withdraw.
There were more flexible death benefits by transferring to a personal pension.
So, it seems the main reasons that Niche recommended the transfer was for the flexibility 
and control it offered to Mr W. I have therefore considered all these issues with great care, 
beginning with Mr Ws apparent desire to retire at the age of 60. 
Retiring early 
I dont doubt that Mr W might have genuinely aspired to retire at the age of 60. But Ive seen 
nothing that shows this was anything more than something he aspired to do at that stage, as 
opposed to being part of a formulated plan. I say this because Mr W was only 51 years old 
and from what Ive seen, he had no concrete plans for retirement at that point. Ive also 
noted that Mr W could have retired early as a member of the BSPS2 and the PPF.
So, even if I were to consider that Mr Ws retirement plans were more advanced than the 
mere aspirations set out by Niche - and he really did want to retire early - I think Niche 
should have assessed the possibility of achieving this goal whilst being a member of BSPS2 
or the PPF. Its clear that in these circumstances there would have been an actuarial 
reduction caused by early retirement from the scheme. This would have meant Mr Ws 
pension benefits would have been somewhat reduced due to him accessing the pension 
earlier and for longer. But Ive seen no evidence this was discussed with a view to assessing 
whether it was more in Mr Ws best interests, rather than him being advised to transfer away 
completely.Ive also seen no evidence that Niche told Mr W about the critical yields that may have 
applied to retiring at the age of 60 rather than 65. Despite saying, for example, that its advice 
to Mr W was predicated largely on him retiring early, Niches transfer analysis was based 
only on his NRA which was 65. So, I dont think this would have given Mr W a clear picture 
of what the benefits and drawbacks of remaining in a DB scheme were. As Ive said above, 
the critical yield for earlier retirement was likely to have been higher and it might therefore 
have reinforced in Mr W just how much he was giving up by transferring away.  
Paying off his mortgage 
Ive considered the points Niche made about the value of Mr W accessing his transferred 
pension benefits early, at the age of 55, to pay off his outstanding mortgage balance. I have 
also considered Niches reply to our investigators view about the mortgage. 
The implication here is that Mr W could have used part of his 25% tax-free lump sum, taken 
from a new personal pension he would transfer into, to completely pay off his outstanding 
mortgage at age 55. And I of course accept that when looked at in isolation, paying down 
debt is generally a good thing to do. 
However, as our investigator explained, Mr W appeared to have been paying off his 
mortgage fully in accordance with the repayment plan. Ive seen no evidence therefore, that 
the mortgage wasnt been properly paid down and importantly, it had only seven more years 
to run. In any event, Mr W would not have been able to access his transferred pension funds 
until he was 55 years old anyway, which was still some four years away from when he was 
given the advice in October 2017. 
I therefore think its fair to say that the passage of this time allowed for Mr Ws existing 
mortgage debt to be continually reduced in the interim four-year period, between the ages of 
51 and 55, as part of the normal repayment process. 
The evidence Ive seen shows that by the time of him reaching the age of 55, the 
outstanding mortgage would have been reduced by almost half. Ive also noted that his 
mortgage was relatively low both in actual terms (when considered against his and Mrs Ws 
income) - and also low from a loan-to-value perspective (representing only a little more than 
50% of the value of his home). Niches own fact-find also showed Mr and Mrs W had 
disposable income available each month which could have been used to reduce mortgage 
interest and debt even further as they approached their mid-50s, if that was their preference. 
In this case, I think it was entirely reasonable that the mortgage could be paid off completely 
before the seven years left was up.
I think these things show that advice to transfer from Mr Ws BSPS as a reason to repay his 
mortgage was flawed. What Niche was advising Mr W to do was to forgo the substantial 
guarantees and benefits found in the BSPS2, to pay a mortgage which by the age of 55 
would be only two years from completion anyway and was otherwise affordable. It follows 
that I dont think it was a suitable recommendation for Mr W to transfer his DB scheme 
benefits to a personal pension simply to pay off a small, affordable debt. And as Ive shown, 
there were many more suitable alternatives available to Mr W to pay the mortgage off. These 
other options were straightforward, which Niches advice failed to reflect.
Flexibility 
In its suitability letter, Niche said that by transferring out and having a personal pension plan, 
Mr W would be able to phase-in and increase the amount of tax-free cash hed be able to 
access. It said the lump sum(s) could be used to fund things like holidays. Its usually the case that more tax-free cash can be accessed from a personal pension when 
compared against a DB scheme; this is because the values and benefits of the two schemes 
are calculated differently. But Niche should have been telling Mr W at the time that extra tax-
free lump sums being removed from a personal pension from the age of 55 also came with 
consequences in that the amount left for his later retirement years would obviously 
decrease. 
Ive explained above why accessing tax-free cash to repay his mortgage was flawed. And 
Ive seen no compelling evidence showing access to a lump-sum at 55 years old was 
necessary or required for other specific reasons. So, whilst I accept the notion of accessing 
tax-free cash might have been appealing, this needed to be considered against the other 
options Mr W faced, including opting for the BSPS2. 
Overall, I cant see that Mr W required flexibility in retirement in the way Niche implied. Niche 
said in its transfer analysis that Mr Ws estimated pension upon his NRA was £22,597. This 
was guaranteed and index linked and I think it fitted Mr Ws needs. There were also limited 
degrees of flexibility still available to Mr W had he opted for the BSPS2. I dont know what 
pension Mr W would have been entitled to at age 60, because Niche failed to do this 
analysis. But I havent seen anything to persuade me that Mr W wouldnt have been able to 
meet his income needs by accessing his DB pension instead, particularly as Mr W had 
joined his employers new defined contribution (DC) scheme and would have been making 
contributions to it for at least another nine years until he retired. It seems to me that any 
shortfall in Mr Ws income needs between age 60 and state retirement age could have been 
met by drawing on this pension.
I have therefore considered everything Niche said in its suitability letter about flexibility: it 
said this would include how funds were invested, the level of income he could withdraw from 
the age of 55 and a greater ability to flexibly use the tax-free lump sum element. It also said 
that Mr W would be able to have complete control over the pension if he transferred out. 
However, Ive seen nothing which shows Mr W had either the desire or capacity to exercise 
personal control over his pension. In my view, Mr Ws circumstances were much more 
aligned to him retiring from a DB scheme, such as BSPS2, and drawing a pension. So, I 
think the suitable option was for him to access his DB pension in the way it was originally 
intended.
Death benefits 
Niche says that death benefits were discussed at the time and that Mr W was concerned that 
his pension would be lost in the event of him pre-deceasing his wife. It says as Mr W did not 
have any dependent children, it still considers that legacy planning was a suitable reason for 
recommending the transfer out to a personal pension. 
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr W. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr W might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise him about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think Niche explored to what extent 
Mr W was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death 
benefits.Ive noted that at the time of the suitability letter, both Mr and Mrs W were described as 
being in good health. Mrs W was also only 48 years old. I also think the death benefits 
attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. The spouses pension provided by the DB 
scheme would have been useful to Mrs W if Mr W predeceased her and I dont think Niche 
made the value of this benefit clear enough. This was guaranteed and it escalated  it was 
not dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a 
personal pension was. And as the cashflow analysis shows, there may not have been a 
large sum left particularly if Mr W lived a long life. In any event, Niche should not have 
encouraged Mr W to prioritise the potential for higher death benefits through a personal 
pension over his security in retirement.
Furthermore, it doesnt appear that Niche took into account the fact that Mr W could have 
nominated Mrs W as the beneficiary of any funds remaining in his DC scheme. So, to this 
end, Mr W had already ensured part of his pension wouldnt die with him.
I cant see whether, or the extent to which, life insurance was discussed in this case. But at 
around 51 years old, this may have been a reasonably affordable product if Mr W really did 
want to leave a legacy for Mrs W. Mrs Ws circumstances dont seem to have featured much 
in the overall advice Mr W was given by Niche, but the evidence is suggestive of her having 
a pension of her own.
Overall, in this case I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a 
personal pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr W. I think this 
objective, listed briefly as it was in the suitability letter, was no more than a generic comment 
and not meaningful to Mr Ws situation.
Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme 
Its clear that Mr W, like many employees of his company, was concerned about his pension. 
His employer had recently made the announcement about its plans for the scheme and he 
was worried his pension would end up in the PPF. Hed heard negative things about the PPF 
and he said he preferred to have control over his pension fund. 
So, its quite possible that Mr W was also leaning towards the decision to transfer because of 
the concerns he had about his employer and his negative perception of the PPF. However, it 
was Niches obligation to give Mr W an objective picture and recommend what was in his 
best interests.
By the point of the advice being delivered details of BSPS2 were known and it seemed likely 
it was going ahead. So, the advice should have properly taken the benefits available to Mr W 
through the BSPS2 into account and I think this should have alleviated Mr Ws concerns 
about the scheme moving to the PPF.
However, even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that Niche 
should have reassured Mr W that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he 
thought. The income available to Mr W through the PPF would have still provided a 
significant portion of the income he thought he needed at retirement, and he was still unlikely 
to be able to exceed this by transferring out. And although the increases in payment in the 
PPF were lower, the income was still guaranteed and was not subject to any investment risk. 
So, I dont think that these concerns should have led to Niches recommendation to Mr W to 
transfer out of the DB scheme altogether.Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr W. But Niche 
wasnt there to just transact what Mr W might have thought he wanted. The advisers role 
was to really understand what Mr W needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr W was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income within the BSPS2 (or the PPF). By transferring 
to a personal pension, the evidence shows Mr W was likely to obtain lower retirement 
benefits. And I dont think there were any other particular reasons which would justify the 
transfer and outweigh this. I dont think Mr W needed to repay his mortgage early, it was 
simply something he thought he could do. And I think Niche ought to have advised him 
against transferring out of his DB scheme for this reason, particularly as it meant hed be 
worse off in retirement.
So, I dont think it was in Mr Ws best interests for him to transfer his DB scheme to a 
personal pension when he had the opportunity of opting into the BSPS2.
I appreciate that the BSPS2 hadnt been fully confirmed when the advice was given, but I 
think it was clear to all parties that it was likely to be going ahead. Mr W still had a minimum 
of nine years before he hoped to retire. But this might have been longer as he didnt yet 
know what his needs in retirement would likely be. So, I don't think that it would have been in 
his interest to accept the reduction in benefits he would have faced by the scheme entering 
the PPF, as it wouldn't be offset by the more favourable reduction for very early retirement. 
By opting into the BSPS2, Mr W would have retained the ability to transfer out of the scheme 
nearer to his retirement age if he needed to. Also, Mr W was married, and his wifes pension 
would be set at 50% of his pension at the date of death, and this would be calculated as if no 
lump sum was taken at retirement (if Mr W chose to do so). The annual indexation of his 
pension when in payment was also more advantageous under the BSPS2. 
On this basis, I think Niche should have advised Mr W to opt into the BSPS2.
I have considered, given the circumstances of the time, whether Mr W would have 
transferring to a personal pension in any event. I accept that Niche disclosed the risks of 
transferring to Mr W, and provided him with a significant amount of information. But 
ultimately it advised Mr W to transfer out, and I think Mr W relied on that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr W would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme, 
against Niches advice. I say this because Mr W was an inexperienced investor and this 
pension accounted for almost all of his retirement provision at the time. So, if Niche had 
provided him with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it 
wasnt in his best interests, I think he would have accepted that advice.
Im also not persuaded that Mr Ws concerns about the PPF were so great that he would 
have insisted on transferring his pension, knowing that a professional adviser, whose 
expertise he had sought out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his 
best interests. So if Niche had explained Mr W was also unlikely to exceed the benefits 
available to him through the PPF if he transferred out, and that he could meet his income 
needs in retirement without risking his guaranteed pension, I think that would have carried 
significant weight.
In light of the above, I think Niche should compensate Mr W for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr W, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for Niches unsuitable advice. I consider Mr W would 
have most likely opted to join the BSPS2, rather than transfer to the personal pension if he'd 
been given suitable advice. So, Niche should use the benefits offered by BSPS2 for 
comparison purposes.
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for 
non-compliant pension transfer advice. The consultation closed on 27 September 2022 with 
any changes expected to be implemented in early 2023.
In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers 
it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress. 
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 whilst the consultation takes place. 
But until changes take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their 
compensation to be calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that may come into 
force after the consultation has concluded.
Weve previously asked Mr W whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now, in line 
with current guidance, or wait for any new guidance/rules to be published.
Mr W has chosen not to wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle his complaint. 
So I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr W.
Niche must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, Mr W has no plans at present to retire any earlier than age 65. So, compensation 
should be based on his normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual assumptions in the 
FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ws acceptance of the decision.
Niche may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ws 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ws SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ws pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr W as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr W within 90 days of the date Niche receives notification 
of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Niche to pay Mr W.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
In addition Niche should pay Mr P £250 for the distress and inconvenience this matter has 
caused him. 
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect Niche to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: Ive decided to uphold this complaint and require Niche 
Independent Financial Advisers Limited to pay Mr W the compensation amount as set out in 
the steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Niche Independent Financial Advisers Limited to pay Mr W any interest on that amount in 
full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Niche 
Independent Financial Advisers Limited to pay Mr W any interest as set out above on the 
sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Niche Independent Financial Advisers Limited pays Mr W the balance. I would additionally 
recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr W.
If Mr W accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on Niche Independent 
Financial Advisers Limited.My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr W can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr W may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2022.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman