DRN-4210526
The complaint
Mr W complains, through a representative, about the advice he received in 1999 from Zurich 
Assurance Ltd (trading as Allied Dunbar Assurance) to start a Free-Standing Additional 
Voluntary Contributions (FSAVC) plan.
Although Mr W is represented in this complaint, for ease of reading I will generally refer to all 
of complainants representations as being made by Mr W.
What happened
Mr W was a member of a final salary occupational pension scheme (OPS). In January 1999 
he met with Zurich to discuss making additional provision for his retirement. A fact find was 
completed showing Mr Ws circumstances at the time were as follows:
he was 52 years old and expected to retire at 65;
married with two dependent children;
employed earning around £35,400 per year; and
joined his employers final salary occupational pension scheme (OPS) in 1996 and 
also began making contributions of around 5% of his salary to an additional voluntary 
contribution (AVC) plan through his employer. The scheme retirement age was 65.
Mr W also had a paid-up FSAVC plan.
Zurich recommended that Mr W take out its FSAVC plan and invest 100% in its Managed 
Fund. The recommendation document produced at the time says under the Notes or 
Calculations section:
1) Occupational scheme info enclosed
2) AVC info enclosed
3) Other paid-up arr. info enclosed
The Reasons Why section of the recommendation states:
Benefit from regular advice on pension planning 
pension all remuneration 
flexibility to incr. reduce or stop contrib. 
flexibility if changing employer
This document also indicates that Mr W was provided with a copy of a booklet titled Topping 
up your Occupational Pension Scheme Benefits on 29 January 1999. 
Mr W accepted the advice to take out the Zurich FSAVC plan at a subsequent meeting in 
February 1999. Mr W started contributing £288.16 per month to the plan from 1 March 1999 
and he took his pension benefits in 2013. 
In January 2023 Mr W complained to Zurich that it had failed to provide him a suitable 
recommendation in 1999. In short, he said that Zurich didnt comply with the regulators 
requirements by failing to provide sufficient information about the differences between the in-
house AVC and FSAVC plans. He also said that Zurich was mistaken about how much he 
could have contributed to the in-house arrangement. 
Zurich didnt agree and said that it had complied with the regulatory guidelines in place at the 
time the FSAVC plan was sold. Specifically, it noted that it was required to point out that the 
charges which apply to in-house schemes are generally lower than an FSAVC arrangement 
and said that specific reference was made to this in the Topping up booklet provided to 
Mr W at the time of advice. 
Dissatisfied with this response, Mr W brought his complaint to this service for an 
independent assessment. One of our investigators looked into things and concluded that the 
information Zurich provided Mr W about the likely differences in costs between the AVC and 
FSAVC plans wasnt sufficient to meet the regulatory guidelines. And, since he thought that 
cost was likely to have been a key factor in Mr Ws decision, his view was that Zurichs 
advice wasnt suitable for Mr W. So he asked Zurich to put things right. 
Zurich didnt agree and reiterated why it believed the advice met the regulatory requirements 
in place and explained that it was suitable because it met his objectives at the time, including 
benefitting from regular pension planning advice, the ability to pension all his remuneration, 
the ability to increase, reduce or stop his payments and flexibility to change employers. 
The investigator considered this but wasnt minded to change his view so the complaint has 
been referred to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigator and for the same reasons hes explained. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I have taken into account relevant law and
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and codes of practice; and what I consider to have
been good industry practice at the time.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
It is my role to fairly and reasonably decide if the business has done anything wrong in
respect of the individual circumstances of the complaint made and  if I find that the
business has done something wrong  award compensation for any material loss or distress
and inconvenience suffered by the complainant as a result of this.
In order to decide this complaint, I need to consider whether Zurich complied with the 
applicable regulatory guidance in place at the time of the advice. And if there were any 
failings, whether this made a difference. In particular, would Mr W have still taken out the 
FSAVC plan?
The advice was provided by Zurich in 1999. So the relevant regulatory guidance was 
contained in the May 1996 Regulatory Update 20 (RU20), which was produced by the 
Personal Investment Authority (PIA), one of the predecessors to the current regulator  the 
FCA. RU20 gave guidance on the procedures for advising clients on the relative merits of 
FSAVC and in-house AVC plans. The guidance set out different requirements depending on 
whether the adviser was an independent financial adviser or a tied adviser  one who is employed by, or contracted to, one organisation and can only recommend and sell that 
organisations products. In this case the adviser was tied.
For tied advisers, RU20 specified that:
A representative should not recommend his own companys FSAVC until he has:
drawn the clients attention to the in-scheme alternative;
discussed the differences between the two routes in generic terms (taking 
account, among other things, of the features described in this article); and
directed the client to his employer, or to the scheme trustees, for more information 
on the in-scheme option.
When these procedures are followed and documented, it is not necessary for the 
representative to undertake a full comparison of the in-scheme AVC and his companys 
FSAVC.
Among the features referred to in the article were that charges under in-house AVC plans 
would usually be lower. The regulator also expected the clients advice file to include 
documentary evidence demonstrating that the requirements of RU20 had been met.
So Zurich needed to make Mr W aware of the in-house AVC plan and discuss the generic 
features of the in-house option and the FSAVC plan. The key difference I wouldve expected 
Zurich to discuss with Mr W would be the likelihood of lower charges for the in-house AVC 
arrangement. And I would expect Mr W to have been directed to his employer and/or 
occupational pension scheme trustee to obtain more information on his in-house options.
From the evidence Ive been provided from the time of advice, I cant reasonably say that the 
procedures required by RU20 were followed. There is very little documentation of what, or 
even whether a discussion took place about the differences between in-house AVC plans 
and the FSAVC. Zurich points to the topping up booklet and the fact Mr W signed a 
recommendation saying hed been given it and that he understood his choices. But theres 
nothing in the recommendation about charges, and nothing about any detailed discussions. 
So Im not persuaded I can reasonably say Zurich did enough here. 
I dont think simply providing a booklet is enough for Zurich to comply with the regulators 
requirements either, as the guidance requires discussion, not just the provision of 
information. And like our investigator, I think the booklet could be misleading as although it 
does indicate that charges are usually lower for in-house AVCs than its FSAVC it then goes 
on to say in the same paragraph that over the life of the plan these may even out. In my 
view, this implies that there may be no difference in the overall charges, which I dont think is 
consistent with the guidance requirement.
So Im not persuaded that Zurich complied with the guidance in relation to the sale of the 
FSAVC to Mr W. 
I now need to decide whether, if Mr W had been appropriately advised, it wouldve made a 
difference. Zurich asserts that the advice was suitable for Mr W because of his particular 
circumstances and objectives. Ive carefully considered this, but I dont agree. I will explain. 
Mr Ws priority at the time of advice was to provide an income in retirement in addition to 
what would be provided by his OPS. Although the recommendation said that the FSAVC 
was recommended because Mr W could benefit from ongoing pension planning advice, Im 
not persuaded that this was an objective of Mr Ws rather than a nice to have. Even still, Ive not seen sufficient evidence to persuade me that ongoing pension advice was actually 
part of the FSAVC arrangement in any event. 
Likewise, Zurich said the FSAVC was appropriate because it gave Mr W the flexibility to 
change employers. But Ive seen nothing in the documentation from the time of the advice 
which persuades me that Mr W was likely to change employers such that he needed this 
flexibility. 
Furthermore, I cant agree that the FSAVC plan allowed him to contribute more than would 
be possible in an in-house arrangement. Before April 2006 people could contribute up to 
15% of their salary and other pensionable benefits to their OPS, an AVC and an FSAVC 
combined. So if Mr W was already contributing 5% to his OPS, he could only contribute an 
additional 10% irrespective of whether it was to an AVC or FSAVC plan. And either plan 
allowed Mr W to stop, increase or decrease his contributions. 
Given that Mr Ws priority was to increase his income in retirement and the regulators view 
that a critical factor that drove the choice between FSAVCs and AVCs was that the fees 
were usually lower, I think it is more likely than not that Mr W wouldve chosen to contribute 
to the AVC plan if hed been properly advised. As noted above, I havent seen anything to 
suggest that Mr W had any expectation that he was likely to change professions in the future 
and so be unable to contribute to the AVC.
So I dont think that Zurich did enough to provide Mr W with the information he needed to 
decide upon its recommendation. And I think that if it had met its responsibilities under the 
regulations Mr W would most likely have chosen to use the OPS AVC scheme to receive his 
additional pension contributions. So I uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Zurich to put Mr W as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice.
Zurich should undertake a redress calculation in accordance with the regulators FSAVC 
review guidance, incorporating the amendment below to take into account that data for the 
CAPS mixed with property index isnt available for periods after 1 January 2005.
The FSAVC review guidance wasnt intended to compensate consumers for losses arising 
solely from poor investment returns in the FSAVC funds, which is why a benchmark index is 
used to calculate the difference in charges and (if applicable) any loss of employer matching 
contributions or subsidised benefits.
In our view the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index provides the closest 
correlation to the CAPS mixed with property index. So where the calculation requires 
ongoing charges in an investment-based FSAVC and AVC to be compared after 1 January 
2005, Zurich should use the CAPS mixed with property index up to 1 January 2005 and the 
FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index thereafter.
If the calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ws pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr W as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid in retirement. 25% of the loss would be tax-free and 75% would have been taxed according to his income tax rate in retirement  
presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint and direct Zurich Assurance Ltd to put 
things right as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2023.
 
Jennifer Wood
Ombudsman