DRN-3325459
The complaint
Mr A complains about delays in Premier Insurance Company Limiteds (Premier) handing of 
a claim under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
In May 2021 Mr A was involved in a car accident and made a claim under his motor 
insurance policy. Premier inspected his car and determined it was a total loss. Mr A decided 
to retain the salvage, and kept the car on his driveway, but he wasnt happy with Premiers 
settlement offer. There were delays progressing the claim before Mr A received an increased 
settlement offer for his car.  
Mr A says he started a new job whilst his claim was being handled. No courtesy car was 
provided, and this caused him inconvenience. Hes also unhappy with the poor standard of 
communication he received. 
Mr A accepted Premiers increased settlement payment and it offered to pay £375 
compensation. It also says it will waive the £600 policy excess. Mr A thought the excess 
charge was the responsibility of the third-party insurer as the accident wasnt his fault. He 
says the compensation offer should be increased and cover additional costs to repair his car. 
He says because of the time its been left on his driveway problems have developed.
Premier says it hasnt seen expert evidence of the problems described and thinks its 
compensation offer is fair for the delayed handling. Mr A wasnt happy with its response and 
decided to refer his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator thought the compensation Premier offered together with the waived excess 
charge was fair to acknowledge its poor claim handling. She says Mr A should provide 
Premier with evidence of the damage caused to his car whilst it sat on his drive if he wants 
to pursue this point further. 
Mr A wasnt happy with this outcome. He maintains the excess charges wouldve been paid 
by the third-party insurer. He says the lack of communication, failure to progress the claim 
and further damage to his car havent been adequately acknowledged. 
The complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold Mr As complaint. Let me explain.
When Mr A first claimed to Premier in May 2021, he didnt agree with its valuation of his car. 
The business accepts that from here on delays occurred, starting with confusion over when 
vehicle documents had been provided. It says Mr A contacted it at the end of June 2021 for 
an update and confirmation of whether his V5 document had been received. Although it 
acknowledges this had been sent, Premier didnt attach it to Mr As claim file until August 
2021. 
Premier re-reviewed the claim and sent its revised offer to Mr A in October 2021. It accepted 
responsibility for the delays in its claim handling and apologised. However, when Mr A 
responded the following day to request compensation, it took over a month for Premier to 
reply. 
Premier wrote to Mr A in November 2021 to say it would waive his excess fee and asked him 
to make contact to discuss further. It sent its final response in December 2021 apologising 
for the distress and inconvenience caused by its delays and poor communication. It offered 
£375 compensation. I understand Mr A accepted the settlement payment around this time 
but didnt think the compensation was enough. He says £1,200 would be a fairer amount. 
I have thought about the impact on Mr A because of the delays in handling his claim. 
The claim was first made in May 2021, but he didnt receive a settlement payment until 
around six months later. He was without a car, at a time when he was starting a new job. 
This created hassle arranging travel, which meant he was reliant on friends to provide lifts to 
work and this was stressful for him. Mr A says there was no offer of a courtesy car during 
this time. He also received little communication from Premier to let him know where the 
claim was up to, or when he should expect a settlement payment.  
I sympathise with Mr A given the delays in Premier settling his claim. The standard of 
communication must also have been frustrating for him. I note Premier accepts its at fault 
for shortfalls in the service it provided. When Mr A disputed the first valuation, I think this 
reasonably needed further consideration. But it shouldve informed him of the increased 
valuation much sooner. I think its reasonable that Premier compensates Mr A for the delays 
and poor communication.  
I cant see that Mr A complained to Premier about the subsequent problems he had with his 
car being stationary on his driveway. He will need to do this before referring the matter to our 
service. The business has said it will consider any expert evidence he provides to support a 
claim for costs. So, if Mr A wants to pursue this point he can do so with Premier directly. 
Mr A says a courtesy car wasnt provided. Premier says its policy doesnt provide for one. 
Ive read the policy terms and I cant see that this is included within Mr As cover. Premier 
says it can offer a courtesy car as a goodwill gesture for the duration of repairs. But in this 
case the car wasnt repaired so this wouldnt have been offered.
I can understand Mr As frustration, but the policy terms dont provide for a courtesy car. So, 
I dont think Premier behaved unreasonably here. 
Finally, I have thought about Mr As view that the third-party insurer is responsible for his 
policy excess. The policy terms say:
Excess: The first amount You will have to pay towards the cost of a claim for loss of or 
damage to Your Car, whether or not the incident giving rise to the claim is Your fault.
Based on the terms its clear Mr A was required to pay the policy excess charge if the third 
party was at fault or not. So, hes ultimately responsible to make this payment not the third-
party insurer. 
Premier offered to waive the £600 excess charge and pay £375 compensation. I think this is 
fair in acknowledging its poor handling of Mr As claim. Having considered all of this, I dont think Premier treated Mr A fairly given the delays and 
poor communication when handling his claim. But I think it has since offered reasonable 
compensation for these failings. Because of this I cant fairly ask it to do anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman