DRN-4486097
The complaint
Miss C has complained that Santander UK Plc wont refund transactions she says she didnt 
make or otherwise authorise.
What happened
Over February and March 2023, Miss Cs Santander debit card and PIN were used for 
around £980 of cash withdrawals and point of sale spending.
Miss C explained that this wasnt her. She said she lost her card, along with the record of the 
PIN which she kept together with it. 
Santander held Miss C liable for the payments in dispute, on the basis that she hadnt kept 
her account sufficiently safe.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. Miss C 
didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
I sent Miss C and Santander a provisional decision on 14 November 2023, to explain why 
I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Broadly speaking, Santander can hold Miss C liable for the payments in dispute if the 
evidence suggests that she authorised them, or if she failed to keep her account safe either 
intentionally or through acting with gross negligence.
Im satisfied from Santanders technical evidence that the payments in dispute used Miss Cs 
genuine card, and the correct PIN. This was not a cloned card, and the PIN was not 
bypassed. The person using the card knew the PIN.
Our investigator thought Miss C might have authorised the payments herself, or given 
someone else permission to make them. They thought this because Miss C had checked her 
online banking a number of times during the period the disputed payments were being 
made, but she didnt tell Santander anything was wrong until after the fact.
However, even if I accept that Miss C did not notice these transactions or her balance being 
depleted when she checked her online banking, and even if I accept that the disputed 
payments were made by a thief without her consent, Im afraid I still could not hold 
Santander liable for them.
Thats because Miss C kept a record of the PIN with her card. And this is by far the most 
likely way that a thief using the card knew the PIN. For example, Miss C hadnt entered the 
PIN in the recent time before the disputed payments, so there was no reasonable 
opportunity for someone to watch her enter the PIN and then steal the card. She hadnt told 
anyone else the PIN, it was generated by the bank rather than a number which could 
reasonably be deduced, and its exceptionally unlikely that a thief guessed it on the first try.
By keeping a record of the PIN together with the card, Miss C failed to keep her account safe 
in line with the terms and conditions. It may be that she did this knowingly, or by not taking 
enough care. But it is widely understood that keeping a note of the PIN with the card is very 
risky, since anyone who has the card is then able to use it without further checks  which 
seems to be what happened here.
As Miss C failed to keep her account safe, either intentionally or through gross negligence, 
I cannot hold Santander liable for the disputed payments. That means Santander do not 
have to refund them.
I appreciate that Miss C feels Santander shouldve blocked the transactions. But they were 
made using Miss Cs genuine card, and the correct PIN  which only she should have 
known. So to Santander, it wouldve looked like it was Miss C making the payments. Further, 
these payments were for relatively moderate amounts, made over a lengthy period, at many 
of the same ATMs which Miss C used before. I dont see that Santander needed to flag or 
block them at the time.
In summary, Im satisfied that Miss Cs genuine card and PIN were used. Based on the 
evidence, its most likely that the disputed payments were made because Miss C failed to 
keep her account sufficiently safe. So Im unable to tell Santander to refund them. This is a 
difficult message for me to give, and I know its a difficult message for Miss C to receive. But 
given the evidence I have, and the balance of probabilities, Im currently unable to 
reasonably reach any other conclusion.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it before 
28 November 2023. But neither Miss C nor Santander sent me anything new to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before, and for the same reasons as set out in 
my provisional decision above.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision marks the end of our services consideration of the case.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman