DRN-2877079
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy because Santander UK Plc (Santander) agreed to write off the balance 
on her current and credit card accounts, but her credit file is still showing the balance as due. 
She is also unhappy about being given incorrect information by Santander about the 
treatment of her accounts.
Mr B represents Mrs B, but I refer to Mrs B as the complainant in my decision.  
What happened
Mrs B asked Santander to write off the balances on her current and credit card accounts in 
late 2018 due to her health. Santander didnt agree to this at the time, but it did suspend 
charges on the accounts, and apply refunds of interest and charges from the time that 
medical evidence showed Mrs B was suffering from ill health.
Mrs B provided Santander with a medical report showing she had a serious medical 
condition and in 2019, Santander agreed to write off Mrs Bs balances, and told her that the 
accounts had a zero balance. Mrs B also received secure messages saying her accounts 
were closed with no further amounts owed. But her accounts showed as defaulted on her 
credit file.
In July 2019, Santander told Mrs B that shed been given incorrect information about this, 
and that written off was an internal term which meant her account had been passed to 
collections. It confirmed that it would not now be pursuing her debts, but that the outstanding 
amount would still be reflected on her credit file, as it wouldnt be accurate to show the 
amount owing as zero. It apologised for the confusion and paid £50 into her account.
In January 2020, Mrs B got in touch with Santander again about her credit file, as she was 
still unhappy with how her accounts were reported. Santanders position remained the same, 
it had to show an accurate picture of the account.
Mrs B complained again in June 2020. Santander acknowledged it had given incorrect 
information and paid a further £100 as compensation with the agreement of Mrs Bs 
representative.
Mrs B was still dissatisfied and brought her case to this service.
Our investigator thought that Santander had acted reasonably in stopping and refunding 
charges and agreeing not to pursue the debts. She agreed that information given to credit 
reference agencies had to reflect how the account had been managed. So, she thought it 
was reasonable not to show the account as paid. She thought the compensation paid was 
reasonable.
Mrs B wasnt happy with this, so the case came to me to decide.
As I had a different view to the investigator, I issued a provisional decision, which is set out 
below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two elements to this complaint. The first is the incorrect communications from 
Santander, and their effect on the status of Mrs Bs debts. The second is how this impacts 
what is shown on Mrs Bs credit file.
Starting with the first question, I can see that Santanders communications with Mrs B were 
incorrect and confusing. Santander used internal jargon which Mrs B couldnt reasonably be 
expected to translate, and also told her that her accounts were closed with a zero balance.
Santander has acknowledged that it made errors here and has paid £150 compensation for 
this. I think this is a fair and reasonable amount in the circumstances, bearing in mind that 
Santander has acted fairly and reasonably in not pursuing repayment.
Mrs B has suggested that the correspondence stating that the accounts were written off with 
a zero balance, amounted to a binding agreement with Santander. I cant agree that this is 
the case because I cant see that Mrs B agreed anything in return or changed anything 
because of what Santander had said. But in any event, Santander is not pursuing Mrs B, so 
the entry on her credit file is what remains in dispute here.
In relation to the credit file itself, I can understand that Mrs B doesnt think her debts should 
show on her credit file. But I can also understand that Santander didnt wish to mislead other 
lenders by informing credit reference agencies that the balance had been paid.
From what I can see from Santanders internal notes, its normal process when it decides not 
to pursue recovery is to mark the account as partially settled. But this was not the action it 
chose to take, so from what I can see, it didnt follow its usual procedures, which was not a 
fair and reasonable approach.
Showing the accounts as partially settled would accurately reflect that the accounts had not 
been settled in full, but also that Santander wasnt seeking further payment. So, I think that 
this is a fair approach, and what Santander shouldve done. I can also see from Santanders 
internal notes that this would also have the helpful and appropriate effect of suppressing 
statutory notices referring to outstanding payments that Mrs B may otherwise continue to 
receive, which would be upsetting for her.
Accordingly, I intend to require Santander to update Mrs Bs record with credit reference 
agencies to show the accounts as partially settled, and to require it to pay Mrs B £150 
compensation for the upset caused by continuing to show the defaults on her accounts.
My provisional decision
I intend to uphold this complaint.
I intend to require Santander UK plc to update Mrs Bs record with credit reference agencies 
to show her accounts as partially settled.
I also intend to require it to pay Mrs B £150 compensation for the upset caused by 
continuing to show the defaults on her accounts. This is in addition to the £150 already paid 
in respect of communication errors.
Santander responded to my provisional decision and has agreed to amend Mrs Bs credit file to show the accounts as partially settled. 
Mrs B has responded asking for clarification of how this will show on her credit file and 
asking for a higher amount of compensation in respect of the defaults , referring to breach of 
data protection requirements.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have addressed the points raised by Mrs B in her response below, which are in addition to 
what I said in my provisional decision.  
I will start by clarifying that when Santander amends Mrs Bs credit file, the amended entry of 
partially settled should replace the defaults. I cant comment on exactly how this will appear, 
but I can say that a partially settled status indicates that there is nothing further to pay.
Mrs B has re-iterated that she thinks the correspondence from Santander resulted in a 
legally binding agreement. I addressed this point in my provisional decision, and I havent 
changed my view on this. 
With regard to the question of potential data protection breaches, it isnt for this service to 
determine whether there has been a breach, that would be for the Information 
Commissioners Office to decide, and Mrs B is free to refer that question to them if she 
wishes. 
In terms of compensation for the defaults on Mrs Bs credit file, I have to decide what is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances. 
In deciding on appropriate compensation for the trouble and upset caused by the defaults on 
Mrs Bs credit file, I considered the impact on Mrs B. Both a default and a partially settled 
status indicate that a debt has not been paid in full, although a partially settled status also 
shows that the lender has agreed that there is nothing further to be paid. Both would be 
likely to impact a lending decision. But in the light of everything I have seen about Mrs Bs 
personal circumstances, I think it is unlikely that Mrs B wouldve been able to obtain credit, 
and I havent seen any suggestion that she was seeking to do so. While I understand that it 
was upsetting for Mrs B to have defaults on her credit file, I havent seen anything to suggest 
that this impacted her financially. Accordingly, I think £150 is a fair and reasonable sum to 
compensate for the upset caused. 
I know Mrs B will be disappointed with this, but I hope she understands my reasons.
Putting things right
To put things right, Santander will need to replace the defaults on Mrs Bs current and credit 
card accounts in question with a partially settled status. I am also requiring it to pay a further 
£150 compensation to Mrs B, in line with my provisional decision. Santander will need to 
obtain payment details for Mrs B in order to facilitate this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.I require Santander UK plc to replace the defaults on Mrs Bs current and credit card 
accounts with a partially settled status.
I require Santander UK plc to pay Mrs B £150 compensation for the upset caused by the 
defaults on her account. This is in addition to the £150 it has already paid in respect of its 
communication errors.      
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2021.
 
Rosemary Campbell
Ombudsman