DRN-3000600
The complaint
Ms G is unhappy that Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) refunded a payment to her 
account instead of her daughters, Miss B, following a claim under her washing machine 
insurance policy. Ms G had the policy with D&G in her sole name, and her daughter, Miss B, 
represented her in this matter. Ill refer to both parties in my decision for clarity.
What happened
Ms G had an appliance protection policy for her washing machine with D&G. The machine 
broke down and D&G agreed to replace it in line with her policy. While the policy didnt cover 
the removal or installation costs, D&G agreed to reimburse Ms G on receipt of an invoice 
after Miss B described difficult personal circumstances.
Miss B received email confirmation that the payment was to be made to Ms Gs account 
within five days. She emailed D&G to ask for a cheque payment in her name. The bank 
transfer payment was made to Ms Gs account the following day.
Miss B complained to D&G and asked for the payment to be issued directly to her by 
cheque.  She also asked for a copy of the terms and conditions for disposal and installation. 
D&G explained that it had reimbursed Ms G, the policyholder, correctly and that it didnt have 
any terms and conditions to send because disposal and installation wasnt covered in the 
policy.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint because he couldnt see any evidence that D&G 
had treated Ms G unfairly. He thought D&G had reimbursed the payment as agreed.
Ms G didnt agree because D&G hadnt made it clear that the payment had to be made from 
and reimbursed to her own bank account. 
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise Ms G will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold her complaint. Ill 
explain why.
Firstly, I want to be very clear about what my remit is here. Miss B brought the complaint on 
behalf of her mum, Ms G. As Ms G is the policyholder, I can only consider any mistakes 
D&G may have made which had a direct impact on her. I cant consider any inconvenience 
or dissatisfaction Miss B has with D&Gs actions because she is not its customer.
So, Ive looked at the following two issues:
Was it reasonable that D&G paid the disposal costs into Ms Gs account rather than 
issuing a cheque to Miss B.
Was it reasonable that D&G didnt provide a copy of the terms and conditions.
Reimbursement of disposal costs
Ive looked at the policy documents and I note that disposal is excluded from cover, as D&G 
confirmed to Ms G.
Disposal, delivery, installation and other costs
1.We will pay the delivery charges for any replacement arranged under this policy.
2.If your appliance is replaced, you will need to arrange the disposal of the replaced 
appliance. We will dispose of the replaced appliance if it is in our possession.
3.In all cases you will be responsible for installing the new appliance and paying any 
related costs.
Im satisfied that the policy, which Ill come back to later, is clear and that D&G was not 
responsible for the disposal and installation costs. However, because of the circumstances 
Miss B described, D&G agreed to reimburse the cost on receipt of an invoice. This is more 
than it needed to do but I think it was helpful to make this arrangement.
While D&G didnt specifically say who it would reimburse when this arrangement was made, 
I think its reasonable to expect that D&G would pay the money to Ms G, the policyholder.
I know Miss B emailed D&G to ask for a cheque payment in her name after she received 
confirmation that the money would be paid into Ms Gs account. It seems the payment had 
already been processed at that point because it appeared in Ms Gs account the following 
day. Although D&G said the payment might take 3-5 days, I cant reasonably say that it did 
anything wrong by processing the payment promptly.
Ive thought about whether this caused Ms G inconvenience and I cant fairly say theres any 
evidence that it did. Thats because, even if D&G was aware that Miss B wanted the 
payment made by cheque in her name, Im satisfied that it was reasonable for D&G to issue 
the payment to the policyholder, Ms G, and to the account from which she made payment for 
the policy.
In summary, D&G reimbursed the payment as it said it would to cover the cost of disposal 
and installation. I cant require it to issue a cheque, or payment of any kind, to anyone other 
than Ms G as the policyholder. Should Ms G want to reimburse Miss B for the payment she 
made, that is a matter for them to agree between themselves. 
Terms and conditions
Returning to the clarity of the terms of the policy, I know Ms G was unhappy that D&G didnt 
provide a copy of the disposal terms and conditions on request. D&G said disposal wasn't 
covered within the policy so there was nothing to provide.
I dont agree with D&G here, because there is reference to disposal in the policy, as quoted 
earlier, albeit to say that its not covered. So, D&G shouldve provided a copy of the terms 
and conditions on request. Ive thought carefully about this, but I dont think D&G needs to 
put anything right. Even if it had provided a copy, it wouldnt have changed the outcome. 
Thats because the policy would simply have confirmed what D&G said about disposal not 
being covered. So, there wouldnt be any reference to whom a payment would be made 
because its not part of the cover and D&G reimbursed the cost as a gesture of goodwill. 
In summary, Im satisfied that D&G reimbursed the payment for disposal and installation 
costs as a gesture of goodwill to help out in the circumstances. It wasnt required to do so, and I cant fairly say its error in not providing the terms and conditions caused significant 
inconvenience that might warrant any compensation. I wont be asking D&G to do any more.   
As a final point, I understand Ms G had further concerns about the replacement washing 
machine. As thats not something D&G was aware of before she brought this complaint, Ms 
G will first need to give D&G an opportunity to respond. I wont be addressing that here.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman