DRN-3725527
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as W, complains about the handling by TSB Bank plc of its 
requests to remove a former director and add a new director to its account, and about delays 
in addressing its concerns with a stopped bank card.
Mr L, a director of W, brings the complaint on W's behalf.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are familiar to both parties, so I wont repeat them all 
here.
TSB has acknowledged that:
1. W was seeking to remove a former director and add a new director onto its account, 
but failures in TSBs processes caused substantial delays. A process which should 
have taken a few days took months. This resulted, amongst other things, in the 
former director retaining access to the account, putting the assets of the business at 
risk.
2. Within this process, TSB mislaid documentary evidence provided by W relating to the 
new director. 
3. Separately, in response to fraud concerns raised by Visa relating to Mr Ls business 
bank card, TSB stopped this card. In doing so, TSB followed its standard procedures, 
but Mr L was without his card for five days. Due to delays in TSBs fraud team, Mr L 
spent longer waiting on the phone to resolve things than he should have done.
4. The timing of the stop on Mr Ls card aggravated the first issue as, due to the delay in 
adding the new director, Mr L was the sole business cardholder at the time. So W 
was unable to make any card purchases in this five-day period until Mr L was issued 
with a new card.
5. Overall, it took TSB several months to both add the new director to the account and 
to issue this new director with a bank card. During this period, W had only one 
director able to make card purchases.
TSB has apologised for its mistakes and paid W £280 in compensation - £250 relating to the 
delays in adding and removing directors, and £30 for the time spent by Mr L dealing with the 
stopped business card.
Mr L did not think this compensation sufficient so brought his complaint to us. Mr L said that 
TSB should compensate W for:
The risk it suffered that the former director could have taken Ws cash reserves at 
any time while he continued to have access to the account. Mr L submitted that TSB 
should pay W 50% of the peak cash reserves held in the bank over this period.
The loss it suffered from reduced production resulting from being unable to purchase 
the necessary raw materials in the five-day period it was without a bank card; and the 
loss it suffered from continuing to pay staff who were under-utilized in this period.
The loss it suffered from reduced sales resulting from not being able to pay for online 
advertising in the five-day period it was without a bank card.
The additional time taken to conduct procurement with just one director being able to 
settle invoices over a period of several months. Mr L estimated this to be equivalent 
to five days of labour.
Our investigator looked into things and asked W to provide evidence for all the losses 
claimed. However, having considered matters carefully, she found that there was insufficient 
evidence to show that W had suffered any financial loss as a result of TSBs mistakes. She 
also thought that the compensation already paid to W by TSB was fair for the inconvenience 
it had caused. She therefore said TSB need take no further action.
Mr L didnt agree with this view so asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given TSB has acknowledged and apologised for its errors, and given that the underlying 
issues have now been addressed in that the correct directors are on the account with 
business cards, the question for me in this decision is the appropriate amount of 
compensation to W.
Mr L has set out several ways in which he believes W suffered a loss as a result of TSBs 
mistakes. I consider each in turn.
Risk of former director being able to access cash reserves of the business
Although TSBs mistakes resulted in Ws former director having inappropriate access to Ws 
cash reserves for several months, no loss was actually suffered. The former director did not 
access the bank account and no funds were taken.
Therefore, while I appreciate TSBs mistakes created a risk, I cannot compensate W for this. 
My starting point is to seek to return W to the position it would have been in had the 
mistakes not happened. As the former director did not take anything, there is no loss here to 
address.
Losses suffered from reduced production, and from the under-utilization of staff, resulting 
from the five-day period when W was unable to make purchases with a bank card
Mr L has provided estimates for the effect on W of being unable to make purchases without 
a bank card. He has cited the typical number of transactions per day. He has also explained 
the consequences of reducing production during this period, which he says has had a lasting 
knock-on effect on the businesss ability to meet demand.
However, having considered these submissions carefully, I am not persuaded that the loss 
of access to a bank card for five days had the effects described. Mr L has been unable to 
specify what purchases he would have made with the card which he was unable to make. And he has been unable to show how much less stock was produced as a result of any 
missed purchases. 
Moreover, I am not persuaded that Mr L was unable to make the purchases necessary using 
other means. W still had the same funds available in its bank account, and Mr L has not 
demonstrated why he could not pay invoices by bank transfer. Also, although Mr L has 
explained that he didnt want to use his personal funds for business payments, this would 
have been a short-term option. Therefore, although using a bank card for purchases was 
clearly a common payment method for W, Mr L has not demonstrated that he could not 
make payments over this five-day period using other payment methods.
As I am not persuaded that the inability to make purchases with a bank card necessarily 
resulted in diminished production, I am also not persuaded that it necessarily caused a 
reduction in staff utilisation.
Therefore, I am not persuaded that Ws lack of access to a bank card for five days 
necessarily had any effect on Ws levels of productivity or stock.
Losses suffered from reduced sales resulting from not being able to pay for online 
advertising in the five-day period it was without a bank card
Mr L has said that all of Ws digital advertising was stopped in the period it was without a 
payment card. He said this was particularly frustrating as W had recently invested in a 
refreshed website but found itself unable to maximise the benefit of its launch. However, in 
this case, Mr L has not sought to estimate the losses suffered. 
Mr L has not provided evidence of W being unable to advertise online in this period, and has 
not demonstrated that, even if W did experience a short period of reduced advertising, it 
consequently suffered any financial loss. 
Moreover, as above, I am not persuaded that Mr L could not have paid for Ws digital 
advertising through some other means over the short period it was without a bank card.
Therefore, I am not persuaded that Ws inability to make purchases with a bank card caused 
W losses from reduced sales.
Inconvenience of delays in removing the former director, submitting multiple applications to 
add the new director and in getting the new director established with a business card
TSB has acknowledged that its mistakes in getting the former director removed and the new 
director added to the account with a business card caused W inconvenience. TSB has also 
acknowledged that this was aggravated by Ws only remaining bank card being stopped 
within the same period (though this stoppage was not its fault). TSB has paid W £250 
compensation for this.
I appreciate that having to submit the application for a new director several times, and 
waiting months for the former director to be removed, would have caused W some 
inconvenience.
In addition, I appreciate that having only one of the businesss two directors with a bank card 
for several months would have caused W further inconvenience. 
However, although Mr L has estimated the cost of this inconvenience with reference to an 
hourly rate, our investigator has explained that this isnt how we seek to compensate 
inconvenience.I have considered the amount paid by TSB with reference to what I would award in the 
circumstances of this complaint. On this basis, and although I acknowledge that Mr L 
believes the effect on his time and business has been far greater, I believe the amount 
awarded by TSB is fair and within the range I would award.
I have also noted that, within the process for applying for the new director to be added to the 
account, TSB lost some documents relating to the new director with personal data. However, 
it does not appear this mistake caused W any financial loss and I believe the inconvenience 
of this mistake is reflected within the award above.
Inconvenience of lengthy waiting times to resolve fraud concerns on card
Mr L was understandably alarmed when his business card was declined on two occasions, 
and surprised that TSB hadnt proactively alerted him to there being fraud concerns related 
to the use of this card. However, having looked into what happened, I believe TSB followed 
its standard procedures for such circumstances to protect Ws interests and acted 
reasonably. Therefore, while W was inconvenienced from the card being stopped, I cant say 
that TSB did anything wrong, and therefore I cannot fairly ask it to compensate W for this.
Nevertheless, it is clear that Mr L spent longer than reasonable in resolving matters. TSB 
has compensated W with £30 for this. Again, I have considered if this amount is fair in the 
circumstances and I believe it is, and that it is in the range I would have awarded.
Distress to Mr L throughout these events
It is clear that TSBs mistakes caused Mr L some significant distress, in particular from (i) the 
risk associated with the former director retaining access to the cash reserves of the 
business; and (ii) TSB losing the documents relating to the new director.
However, while I can acknowledge this distress to Mr L, the complainant in this case is W 
and not Mr L. As W is a company, it cant feel distress and, therefore, I am unable to award it 
or Mr L any compensation for distress.
Summary
I am sure Mr L will be disappointed with this decision but, while it is clear TSB made 
mistakes which caused W inconvenience, I do not believe these mistakes caused W loss. 
And I believe the compensation already paid by TSB to W for the inconvenience caused is 
fair in the circumstances. 
Therefore, I do not require TSB to take any further action.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 February 2023.
 
Andy Wright
Ombudsman