DRN-4084482
The complaint
Mr N has complained about his credit score with Equifax Limited.
What happened
Someone elses utility bill was added to Mr Ns Equifax credit file due to a system error. Mr N 
complained and Equifax removed it, disassociating him from the other person. They 
apologised for the mistake and offered him £200 compensation.
Mr N also complained that his Equifax credit score wasnt as high as he thought it should be 
even after the wrong information was removed.
Our investigator explained that Mr Ns credit score was something only he saw  lenders had 
their own scoring systems.
Mr N didnt agree. He wants Equifax to change his credit score and reset his historic scores, 
to add a notice of correction, and to contact lenders who searched his file while the other 
persons data was on it.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
I sent Mr N and Equifax a provisional decision on 4 April 2023, to explain why I thought the 
complaint should be upheld in part. In that decision, I said:
I should first clarify what Equifaxs credit score is, as I understand Mr N is under the 
impression that lenders use this score, and that it can affect his applications. I hope I can 
alleviate his worries there.
There is a common misconception that a credit reference agencys score is universal and 
that lenders make all their decisions based on it. But the credit score Mr N sees is just an 
illustration of how Equifax thinks lenders might assess his credit history. And its for Mr N to 
see  its not for lenders. Its not a guarantee of what any given lender will think. Its just a 
general indication, which helps customers get a sense of how their credit file might be looked 
at. Lenders have their own criteria for how they assess credit applications and reviews. So 
Mr N need not worry about his Equifax credit score.
Further, the score is automatically generated, so Equifax cant really set or reset it in the way 
Mr N would like. And changing his score wouldnt make any practical difference for Mr N, 
since  as I said above  lenders dont see his credit score, current or historic. The Equifax 
credit score is for Mr N. Lenders see the raw data on his credit file and make their own 
assessments. That goes for the score Mr N sees through the linked ClearScore service, too. 
Mr N pointed out that a different credit reference agency gives him a better score, but thats 
not surprising  different agencies will assess his file in different ways. Again, the credit 
score is just an illustration of what that particular agency thinks his file might look like to 
lenders. Its not a universal measurement.
As I understand, the other persons information has been removed, so Mr Ns credit file now 
only contains his own information, and will only be assessed based on his own data. Equifax 
also disassociated him from this other person, to prevent this from happening again. So as 
far as I can see, that issue has been sorted out.
I understand Mr N would like a notice of correction to be added to his credit file. Mr N can 
add a notice of correction himself if hed like one  I can see Equifax sent Mr N instructions 
for how he can do so.
Mr N raised some concerns about the searches that were made on his file while the other 
persons information was on there. Most of these were soft searches. And much like his 
credit score, only Mr N can see the soft searches. Lenders cannot see the soft searches. So 
he doesnt need to worry about those.
Lenders can see the hard searches. And I take Mr Ns point that the results of those hard 
searches may have possibly been affected by the erroneous information that was on his file 
at the time. Equifax cant change or remove those searches themselves, as they dont own 
the data on his credit file  its the lenders who own the data. So only the lenders can 
change or remove those search entries.
What Equifax can do is raise disputes on Mr Ns behalf, explaining that there was someone 
elses data on his file in error when those hard searches were made, and asking the lenders 
to remove them or reconsider the results. So I propose that Equifax does that.
However, this is not guaranteed to work, since  as above  Equifax cannot force the 
lenders to change or remove the hard searches. So if Mr N would really like them to be 
changed, it would be best if he also approaches those lenders himself. I will ask Equifax to 
provide him with a letter stating that there was erroneous information on his credit file. He 
can make separate complaints about those lenders if he feels they dont help him enough.
I appreciate that this matter has caused some real trouble and upset for Mr N, requiring a 
reasonable effort to sort out. When a business gets things wrong, we often tell them to pay 
compensation, to acknowledge their error and the impact it had. In terms of the amounts, its 
worth bearing in mind that were here to resolve complaints informally, rather than to issue 
large fines or to punish firms. We have guidelines about what levels of compensation to 
award, and I need to be consistent with those. Taking everything into account, I think the 
£200 Equifax offered is fair to put right the trouble and upset they caused here.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
18 April 2023. Both parties responded, and Ill talk about their responses below.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Equifax confirmed they were happy to raise a dispute on Mr Ns behalf. They clarified that 
there were only two hard searches on his file from the period the erroneous information was 
on there: one hard search from a bank beginning with H, and one from a bank beginning 
with B. They said it looked like the B account had successfully been opened, in which case 
they wouldnt look to dispute that search. But it looked like the H account had not, so they 
could raise a dispute there.
That seems reasonable. To clarify, Id only require Equifax to remove any hard searches 
from the period of the erroneous information where the application was rejected. There 
would be no sense in raising a dispute where the application went through anyway, as the 
hard search would be an accurate reflection of that application. That said, Equifax should 
first double-check that the B application did in fact succeed.
Mr N broadly accepted the provisional decision. He asked for further help with adding a 
notice of correction. But I can see that hes now submitted an application for a notice of 
correction, so that should go through shortly. If he doesnt get a response to that query from 
Equifax in the next week, he can let our investigator know and we can send a chaser.
Mr N said Equifax previously refused to add a notice of correction in their final response. 
I can see they explained to him that they didnt add notices of corrections to files themselves, 
but that customers could add one if they liked, and theyd be happy to help him do so. That 
was correct. As I said in the provisional decision, it was for Mr N to add a notice of correction 
himself if hed like one.
Mr N asked for a list of lenders Equifax would be contacting. As above, there were only two 
hard searches from the time, and it appears that one of them was successful, so that would 
mean they only need to contact H. As before, Equifax can only ask H to remove the search  
they cant force them to. So if the dispute doesnt work, Mr N will need to contact H directly. 
The letter Im directing Equifax to give him should help with that.
Lastly, Mr N queried how Equifax would arrange payment of the compensation. If he accepts 
the final decision, then Equifax will usually arrange payment with him directly within four 
weeks of his acceptance.
Other than those queries, neither side sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having 
reconsidered the case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before, and for the same 
reasons as set out in my provisional decision above.
Putting things right
I direct Equifax Limited to:
Raise a dispute for Mr N with any lenders who performed hard searches on his file 
while the erroneous information was on it, if those applications were unsuccessful;Provide Mr N with a letter setting out what erroneous information was on his credit 
file, and between which dates, and warning that any lending decisions made during 
that time may have been based on incorrect information;
Pay Mr N the £200 compensation they offered, if theyve not done so already.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ns complaint in part, and direct Equifax Limited to put things right in the way 
I set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 May 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman