DRN-3998940
The complaint
Mrs N complains about the actions of The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) when she 
informed it that lending may have been fraudulently taken out in her name. 
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ill only include a brief 
overview of the key events that have led to Mrs Ns complaint. 
In December 2020 Mrs N tried to surrender a whole of life policy (the policy) she held with 
an insurer, who Ill refer to as W. W informed Mrs N that the policy could not be 
surrendered without RBS consent as there was a Notice of Assignment registered with 
RBS. Mrs N complained to both W and RBS as she said the policy should not have been 
assigned to RBS. She also made a Subject Access Request (SAR) to both W and RBS. 
Information received from the SARs showed that the policy had been assigned to RBS in 
1992. A notice of retrocession in 1994 transferred ownership back to Mrs N. W 
acknowledged it had made an error by not correctly recording the notice of retrocession to 
show the policy had passed back to Mrs N. W later offered her £500 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by its error. 
Mrs N maintained that the policy should never have been assigned to RBS and that she had 
not signed any forms to instruct the assignation. From the information provided as part of the 
SAR, Mrs N says she also became aware of loans and unsuccessful loan applications 
applied for and taken out in her name between 1992 and 2003. Mrs N said she did not apply 
for these loans and so it must be evidence of identity theft. She complained again to RBS. 
She also requested a discharge notice for a legitimate loan taken out in 2019 and repaid in 
November 2020. 
RBS said it was unable to provide a response to Mrs Ns concerns about identity theft as it 
did not know which loans she was disputing. It suggested she raise a fraud claim if she 
wanted it to investigate her concerns further. It confirmed it could provide an update on the 
status of any of her loans if she confirmed the account details. RBS offered £80 
compensation to address the concerns Mrs N had with the way her complaint had been 
handled, and specifically the problems shed had accessing her SAR. 
Mrs N remained unhappy and referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman in 
August 2021. In summary, she complained that: 
RBS had failed to provide her with evidence that her legitimate loan had been repaid, 
despite requesting this on multiple occasions.
RBS had failed to properly investigate her concerns that shed been the victim of 
identity theft, and her concerns were treated as frivolous. She also raised concerns 
about an earlier allegation of identity theft that had been raised with RBS in 2014 that 
she said had not been investigated appropriately. She was also unhappy it had paid 
£80 into her account without her permission, which she felt was an attempt to stop 
her escalating her concerns.
RBS had failed to respond appropriately to her SAR and had not provided her with all 
the information and documentation it should have. 
Mrs N asked that her complaint be reconsidered, and her allegations of identity theft be 
properly investigated. She said she should also be reimbursed for the costs shed incurred in 
pursuing her complaint, along with any direct and indirect losses shed incurred. 
Our Investigator thought there were limits to which aspects of Mrs Ns complaint we could 
consider. And for the parts we could consider, he didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. In summary, he said: 
We could not consider Mrs Ns complaint about possible identity theft relating to 
loans taken out in her name prior to 2003 because this had been raised too late. He 
noted the loans were taken out more than six years ago. He also thought Mrs N 
ought to have been aware of the loans as they were paid into her current account 
and repayments made from her account at the time. 
While we could consider her complaint regarding unsuccessful loan applications 
made in her name (as there was no evidence Mrs N would have been aware of 
these at the time) there was no evidence that this had caused her any loss so there 
was nothing for RBS to put right. 
We could not consider Mrs Ns complaint concerning identity theft on her account in 
2014, as RBS had issued a final response at that time offering referral rights to the 
Financial Ombudsman within 6 months. He explained this complaint had therefore 
been brought too late. 
Due to the passage of time, there was limited information to confirm what happened 
in 1992 and 1994. While he accepted that RBS may have made an error in 1992 by 
registering a notice of assignment against the policy, RBS had confirmed in 1994 
that it no longer had an interest in the policy. As such, our Investigator noted that 
any delay in Mrs N being able to surrender the policy was due to W incorrectly 
advising her that it needed RBS consent to surrender the policy. He noted W had 
offered Mrs N compensation for this error and so thought there was nothing further 
for RBS to do to put matters right. 
RBS had told us that it had disclosed all the information it needed to in response to 
the SAR. Given the passage of time he didnt think it was unreasonable that the 
information RBS held was limited. But ultimately, he was unable to verify if RBS had 
provided all the information it was required to. As such, Mrs Ns concerns about the 
SAR were best dealt with by the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). 
Mrs N disagreed with our Investigators conclusions and asked for her complaint to be 
referred to an Ombudsman for a final decision. She said the evidence the Investigator relied 
on in relation to the disputed loans did not match the information she had been provided 
with. Mrs N was asked for further clarification on what information differed, but no further 
clarification was provided. 
I issued a jurisdiction decision on 1 February 2023, in which I explained that parts of Mrs Ns 
complaint had been referred to us too late and so could not be considered as part of this 
final decision. I explained that I could not consider Mrs Ns concerns about loans taken out in 
her name between 1992 and 2003 or the allegation of ID theft in 2014. I explained that I would only be able to consider the following aspects of Mrs Ns complaint:
Whether RBS failed to provide her with evidence that a legitimate loan, taken out in 
July 2019 and repaid in November 2020, has been discharged;
Whether RBS ought to have further investigated alleged identity theft in relation to 
unsuccessful loan applications;
Whether RBS response to Mrs Ns SAR request was reasonable and whether its 
offer of £80 compensation was fair in the circumstances;
Whether RBS was incorrectly listed as having an interest in the policy held with W. 
Mrs N responded to the jurisdiction decision with more information for my consideration. In 
summary she said: 
She had still not been sent evidence that her loan taken out in July 2019 had been 
properly discharged. She said that RBS response to this point  that she had not 
specified what information she needed  was disingenuous as she had frequently 
given details of the loan in her correspondence. 
She had made her complaints about alleged identity theft within three years of 
becoming aware of suspicious activity at her local RBS branch. She could not have 
known something had gone wrong until she received the SAR documentation. She 
also maintained that the information provided by our Investigator regarding the loans 
was new information that did not correlate with information shed been provided. 
The ICO had completed its investigation and issued a notice of non-compliance to 
RBS in relation to her SAR. She said RBS failed to return documentation to her that 
had been held in its secure custody. RBS also sent Mrs N personal data relating to a 
third party in error. It was also unable to rule out that Mrs Ns data had been sent to a 
third party in error. RBS offered her £250 compensation which she did not accept. 
The policy Mrs N held with W had always been in her possession and had never 
been assigned to RBS. She noted that the date of the notice of retrocession for the 
policy was the same date as the closure of a mortgage Mrs N denies applying for. 
She had not received £500 from W as she had not accepted the Ombudsmans final 
decision regarding her linked complaint, as she did not want to limit her legal rights to 
pursue her complaints. 
As there has been no agreement on how this complaint should be resolved, it is now for me 
to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am not upholding this complaint. And for largely the same reasons as our 
Investigator. I realise this will be disappointing for Mrs N, so Id like to explain my reasons for 
reaching this conclusion. 
Evidence of discharge of 2019 loanI can see that Mrs N asked RBS on several occasions for evidence that a loan she took out 
in 2019 had been discharged. She has explained that she wanted a written receipt to confirm 
the loan facility had been fully discharged following repayment in November 2020. Mrs N has 
provided a copy of a letter she sent to RBS in February 2021, in which she asked for a 
written receipt and referred to an earlier letter, dated November 2020, where she first 
requested confirmation and discharge of the settlement of the loan. She later chased RBS 
for the same in April and June 2021.  
In a letter dated 28 June 2021, RBS provided Mrs N with historic data relating to credit 
agreements taken out in her name. This included details of the 2019 loan and showed the 
loan closure date as 24 December 2020. 
RBS has also recently provided the Financial Ombudsman with a loan statement for the 
2019 loan, again confirming that the loan has been repaid, albeit the closure date differs 
from the date provided in RBS letter. This evidence has been shared with Mrs N. 
I have also now sent RBS a copy of Mrs Ns letter from February 2021 and asked that it 
provide her with a written receipt as requested. 
While I can see RBS has so far failed to provide Mrs N with a specific written receipt to 
confirm the loan had been discharged, Im satisfied it has provided her with enough 
information to show her loan had been repaid in full and that the account was closed. There 
also seems to be no doubt on either part that the loan had been satisfactorily repaid. 
Other than frustration that her requests had been unsatisfactorily answered, I cant see 
Mrs N has suffered any detriment that needs to be compensated beyond what RBS has 
already offered. 
Alleged ID theft regarding unsuccessful applications
I should note that, while Mrs N has raised further points about why she thinks the 
Financial Ombudsman should consider her complaint regarding loans allegedly fraudulently 
taken out in her name, for the reasons set out in my jurisdiction decision, I cannot consider 
that part of her complaint as it has been referred too late. 
But I can consider Mrs Ns allegations regarding the unsuccessful loan applications. Unlike 
the loans that were taken out and serviced through Mrs Ns account, theres no evidence to 
show Mrs N was aware (or ought to have been aware) of the loan applications prior to her 
receiving documentation by way of her SAR in 2021. 
In one of her original reports to our service, Mrs N referred to there being reportedly 8 loans 
and numerous loan application attributed to me some with no associated account numbers.  
RBS provided an application history for Mrs N. It explained the entries without associated 
account numbers reflected applications that had been made but that were ultimately not 
agreed. It explained the majority of the entries related to requests to increase the overdraft 
limit on the account. Due to the passage of time RBS says it has not been able to provide 
any additional information relating to these applications. And so, it is not possible to assess 
whether RBS made any errors in relation to these applications, but equally theres no 
evidence that Mrs N has suffered any loss because of these applications. As such, I agree 
with our Investigator that theres nothing for RBS to put right here.  
RBS SAR response
Mrs N considers RBS has failed to respond appropriately to her SAR request. Shes noted 
concerns about the way it responded to her request; the information that was contained in the SAR; and data breaches  both in relation to Mrs Ns data and unknown third parties. But 
I can see that Mrs N referred these concerns to the ICO. 
The ICO concluded RBS had not complied with its data protection obligations because 
Mrs N did not receive an accessible copy of her personal data within the legislative 
timeframe. But it concluded RBS had undertaken reasonable searches to locate Mrs Ns 
personal data and had provided her with all the personal data she was entitled to. It also 
confirmed RBS had retained Mrs Ns personal data in line with its usual retention periods. 
The ICO is the appropriate authority to refer concerns about whether a business has 
complied with its obligations under the relevant data protection legislation. Ultimately it can 
order businesses to comply with data protection laws and fine them if they fail to do so. But 
in this case the ICO determined that RBS had provided Mrs N with all the information she 
was entitled to. 
While the Financial Ombudsman can usually consider data protection complaints, our focus 
is on the impact any data protection complaint has had on the consumer. We cannot punish 
a business if it has failed to comply with data protection legislation and we cannot compel it 
to provide further information  as that is for the ICO. 
I can see that RBS responses to the SAR requests have been a cause of frustration for 
Mrs N. But I can see that RBS has offered Mrs N £80 compensation in recognition of the 
difficulties she faced accessing the information she had been sent. 
Although Mrs N has yet to accept RBS offer of compensation, I think it was reasonable in 
the circumstances. The compensation offered is in line with the types of awards we would 
make in other cases where a business error has caused some inconvenience and 
frustration to sort out. 
As RBS has already made an offer of compensation, which I think is reasonable, theres 
nothing further I can ask it to do to put this matter right. 
RBS interest in the policy held with W
Due to the passage of time, there is very limited information available to show how and why 
RBS were recorded as having an interest in the policy Mrs N held with W. But what is clear 
is that RBS rescinded any interest in the policy in 1994. W has also accepted that it made an 
error when informing Mrs N in 2021 that RBS still had an interest in the policy. 
The complaint concerning W has been considered by the Financial Ombudsman and the 
Ombudsman in that case agreed that while W had made an error, its offer of £500 
compensation was fair in the circumstances. I understand Mrs N did not accept the 
Ombudsmans decision and so the compensation has not been paid. 
While I cant rule out the possibility that RBS made an error when corresponding with W in 
1992, I cant see that its actions or inactions have resulted in Mrs N suffering any detriment. 
So again, I couldnt reasonably expect RBS to do anything further to resolve this part of 
Mrs Ns complaint. 
Putting things right
Its clear this complaint in very important to Mrs N. And I can understand why she would 
want to assure herself that her identity has not been used fraudulently and that RBS has 
done all it should to protect her. But, for the reasons previously explained, there are limits to 
what I can consider as part of this complaint. And for the parts of the complaint I can consider, Im satisfied RBS has done all it reasonably needs to do to resolve those issues. 
So, while I appreciate Mrs N feels certain issues remain outstanding, I cannot reasonably 
ask RBS to do anything more that it has already offered (£80 compensation) to resolve her 
complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and require The Royal Bank of 
Scotland Plc to pay Mrs N £80 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2023.
 
Lisa De Noronha
Ombudsman