DRN-3767215
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund him for transactions he
didnt make or authorise. Hes also unhappy about how Lloyds handled things and wants 
compensation.
What happened
Mr W had a personal account with Lloyds. He says that a number of ATM transactions 
totalling around £3,000 were carried out on his account without his consent between 8 and 
13 September 2021 in the UK and France. 
I wont be listing the disputed transactions as both parties are aware of which transactions 
are in dispute.
On 13 September 2021, Mr W logged onto his online banking to check his account and 
discovered that a number of cash withdrawals had been made at various locations including 
in France. Mr W rang Lloyds to let them know about the activity on his account. During the 
call he told Lloyds that hed last used his bank card to pay for petrol on 8 September 2021. 
And that he believed his bank card had been stolen after this transaction and used by a 
fraudster to clear out his account.
Mr W explained that hed recently been lent some money from a friend and that he was 
intending on using the funds in his account (around £3,000) to buy a car. He told Lloyds that 
he hadnt been in France at the time of the transactions and was at his home address. He 
also said he hadnt shared his PIN with anyone or written it down anywhere. He told Lloyds 
that hed been on his own when hed last used his bank card and after paying for petrol, he 
drove home. So, he couldnt explain how someone was able to make the transactions on his 
account. 
Lloyds investigated and initially said it would refund the disputed amounts back into Mr Ws 
account. But on further investigation it decided not to refund Mr W. In summary Lloyds said:
Mr Ws genuine card and PIN were used to make each transaction.
There was no plausible explanation for how an unknown third party was able to gain 
possession of Mr Ws bank card and become aware of his PIN. And carry out the 
transactions without Mr Ws authorisation.
Mr W wasnt happy with this and complained to Lloyds. He maintained hed not made the 
transactions and said the bank should have noticed the unusual activity on his account as 
they were out of character to how he usually operated his account, So, he felt that the bank 
had let him down and not helped prevent him becoming the victim of fraud. 
Mr W also complained about how Lloyds had handled things and the service he received. He 
said he was upset to be told that the bank wouldnt refund him after initially being told by 
Lloyds that hed have the money back in his account within 24 hours. 
Lloyds accepted it had given Mr W poor service and paid him £40 compensation. But 
maintained its position regarding not refunding Mr W the disputed transactions.
Mr W disagreed with Lloydss decision. He wants the bank to refund the transactions. So, he 
brought his complaint to our service where one of our investigators looked into the matter. 
Having looked at the evidence, the investigator said it was more likely than not Mr W had 
made the disputed transactions or authorised a third party to carry them out. Mr W 
disagreed. In summary he said:
He didnt make the disputed transactions.
The disputed transactions were made in France and he was at home when they were 
made. And he provided evidence to support this. 
The bank should have been alerted by the unusual activity on his account as he 
doesnt usually make large cash withdrawals.
He cant explain how someone was able to become aware of his PIN but said its 
possible he could have been shoulder surfed when he last used his bank card. He 
says he has never been involved in any form of criminal activity and that hes been 
the victim of clever criminals.
He was relying on the money in his account to buy a car, and his mental health has 
been negatively impacted by what has happened. 
As Mr W didnt agree, the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I should make it clear to Mr W that the Financial Ombudsman Service is an informal 
dispute resolution service acting as an alternative to the courts. We dont consider fraud 
complaints in the same way as a criminal court might. It is not my role to prove exactly what 
happened. Where there is a dispute about what happened  as there is here, and the 
evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, we reach our conclusions on the basis 
of what we consider is most likely to have happened having considered the available 
evidence and wider circumstances.
I appreciate Mr W was disappointed by the investigators opinion and I can see that he has
provided a detailed response to what he said about his complaint. Id like to reassure Mr W
that Ive considered the whole file and whats hes said. But Ill concentrate my comments on
what I think is relevant. So, I wont be addressing every point in detail which Mr W has raised
in his submissions. My findings will focus on what I consider to be the central issues. If I
dont mention any specific point, its not because I failed to take it on board and think about 
it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a fair outcome.
Did Mr W authorise the disputed transactions?
Lloyds is required to refund the amount of unauthorised transactions if Mr W didnt make
or authorise them. The relevant regulations, to this effect, are the Payment Services
Regulations 2017 (the PSRs 2017).
 
The basic position is that Lloyds can hold Mr W liable for the disputed transactions if the 
evidence suggests its more likely than not that Mr W made them or authorised them. The 
PSRs 2017 also say that someone acting as an agent on behalf of Mr W can be treated as 
acting with apparent authority when making transactions on his account. And that the person to whom the card has been issued must notify the firm which provided the card if they 
become aware of its unauthorised use. This must be without undue delay.
 
For each transaction Lloyds has been able to provide evidence to show the payments were 
appropriately authenticated using Mr Ws bank card and PIN. But thats not enough to hold 
Mr W liable. I also need to consider whether the evidence suggests he consented to the 
transactions. Or whether he is the victim of fraud as hes alleged. 
Having looked at all the evidence and considered Mr Ws explanation carefully Im afraid Im 
not persuaded by what Mr W has said.  I cant say for sure who was making the cash 
withdrawals. But on balance Ive ruled out that a third-party fraudster was responsible. Ive 
considered what the PSRs 2017 say about apparent authority too and Im satisfied that Mr W 
did consent to the transactions he is disputing. So, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable 
to say Lloyds needs to refund him. I say this for the following reasons:
Lloydss technical evidence shows that Mr Ws genuine card and PIN were used to 
make to authenticate each of the disputed transactions. This mean that whoever 
made the transactions needed to be in possession of both Mr Ws bank card and his 
PIN
Mr W says he last used his bank card when paying for petrol on 8 September 2021  
he says he was alone at the time and wasnt aware of anyone else around him. But 
he thinks it was quite possible for someone to have seen him enter his PIN into the 
card machine (known as shoulder surfing). Ive considered this. But I dont think its 
likely that this is what happened. I say this because it would mean that the person 
who saw Mr W enter his PIN would also have had to wait for an opportunity to take 
Mr Ws bank card, all without Mr W noticing. And I think that is unlikely.
The first disputed transaction took place at just before 7pm, around 40 minutes after 
the genuine payment was made with no balance enquiries and no incorrect PIN 
attempts. The daily limit was withdrawn on 8 September 2021 and then the card was 
not used again until the following day, on 9 September 2021, where again there was 
no balance enquiry. The daily limit was withdrawn again. This suggests to me that 
whoever used the card knew how much was available to spend. Theres no plausible 
explanation for how an opportunistic thief would be aware of this information. 
Especially given that Mr Ws had only recently been inflated and usually operated at 
with a considerably lower balance.
The balance on Mr Ws account wasnt checked until the following day, 10 
September 2021, when the card was used to make two ATM withdrawals in Dover 
close to the ferry port that goes to France. These transactions are then followed by 
several transactions in France between 11 and 13 September 2021.
The disputed transactions dont fit the usual pattern of fraud. Usually a fraudster 
would try and maximise the usage of the account to get the greatest benefit from the 
account before the account holder notices their funds are missing and the card is 
cancelled. But this didnt happen. Here the disputed payments were made over a 
period of six days in two countries. Whoever was in possession of Mr Ws card made 
four withdrawals in Mr Ws local area and then travelled nearly 300 miles to get the 
ferry in Dover. Halfway throught the spend they then travelled to France, and then 
spent the rest of the money there. The amount spent was virtually the full balance of 
the account that at the time had been inflated above the usual amount in the account.I find it unlikely that a fraudster would wait and carry out transactions over a six-day 
period and run the risk that Mr W might have realised he had lost his card. And alert 
the bank so that his card could be cancelled before the thief could use it. But that 
didnt happen. Instead that person appears to have been confident theyd be able to 
access the account over several days.
Ive also kept in mind that no further transactions were made or attempted after Mr W 
reported the fraud, which again is unusual for fraudulent activity and suggests to me 
that whoever was using the card knew it had been cancelled  from the evidence Ive 
seen the only person aware of this information was Mr W.
Its also significant in my view that Mr W reported the transactions after the last 
disputed transaction was made. Mr W says he did so after checking his online 
banking on 13 September 2021, but up until that time 13 September 2021, Mr W had 
been checking his account online regularly on 30 August 2021 and then again on 2 
September 2021. So, I find it unusual that Mr W didnt check his account between 8 
and 12 September 2021.
Ive considered what Mr W has said about him not carrying out the transactions 
himself. However, whilst Mr W might not have done so, it doesnt rule out the 
possibility that he allowed someone else to use his card.
When I weigh everything up, in my view the most likely explanation here is that Mr W either
made the transactions himself or allowed someone else to make them, using his card and 
PIN.  So, in the circumstances it wouldnt be fair for me to ask Lloyds to refund the disputed
transactions.
Finally, Mr W has said that  Lloyds should have spotted the transactions and stopped them 
from going through. So, the banks at fault. But Im firstly not satisfied that the transactions 
were necessarily that unusual for Lloyds to have queried them. They were done using 
Mr Ws genuine card and PIN. So, I dont consider there were any obvious reasons for 
Lloyds to suspect these transactions might not be genuine. And I cant decide he didnt 
authorise them just because Lloyds didnt block the payments. I have to look at the 
evidence, which in my view connects Mr W to the disputed transactions. And Ive set this out 
above. 
I then turn to Lloydss decision to close Mr Ws account. Its generally for financial 
businesses to decide whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, banking 
facilities to any particular customer. Unless theres a very good reason to do so, this service 
wont usually say that they must keep a customer or compensate a customer who has had 
their account closed. Having looked at all the evidence, Im satisfied that Lloyds acted in line 
with the account terms when it decided to close Mr Ws account. So, I cant say it treated 
Mr W unfairly. 
Service issues
Mr W says Lloyds told him that it would refund the transactions within 24 hours. But then told 
him that this wasnt going to happen. Lloyds has accepted its service fell short. It has 
apologised to Mr W and paid him £40 compensation. Mr W says he has been caused a good 
deal of anxiety stress. Ive no doubt that finding out he wasnt going to be refunded after all, caused Mr W a good deal of upset. And Lloyds has acknowledged that it shouldnt have told 
Mr W it was refunding him before it finished looking into things. But I think the banks offer is 
a reasonable reflection of what went wrong and the impact on Mr W. So, Im not going to ask 
Lloyds to do anything more regarding this aspect of Mr Ws complaint. I think the offer of £40 
is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, Im not going to ask Lloyds Bank PLC to do anything 
more to resolve Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2022.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman