DRN-4245713
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited trading as More Th>n 
(RSA) declined their claim on their home insurance. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs H had home insurance that was underwritten by RSA. In January 2023 they 
made a claim after increased water usage in their bills led to them identifying a leak in their 
underground pipes. 
RSA arranged to send a contractor to trace the cause of the leak, however before this Mr 
and Mrs H arranged their own contractor who found and fixed the leak. They submitted a 
report and photos from the contractor in order for RSA to validate the claim.
RSA paid Mr and Mrs H for the contractors work tracing the leak. However it subsequently 
declined the claim as it said the cause of the damage appeared to be due to faulty 
workmanship, which wasnt covered by the policy.
Mr and Mrs H made a complaint as they didnt think this could be deduced from the photos 
shared. They also said that due to the leak detection their garden was now in a poor state 
and needed landscaping which they said RSA should pay for. 
RSA responded to the complaint and maintained its position that the claim should be 
declined. However it said the reason was due to the fact Mr and Mrs H had the repair carried 
out before its own contractors had the opportunity to inspect the damage and determine the 
cause. It said from what it had seen the cause was likely to be due to wear and tear which 
was excluded anyway. However it agreed it had caused some delays with reviewing their 
claim and offered £50 to apologise for these. It also said it shouldnt have paid out the 
investigation costs, as there wasnt a valid claim but it wouldnt seek recovery of these costs. 
Mr and Mrs H were unhappy with this as they said RSA had said it could validate the claim 
using the report and photos from their contractor. And they thought it should make good their 
garden that needed landscaping following the leak detection. They brought their complaint to 
this service.  
Our investigator thought RSA led Mr and Mrs H to believe their claim would be covered by 
paying for the leak detection work. And this caused them distress and inconvenience when it 
was declined. So she thought it should pay an additional £100 compensation to apologise for 
this. However she didnt think it had acted unfairly by declining the claim as it hadnt been 
given the opportunity to review the issue itself. And she agreed the landscaping of the 
garden wasnt covered under the policy so RSA acted fairly by not completing this.
Mr and Mrs H didnt agree and asked for their complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman,  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While RSA originally said it was declining the claim as it thought the cause was due to wear 
and tear or poor workmanship. It has since said that Mr and Mrs H prejudiced their position 
by having the work done before RSA was able to inspect it. 
Under general conditions and exclusions in the policy, it states:
Do not throw away any damaged items before we have had a chance to see them, or carry 
out any non-emergency repairs before we have had a chance to inspect them.
Mr and Mrs H informed RSA of the claim on 18 January 2023. Its contractors arranged to 
visit to trace the leak and determine the cause on 23 January. However before this visit, they 
had the repairs carried out by their own contractor. While Mr and Mrs H have said these 
repairs were authorised by RSA, Ive seen nothing to show that RSA agreed to the repairs 
before they took place. Instead from what Ive seen RSA said it would try and validate the 
claim once the repairs were already carried out. So Ive not seen that authorised the repairs 
before they took place.
Mr and Mrs H provided RSA with a brief report from the contractor who repaired the broken 
pipe. This stated:
Eventually found the leak at a failed coupler in the front garden. Fitted a 24-28 x24-28mm 
Universal Slide-n-Seal Slip Coupler, which is slightly longer than the original, which cured 
the leak.
As the replacement coupler that was fitted was longer than the original, and this fixed the 
leak, I agree this suggests the original coupler wasnt suitable for the piping. Which would 
suggest that the damage was caused due to faulty workmanship of the original pipes.
However as the report is brief, it is difficult for RSA to determine this to any level of certainty. 
And, as Mr and Mrs H have pointed out themselves, the photos make it difficult to determine 
the state of the pipes and how they were positioned. I therefore think its fair that RSA has 
said its unable to validate the claim.
When an insurance claim is made its first for the insured to show an insured event has 
happened  something thats covered under the policy. Its then for the insurer to determine 
whether it should accept the claim or whether an exclusion applies. If it is unable to 
determine the cause of the damage, then it is unable to validate whether the cause would be 
covered under the policy or whether it would be excluded. And thats why insurance policies 
often include a condition that repairs shouldnt be carried out before the insurer has had a 
chance to inspect the damage. As Mr and Mrs H repaired the pipe before RSA had a chance 
to inspect it and its been unable to determine the cause conclusively from the evidence, I 
dont consider it unfair or unreasonable that its declined the claim due to not being able to 
validate it. 
Mr and Mrs H have also said they think RSA should cover the cost of re-landscaping their 
garden, following the leak detection work. I can see that the work carried out has caused 
some considerable disruption to the appearance of the garden. However under the policy 
there is no cover for this type of work. So it wouldnt fall to RSA to cover the cost of the work 
needed.
Had RSAs own contractors carried out the leak detection work and left the garden in a poor 
state then I may consider whether it should take any action outside of policy cover. But as 
this was carried out by Mr and Mrs Hs own contractors, and there is no policy cover for landscaping, I dont think RSA has acted unfairly by declining to carry out the landscaping 
work required.
Ive also considered how RSA has handled the claim and I think it could have provided better 
service and been clearer about the process it was carrying out as well as providing Mr and 
Mrs H with a prompter answer to their claim. Initially, it agreed to cover the cost of the leak 
detection, and made payment to Mr and Mrs H. Its now said this was done in error, but at 
the time this may have given Mr and Mrs H the impression that the whole claim would be 
covered without issue. And in the absence of any clear information from RSA I can 
understand why they may have thought this. And because of this, when the claim was 
declined it was a surprise to Mr and Mrs H which would have caused additional distress.
Because of this I agree with our investigator that RSA should pay an additional £100 
compensation to apologise for not providing clearer information about the validation of the 
claim.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given I direct Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited  trading as More 
Th>n to pay Mr and Mrs H an additional £100 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 August 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman