DRN-1865949
The complaint
Mr S complains that BUPA Insurance Services Limited acted unfairly and unreasonably in 
failing to pay his claim under a private health insurance policy in full. He wants the claim paid 
and for other policyholders not to suffer the same experience.
What happened
Mr S had a private health insurance policy with BUPA. While the policy covered the cost of 
private healthcare Mr S received, BUPA said the consultant who Mr S saw charged more 
than it had agreed with him to pay, and refused to pay the full claim.
Mr S complained as hed paid his excess for the policy year and didnt think he should have 
to pay more. BUPA said it had a contract with the consultant to only pay him £180 for initial 
consultations and £90 for a follow-up meeting. The consultant had charged Mr S extra for 
these consultations. BUPA investigated and found that the doctor thought Mr S was paying 
for the consultations himself, which was why he charged the self-bill rate, not BUPA rate. 
The consultant refused to lower his rate to the BUPA rate; BUPA said while this wasnt 
acceptable, all it could do was derecognise the doctor and stop allowing its policyholders to 
see him. BUPA wasnt willing to pay the extra cost as it wasnt at fault.
Mr S complained to us. The investigators view was that the complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
She said that BUPA had paid Mr S claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy 
and had done all it could to assist Mr S. The investigator noted that if BUPA did pay the full 
claim, it could set an example to doctors and indicated that they could ignore the insurance 
agreement in place.
Mr S disagreed. He said that he followed the pre-authorisation process and the cost of any 
out-patient appointment should be paid in full according to his cover. Ms S felt BUPA had 
breached its contract with him purely because the consultant had breached his contract with 
it, and he shouldnt suffer. The investigator didnt change her view and explained that the 
consultant should only have charged the amount agreed by BUPA.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that BUPA has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. I cant look at the 
actions of the consultant involved, but only whether BUPA has acted fairly and reasonably in 
refusing to pay more than it agreed to pay the consultant.
The terms and conditions of the policy say that When you receive private medical treatment 
you have a contract with the provider of your treatment. You are responsible for paying any 
costs that are not covered under your benefits. Any costs, including eligible treatment costs, 
that are not covered under your benefits are your sole responsibility. The policy also says 
that the level of benefit for which each practitioner is recognised varies, that only reasonable 
charges are covered, and that BUPA will only pay the amount we will pay medical 
practitionersfor eligible treatment will be in line with what the majority of our members are 
charged for similar treatment or services. If you see a consultant who does not charge within 
our benefit limits without prior approval from us, we will fund up to the limits
The pre-authorisation process, which Mr S followed, saw BUPA agree to pay the consultant 
at the agreed rates. BUPA didnt agree to pay any amount claimed by the consultant, which 
whom it had a separate agreement. While Mr S cover summary said he was covered in full 
for the cost of out-patient appointments, the detail within the policy made it clear that there 
were limits.
While it isnt my role to deal with complaints against the consultant, the evidence indicates 
that the doctor wasnt willing to comply with the agreement, despite BUPA asking him to do 
so and making it clear he would lose his recognition if Mr S was left out of pocket. I can see 
that Mr S may have an argument against the doctor as according to his account of events, 
the consultant didnt get Mr S agreement to pay anything extra until afterwards.
BUPA paid the amount due under the terms and conditions of the policy, which included the 
warning that the policyholder is contracting directly with the medical provider when receiving 
treatment. I dont think that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require it to do more 
because BUPA isnt at fault and its tried fairly and reasonably to help, including making the 
consequences clear to the consultant if he did not comply with his agreement with BUPA. I 
agree that if BUPA was asked to pay more when it wasnt at fault, it would undermine the 
agreements in place to control costs. The derecognition of a consultant is a serious step, 
taken to protect policyholders in the future from actions such as that undertaken by the 
consultant in this case.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 
4 November 2020.
 
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman