DRN-2915250
The complaint
Miss M complains that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) have declined her claim for treatment 
provided to her dog B, and that they delayed in dealing with her claim which led to her 
paying premiums for an extra two months when she could have cancelled her policy.
         
What happened
In January 2020, before the policy was bought (and whilst B was insured with a different 
provider), B was seen by the vet for defecating overnight, and because Miss M was 
concerned about weakness in the hind legs. 
In March 2020 Miss M purchased a lifetime pet insurance policy from Aviva. 
B was seen by the vet on several occasions during the next few months and referred to a 
hospital for further investigation into the symptoms.  
Following investigations in May 2020, B was diagnosed with Wobblers (a neurological 
condition) in June 2020. When Ms M put in a claim for the treatment related to this it was 
declined as a pre-existing condition because the symptoms of Wobblers were first noted in 
January, prior to the policy starting. 
In August 2020 Miss M contacted Aviva to make a further claim for B which was for 
orthopaedic investigations which took place at the hospital at the same time as the 
neurological investigations.  Miss M says she was aware that she couldnt claim under the 
policy for anything relating to the pre-existing condition of Wobblers syndrome but she was 
led to believe that she could claim for anything unrelated. 
The hospital split the invoice and excluded the neurological investigations and in September 
2020 Miss M made a claim £1105.21 for the orthopaedic investigations which took place in 
May.   
Aviva asked the hospital and the referring vets for opinions about whether the treatment 
received by B in January and March 2020 was related to the present claim for May 2020. 
The replies that Aviva received were not conclusive, and so they referred the case to an 
independent vet for an opinion on 14 October 2020. 
Miss M chased Aviva throughout October and November, which led to the referral being 
resent on 16 November. On 19 November the vet gave his opinion. 
On the basis of this opinion, Aviva declined the claim on 8 December 2020. 
Miss M complained to Aviva. 
In their final response, Aviva confirmed to Miss M that the claim was not declined due to the 
Wobblers disease, but because the investigation of the orthopaedic problems was not 
covered under the policy.  
Miss M was unhappy with this outcome and she made a complaint to us. She complained 
that she was unhappy about the claim being declined, and that Aviva delayed in making the 
decision which resulted in her paying two months more premium before she could cancel the 
policy. 
One of our investigators has looked into Miss Ms complaint. She thought that Aviva had 
acted fairly in declining the claim and they had not unnecessarily delayed.   
Miss M disagreed with our investigators view and so the case has come to me to review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have seen all of the correspondence between Aviva, Miss M, the hospital and the vets and 
I have also seen all of Bs medical notes. 
I have decided not to uphold Miss Ms complaint, and I will explain why below. 
Declining the claim
I am only considering the declinature of the claim made in September 2020 for the 
orthopaedic investigations. 
I have examined Bs medical records, and I note the following history:
On 12 November 2019 it is noted that B has been limping on his left front leg and has 
passed faeces indoors. He has recorded lameness in the front legs which he diagnoses as 
being a soft tissue injury. 
On 10 January 2020 it says Nearly 5 but recently some faeces overnight. Never before, 
toilet trained.. Limping in November, treated with paracetamol, 4 joint supplement a day 
and then reduced. Limp went away. Some times hind legs seem weak at time. Initial limp left 
front leg. Owner concerned about the legs, hind legs seem weaker. Front leg limp. 
Findings : Muscle wastage on hind legs. On palpation. No evident limp. Abnormal sitting 
position at times. Seems to hesitate more to sit down compare to before. Apparent DJD 
(Degenerative joint disorder) or OA (Osteoarthritis)versus other like elbow dysplasia or hip 
dysplasia
On 15 January 2020 B was still passing faeces in a strange way, but he is walking as 
before, no wobbling or pain, no weakness or lameness. O aware that a neurological issues 
is likely in this kind of faeces incontinence episode.  
There are further attendances for the faecal issues during February and March, and on 9 
March 2020 the notes record that the diagnosis is Sphincter incompetence, neurological 
issue/ortho issue related with faecal incontinence.
On 14 April 2020 a video consultation takes place in which there is further deterioration with 
defecating in the house and struggling to sit down and get up again. The vet records that B 
has an abnormal sitting position, abnormal gait and seems weak when standing. The vet 
says Stifle pain would fir in this presentation as would be painful to bend his knees but not 
as painful to walk them. 
On 27 April 2020 walking is fine but sitting he is being careful, and still defecating indoors, 
whilst walking. B was then referred to the hospital.  In May 2020 B underwent the neurological and orthopaedic investigations and the hospital 
diagnosed a mild lesion affecting the cauda equina or sciatic nerve (Wobblers), and 
orthopaedic disease with bilateral stifle effusion and resentment to hip extension, for which B 
had a further investigations and treatment.  
The referring vets told Aviva that Bs clinical signs were the same throughout and that all this 
is related. 
The hospital told Aviva that the progressive deterioration in Bs mobility may represent a 
continuum of the signs first noted back in October 2019 rather than a separate condition.. 
The independent vet reviewed all of this and said:
The referral reports from the hospital clearly define that the reason for referral and 
investigations relate to the presenting signs of abnormal defecatory behaviour and concerns 
regarding weakness and potential discomfort in the hindlimbs. The hospital team are unable 
to define whether this is a neurological or orthopaedic issue based upon their initial 
examination and so quite appropriately the perform both neurological investigations (MRI, 
bloods etc) and orthopaedic investigations (joint taps and their analysis). 
However, this identical problem list of altered defecatory behaviour and hindlimb 
weakness/stiffness is very clearly documented in the clinical history during the visit to the 
vets on January 10th 2020, pre inception
I have considered this evidence carefully. It is clear that Avivas reason for declining the 
claim wasnt because it related to the Wobblers, as Miss M has suggested, but because the 
claim was for investigations into symptoms that were present prior to the policy starting and 
Miss Ms policy doesnt cover conditions which B had before the start of the policy. 
From the medical history above I can see that there were ongoing difficulties with limping, 
sitting and defecating from November 2019 and the medical notes show that there were 
question marks over the cause before the policy started. The medical notes record possible 
causes as neurological or orthopaedic, including possible causes such as DJD and arthritis 
in January. 
I therefore consider that the orthopaedic tests and investigations were part and parcel of the 
overall investigation of Bs symptoms to try and get to the bottom of what was causing his 
difficulties, and whilst ultimately the main diagnosis was Wobblers, Aviva have fairly declined 
the claim for the orthopaedic investigations as they were conducted to investigate symptoms 
that were present prior to the start of the policy.  
I appreciate that Miss M would have been covered for all of these tests and treatment had 
she not changed insurers, and it must be frustrating to have paid insurance for a number of 
years and then not have the cover when it is needed, but unfortunately, I cant say that Aviva 
have done anything wrong in declining this claim.  
     
The delay
Miss Ms second complaint is that Aviva delayed in making their decision about her claim, 
which resulted in her paying premiums for two months longer than was necessary. 
The claim was made on 19 August 2020 and I can see that Aviva made enquiries in 
September with the vets and the hospital. The claim was assessed early October and 
referred to an independent vet for an opinion on 14 October. Miss M chased Aviva on 23 
October and was told that they would follow it up. She contacted them again on 5 November 
and was told that they hadnt heard back from the vet. She then raised a complaint about 
having to chase for a response.Aviva chased the vet on 11 and 16 November, and they resent the referral. It was 
discovered that the original referral had been wiped off the system, and it had to be resent 
again on 17 November. On 19 November the vet gave his opinion. 
I dont find that the delays here were excessive nor were they the fault of Aviva. In August 
and September, they were gathering information to determine the claim and once they had 
the information they referred it for a decision. The decision was that an independent vets 
opinion was required, and that referral was made in a timely way. The delay that then 
occurred was because of an apparent system error at the vets practice, which meant that 
the referral was removed. During the period it was with the independent vet it was chased by 
Aviva, and they were assured it was in hand and I dont think there is anything further that 
they could have done. 
Whilst I appreciate that Miss M feels that it was dragged out and cost her an additional two 
months in premiums, the enquiries were necessary to determine the claim, and the period of 
delay after the referral to the independent vet was not Avivas fault. 
In view of my findings above, I am not recommending that Aviva need to do anything further 
in respect of this claim. 
I appreciate that this will be disappointing for Miss M as she has incurred significant expense 
in the treatment of Bs issues, but I hope that I have given her a clear explanation of my 
reasons for not upholding her complaint.
  
My final decision
My decision is that I am not upholding Miss Ms complaint against Aviva Insurance Limited.    
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 September 2021.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman