DRN-3305075
The complaint
Mr F complains that Nationwide Building Society failed to refund transactions that he didnt 
recognise.
What happened
Mr F noticed hed lost his wallet and reported it to Nationwide, telling them it had been stolen 
and that it contained his Nationwide debit card as well as several other cards from different 
banks. Mr F explained that he was being diagnosed for a specific memory condition and 
needed to write down the Personal Identification Numbers (PINs) for his cards which he kept 
in his wallet with his cards. He later denied telling Nationwide about his condition or that his 
wallet had been stolen.
Mr F explained to Nationwide that hed last noticed his wallet sometime that morning and 
wasnt able to access his banking app at the time. He later told our service that he was trying 
to get through to Nationwide on the phone at the time to advise them of his loss but couldnt 
get through and had to return to work.
Numerous transactions were made from the account, including a failed attempt to withdraw 
funds from an Automated Teller Machine (ATM). All the disputed transactions used the 
genuine card and the correct PIN.
Mr F said hed cancelled his card later that afternoon using his app but had to call 
Nationwide again because the card was still being used. Nationwide told Mr F that because 
hed kept his PIN with his card, this was a breach of the terms of the account and they 
wouldnt be refunding any of the disputed transactions.
Mr F complained to Nationwide and argued that the terms didnt specify that he couldnt 
keep the PIN with the card. Nationwide looked into Mr Fs complaint and continued to deny 
him a refund. Nationwide believed Mr F had authorised the transactions and didnt accept Mr 
Fs reason for keeping the PIN with his cards. Nationwide added that the disputed 
transactions were funded by incoming payments into his account, that he was active on his 
online banking in the morning before they took place, there were gaps in the spending and 
whoever used the card didnt check the balance on the account. Nationwide thought this 
pointed towards the person who was using the card knew what was in the account and they  
held Mr F liable for them.
Mr F was unhappy with how his complaint had been investigated and brought it to our 
service for an independent review. It was looked into by one of our investigators who asked 
Mr F for more detail. Mr F told our investigator:
He didnt report the lost wallet to the police because he wasnt robbed.
He couldnt get through to Nationwide whilst at work and had to wait till he finished 
work before reporting it.
Hed also lost a provisional driving licence but had applied for a new one and had 
sent a copy of the application to our service.
He denied telling Nationwide about his specific memory condition.
Hed tried to freeze his card in the morning, but it didnt work.
He didnt concern himself with the other lost cards because there were no funds 
available.
His PIN was just a set of numbers in his wallet.
He didnt believe he was in breach of the terms of his account.
Our investigator thought it was reasonable for Nationwide to hold Mr F accountable for the 
transactions. It was also commented that there was no evidence provided about Mr Fs 
medical diagnosis, which meant there was no reasonable explanation why the PIN numbers 
were kept with the debit cards. This caused Mr F to also be in breach of the terms and 
conditions of his account. Mr Fs complaint wasnt upheld.
Mr F disagreed and replied to the investigators report, stating:
The timing of the incoming funds was coincidental.
He denied saying his other cards werent used.
He believed he was being reasonable with how he secured his cards and PIN 
numbers.
He disagreed with the investigators interpretation of the events, specifically that: I 
made it very clear that I did not realise my wallet was not there until after work.
He thought the failed withdrawal from an ATM was evidence that the user of his card 
wasnt him.
He confirmed hed previously sent a screenshot of a licence application hed made.
He was unhappy that Nationwide had categorised his memory loss and believed they 
did this knowing he would have difficulty proving the condition.
The complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two elements to this complaint. The first is whether Mr F authorised the 
transactions and secondly, if he didnt then were the terms breached by keeping the PIN 
number and debit card together. Ill deal with the question of authorisation first.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. The 
basic position is that Nationwide can hold Mr F liable for the disputed payments if the 
evidence suggests that its more likely than not that he made them or authorised them.
 
Coming to the question of authorisation, this is made up of two parts. Authentication and 
consent. Authentication is usually referred to as the technical evidence and in this case, Nationwide have supplied evidence that shows the genuine card and PIN were used to 
make the transactions. Im satisfied that the evidence shows all the disputed transactions 
were authenticated.
Consent refers to the way in which Nationwide and Mr F agreed to use the card for 
transactions. For example, when using the card and PIN together, Nationwide agree to 
accept that this is a legitimate payment instruction made by the cardholder or another 
approved user and make the payment on their behalf. The transactions in this case used the 
genuine card and the correct PIN, so Im satisfied that consent was given, and the disputed 
transactions were authorised. But, there are exceptions where it wouldnt be appropriate for 
Nationwide to hold Mr F responsible, for example if the card was used without his 
permission.
Mr F claimed that he never said his cards were stolen, only lost. But in the first call he had 
with Nationwide, he confirmed to the call handler that his card had been stolen. He later 
denied telling Nationwide that hed mentioned a specific memory condition, but again in the 
same call, he tells the call handler that hes currently going through a diagnosis for a specific 
condition and names it. So, I dont think Mr Fs allegation that Nationwide classified his 
memory condition is accurate because he himself used the term to describe his difficulty 
remembering things.
Mr F, in his response to the investigators outcome, stated I made it very clear that I did not 
realise my wallet was not there until after work. But in earlier calls with Nationwide, Mr F 
states it went missing before work and gave a rough time of 11:00 am. He later confirmed it 
was lost prior to being at work. 
Mr F said that hed tried to call Nationwide but was on hold and couldnt wait to be put 
through because he was at work. I appreciate Mr F was at work at the time, and he thought 
he couldnt take the time to call Nationwide, but Im surprised that after realising all his cards 
and an identity document were in his wallet, that he didnt make more effort to advise his 
banks, including Nationwide about the loss.
He also said he couldnt freeze the card on his app because it wasnt working. Ive examined 
the audit logs supplied by Nationwide and it shows Mr F successfully using his app on the 
morning of the disputed transactions and then again later in the afternoon when he logs on 
and freezes his card. Theres no indication that the app wasnt available earlier in the day 
when he first noticed his wallet was gone, so I think it unlikely the app wasnt working.
He told our investigator that he hadnt reported the incident to the police because he wasnt 
robbed. But, at the time he told Nationwide his card was stolen, they advised Mr F to report it 
to the police and he knew his funds had been used without his permission. Id think this 
would have been a useful thing to do to aid in any recovery or any subsequent claims he 
made. 
Mr F stated hed also lost his provisional driving licence which was in his wallet. He 
confirmed hed sent a copy of an application for a replacement to the Financial Ombudsman 
as evidence that his wallet was lost. Ive examined the complete complaint file and can find 
no evidence of any driving licence application from Mr F. It could, of course, be that the 
email didnt arrive, although our investigator reminded Mr F to re-send evidence of the 
application. 
Mr F believed the declined withdrawal attempt was evidence that it wasnt him because he 
knew what his daily limit was and he argued the account balance could then have been 
available for the card user to see. Theres little evidence about the withdrawal, apart from the 
amount requested was in excess of the daily limit. Whats relevant here is that the user knew the correct PIN because there were no incorrect PIN attempts and Mr F said he had several 
PIN numbers written down and they werent identified by the bank. So, whoever used the 
card correctly guessed which PIN to use and knew there were funds in the account because 
they didnt ask for an account balance before attempting a withdrawal. 
I think its relevant that Mr F didnt do more with his other cards at the time and notify his 
other banks. Typically I would have expected a fraudster to have tried all the cards to see 
what they could have obtained out of the account as they wouldnt be aware of which ones 
had funds  unless they were already aware of which card to use.
Mr F explained that the timing of the incoming payments that funded the disputed 
transactions was coincidental, and that may be the case. But, its also the case that they 
couldnt have happened without these incoming funds being paid into the account. Mr F was 
also using his mobile banking to check his statements in the morning before he reported the 
loss, so I think he knew the incoming payments had been deposited. So, I think it was 
unusual that Mr F didnt do more to notify Nationwide about his stolen wallet.  
Mr Fs recollection of events have been inconsistent, so its difficult to identify exactly what 
happened. But when I look at all the facts and testimony, it seems unlikely that Mr F would 
recognise that his wallet had been lost or stolen and then wait for several hours before 
reporting it to the bank, particularly when he knew his PIN numbers were in his wallet, 
almost guaranteeing that if found by someone who was happy to steal his funds, they would 
be successful. Of course, if the wallet was just lost, it could have been found and handed in 
to the authorities, which is why I found the lack of notice to the police to be troubling. 
Overall, I think it more likely than not that Mr F was responsible for making these 
transactions or allowing someone else to use his card. I think it was reasonable for 
Nationwide to hold him liable for the transactions.
Gross Negligence
Ill also deal with the issue of the breach of the terms and conditions. Mr F has argued that 
he was reasonable when he kept the PIN numbers written down with his debit cards in his 
wallet. His position is that it doesnt say he cant do that in the terms and conditions related 
to his account.
In the investigators view, the issue of gross negligence was fully explained, so I wont go 
into the background about what is considered gross negligence  which is what Nationwide 
effectively alleged about Mr Fs use of his security details. In essence  to be able to prove 
gross negligence, the card holder must have shown a very significant degree of 
carelessness.
Nationwides terms describe how account holders must protect their security details , 
including cards and PINs. They say:
It is important that you take all reasonable precautions to take care of your statements,
cards, PINs, security devices and other account information and security details to help 
prevent fraud and protect your account. You should follow any instructions we give you in 
connection with your security details and in particular:
a) always take reasonable steps to keep your card safe and sign it as soon as you receive it;
b) keep your PIN, password and other security information secret at all times.
Whilst Mr F is correct in that it doesnt say he cant keep his PIN with his card, I dont think it 
can be argued that this is reasonable or in line with the terms of the account. I understand Mr Fs view is that his wallet is secure, and hed successfully kept the PIN and cards 
together for some years. Unfortunately, his past experience isnt evidence that the decision 
to keep them together was reasonable. Id say that by keeping them together in a format that 
was readable to whoever came across them was a very significant degree of carelessness.
Mr F provided easy access to his funds and didnt keep his PIN secret because he wrote it 
down with his debit card. I think its difficult to argue that this was reasonable because the 
likely outcome of losing his cards was to put his account at significant risk. He gave the 
means to anyone who was minded to, to remove all his funds. Nationwide would process the 
transactions because they believed it was him using the card because the correct PIN was 
entered. Mr F could have used other less obvious methods to remember his PINs  but 
writing them down in this way wasnt appropriate.  So, even if I thought Mr F wasnt 
responsible for making these transactions, I think it would have been reasonable for 
Nationwide to rely on the breach of the terms to deny Mr F a refund.   
My final decision
My final decision is that do not uphold this complaint against Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman