DRN-3767024
The complaint
Mr H complains that Nationwide Building Society has not provided him with all the 
information they hold about him.
What happened
Mr H says that he originally made a subject access request (SAR) in around 2018, but this 
was never actioned by Nationwide.
He made another SAR in early 2021, and eventually got the information sent to him. He 
found the information difficult to decipher and felt that important information was missing. 
Most importantly, he felt information concerning a request made from the department of work 
and pensions (DWP) to Nationwide for information about Mr H was missing. 
Nationwide issued a final response letter in which it explained there had been issues with the 
address it sent the information to initially. Mr H has not raised this as a specific complaint 
point and it does not appear to form a part of the complaint as a whole. So I wont go into 
detail about this point. Nationwide also said that it could not locate any specific information 
relating to a case with DWP and felt all the information held about Mr H had been sent to 
him. 
Mr H did not agree with this as the DWP had sent him statements for his Nationwide 
accounts dated from 2002 to 2008, so felt this must have been sent by Nationwide. He 
referred the complaint to our service. 
Our Investigator assessed the complaint and did not find that Nationwide had made an error 
in the circumstances. They said that Nationwide had confirmed all the information they held 
had been sent to Mr H and they had not seen anything to suggest otherwise. They explained 
that Mr H may also want to raise a complaint with the Information Commissioners Office 
(ICO). 
Mr H remained unhappy with the response. He still felt that Nationwide had provided copies 
of his statements to the DWP and that they held information about the request. 
As an informal agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the Investigator for largely the same reasons and I dont think 
Nationwide has made an error in the circumstances. Ill explain why in more detail. 
Mr H has said he first made an SAR in 2018 but has not been able to provide any evidence 
of this. Nationwide has said it can find no mention of an SAR from 2018. Its unclear if there 
has been a miscommunication but ultimately, I havent seen anything that suggests 
Nationwide made an error in 2018 and failed to process an SAR. 
I can see that Mr H made an SAR in early 2021, though it appears there was an issue with 
the information initially being sent to his old address. This has not been raised a specific 
complaint point and does not appear to form a part of the complaint, so I havent addressed 
it further.  
Mr H did eventually receive the information he requested but was unhappy that it did not 
include anything about a request made by the DWP to Nationwide for statements for his 
accounts. Nationwide have confirmed that they sent Mr H everything that was available. And 
Ive seen internal communications from Nationwide showing that different department were 
contacted to ensure no information had been missed out. Looking at this, Im satisfied that 
Nationwide sent Mr H all the information available to them. 
I appreciate that Mr H feels information is missing, but theres nothing that Ive seen that 
indicates an incomplete SAR was sent. I note that the statements Mr H believes Nationwide 
sent to DWP are dated 2002-2008, so its possible these were sent so long ago that any 
request is no longer retained on Nationwides systems. Ultimately, as mentioned above, I 
havent seen anything to indicate that Nationwide has made an error when sending the SAR 
as requested. Mr H may also want to consider raising a complaint with the ICO. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2023. 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman