DRN-4042187
The complaint
Mr O has complained about what Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited has paid in 
settlement of his claim for a laptop under the Gadget section of his travel insurance policy. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers 
must handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these 
rules, and other industry guidance, into account when deciding what I think is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Os complaint.
Mr Os policy says:
 
We will pay up to the policy limits shown in your policy schedule if your personal gadgets 
owned by you are lost, stolen or accidentally damaged during your trip. 
If your claim is successful, we will decide how to compensate you. This can include 
paying the cost of replacement, cost of repair or a cash payment. No payment will 
amount to more than the original purchase price of the gadget. 
If the item is more than a year old we may reduce the amount to allow for wear and tear.
Mr O has said his laptop originally cost £1,200. It was damaged and he provided an 
estimate for repair at £1,259. This is more than it cost Mr O to purchase the laptop, so I 
consider it is fair for Admiral to limit its payment to the purchase price less an amount for 
wear and tear and the policy excess. This is because the policy wording makes specific 
reference to a deduction for wear and tear if the item is more than a year old. Mr Os 
laptop was around five years old. But the amount that is deducted for wear and tear has 
to be reasonable.
I consider that for the type of laptop Mr O has, a reasonable deduction for wear and tear 
is 10% per year. I appreciate this is arguable and a matter of opinion. However, I 
consider it is reasonable in the circumstances.
As Mr O paid £1,200 for his laptop and it was around five years old when it was 
damaged, this means I think it is reasonable to deduct £600 for wear and tear. Admiral 
can also deduct the £99 excess that applies under the policy. 
Putting things right
Admiral have recently paid Mr O £350 in settlement of his claim. Whereas I consider they 
should have paid him £501, ie £600 less the £99 policy excess. This means they should pay 
Mr O a further £151 in settlement of his claim. 
Admiral only paid the £350 recently, whereas I consider they should have paid this soon 
after they offered it, leaving Mr O to bring his complaint to us if he wanted to. This means I 
also think it is fair and reasonable for Admiral to pay interest on this amount to Mr O at 8% 
per annum simple from one month after he made his claim to the date they actually paid it. 
I also consider Admiral should pay interest at the same rate on the balance due of £151 from 
one month after Mr O made his claim to the date of actual payment. 
The interest is to compensate Mr O for being without funds he should have had. And the 
reason it is payable from one month after he made his claim is that I consider it reasonable 
to allow a month for the period Admiral needed to investigate and consider the claim and pay 
what they offered. 
Admiral must tell Mr O if they have made a deduction for income tax from the interest they 
pay. And, if they have, how much theyve taken off. They must also provide a tax deduction 
certificate for Mr O if asked to do so. This will allow Mr O to reclaim the tax from His 
Majestys Revenue & Customs (HMRC) if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Os complaint and order Admiral Insurance 
(Gibraltar) Limited to do what Ive set out above in the Putting things right section. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman