DRN-4288854
The complaint
The estate of Mrs R complains that Golden Charter Limited charged a cancellation fee when 
Mrs Rs plan was cancelled.
The estate is represented by Mrs Rs son, Mr R, so Ill refer to him directly in my decision.
What happened
To summarise, in May 2015, Mrs R bought a pre-paid funeral plan. The plan was sold by Mr 
R, who was an agent of Golden Charter at the time. Mrs R had intended to use another 
company  C  but went with Golden Charter because she wanted her son to receive the 
agents commission. 
Sadly, in April this year, Mrs R died. When Mr R contacted Golden Charter about the plan, 
wanting to use C for the funeral services, he was told it wasnt possible. Golden Charter 
explained that the only thing it could do was cancel the plan, but there would be a 
cancellation fee of £199. Mr R wasnt happy about this, but wanted to fulfil his mothers 
wishes, so the plan was subsequently cancelled.
Mr R complained, but Golden Charter didnt uphold the complaint. It said that as no 
nominated funeral director was listed on the application form, it appointed a local one. It 
referred to calls Mrs R made to Golden Charter shortly after the plan was sold and 
maintained that no incorrect information had been given to her.   
Mr R was unhappy about this decision and came to the Financial Ombudsman Service. An 
investigator looked into things for him but, didnt uphold the complaint. She was satisfied 
Golden Charter had acted fairly in applying the cancellation fee, in line with the terms and 
conditions. 
Mr R disagreed, saying that when the plan was sold it was possible to use one of Cs funeral 
directors. As Golden Charter were not honouring that option, he thought it was unfair to 
charge the cancellation fee. 
The complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. I know this will be unwelcome news for Mr 
R and Im sorry about that. Ill explain my reasons, focusing on the points and evidence I 
consider material to my decision. So, if I dont refer to a particular point or piece of evidence, 
its not because I havent thought about it. Rather, I dont consider it changes the outcome of 
the complaint. 
The issue I have to decide is whether Golden Charter fairly deducted a cancellation fee from 
the plan refund. Ive looked at the plan terms and can see under section 10.1 that Golden 
Charter is entitled to charge the fee. But to determine whether that entitlement was fairly 
exercised, I need to think about what happened after Mrs R bought the plan. 
Golden Charter says a membership pack of plan documents was sent to Mrs R in early June 
2015. Its clear Mrs R received this information because she called Golden Charter a week 
later to ask some questions. Ive listened to this call carefully. Mrs R had noticed that a local 
funeral director had been appointed. She explained the history of wanting to use C and her 
sons involvement in the sale. In response, the call handler tells her C generally wont accept 
Golden Charters plans, because they sell their own. He suggests Mrs R has a chat with her 
son and lets Golden Charter know what shed prefer to do. The gist of this conversation is 
repeated, with some further details from Mrs R. At the end of the call, the handler reiterates 
for Mrs R to speak to her son and see how shed like to proceed. He concludes by 
confirming that if she wants to do anything with the plan, she should let Golden Charter know 
and theyll get on to it. 
Theres a second call, a few days later, which Ive also listened to. The focus of this call is 
Mrs Rs desire to ensure that the commission from the sale will go to her son, Mr R. Theres 
no discussion at all about the content of the plan or Cs possible involvement. Golden 
Charter has said it didnt receive any further contact from Mrs R.
Mr R insists that it was possible to use C as funeral directors when Mrs R bought the plan in 
2015. I accept this as his firm understanding and recollection. But having reviewed Mrs Rs 
application form, I can see that theres no chosen funeral director recorded on it, hence 
Golden Charters nomination of a local one. Ive also looked at the plan terms. Under section 
9.2 Change of Selected Funeral Director, it says:
Where you have chosen the Single Payment Optionyou may at any time prior to 
your death, by giving us written notice, request the appointment of a different 
Selected Funeral Director. We will use reasonable efforts to comply with your 
request.
And having listened to the calls, Im satisfied Mrs R was clearly informed there was a 
problem with wanting to use Cs funeral directors and that she agreed she would speak to Mr 
R before making any decisions about the plan. Im also satisfied no further information was 
received from Mrs R and that, consequently, the local funeral director remained the selected 
provider. 
Mr R has also said Golden Charter shouldve contacted him about the plan. But in 2015, and 
thereafter, Mr R wasnt listed as a representative for Mrs R. Consequently, Id expect Golden 
Charter only to deal with Mrs R in respect of her plan. Im aware that a power of attorney 
was later registered for Mrs R. But this was in 2017, some time after Mrs R bought the plan.
So overall, I dont think Golden Charter acted unfairly in 2023, when it said it wasnt possible 
to use Cs funeral director and that, if that was the estates choice, cancellation was the only 
option. And, in view of the information Mrs R was given in 2015 and subsequent lack of 
further contact about the selected funeral director, I dont think it was unreasonable to apply 
the cancellation fee in line with the plan terms and conditions. Consequently, I wont be 
asking Golden Charter to do anything more in respect of this complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs R 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 September 2023.
 
Jo Chilvers
Ombudsman