DRN-3400131
The complaint
Mr B complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) didnt help recover money he 
lost as part of a scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything in 
detail again here. 
In summary, Mr B made several payments to an investment broker  which Ill call T  
towards the end of 2019 and in the beginning of 2020. He set up an account with T and his 
NatWest debit card details were used for the transactions. 
T subsequently turned out to be fraudulent and on realising that hed been scammed, Mr B 
asked for NatWests assistance in recovering the payments. It attempted a chargeback for 
some of the payments and it was successful. NatWest said it was unable to raise a 
chargeback for three payments, listed below, as the merchant  Ill call it C  had provided a 
legitimate service of transferring the funds.
Date (on bank statement) Merchant Amount
19 February 2020 C £4,174.46
19 February 2020 C £1,669.78
19 February 2020 C £4,174.46
Total loss £10,018.70
Mr B complained to NatWest and forwarded an email from T which said that payments would 
appear on his statement as C. NatWest didnt uphold the complaint and Mr B referred it to 
our service.
Two investigators looked into Mr Bs concerns. Both concluded that NatWest didnt act 
unfairly by not attempting a chargeback for payments to C. The second investigator also 
considered whether the payments were so unusual that NatWest ought to have intervened 
before executing them. But she thought that the transactions were in line with Mr Bs general 
spending pattern and concluded that NatWest couldnt have prevented this loss. 
Mr B didnt agree and asked for the matter to be escalated. So, the case has been passed to 
me for review and determination.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to start by reassuring both parties that although Ive only summarised the background 
and main arguments, so not everything that happened is mentioned, Ive read and 
considered everything thats been provided in its entirety. 
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme set up to resolve card payment disputes 
between merchants and cardholders. The card scheme operator  Visa in this case  
ultimately arbitrates on a dispute if it cant be resolved between the merchant and the 
cardholder. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme, meaning there are only 
limited grounds and limited forms of evidence that will be accepted for a chargeback to be 
considered valid, and potentially succeed. 
Mr B was dealing with a broker called T. Given the information Ive found about T during my 
research, Im satisfied he fell victim to a scam rather than simply losing money as a result of 
a high-risk investment. But Mr B didnt make the three disputed payments to T; he paid C. 
This is important because NatWest was only able to chargeback against the merchant he 
paid, not another party. 
I appreciate Mr B has provided an email from T which states deposits made into his trading 
account will appear on his bank statement as, among other names, C. (I note C is spelt 
differently in Ts email as a letter is missing, although I accept this could have simply been 
an oversight.) While this is indicative of Ts attempt to assure Mr B that payments made to it 
would appear on his bank statement under different names, this isnt conclusive evidence 
that they are all the same merchant. Or that the merchants are linked.   
Its my understanding that C is a cryptocurrency exchange firm. The service provided by the 
exchange would be to convert Mr Bs payments into cryptocurrency. Therefore, the merchant 
Mr B made the payments to  C  did provide the service that had been requested. That the 
funds were later transferred elsewhere  to the scammer  doesnt give rise to a valid 
chargeback claim against C. That being the case, I dont think NatWest acted unfairly or 
unreasonably by not presenting a chargeback for the three payments to C which are still in 
dispute.  
While I dont think that NatWest could have done more with regards to the recovery of Mr Bs 
funds, Ive also considered whether it ought to have intervened before allowing the payments 
to be made.
Under regulations, and in accordance with general banking terms and conditions, banks 
should execute an authorised payment instruction without undue delay. The starting position 
is that liability for an authorised payment rests with the payer, even if they were duped into 
doing so, for example as part of an investment scam. 
However, in accordance with the law, regulations and good industry practice, a bank has a 
duty to protect its customers against the risk of fraud and scams so far as is reasonably 
possible. If, in breach of that duty, a bank fails to act on information which ought reasonably 
to alert a prudent bank to potential fraud or financial crime, it might be liable for the losses 
incurred by its customer as a result.
The disputed payments were made by Mr B using his legitimate security credentials. 
I therefore conclude that these were authorised payments for which he is liable unless 
theres evidence that NatWest could and should reasonably have done more to protect him, 
and that this would have made a difference to his decision-making.
Ive taken into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice, 
and what I consider good industry practice at the time. NatWest ought to have been 
monitoring accounts to counter various risks, have systems in place to identify unusual 
transactions, or other indicators, that its customers were at risk of fraud and, in some 
situations, make additional checks before processing payments, or declined them altogether, 
to protect its customer from possible financial harm from fraud.I dont think there was a reason for NatWest to have challenged any of the three payments. 
There was no regulator warning about C at the time these were authorised by Mr B. And 
looking at the operation of his account in the year leading up to the disputed payments, 
I dont consider them as particularly unusual or suspicious such that they ought to have 
triggered NatWests fraud detection systems. After all, it must balance the extent to which it 
intervenes in payments to try and prevent fraud against the risk of unnecessarily 
inconveniencing or delaying legitimate transactions.
In summary, I dont think NatWest ought to have prevented these authorised payments from 
being sent, and I dont think there was a viable route for it to raise a chargeback. 
I realise that this will come as a considerable disappointment to Mr B, not least because the 
matter has been ongoing for some time. But I can only fairly make an award if I think 
NatWests errors caused, or contributed to, his loss. In this case, I think that its the cruel 
actions of the scammers that caused the loss.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2022.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman