DRN-4131564
The complaint
Miss M complains that a car acquired with finance from MI Vehicle Finance Limited wasnt of 
satisfactory quality. 
What happened
In June 2022 Miss M was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement 
with MI.
Miss M experienced an issue with the spoiler and contacted the dealership in July 2022 to 
have it looked at. Whilst inspecting the car in August 2022, the dealership discovered that 
there was a safety recall for the driver and passenger airbags.
The dealership told Miss M that the spoiler repairs and the airbag replacement could be 
done at no cost to her. Miss M agreed to have the repairs, but these couldnt be done until a 
later date.
In September 2022 the car was returned to the dealership for the repairs to be done. The 
dealership told Miss M that there was a delay with parts, so she decided to collect the car 
before the repairs had been completed.
Miss M continued to use the car until November 2022. She then decided to trade it in but 
found that she couldnt because of the safety recall. 
Miss M contacted MI and asked to reject the car. In its final response, MI said it hadnt been 
aware of the safety recall at the point of supply. It also said that Miss M had continued to use 
the car despite being aware of the safety recall. MI said it would arrange for repairs to be 
carried out at no cost to Miss M as a resolution.
In February 2023 the car went into a garage for the repairs to be completed. These included 
the spoiler repair, the airbag replacement, a software update and a MOT.
When the car was returned to Miss M, she discovered that a warning light was illuminated 
for the battery and that the drivers door didnt shut properly.
Miss M brought her complaint to this service. She wants to reject the car.
Our investigator partially upheld the complaint. They said that under the relevant legislation, 
the appropriate remedy was repair, and that they were satisfied that successful repairs had 
been completed to fix the spoiler and the airbags.
The investigator said that Miss M should be compensated for loss of use for the time her car 
was being repaired, and that she should receive compensation for the distress and 
inconvenient caused to her as a result of the issues with the car.
Miss M said the compensation was too low and asked for an ombudsman to review her 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. This says that goods must be of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account things like the age 
and mileage of the car and the price paid. The legislation says that the quality of the goods 
includes their general state and condition and other things like appearance and finish, 
freedom from minor defects, safety and durability.
The relevant legislation gives a consumer a short term right to reject faulty goods within 30 
days. In this complaint, Miss M because aware of the fault with the spoiler within the first 30 
days, but instead of rejecting the car at this point she agreed to have repairs done. The 
legislation says that if the short term right to reject cant be exercised, then the appropriate 
remedy is repair of the fault. The legislation says that the business has to be given one 
opportunity to repair the fault. If the repair isnt successful, the consumer can reject the car. 
In this case, the repairs to the spoiler and the airbags have been successfully completed. Im 
therefore satisfied that Miss M has been given the appropriate remedy under the relevant 
legislation and theres no grounds for rejection.
Ive gone on to consider whether MI should do anything further here.
Loss of use
Miss M has said that whilst her car was in for repairs, she wasnt provided with a courtesy 
car. Given that one of the reasons for the car going in for repair was the safety recall, I think 
Miss M shouldve been provided with a courtesy car. Although Miss M initially drove the car 
after being told about the safety recall, she didnt drive the car from November 2022 until the 
repairs were completed in February 2023. She has acknowledged that a third party drove 
the car during this time. In the circumstances, I dont think its fair to ask MI to refund any 
rental payments made from November 2022 to February 2023. However, I do think its fair to 
ask MI to refund (pro rata) rental payments for the period the car was in the garage being 
repaired.
Additional repairs paid for by Miss M
Miss M has told this service that she had to pay for two tyres and a new battery. Shes 
provided receipts for this, but MI says it needs more information before it can agree to refund 
these costs.
In order to uphold this aspect of Miss Ms complaint and require MI to refund these costs, I 
would need to be satisfied that the repairs were in relation to faults which were present or 
developing at the point of supply which made the car of unsatisfactory quality. I havent seen 
any evidence to suggest that this was the case so Im unable  on the available evidence  
to say that MIs response to this aspect of the complaint was unfair. 
Compensation
Ive thought about the impact that the issues with the car had on Miss M. The safety recall 
caused her worry, and she was also concerned about the legal implications of driving a car 
which was subject to a recall. Miss M has also said that she missed some medical 
appointments whilst the car was in for repair because she was left without transport. Its clear that Miss M has suffered a significant degree of distress and inconvenience here 
and I think its fair to ask MI to pay compensation of £150.
Legal issues
Im not able to make any findings about whether the law was broken when the car was sold 
to Miss M subject to the safety recall. Only a court will be able to do this.
Putting things right
To put things right, MI Vehicle Finance Limited must:
Refund rentals pro rata for the period when the car was being repaired because Miss M 
wasnt provided with a courtesy car
Pay 8% simple interest per annum on the amount refunded calculated from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement 
Pay £150 for distress and inconvenience
Remove any adverse information from Miss Ms credit file in relation to the agreement
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. MI Vehicle Finance Limited must take the 
steps Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 September 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman