DRN-2896651
The complaint
Mr L has complained about the conflicting advice Gatehouse Bank Plc provided in relation to 
a guaranteed interest rate period on his fixed term deposit account.
What happened
Its disappointing that Gatehouse Bank hasnt responded to our investigators opinion. As 
such, the case has been passed to me to consider. The details of the complaint are well-
known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the 
reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators findings for broadly the same reasons. I will 
explain why.
It is not in dispute that Mr L was given conflicting information regarding the guaranteed 
interest rate period on his fixed term deposit. Gatehouse Bank Plc has confirmed this in its 
final response letter dated 20 October 2020. It also outlined in this letter that other customers 
also had the same understanding as Mr L. However, despite the conflicting information, 
Gatehouse felt it had followed the correct procedure regarding the funding of Mr Ls  
account, and as such, it didnt think compensation was required. 
However, Mr L feels, he experienced distress during this time and as such compensation 
should be paid. Mr L was under the impression he had 45 calendar days from date of his 
application to invest and receive the expected interest rate that he applied for. However, 
shortly after, he received a letter he says this led him to believe he only had 14 days. 
The letter stated:
As a reminder, we will apply the profit rate that was shown on our website when you applied 
for your account (or a higher rate if we have increased it), provided that you send us your 
deposit amount by bank transfer or by cheque within 14 days of making your application. 
Please be aware that if we have not received your deposit amount as cleared funds within 
45 days of making your application, the account will not be opened, and you will need to re 
apply.
Mr L has gone on to say that this seriously concerned him as he was unsure if he had 45 
days or 14 days to complete his deposit. As it would take him time to gather the funds to 
invest, Mr L was concerned he would miss the deadline, and in turn felt under pressure to 
make a decision. Mr L felt he a limited amount of time to decide whether he should invest the 
limited funds he had gathered within the 14 day period (but miss out on the interest rate of 
the full amount he wanted to invest), or raise a complaint with Gatehouse to question the 
information in hope he had 45 days to gather the funds and invest the full amount he 
intended. Mr L say this caused a great deal of inconvenience and distress due to the lack of 
clarity of the letter.
I understand why Mr L felt this way. He had shopped around to find an interest rate and 
suitable period to invest which suited his needs. And after committing to this, he was then 
provided with information which was conflicting and undoubtedly this concerned him. Mr L 
tried to resolve the matter and clarify the situation which also shows he was eager to get a 
resolution so he could make a decision about his funds. This is also supported by the fact 
Gatehouse has said other customers had raised the same point. As such, I feel, it is 
reasonable to conclude Mr L was left, for a period of time, confused about how long he had 
to transfer his deposit amount and qualify for the interest rate advertised. Based on that, I 
feel its reasonable to conclude this would have caused Mr L a degree of worry and concern. 
As such, I agree compensation is warranted. 
Putting things right
Our investigator recommended that Gatehouse pay Mr L £75 compensation and I agree this 
is reflects the degree of impact Mr L experienced. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Gatehouse Bank Plc must pay Mr L £75 for 
the distress and inconvenience he encountered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2021.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman