DRN-3009120
The complaint
Mr S complains that Phoenix Life Limited (Phoenix Life) caused delays in him withdrawing 
his pension, which impacted on the value. And hes unhappy with the service he received. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill only provide an 
overview of what I think are the key events. 
In late 2019, Phoenix Life traced Mr S and wrote to him about an unclaimed pension. Around
8 January 2020, Mr S contacted it online asking about his policy and providing an up to date 
address. In response, he was incorrectly given information about a policy hed transferred 
away. On 22 January 2020, after the change of address process was complete, Phoenix Life 
wrote to Mr S with correct policy information and a value. 
On 10 February 2020, Mr S wrote to Phoenix Life with a new address and asked about his 
options, which it received on 21 February 2020. In the meantime, Mr S emailed Phoenix Life 
twice asking why it hadnt acknowledged his new address. On 28 February 2020, it updated 
this and sent a change of details letter to Mr S new and old address. In early March 2020, 
Phoenix Life sent Mr S his retirement options. Mr S then decided to withdraw his pension 
and by 8 April 2020 hed provided the identification documents to do so.
On 23 April 2020, after trying to speak to Mr S on 9 and 22 April 2020, Phoenix Life went 
through the steps that it needed to with him before it could send him a claim form. It sent this 
just over a week later and received it back on 21 May 2020. And, on 15 June 2020, after 
Mr S called to chase Phoenix Life, he cashed his policy in for a net value of £4,237.70.  
During this time Mr S complained to Phoenix Life unhappy, in summary, that he wasnt able 
to reach it on its international number and due to the time difference. Mr S said he wasnt 
given a policy number and then it located the wrong one. He said it would only really 
correspond by post when he lives overseas and the postal system was impacted by a 
nationwide event. And that its poor communication and delay meant his pension value 
dropped from over £5,000 due to the Covid-19 pandemic.  
 
In response, Phoenix Life said it initially gave Mr S incorrect policy information. And that, 
while the delays it caused meant it should have settled his claim on 17 April 2020, it 
calculated that there was no financial loss. It paid Mr S £100 compensation for the error with 
the policy number though and then a further £200 for poor service and delays. 
Unhappy with this, Mr S brought his complaint to our service adding that hed like to be 
compensated for the drop in fund value. He also complained to Phoenix Life that it failed to 
take into account the exchange rate as it should have paid this in AUD. 
In response, Phoenix Life paid Mr S the equivalent of $343.22 AUD for the impact of the 
exchange rate, including 8% simple interest. And a further £150 compensation, taking the 
total amount to £450. 
One of our investigators looked into it and said that while Phoenix Life caused a delay, what 
it has done to put things right is fair and reasonable. 
Mr S doesnt agree, he says the first letter he received in November 2019 didnt provide his 
policy number, as though it was a secret. And that if hed had this he could have concluded 
his pension withdrawal sooner and before the impact of Covid-19. He also said Phoenix Life 
was reluctant to accept his new address. 
So the complaints been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not asking Phoenix Life to do anything further. Ill explain why. 
I understand Mr S initially struggled to get in touch with Phoenix Life and it would have been 
frustrating that he couldnt use its online form, as he didnt have a policy number. But I dont 
think Phoenix Life did anything wrong by not providing this on the tracing correspondence, 
as it has explained it needed to ensure it was dealing with the correct person first. While it 
would have been frustrating for Mr S if he couldnt reach Phoenix Life by phone, there were 
other methods for him to contact it, which he later did using the online enquiry form. And 
I think that exploring these alternatives could have reasonably been done within days at 
most. So I cant fairly hold Phoenix Life responsible for the time Mr S took to first get in touch 
with it between late 2019 and 8 January 2020.  
 
Looking at Mr S contact with Phoenix Life from 8 January 2020, it has accepted it made 
errors that caused a delay and I think the two-month period it has identified is fair overall. 
This accounts for Mr S having an incorrect policy number between 8 January 2020 and the 
start of February 2020, when he received its letter with the correct information on. It also 
takes into account that I think it could reasonably have tried calling Mr S once more between 
9 April 2020 and 22 April 2020, especially given its first call didnt connect. And that it took 
Phoenix Life more than the two to three working days Id reasonably expect to settle his 
claim after it received everything it needed on 21 May 2020.
I understand why Mr S preferred to correspond by email, but Phoenix Life has said its 
process was to use post due to email being insecure, which it has since had to adapt due to 
Covid-19. I think this is reasonable, especially given the nature of the information it deals 
with. I can also see it tried to email Mr S where possible, for example in relation to his 
complaints. So I cant hold it responsible for the time taken due to it using post. 
I dont think Phoenix Life did anything wrong by writing to Mr S old address after hed 
provided his new one, given its process is to write to both for security reasons. Looking at 
Mr S emails in mid-February 2020 asking why it hadnt acknowledged his new address, this 
was because it hadnt received his letter dated 10 February 2020 yet. That being said, 
Phoenix Life should have recognised and acknowledged that Mr S provided a new address 
in his second email. While that would have been better customer service, I dont think this 
caused a delay that justifies me asking Phoenix Life to do anything more though, given it 
received Mr S letter the next day and then actioned his address change within seven days, 
which I think is a reasonable timescale.  
While Mr S feels hes lost out on a higher pension value, I can see he was told the values 
werent guaranteed when he was given them. And Phoenix Life has already considered the 
impact of the delays on Mr S in the way Id expect by looking at whether he would have achieved a higher fund value had there been no delays. This established that there was no 
loss. And I think its put right the impact of the exchange rate by looking at the rate Mr S 
would have achieved if not for the delay and then paying him the difference. So I dont think 
it needs to do anything further. 
Turning to compensation, Phoenix Life has made continued errors. In particular it gave Mr S 
the wrong policy number and then it missed a chance to recognise this when it gave its first 
final response letter. It also caused delays and then failed to take into account the exchange 
rate. So I think it has caused Mr S frustration and inconvenience. But Phoenix Life has 
recognised its mistakes, apologised and put this right by considering any financial impact. So 
I think the £450 compensation it has already paid is fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
and Im not asking it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is Im not asking Phoenix Life Limited to do 
anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2022.
 
Holly Jackson
Ombudsman