DRN-1609941
 
The complaint
Mrs A is unhappy that British Gas Services Limited (BG) wasnt available for an appointment 
until two weeks after she reported a problem with her boiler. Because of this, she thinks BG 
mis-sold the home emergency policy.
What happened
Mrs A had HomeCare Two emergency cover including an annual service with BG. When she 
called to report a problem BG told her it would be two weeks before it could attend. Mrs A 
didnt think that was soon enough.
Mrs A arranged for a third party to complete the work. BG offered to pay part of the cost but 
Mrs A wasnt happy with its offer. BG then offered to pay the full third party costs which Mrs 
A was satisfied addressed that part of her complaint. But she remained unhappy that she 
had needed to employ a third party in the first place.
Mrs A said she had the cover for 17 years and now feels BG mis-sold the policy to her 
because it didnt attend promptly when she needed it for a home emergency.
BG said it wasnt able to attend sooner because of the number of emergencies it was 
attending at the time. However, it accepted its level of service wasnt what Mrs A mightve 
expected and offered £20 as a gesture of goodwill for the inconvenience and distress she 
experienced.
Mrs A didnt think the offer was enough. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He agreed that BG should pay more for the distress 
caused and he thought an award of £100 was more appropriate in the circumstances. 
However, he didnt think that BG needed to refund all of Mrs As premiums because she had 
used the service several times over the years. 
Neither Mrs A nor BG agreed. 
Mrs A said she had the policy to cover exactly this type of situation, and yet when she 
needed it she couldnt rely on BG. She felt its adverts showing prompt appointments were 
misleading and it wasnt good enough that BG didnt have sufficient engineers during winter.
BG thought its original offer of £20 was fair for the inconvenience of arranging for a third 
party to fix the boiler. It pointed out that Mrs A had benefitted from the service over the years 
and it didnt think it was necessary to refund all premiums paid. BG felt that a payment of 
£100 would be excessive. 
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs As complaint, but I wont be requiring BG to refund all of her 
payments. While I realise both Mrs A and BG will be disappointed with my decision, I 
consider it fair in the circumstances. Ill explain why.
There is no dispute that the boiler repair was covered under Mrs As policy and that BG 
offered an appointment for the work to be done. The issue is that Mrs A felt the appointment 
wasnt soon enough. BG explained that there was high demand for its services and as there 
was no indication of vulnerability, it didnt prioritise the appointment. I can understand its 
reasoning but I can also understand why Mrs A wouldve been dissatisfied with its response. 
She had used its service on previous occasions so its unlikely she wouldve anticipated 
having to wait two weeks for an appointment. 
The terms and conditions state:
Well carry out any repairs or visits youre entitled to within a reasonable time, unless 
something beyond our control makes that impossible.
BG said it was in high demand. However, given that Mrs A was without heating and hot 
water and she had home emergency cover, she couldve reasonably expected an 
appointment sooner than the one BG offered. I understand she didnt report any vulnerability 
to BG, and I accept that BG would prioritise vulnerable customers. But other options for an 
appointment sooner than it offered were available, such as sending a third party to complete 
the repair. The terms and conditions state:
Our engineers
Normally, well send a British Gas engineer to carry out the work. In some cases, we may 
send a suitably qualified contractor instead.
So, BG said it fulfilled its obligation because it sent a third party engineer, but its confirmed 
to me that Mrs A arranged for the engineer to attend. I accept that BG reimbursed Mrs A for 
the cost, but thats not the same as arranging the engineer for her. It didnt take the burden 
from Mrs A as she mightve expected it to under a home emergency policy. In light of this, I 
think a sum greater than £20 is warranted for the inconvenience Mrs A experienced. Im 
satisfied that a total of £100 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I can understand that Mrs A is unhappy about paying for cover which wasnt there when she 
needed it. However, it was available to her for all the years it was in place and its not fair to 
assume BG would never have attended emergencies during that time. In general, people 
buy home emergency cover in the hope that a claim is never needed. What it should do is 
give some peace of mind. I realise that Mrs A may no longer have that peace of mind with 
BG because the cover didnt meet her expectations when she needed it. However, its not 
fair to apply that retrospectively. 
On this occasion BG failed to meet Mrs As reasonable expectations, but that doesnt mean 
it wouldnt have met them at any time before or that it wont in the future.  I think it was fair 
for BG to pay the third party costs because it shouldve arranged to do the work itself. I have 
no reason to doubt that BG didnt have engineers available at the time, but Mrs A had cover 
for an emergency so she shouldnt have needed to make the arrangements herself. 
Therefore, I wont require BG to refund all premiums paid, but its fair to pay more than the 
£20 it offered. Briefly, Mrs A said BG mis-sold the policy to her and she refers to its adverts in which it 
portrays prompt engineer attendance. I can understand that Mrs A is frustrated with the 
whole experience but it wouldnt be fair for me to conclude that BG mis-sold a policy based 
on service portrayed in current adverts. BG hasnt made a claim that it would attend all 
emergencies on the same day so Im satisfied that this is a matter of customer service rather 
than mis-selling.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that the complaint is upheld. British Gas 
Services Limited should pay Mrs A £80 in addition to the £20 it has already paid, which 
brings the total goodwill payment to £100. This is in recognition of the time spent organising 
a third party to complete the work which shouldve been covered under her policy, and for 
the upset caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2020.
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman