DRN-4495431
The complaint
Miss B has complained about the quality of a used car she acquired, using finance from 
Marsh Finance Ltd.
What happened
In July 2022, Miss B entered into a finance agreement with Marsh for a second-hand car. 
Shes explained that in October 2022, the car broke down and was repaired by the supplying 
dealership. However, it then broke down again two days later. Accordingly, she contacted 
Marsh and said she wanted to reject the car. Marsh contacted the broker, who arranged an 
inspection. This confirmed there was a fault.
Marsh agreed that Miss B could reject the car. But it couldnt get through to her to arrange 
for collection. The dealership subsequently said that Miss B had agreed to a repair, and 
compensation.
Miss B brought her complaint to our service in January 2023, explaining that her car had 
been in the garage since mid-December 2022. She also explained that Marsh had told her 
that, it the car was faulty, shed receive a refund of her monthly rentals so far, but this hadnt 
happened. She also felt compensation would be fair, given the circumstances.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. He was satisfied that the car was 
faulty, given the evidence provided, including the inspection report. Further, he considered 
the car had been faulty at the point of supply, as the report found the issues were due to 
previous failed repairs.
So, our investigator looked into what he thought should be done, to put things right  given 
that it had been agreed that the car would be repaired.
In summary, in addition to the repairs, he recommended the following.
As Miss B had a courtesy car when the car was being repaired, she shouldnt be 
refunded her repayments for this period. However, she had had impaired/no use of 
the car prior to this, and so Marsh should refund November 2022s monthly 
repayment, to reflect this.
The matter has caused Miss B distress and inconvenience, and Marsh should pay 
her £100 compensation in recognition of this.
Miss B disagreed. In summary, she said that:
she was told by the broker she had to pay for an initial inspection, prior to the one it 
later arranged;
there was considerable to-ing and fro-ing between her, the broker, the dealership and 
Marsh, which took months  including both the broker and Marsh saying the other 
should be responsible for refunding her monthly repayments, and paying her 
compensation;
Marsh should refund her all of her monthly repayments over the full period she didnt 
have the car/couldnt drive it, because being without it was inconvenient and costly. 
The car couldnt be driven from mid-October and wasnt taken for repairs until mid-
December. During this time she got lifts and had to reimburse people for the fuel; and
she had to arrange the courtesy car herself, through the dealership, and it was not 
like-for-like.
Marsh also disagreed. It felt it had done all it could to help Miss B, and the fault was with the 
diesel particulate filter (DPF)  which may well have been caused by Miss Bs driving style.
The complaint was then passed to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision, as I didnt 
agree with the proposed redress. In that decision, I said the following.
---
Miss B has explained that she feels she should be reimbursed her monthly repayments for 
the entire period she was without the car. I dont agree that she should be reimbursed for the 
period she had the courtesy car. This is because she was kept mobile for this period, and 
although the courtesy car was different from the financed car, I think its fair to say they are 
both premium cars. To be reimbursed for this period would mean Miss B had a car for free 
for a month, which I dont think is reasonable. Im also aware that Miss B had to organise this 
with the dealership, but this is standard  its the dealership that has access to courtesy cars, 
not the finance provider.
Having said that, I think she should be reimbursed from when the car broke down in mid- 
October, to when it was taken to be repaired in mid-December. This is a three month period, 
so can fairly be addressed by refunding her October, November and December 2022 
repayments. Although its unclear from the independent report whether or not the car could 
technically be driven any significant distance, Im satisfied it was right for Miss B not to do 
so. I say this because the report clearly points to a fault with the DPF. This can  and indeed 
often does  lead to catastrophic engine failure. By not driving the car, Miss B likely avoided 
further very costly repairs. Further, she quite understandably had safety concerns. I think it 
was perfectly reasonable not to drive the car  even if it could be driven, which is itself 
unclear.
Marsh has noted that the DPF issue may have been caused by Miss Bs driving style. I dont 
think this is fair, given that Marsh had accepted the reports findings. The report referred to 
issue having been caused by ineffective earlier repairs. So, the issue was almost certainly 
present at the point of supply.
As regards the preliminary inspection, which the broker requested, and which was paid for 
by Miss B. I agree that Marsh should refund her for this expense, given the broker is, in 
effect, its agent, and Miss B should not be out-of-pocket for it.
Finally, Ive considered an award for distress and inconvenience. Im aware that Miss B has 
already received compensation from the dealership, and I need to be mindful of this. But, I 
dont think Marsh has always been as helpful as it should have been  particularly in 
sometimes directing her to the broker, rather than handling matters itself. So, I think £200 is 
a fairer award to take into account the trouble and upset caused.
---Miss B agreed with my provisional decision. Marsh also agreed, except regarding the refund 
of the October payment. It didnt think this was fair, as Miss B didnt refer the matter to it until 
8 November.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the parties are largely in agreement with my provisional decision, the only outstanding 
matter for me to decide is whether Marsh should refund Miss B her October repayment. Im 
satisfied it should. This was because during the period leading up to Miss B complaining to 
Marsh in early November, she was attempting to resolve matters with the broker  including 
having a diagnostic report carried out, at her own expense, at the brokers request. I dont 
think this was unreasonable of her, given that a brokers role is typically to act as a 
middleman. So, I think it fair that Marsh refund her for this period, and the October 
repayment reflects this.
Putting things right
To put things right, Marsh Finance Ltd should:
refund Miss Bs October, November and December 2022 monthly repayments; 
adding 8% simple interest a year, from the date of each payment to the date of 
settlement;
reimburse Miss B for the initial diagnostic report she had carried out, adding 8% 
simple interest a year, from the date of the invoice (29 October 2022) to the date of 
settlement; and
pay Miss B £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, its my final decision to uphold this complaint. I require Marsh 
Finance Ltd to take the actions set out above, in the section entitled Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Elspeth Wood
Ombudsman