DRN-4073405
The complaint
Mrs C has complained that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) unfairly declined 
a claim under her home insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs C contacted Admiral to make a claim for storm damage to her home. Admiral assessed 
the claim and declined it because it didnt find evidence of storm damage. When Mrs C 
complained, Admiral maintained its decision to decline the claim, but it offered £50 
compensation because of the amount of time Mrs C had to spend on the phone to Admiral. 
When Mrs C complained to this service, our investigator upheld it in part. He said it was 
reasonable for Admiral to decline the claim as there wasnt evidence of storm damage. 
However, he said Admiral should pay a total of £150 compensation because of how her 
claim was handled and the impact on her.
As Mrs C didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint in part. I will explain why.
When we look at a storm claim complaint, there are three main issues we consider:
1.    do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
2.    is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Were only likely to uphold a complaint where the answer to all three questions is yes.
Im aware that Mrs C only contacted Admiral several months after she said she first found 
the damage because she wasnt aware there was a policy in place. So, Ive looked at the 
weather around the time Mrs C said the damage happened. This showed wind speeds that 
would be considered storm strength. I also think a storm could cause damage to a roof. So, I 
think the answer to the first two questions is yes.
So, Ive thought about whether the storm was the main cause of the damage. Admiral sent a 
surveyor to assess the damage. Im aware this was about six months after Mrs C said the 
damage happened. The surveyor didnt find evidence of storm related damage. For the roof, 
he found damage to the verge copings and poor quality work to the lead and re-pointing. He 
also looked at the internal damage and noted that the room was in the process of being 
done up. The surveyor said it wasnt possible to advise what damage had happened 
internally, but he said moisture readings indicated penetrating damp issues. The surveyor 
also took photos of the property. 
Im aware Mrs C was concerned that the surveyor didnt go onto the roof and said he hadnt 
inspected the part of the roof Mrs C was claiming for. A surveyor isnt required to physically 
go on a roof. I can also see the photos include images of the roof as a whole, but also the 
part of the roof with scaffolding on it. Im satisfied the surveyor was able to assess the roof.
Ive also read the report from Mrs Cs contractor who carried out some repairs. This said it 
was storm damage and described the work to the roof and internally and said rainwater had 
run down behind the plasterboard from the roof. Im aware of Mrs Cs comments about the 
damp and that she has said the new plaster was still drying and it was normal for it to take 
many months for it to dry. Ive also read the Mrs Cs report from another builder following a 
recent inspection. This said they had found issues with the roof due to storm damage. It said 
the apex coping stones had moved, which had caused water to seep into the cavity resulting 
in the walls being wet and damp. They said the roof was well maintained.
Having thought about this carefully, Im more persuaded by Admirals surveyor. His report 
includes an assessment of the roof condition and the photos show the issues identified. 
Although Mrs Cs builder said it was storm damage, I havent seen evidence that clearly 
shows the damage was the result of a one-off event, rather than the weather conditions 
highlighting pre-existing issues. The more recent report followed an inspection nearly a year 
after Mrs C said the damage happened and is very brief. Overall, I think it was reasonable 
for Admiral to rely on its surveyors findings and to apply the exclusion for wear and tear and 
decline the claim.
Ive also thought about compensation. Admiral has already accepted there were issues with 
progressing Mrs Cs claim and that she had to follow-up on a number of occasions. Im also 
aware of Mrs Cs personal circumstances, which Admiral is aware of, but I wont describe 
here, and the impact she has described because of the issues with the claim. So, I think 
Admiral should pay a total of £150 compensation, which includes the £50 it has already 
offered, as I think this more fairly reflects the impact on Mrs C.
Putting things right
Admiral should pay Mrs C a total of £150 compensation, which includes the £50 it previously 
offered.My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision this complaint is upheld in part. I require 
Admiral to pay a total of £150 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman