DRN-3838583
The complaint
Ms L complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund the money she lost, after she fell victim 
to an investment scam.
What happened
Ms L had been looking for somewhere to place her money where it would earn greater 
interest than if it was with her bank. She told us shed spoken with the bank about other 
accounts or investments but said it didnt come up with anything. Because of this, she looked 
for investment opportunities herself. 
Ms L looked online and says she came across an advertisement to invest in precious metals. 
While she cant recollect the website she saw the advert on at the time, she recalls leaving 
her contact details when filling out a form so that she could be contacted with more 
information. 
Following this, Ms L received a call. Unbeknown to her at the time she was speaking with a 
fraudster. The fraudster told Ms L about investments available with his company, which Ill 
refer to as B. She was sent a booklet and looked B up on Companies House. Ms L says she 
saw B existed and that the literature she received was in her opinion professional. 
After further contact, Ms L decided to proceed with a £10,000 investment in a one-year 
bond, which B told her would attract an interest rate of 9.31%. On 3 November 2020, Ms L 
attended a Lloyds branch to make the payment of £10,000 to the account details B had 
given to her. After making the payment, B sent Ms L confirmation that the funds had been 
received, along with a bond certificate for her investment. 
Ms L has explained she contacted B not long after making the payment to say shed 
changed her mind and wished to withdraw her money. Ms L explained to our Investigator 
that she got afraid which is what prompted her to want to withdraw her funds. She added 
that the process began to feel stressful  shed parted with money when it had been safe up 
until that point. Ms L told us that her doubts about the £10,000 payment came as shed 
started to have doubts about the security of it. Ms L recalls B told her that it would cost her a 
lot of money to change her mind - something about three figures. Ms L explained that her 
fear was about losing more money when shed already paid £10,000. As Ms L didnt wish to 
pay out more money, she thought shed leave her money and look at it again in a years time 
- given she was under the impression shed invested her funds for a year and then would 
look at it again. Ms L clarified that she didnt feel threatened and, that when B told her about 
the three figures shed need to pay if she changed her mind, she thought B was telling her a 
fact. 
B contacted Ms L again a few weeks later and after this contact Ms L visited a branch as she 
wished to make a payment of £100,000 for a further investment. A note from Lloyds 
indicates it spoke with her about the payment on 12 November 2020 and after discussing 
what the investment was offering there were concerns and, it thought the bond which she 
was told would attract an interest of 13.5% was too good to be true. It also says there were 
further concerns regarding possible Ponzi schemes. Whilst Ms L says the bank didnt 
mention a scam to her, she decided not to proceed with the payment at that time. 
Ms L was approached again by B in March 2021. Ms L has told us she was abroad at the 
time due to her holiday being extended as a result of the pandemic. She says B was in 
contact with her fairly regularly  more than once a week. Ms L has told us that it was like a 
friend reconnecting with her and seeing if shed done anything about her investment.
 
To help with the background of what happened, Ms L has explained other circumstances 
that took place as a result of being abroad for an extended period. On 17 March 2021 Ms L 
attended court, along with two others in relation to a visa and being in the country over 
90 days as a result of the pandemic. 
During their contact, B told Ms L about an opportunity that was available - a bond that would 
attract interest of 11.1%. Ms L decided to go ahead. Between 26 March 2021 and 31 March 
2021, she proceeded to make four separate payments of £24,950 (totalling £99,800) to the 
account details provided by B. 
Ms L says after making the payments she heard nothing more from B and she became 
concerned shed been the victim of a scam. 
In April 2021, she contacted Lloyds to report the scam. Having looked into the matter, Lloyds 
said it would refund 50% of the third, fourth and fifth payments Ms L made. It didnt think it 
was liable for the remaining money Ms L had lost. Lloyds didnt consider it was liable to 
refund 50% of payments one and two on the basis that it felt an effective warning was given 
in branch for the first payment and that it couldnt have done anything more to protect her 
when the second payment was made. Lloyds did pay Ms L £100 compensation in 
recognition of the delay in responding to her complaint. The scam was reported in 
April 2021, but a final response letter wasnt issued until November 2021. 
Ms L remained unhappy and so she brought her complaint to our service. One of our 
Investigators looked into things and she upheld the complaint in part. In summary, she didnt 
think Lloyds had met its standards by providing an effective warning (in branch for payment 
one or online for payment two) as required under the Contingent Reimbursement Model (the 
CRM Code), which it is a signatory of. She added that she was also satisfied the payments 
were out of character for her account and, therefore, warranted staff intervention. Had the 
bank intervened and asked questions she was satisfied it wouldve made a difference  
given that its intervention in November 2020 (when Ms L wished to make a payment of 
£100,000) prevented her from proceeding with the payment at that time. 
However, she didnt think Lloyds was liable to refund Ms L in full. She thought there was 
enough going on that Ms L ought to have had concerns about the transactions she was 
making. On this basis, our Investigator recommended Lloyds refund 50% of Ms Ls overall 
losses. As it had already reimbursed 50% of payment three, four and five, she directed 
Lloyds to refund 50% of payments one and two, along with interest calculated at the monthly 
average rate for a one-year fixed rate bond as published by the Bank of England. In addition 
to the £100 compensation Lloyds had already paid, she thought an additional £150 (£250 
compensation in total) should be paid to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused to 
Ms L. She thought had the bank contacted her about the payments, the spell wouldve been 
broken, and the impact of this scam wouldve been significantly reduced. This 
recommendation also reflected the delays caused by the bank in issuing a response to her 
complaint. 
When reaching her view, our Investigator considered what Ms L had said about being 
vulnerable at the time of the later payments (March 2021) whilst abroad. Whilst she acknowledged Ms L was vulnerable when delayed abroad, she didnt think these 
vulnerabilities meant Ms L was unable to protect herself from the scam she fell victim to  
which was an investment scam. Therefore, she didnt conclude Ms L was more susceptible 
to the specific type of scam she felt victim to under the CRM Code.
Both Ms L and Lloyds accepted our Investigators view. However, Ms L came back to our 
Investigator and asked that the case be re-opened, and the case considered by an 
ombudsman. This was because she considers she was vulnerable at the time of the scam 
and when making the payments. Therefore, under the CRM Code Ms L believes she should 
be reimbursed all the money shes lost. 
In the further contact with our Investigator, Ms L said she feels she was unable to protect 
herself from the scam when making the later payments in March 2021, because of her 
vulnerable situation being delayed abroad. Shes explained she was lonely and isolated, and 
she thought B had her back financially.  
 
Having considered Ms Ls response, our Investigator reiterated she felt Ms L was in a 
vulnerable position at the time (due to the background circumstances), but that she didnt 
think these vulnerabilities made Ms L vulnerable and more susceptible to the scam she fell 
victim to and so her recommendations remained unchanged.  
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to reach a final 
decision.   
For completeness, after Ms Ls initial acceptance of the Investigators view Lloyds proceeded 
to refund 50% of payment one and two as per the recommendations (£17,475). As the case 
has been re-opened and passed for a decision it has not yet paid the additional 
compensation of £150 or the interest.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
consumer made the payments as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the customer even though they 
authorised the transactions. 
These were authorised payments even though Ms L was the victim of a scam. Ms L made 
the payments herself. So, although Ms L did not intend the money to go to a fraudster, under 
the Payment Services Regulations 2017, and the terms and conditions of her account, Ms L 
is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. Of particular relevance to the question of what is fair and reasonable in this case is the 
Lending Standards Boards voluntary Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code), to 
which Lloyds is a signatory. 
The CRM Code requires firms to assess whether a customer was vulnerable to the APP 
scam they fell victim to at the time it occurred. The relevant sections state:
A Customer is vulnerable to APP scams if it would not be reasonable to expect that 
Customer to have protected themselves, at the time of becoming victim of an APP 
scam, against that particular APP scam, to the extent of the impact they suffered. 
This should be assessed on a case-by-case basis. 
In these circumstances, the Customer should be reimbursed notwithstanding the 
provisions in R2(1), and whether or not the Firm had previously identified the 
Customer as vulnerable. [] 
Factors to consider include: 
(a) All Customers can be vulnerable to APP scams and vulnerability is dynamic. The 
reasons for dynamics of vulnerability may include: the personal circumstances of the 
Customer; the timing and nature of the APP scam itself; the capacity the Customer 
had to protect themselves; and the impact of the APP scam on that Customer 
(b) A Customers personal circumstances which lead to vulnerability are varied, may 
be temporary or permanent, and may vary in severity over time 
(c) APP scams may include long-running APP scams or in the moment APP scams.
With the above in mind, Ive thought very carefully about Ms Ls situation and background 
circumstances. Within her submissions Ms L has explained why she feels she was 
vulnerable at the time she made the payments in March 2021 (as set out above under what 
happened). I know this will come as a disappointment to Ms L, but having carefully thought 
about everything she has told us Im not persuaded, on balance, that the individual factors 
shes described made her more vulnerable and susceptible to this type of scam. 
Id like to assure Ms L that I do appreciate she was in a vulnerable situation by being abroad 
longer than she intended to be due to the pandemic and that she was unable to return home 
 which will have been upsetting and stressful for her. But Ms L has told our Investigator that 
she didnt feel her finances were at risk  that she felt her money was safe in the account it 
was currently held in with the bank but that equally at the time she felt her money wasnt at 
risk when she made the payments to B as she trusted him. 
Whilst I also accept Ms L says when B got back in touch it was like an old friend coming 
back into her life, I am also mindful that Ms L was staying abroad in accommodation with a 
friend that she knew would be abroad at the same time  someone she knew from the UK. 
Someone I understand Ms L mentioned the investment to. All in all, Im not persuaded 
Ms Ls perception of the possible risks was significantly and adversely affected by the 
circumstances at the time. 
Lloyds agreed to the recommendations of our Investigators view, so Im satisfied the bank 
accepts that it didnt provide an effective warning for all of the payments Ms L made. As set 
out above, Lloyds has now refunded half of Ms Ls total losses as a result of the scam. However, in declining to reimburse Ms L in full, it is for Lloyds to establish that one, or more, 
of the listed exceptions set out in the CRM Code itself. Those exceptions are: 
where in all the circumstances, the customer made the payment without a 
reasonable basis for believing that: the payee was the person the customer was 
expecting to pay, the payment was for genuine goods or services, and/or that the 
person or business with whom they transacted with was legitimate; or
the customer ignored an effective warning by failing to take appropriate steps in 
response to that warning.
There are further exceptions within the CRM, but none of these are applicable here.
Lloyds considers Ms L should be liable for the remainder of her loss on the basis that she 
made the payments without a reasonable basis for believing that the investment was 
genuine.  
After carefully considering all of Lloyds submissions, Im satisfied it has shown one of the 
listed exceptions applies here. Im not persuaded Ms L had a reasonable basis for believing 
that the payments she was making was for genuine investments from the outset. I know this 
will come as a disappointment to Ms L so I will now explain why:
- Ms L was contacted by B after leaving her details following the advert, shed seen 
about investing in precious metals. Ms L told us she checked Companies House and 
received a booklet from B. Ms L told us the booklet she received from B - about the 
company and what it was offering looked professional and she had no reason to 
doubt what it was saying. Ms L no longer has the booklet and so its not been 
possible to see the booklet. This said, Ive seen no reason to doubt Ms Ls personal 
views about the booklet she received. However, Ms L has confirmed she carried out 
no other checks into B or the investment she was being offered. Ive not seen 
anything that indicates Ms L was aware of B prior to leaving her details after seeing 
the advert online. From what Ive seen and been told, it appears that Ms L took what 
B had told her largely at face value. Given that she was looking to invest £10,000, I 
think Ms L ought fairly and reasonably to have carried out more research to satisfy 
herself about B and the investment she was looking to make.  
- The initial one-year bond Ms L was investing in was offering interest at 9.31%. I think 
this was too good to be true. I recognise Ms L says she thought this was possible as 
it was for precious metals and not a standard bond with a bank. But she didnt take 
steps to verify what was being offered to satisfy herself about what she was being 
offered. Given the interest rate offered, Im persuaded Ms L ought to have proceeded 
more cautiously before making the payment.
- Im further mindful that following the initial payment of £10,000, Ms L says she 
changed her mind and spoke to B as she wished to withdraw her money as she had 
some concerns over the security of her funds. She was told shed incur a large 
charge if she did so and as a result, she decided to leave her money in the 
investment as she didnt want to pay out more money. I think Ms L ought to have had 
concerns about what B had told her in regard to the large charge in the event she 
wished to withdraw her money. 
- Im further mindful that in November 2020, after making the initial payment, Ms L 
wished to invest a further £100,000. She visited a branch to make this payment but 
after speaking with the bank she decided not to proceed after concerns were raised 
about the interest rate being too good to be true and concerns that it might possibly be a Ponzi scheme. Three months later Ms L proceeded to make four payments of 
£24,950 after B got in contact with her about another investment opportunity. I 
recognise Ms L has said that due to the distance in time between the earlier £10,000 
payment and when she decided not to go ahead with the £100,000 investment, these 
werent in her mind at the time of making the payments in March 2021. Whilst I 
recognise Ms L says the earlier payments werent in her mind and that B 
reconnecting was like an old friend coming back into her life, Ive not seen anything 
that shows Ms L carried out any checks into the new investment that was offered. 
This new investment bond was offered with an interest rate of 11.1% which was 
higher than the initial bond shed invested in. I think the rate offer was too good to be 
true. This combined with the other factors, such as her contact with the bank in 
November 2020, albeit she didnt recall this at the time, I think ought to have caused 
her some concern about what B was offering her in March 2021 and ought to have 
prompted her to proceed more cautiously. 
  
Im mindful that, taking any of the individual factors above in isolation, they may not have 
been enough to have prevented Ms L from proceeding to make the payments. But when 
taken collectively and considering the specific circumstances of this case and the factors in 
the round, on balance, I think that there was enough going on and sufficient red flags that 
Ms L ought reasonably to have taken further steps to protect herself from the risks. 
With all things considered, for the reasons explained above, I cant fairly say that Ms L had a 
reasonable basis for believing that she was making payments towards legitimate 
investments. 
I am sorry to have to deliver this news to Ms L. I know this wasnt the answer she was 
hoping for. But, for the reasons I have explained, I cannot fairly say that Lloyds should fairly 
and reasonably be held fully responsible for the loss Ms L has sadly suffered.
Finally, Ive considered our Investigators recommendation that Lloyds should pay a further 
£150 compensation in recognition of the distress and inconvenience Ms L experienced as a 
result of the banks actions, such as, the delay in providing its final response. Lloyds agreed 
to pay a further £150 and so it has accepted there are things it couldve done better. Overall, 
Im satisfied a further £150 compensation in addition to the £100 already paid (£250 in total) 
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case. 
Putting things right
Ms L has confirmed shes received the 50% refund for payments one and two from Lloyds, 
which she initially accepted following our Investigators view. The bank informed our service 
after being notified that our service was re-opening the complaint for an ombudsmans 
decision that it would hold off making the payments in respect of the interest 
recommendation and the £150 compensation payment. 
In light of my findings above, Lloyds Bank PLC, should now: 
Pay interest on 50% of payment one, calculated using the monthly average rate for a 
one-year fixed bond as published by the Bank of England for the month of 
November 2020 and, the one-year fixed bond interest rate on the 50% refund for 
payment two for the month of March 2021. 
Pay a further £150 compensation (£250 in total). My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part against Lloyds Bank PLC. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2023.
 
Staci Rowland
Ombudsman