DRN-4107570
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) didnt offer them 
support with their mortgage payments when they had financial difficulties.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D experienced financial difficulties due to the Covid-19 pandemic.
In mid-2022 Mrs D contacted Halifax to ask about a switch to interest only terms. Halifax 
declined, saying Mr and Mrs D didnt meet its income criteria. Halifax agreed to extend the 
term of Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage, to reduce their monthly payments.
Mr and Mrs D say they have significant equity in two properties, and there would be little risk 
to Halifax in agreeing to the change to interest only terms.
I sent a provisional decision to the parties explaining why I upheld the complaint and what 
Halifax should do to put matters right. In summary, I said Halifax should re-consider fairly Mr 
and Mrs Ds request to switch to interest only payments. I said it could waive affordability 
requirements if this was in Mr and Mrs Ds best interests, and it shouldnt decline the request 
only on the basis Mr and Mrs D didnt meet its usual lending criteria. I also said Halifax 
should pay further compensation of £200.  
Halifax agreed. Mr and Mrs D didnt agree. They said a switch to interest only payments for 
the remaining term certainly was in their best interests. They didnt want to make another 
application, which they said would be fruitless, upsetting and humiliating and cause further 
delays. Mr and Mrs D said their circumstances havent changed and this service and Halifax 
have enough information to make a decision.
Mr and Mrs D asked that I order Halifax to switch the mortgage to interest only payments. 
They said there are decisions on our website where weve ordered the lender to do this and 
pay higher amounts of compensation. They ask that I explain why its not fair and reasonable 
to do this here. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs D say there are decisions on our website where weve ordered a lender to switch 
a mortgage to interest only payments  and even to backdate this and award substantial 
compensation. Equally though, there are decisions on our website where weve said it was 
fair for a lender to decline a customers request to vary their mortgage. When we make 
decisions, we consider whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of each individual 
complaint.
Mr and Mrs D ask that I order Halifax to switch the mortgage to interest only payments. They 
said there was nothing in my provisional decision that alludes to this as anything other than 
in their best interests. I should be clear here that I set out those matters that I thought Halifax 
should take into account as suggesting a switch to interest only payments might be in Mr 
and Mrs Ds best interests. I didnt find that a switch to interest only payments was certainly 
in their best interests. In fairness, Halifax will also need to consider potential risks or 
downsides to switching to interest only, and whether there are other options available that 
might be better for Mr and Mrs D. 
Mr and Mrs D asked Halifax to switch their repayment mortgage to interest only payments. 
Their mortgage balance is about £440,000. Mrs D says they have equity in their buy to let 
property of about £450,000. This wouldnt meet Halifaxs criteria for a repayment vehicle. But 
Mrs D says they arent proposing that the buy to let property is the repayment vehicle. She 
says their intention is that this will provide funds for a pension and a home for their son.
Mrs D says the equity in their residential property should be used as their repayment vehicle, 
as their loan to value is less than 30% and theres equity of about £1,000,000. They dont 
want to sell the property at the moment as its been adapted for the needs of their son, who 
has disabilities.
The issue here though wasnt with the repayment vehicle. Halifax declined Mr and Mrs Ds 
request as they didnt meet its minimum income criteria for an interest only mortgage. Halifax 
says Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage account is up to date, suggesting the payments are 
affordable. Mrs D says theyve used savings and support from family.
Halifax says its unable to waive its usual income criteria, which are intended to comply with 
the rules on mortgage regulation that require an affordability assessment. It says a switch to 
interest only could leave Mr and Mrs D in a worse position if their finances dont improve. It 
says if they switched back to repayment at a later date monthly repayments would be higher, 
due to the shorter term over which the capital would be repaid. And they could be left having 
to sell the property to repay the balance at the end of the term, when they will be almost 70 
years old.
While these are relevant considerations, I dont think Halifax has shown that it fairly 
considered Mr and Mrs Ds request to switch to interest only terms, and whether this would 
be in their best interests.
Rules on mortgage regulation require lenders to assess whether a mortgage is affordable 
before agreeing to lend or vary a mortgage. This includes how the balance of an interest 
only mortgage will be repaid at the end of the term as well as whether monthly payments are 
affordable. However, rules on mortgage regulation allow lenders to vary a mortgage in 
certain circumstances without an affordability assessment if this is in the best interests of the 
customer.
Halifax says it only considered a temporary switch to interest only payments as this is what 
Mrs D requested. Mrs D disputes this, saying they requested a permanent switch. Either 
way, I dont think it was fair for Halifax only to consider a temporary switch. 
Mrs D told Halifax they were having financial difficulties. When Halifax assessed Mr and 
Mrs Ds income and expenditure it found they couldnt meet the monthly mortgage 
payments. It recorded that Mr and Mrs D wanted to restructure the mortgage to reduce the 
contractual monthly payments, and that Mrs D asked about a switch to interest only 
payments. Halifax offered a term extension. This reduced the monthly payments somewhat, 
but not to the level that Halifaxs own notes suggest was affordable for Mr and Mrs D. 
Perhaps there were further discussions that I havent seen records of. But based on the 
available evidence, I dont think Halifax fairly explored what options were available to support 
Mr and Mrs D.Mrs D would like me to order Halifax to switch the mortgage to interest only terms. But I dont 
think its fair and reasonable to do that, based on the information available to me. Im 
upholding this complaint because I dont think Halifax fairly considered what options were 
available to support Mr and Mrs D  one of which would be a switch to interest only 
payments on a temporary or permanent basis. Thats not the same as saying Halifax should 
have switched the mortgage to interest only payments. There are downsides to switching to 
interest only payments, and its likely Mr and Mrs D will have other options available to them. 
What I think should happen is for Halifax to fairly re-consider Mr and Mrs Ds request for a 
switch to interest only payments, and to look into what other support it might offer. To do this 
Halifax will need up to date information from Mr and Mrs D about their circumstances. I dont 
think it can fairly assess whats in Mr and Mrs Ds best interests without this. 
A temporary switch to interest only payments could help if Mr and Mrs Ds financial problems 
are temporary, which might not be the case. It might also be appropriate if Mr and Mrs D 
have the means to repay the mortgage in the short term, for instance by selling their buy to 
let property. Mr and Mrs D have plans for the proceeds when they sell the buy to let property 
and the rental income might be important to them in the meantime  which might mean this 
isnt the right option for them. But I think Halifax should fairly consider this option with them.
Im not saying that a temporary switch to interest only payments would be in Mr and Mrs Ds 
best interests, only that this is something Halifax should consider. The parties should take 
into account whether this would result in adverse data on Mr and Mrs Ds credit files and 
what would happen at the end of a temporary switch to interest only payments.
I think it would be fair for Halifax to consider whether a permanent switch to interest only 
payments would be in Mr and Mrs Ds best interests. I dont agree that Halifax cant waive its 
usual income criteria when doing so. Halifax should take into account MCOB 11.7.1 and 
MCOB 11.7.3, which say it doesnt have to apply the affordability tests otherwise required by 
MCOB 11.6 if the proposed change is in the customers best interests.
These rules  referred to as the transitional arrangements  allow lenders a degree of 
discretion. The rules dont say that a lender must not apply the affordability requirements, 
they say it need not do so. The purpose of the transitional arrangements is to allow flexibility 
so that exceptions can be made to the affordability and interest only rules for existing 
borrowers as long as theres no additional borrowing and the proposed transaction is in their 
best interests. So, in my view, it follows that where a change to a mortgage account is in a 
borrowers best interests, the new rules shouldnt be used unfairly to prevent it happening.
This doesnt mean Halifax cant ask for information about Mr and Mrs Ds income and 
expenditure. Id consider it reasonable for Halifax to take this into account when assessing 
whats in Mr and Mrs Ds best interests. Its unlikely to be in their best interests to switch to 
interest only payments if they still cant meet the monthly interest payments. But I dont think 
it would be fair for Halifax to decline their application simply because they dont meet its 
usual income criteria for an interest only mortgage.
In response to my provisional decision, Mr and Mrs D said a switch to interest only for the 
remaining term is in their best interests. They say Halifax can use the transitional provisions 
to convert the mortgage based on the information theyve already provided. And given the 
equity in their properties theres no risk to Halifax. 
I appreciate how strongly Mr and Mrs D feel about this, and that theyve waited some time 
for their request to be considered fairly. Nonetheless, Halifax has to follow rules on mortgage 
regulation. It will need to assess whether the change is in Mr and Mrs Ds best interests, and 
for that it will need to ask them for up-to-date information and evidence about their circumstances. 
When considering whats in Mr and Mrs Ds best interests, Halifax should take all of their 
circumstances into account, including:
Mr and Mrs Ds property has been adapted for the needs of their son, who has 
disabilities. Its likely to be in their best interests to stay in the property, if possible.
Halifaxs notes of Mr and Mrs Ds income and expenditure suggests theyll struggle to 
maintain monthly payments on a full capital and interest basis, even after the term 
extension. Halifax should consider if they could meet payments if part of the mortgage is 
on interest only terms and part on capital repayment terms. Mr and Mrs D will need to 
provide up to date information and evidence about their income and expenditure.
Mr and Mrs D have significant equity in the security property. If they did have to sell it at 
the end of the term (or sooner) its likely theyd have enough equity to buy a new 
property.
Mr and Mrs D have a second property with equity of about the same amount as the 
mortgage balance. Mrs D says they have plans for the proceeds when they sell the 
property, and I appreciate these plans are important to them. No doubt the rental income 
from the property is helpful in the meantime. Nonetheless, this is potentially another 
means for Mr and Mrs D to repay all or some of the mortgage balance if this is a better 
option for them than selling the security property.
At the end of the term Mr and Mrs D will be about 70 years old. They have significant 
equity in the property. Its likely theyd be eligible for lifetime mortgage products.
A switch to interest only payments isnt without risks. Mr and Mrs Ds income might not 
increase enough for them to make capital repayments in future to reduce the debt. Its 
possible house prices will fall and reduce their equity. This risk is mitigated by the amount of 
equity Mr and Mrs D have in their properties. Its likely a switch to interest only payments will 
mean Mr and Mrs D pay more interest overall (as their balance will not reduce). I should also 
add that its likely Mr and Mrs D will have other options which should fairly be considered. 
Its likely Mr and Mrs D will have options to repay the mortgage balance in future if they 
switch to interest only payments, or to a part interest and part capital repayment basis. It 
seems to me, based on the available evidence, theres a reasonable possibility that this 
would be in Mr and Mrs Ds best interests. If, after gathering further information and 
evidence about Mr and Mrs Ds circumstances, Halifax thinks otherwise, it will need to 
explain this to Mr and Mrs D.
Halifax paid compensation for poor service when Mrs D called to ask for support. I think it 
was right to do so. But I think Halifax failed fairly to consider Mrs Ds request to switch to 
interest only payments. Whatever the outcome when Halifax reconsiders the request fairly, it 
has taken too long to give Mr and Mrs D an answer. I think for the additional upset and worry 
this caused Halifax should pay further compensation of £200.
Mr and Mrs D say there are decisions on our website where weve awarded higher amounts 
of compensation. As I said, we look at the individual circumstances of each complaint. There 
have been delays here, in Halifax fairly considering Mr and Mrs Ds request. In the 
meantime, Mr and Mrs D have been able to maintain mortgage payments, albeit using 
savings and with help from family. And, while this isnt their preferred option, they do have 
equity in their second property which they could use to repay the mortgage, or substantially 
reduce the balance. Having considered what Mr and Mrs D have said, I still think £200 further compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Bank of Scotland plc (trading as 
Halifax) to re-consider Mr and Mrs Ds request for support and pay them £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 June 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman