DRN-3782992
The complaint
Mr Y complains about Chetwood Financial Limited trading as SmartSaves (SmartSave) 
refusal to pay interest into his linked bank account.
What happened
In February 2021, Mr Y invested £17,000 into a five-year fixed rate bond at 1.30% with the 
interest to be added at the end of the term into the bond. In September 2022, following an 
increase in interest rates, Mr Y contacted SmartSave to request that it pay interest monthly 
into his nominated bank account instead. SmartSave said it wouldnt, referring to the terms 
and conditions of the account Mr Y had agreed to at the outset.
Unhappy with this, Mr Y asked to close his account citing clause 61 of the terms and 
conditions. SmartSave responded to Mr Ys complaint in October 2022 explaining it would 
only close an account early in exceptional circumstances. As those didnt apply here, it 
wouldnt agree to closing the account. So, Mr Y referred his complaint to our service.
An investigator looked at what had happened. The investigator thought SmartSave hadnt 
done anything wrong. He explained that it wasnt for Mr Y to depend on clause 61, but rather 
for SmartSave to identify and decide whether there were grounds for it to terminate the 
account. As Mr Y didnt agree, his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The information Mr Y has shared with us makes clear he understood the interest payments 
are paid on maturity to him, so I wont comment on this point further. His point though is he 
wants access to it now so he can reinvest elsewhere and take advantage of interest rate 
rises. Mr Y feels that SmartSave has acted unfairly as its not accommodated his request to 
pay the accrued interest monthly into his nominated account like other providers have.
Ive taken note of Mr Ys frustration and his testimony concerning the decision SmartSave 
has made in comparison to the actions of similar firm. But having considered the information 
provided by both parties, Im not persuaded that SmartSave did anything wrong. The fact 
other firms have taken a different approach by allowing Mr Y to receive interest to a 
nominated account doesnt mean SmartSave has treated him unfairly by not agreeing to do 
this  especially when the terms of the contract dont allow for this. 
Mr Y suggests that a number of firms agreeing to his request indicates good industry 
practice. Im sorry to disappoint Mr Y as Im not persuaded by those comments. Whether 
SmartSave chooses to relax the terms and allow a customer to benefit from the opportunity 
to have access to interest early is a commercial decision for it to make. Its not for this 
service to tell SmartSave how to run its business, especially where the terms and conditions 
of the bond were made clear and agreed to at the outset. 
Since engaging with SmartSave, Mr Y has attempted to close his account using clause 61 of 
the terms and conditions, which sets out the following:
We can close your accounts if we give you at least 30 days notice. We may however
close it immediately if:
a You threaten or abuse our staff
b You continuously or significantly do not meet our terms and conditions
c You arent eligible for the savings account
d You give us false or misleading information when you apply for the savings
account
e The savings account is used illegally
f There are other exceptional circumstances which make it appropriate for us to
do so
Mr Y says hes interpreted clause 61 to mean that he too can initiate the early termination of 
his account. However, as the investigator has explained, Mr Ys interpretation of the clause 
is wrong. The language used above indicates that it is for SmartSave to decide whether to 
terminate an account  it only says it may close an account. There is no room in the 
language of the clause that says a customer can rely on it.
I understand Mr Ys latest position has been to ask the degree to which he ought to abuse 
staff to prompt SmartSave into closing his account. In my view, this type of behaviour is 
inappropriate and unreasonable in the circumstances and is clearly not the intended purpose 
of the term  which is actually for the protection of staff.  
I can see that SmartSave has explained that it wont tolerate abuse of its staff in any way, 
but also has been clear that it doesnt have to exercise that right. As Ive explained before, 
that is a business decision that SmartSave is entitled to make. It follows that I havent found 
anything to show SmartSave treated Mr Y unfairly by not closing his account, so Im not 
telling it to take any further action.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Farzana Miah
Ombudsman