DRN-3195631
The complaint
Mr G is a sole trader. He complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC unfairly required him to 
provide a tax return before it would consider his Bounce Back Loan application.
What happened
Mr G wanted to apply to Barclays for a Bounce Back Loan. Hed been a longstanding 
customer of the bank, holding a personal account through which he also processed his 
business transactions.
Barclays required its personal customers to establish a business relationship with the bank 
before it would accept a Bounce Back Loan application. This was arranged for Mr G without 
issue. 
When Mr G then came to apply for a Bounce Back Loan, Barclays said that it would need to 
see his tax return. Mr G didnt think that was necessary under the rules of the government-
backed loan scheme, and declined to provide it. His application was therefore unable to 
proceed. 
Mr G complained as he thought Barclays was unfairly blocking his access to a Bounce Back 
Loan, for which he believed he met the eligibility criteria. But the bank maintained its 
position. It said that it still had its own criteria notwithstanding those of the Loan Scheme and 
was unable to proceed without the documents it had requested. So Mr G asked us to look 
into things.
Our investigator didnt think Barclays had done anything wrong. In summary, she thought the 
bank had been entitled to request supporting documentation when completing the fraud, 
anti-money laundering and Know Your Customer checks expected of it under the Loan 
Scheme rules and in confirming that Mr G met the Scheme eligibility criteria.
Mr G didnt accept our investigators view. He still didnt think it was reasonable for Barclays 
to have required sight of his tax return, given that he had a longstanding relationship with the 
bank through which he thought it couldve completed the necessary checks. He thought this, 
along with his self-declaration that he met the Scheme eligibility criteria, ought to have been 
sufficient for the bank to proceed.
So with no resolution, the matter was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr G rightly points out, the Loan Scheme rules required borrowers to self-declare that 
they met the Bounce Back Loan eligibility criteria. But that wasnt the end of the matter. 
There were still further checks and processes that lenders were entitled  and expected  to 
carry out. And while loans could be provided to applicants who did not hold a business 
account with the lender, such applications were subject to some additional measures. 
Firstly, the lender had the discretion to require that the applicant enter into a business 
relationship in line with their standard policies. Barclays required this of Mr G and it was 
completed successfully. 
Secondly, and of most relevance here, lenders were also instructed to obtain a copy of the 
applicants 2018/19 tax return in order to evidence aspects of their self-declaration. So 
Barclays was acting in accordance with the requirements of the Scheme rules when asking 
Mr G for his tax return  and so I cant say it did anything wrong in doing so. 
I appreciate why Mr G thinks this was disproportionate in his case, given his longstanding 
relationship with Barclays. I understand that the bank may well have been able to satisfy 
itself as to his eligibility by reviewing his account activity as he suggests. But Barclays was 
expected to comply with the rules of the Loan Scheme  as laid down by the British 
Business Bank, the government-owned bank responsible for administering the Scheme  
which required the tax return to be obtained. I would also highlight that lenders were 
expected to process applications quickly and were dealing with unprecedented volumes, an 
aim to which a review of each applicants individual account activity would not be conducive.
I understand from what Mr G has said that his understanding of the rules of the Loan 
Scheme is based primarily on the information that is publicly available on the website of the 
British Business Bank. But this information isnt exhaustive and doesnt include all the rules 
and requirements that applied to lenders, including the ones at issue here.
So while Im sorry to disappoint Mr G as I understand his strength of feeling over this issue, I 
dont think Barclays did anything wrong in how it handled his application for a Bounce Back 
Loan. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman