DRN-3546513
The complaint
Mr G has complained that Monzo Bank Ltd registered a marker against him at CIFAS, the 
national fraud database.
What happened
In March 2021, Mr Gs Monzo account was used to receive and pass on fraudulent funds. 
The funds were sent on to a cryptocurrency platform.
Monzo closed Mr Gs account and registered a marker against him at CIFAS. Mr G says he 
was unaware of what had happened with his account or the payments to the cryptocurrency 
platform. He said hed never given his PIN or online banking details to anyone, he had them 
written in a private diary that he doubted anyone had access to, only he and his immediate 
family could have accessed his mobile phone, and he didnt lose it.
Our adjudicator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr G 
asked for his case to be reviewed again, so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I sent Mr G and Monzo a provisional decision on 7 June 2022, to explain why I didnt think 
the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
In order to register this marker, Monzo were not required to prove beyond all reasonable 
doubt that Mr G had done something wrong. They did need to have reasonable grounds to 
believe that hed misused his account, which went beyond a suspicion or concern, and which 
had appropriate supporting evidence. Having carefully considered everything that both sides 
have said and provided, I currently think Monzo did have sufficient grounds to register this 
marker. Ill explain why.
Monzo received confirmation from another bank that Mr Gs account was used to receive 
and pass on the proceeds of fraud. The money was sent on to a cryptocurrency platform.
There were two payments to the cryptocurrency platform. The first was made using Mr Gs 
mobile phone, at the same IP address he normally used, authenticated by his fingerprint. So 
I am satisfied that Mr G authorised this payment. Given that his fingerprint was used, there 
was no plausible or realistic way that the payment could have been made without his 
knowledge or consent.
The second payment was made using a second device. The device was registered to Mr Gs 
account using a link sent to Mr Gs registered email address, and his accounts PIN. His PIN 
was also used to authenticate the second payment. On the day of the fraud, it looks like 
Mr G frequently switched between using his usual mobile phone on his normal IP address, 
and this second device. There were sometimes only a few seconds between the uses of 
each device in turn. It looks like the two devices were working together.
There does not seem to be a likely or plausible way that someone unknown to Mr G could 
have carried out the fraudulent activity, all without his consent. I dont see how they would 
have been able to access his personal email, or his mobile phone  which did not go missing 
and which he still was using afterwards  or how theyd learn his accounts PIN. And they 
would not have plausibly been able to use Mr Gs fingerprint without his permission.
It is possible that one of Mr Gs close family members could have found his security details 
in his diary and gained access to his mobile phone. But again, I cant see how they would 
have been able to authorise a payment using Mr Gs fingerprint without his knowledge or 
consent. And understandably, Mr G does not think his immediate family did this, so it seems 
that he has effectively ruled out this possibility too. So I dont think it is likely or plausible that 
someone known to Mr G did this without his permission, either.
Mr G said that he was unaware of his account being used, and that hed never used the 
cryptocurrency platform. But as I explained above, the first payment to the cryptocurrency 
platform was made using Mr Gs mobile phone and his fingerprint, so I think this was him. 
And I can see he accessed his account from his mobile phone at his normal IP address very 
frequently on the day of the fraud, in conjunction with the second device. So it looks like he 
was aware of what was going on with his account at the time, too. But he didnt tell Monzo 
anything was wrong at the time. He didnt speak to them until after the fraud and after his 
account was closed, when he then denied all knowledge of what had gone on.
Mr G suggested this was linked to an incident from some time before the fraud, where hed 
had trouble logging in and asked Monzo for help. But I cant see any record of him asking 
Monzo for help logging in before the fraud. And Im satisfied from Monzos technical 
evidence that Mr Gs genuine mobile phone, PIN, secure token, and email address were 
used here. I dont see a likely or plausible way that someone accessed his account without 
his permission.
Lastly, Ive not seen any evidence that makes it seem implausible or unlikely that Mr G 
couldve authorised these payments or given someone else permission to make them.
In summary, Im satisfied that Mr Gs genuine mobile phone, account PIN, email address, 
and fingerprint were used to carry out the fraud. Based on the evidence, there isnt a likely 
way that an unknown person did this, or that someone known to Mr G did this without his 
permission. That leaves only one likely possibility  that Mr G forwarded on the fraudulent 
money or gave someone else permission to do it. This is a difficult message for me to give, 
and I know its a difficult message for Mr G to receive. But given the evidence I have, and the 
balance of probabilities, Im unable to reasonably reach any other conclusion.
So based on everything Ive seen, I currently think it was fair for Monzo to register the 
appropriate marker at CIFAS. It follows that I also think it was reasonable for them to close 
Mr Gs account, which they were allowed to do under the terms and conditions.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me. But both sides confirmed that 
theyd sent in what they could and they didnt have anything further to provide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before, and for the same reasons as set out in 
my provisional decision above.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman