DRN-4251464
The complaint
Mr S complains that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HL) incorrectly 
applied a contribution as a business rather than a personal payment to his pension. In 
addition, hes also unhappy that he was unable to access his account on their mobile App. 
He also complains that after asking HL to reduce his monthly direct debit, they incorrectly 
took the higher amount the following month.
Mr S wishes to be recompensed for the trouble and upset he feels HL has caused him.
What happened
At the beginning of April 2022, Mr S wished to make a pension contribution. His priority was 
to ensure the money reached his pension by 5 April so it would count as a contribution within 
the 2021/22 tax year. Mr S initially attempted to make the payment by credit card but as HL 
couldnt accept that method of payment, he had to explore other alternatives.
After speaking to HL on the telephone to understand how he could make a payment, Mr S 
made a £5,000 contribution by bank transfer on 1 April 2022. He then spoke to HL again 
several days later to confirm theyd received the monies.
In September 2022, Mr S contacted HL after noticing that hed not benefited from any tax 
relief on his contribution. It then came to light that the payment made in April 2022 had been 
treated as an employer payment and recorded as a gross contribution. That meant the 
payment had already received tax relief at source so nothing further would be added. 
However, that wasnt as Mr S had originally wished. 
Around the same time a further two issues arose. HL collected a direct debit from his bank 
account that was in excess of what Mr S had asked for. In addition, when trying to view his 
online account at the time, Mr S wasnt able to do so as the HL mobile App wasnt available.
Shortly afterwards, Mr S decided to formally complain to HL. He said in summary, HL 
shouldnt have treated the April 2022 payment as a company contribution. He said it 
shouldve been viewed as a personal payment and received tax relief. He was unhappy 
because he didnt believe HL had followed his instructions from the time. In addition, Mr S 
also explained he was unhappy because:
he wasnt able to access the HL App at the beginning of September 2022. He said hed 
lost out financially because of HLs IT problems.
He was also disappointed that despite having asked HL to reduce his direct debit several 
weeks earlier, they continued to take the higher amount in September 2022.
After reviewing Mr Ss complaint HL said in summary, as the April payment had been made 
to them through a business account and Mr S had confirmed to them the payment should be 
treated as a gross contribution, they were content theyd acted fairly. HL also said that as 
their terms and conditions offered no guarantees about their mobile phone App service 
(combined with the fact their telephone lines remained available should Mr S have had any 
queries), they werent upholding that part of his complaint either.
HL did however concede theyd not followed Mr Ss instruction to alter his monthly direct 
debit. To say sorry for the trouble theyd caused, they offered him £300.
Mr S was unhappy with HLs response. He felt theyd lied and tried to muddy the waters in 
an attempt to get themselves out of taking ownership of the tax relief issue hed raised. In 
addition, he wasnt happy with HLs response to his concerns about the App access 
problems hed encountered and the direct debit issues hed had. 
Mr S asked this service to look into his concerns as he didnt feel HL had treated him fairly. 
He also said that because of HLs actions, hed needed to take time off from work as hed 
suffered from stress and anxiety. He went on to explain that he wanted HL to recompense 
him for the time hed taken in trying to resolve the complaint. Mr S felt that should be £2,000.
The complaint was then considered by one of our Investigators who concluded that HL had 
treated Mr S fairly. Our Investigator said in summary, HL had been reasonable in treating the 
£5,000 as a business payment given the nature of the conversation Mr S had held with 
them. He also felt that as other trading options were available to Mr S, HL were right to not 
uphold that part of his complaint. Finally, our Investigator thought the £300 HL had already 
offered Mr S for the trouble theyd caused in not amending his direct debit was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
However, Mr S disagreed with our Investigators findings. In summary, he didnt feel theyd 
got to the heart of his concerns. As Mr S was unhappy with the outcome, he then asked the 
Investigator to pass the case to an Ombudsman to review.
After carefully considering the complaint, I issued a provisional decision explaining that I was 
planning on upholding Mr Ss complaint in part. For completeness, Ive set out the findings I 
made in full below.
My provisional decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I have summarised this complaint in far less detail than Mr S has done and Ive done so 
using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this, our rules allow me to do this. This simply 
reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it - I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome. Instead, I will focus on what I find to be the core issues here and having done so, 
Im upholding Mr Ss complaint in part. 
Before I go into any level of detail, I think its important to cover HLs point about whether this 
service has the jurisdiction to look at all of Mr Ss complaint. HL has said that as Mr S has 
already accepted their proposed resolution to the direct debit issue, that point should be 
considered out of scope. However, as Ill explain in more detail shortly, it seems that Mr S is 
now suggesting he hasnt accepted HLs resolution. In addition, theres nothing contained 
with the regulators dispute resolution rules that would prevent a consumer from bringing their 
concerns to this service (assuming they did so within the correct time limits) even if they had initially indicated they would accept the firms complaint resolution but then chose not to 
accept it.
Pension contribution
Whats at the heart of this complaint is how HL treated the payment Mr S made into his 
pension. HL credited the contribution as a gross payment to his plan - that meant they didnt 
need to apply any tax relief as it was paid without the deduction of income tax. However, Mr 
S says that as it was a personal payment, HL shouldve treated it as a net payment and 
added on tax relief.
As Ive already explained, Mr S initially attempted to add funds to his pension online using 
his credit card. When that failed, he telephoned HL. During that discussion, Mr S was 
advised that payments could only be accepted by either debit card or bank transfer. 
Following that discussion, HL then sent Mr S a set of instructions by email that explained 
how to go about making the payment. The email included a link to the key features of the 
pension and encouraged him to read them along with the contribution checklist. Mr S says 
he doesnt ever recall being sent that email. He went on to explain that he felt HL were lying 
about having sent the message to cover their tracks. Im not persuaded they are though. Ive 
seen a screen grab of the interaction HL had with Mr S on that day and find it highly 
improbable that a major investment platform would fabricate having sent an email. Thats 
because I think it was in HLs interests for Mr S to make the contribution, so sending a 
message that explained how to make a payment would be in their best interests.
What I think is key in this element of Mr Ss complaint is the discussion he had with HL after 
the £5,000 payment had been made. Ive listened to the telephone call Mr S had with HL on 
Monday 4 April 2022. After checking his online account, he wanted to know why the 
contribution hed made on Friday 1 April 2022 wasnt showing on his balance. After 
checking, HL explained that given the closeness to the tax year end, theyd received a 
significant volume of payments on that Friday and were working hard to process those 
monies into the respective customers plans. After initially being told by Mr S that hed made 
the payment, HL discovered the monies had actually been sent in from his business 
account. HL then confirmed the £5,000 had been received and it would show in his pension 
later that same day. During the discussion, HL explained that as the monies appeared to 
have been credited by a business account, they needed to understand how to treat the 
payment. HL asked Mr S whether the premium should be applied as either net or gross to 
his pension. Mr S replied, the premium can only be gross.
Mr S has subsequently said that HL didnt treat him fairly in that call. Thats because he 
says, when he was asked by HL whether the payment should be treated as net or gross, 
he later explained that I had no knowledge or understanding of what that meant. Whilst I 
accept many consumers may be unfamiliar with financial services terminology, if Mr S was 
unsure of the difference between net and gross, he couldve asked HL to clarify things for 
him. Whilst HL are unable to provide advice, they can provide factual information and this is 
an area that I dont doubt if asked, they would have been happy to explain. Importantly 
though, as HL work on a non-advised basis, what I wouldnt expect is for them to check Mr 
Ss understanding of the two. Thats particularly the case when he didnt hesitate to state the 
payment should be made gross when asked, combined with the fact the payment was 
received from a business account. So it seems to me, HL had no reason to doubt Mr Ss 
instruction.
Mr S believes that HL are treating self-employed consumers unfairly. Thats because he 
says that when payments are received from a limited company account, HL view them as an 
employer contribution. I dont agree HL have been unfair though. Before taking the premium, 
plan holders are asked to read the key features document and specifically, the contributions checklist. Whilst I appreciate Mr S explained to HL that he made the contribution on 1 April, 
he did so using his limited company account. Therefore, whilst he may view those monies as 
his own, they actually belong to the company. And, HLs key features document states they 
can accept payments into the pension from company bank transfers, so I dont think its 
unreasonable for HL to conclude such payments shouldnt be treated as personal payments. 
In addition, in the screen grab that Mr S sent to this service (dated 17 October 2022), it 
states that before a contribution can be applied to a pension, HL need confirmation of how 
that payment is to be treated  either net or gross. Whilst I appreciate it was Mr S who 
initiated contact with HL on 4 April 2022, confirmation was given by him of how they should 
treat the tax relief and therefore, their conditions were met.
So, for the reasons Ive given above, Im satisfied HL treated Mr S fairly in respect of how 
they applied his £5,000 contribution to his pension. As such, Im not upholding this part of Mr 
Ss complaint.
Access to HL App
In his earlier correspondence with this service, Mr S explained he was also unhappy that he 
couldnt access his portfolio on the HL App on 1 September 2022. HL explained that at the 
time, they suffered from a brief technical fault that resulted in some android users being 
unable to log in. The issue was resolved when users applied a simple update to their 
existing App. When Mr S complained about this issue to HL, they said they werent 
upholding this element of his complaint. Thats because they said that their terms and 
conditions explained they provided no warranties about the availability of their App and also, 
other options were available to Mr S should he have wished to trade on his account.
Having carefully considered this issue, I wont be upholding this element of Mr Ss complaint. 
Thats because whilst I accept it may have been frustrating, technology can sometimes go 
wrong and isnt always perfect. Putting to one side HLs terms and conditions that say they 
offer no guarantees about the availability of the App - HL have other pathways in place to 
ensure that when their App isnt working, consumers are still able to access their monies 
should they need to. So, had Mr S wanted to trade on his account, he couldve done so via 
their telephone channel or logged into their desktop website.
Monthly direct debit
Mr S is unhappy that HL failed to make an amendment to his monthly direct debit. I think this 
element of his complaint is fairly straight forward as the facts here arent contested on either 
side. Mr S asked them to amend his payment from £1,000 to £500 per month on 17 August 
2022. A day later, HL confirmed theyd made the change for him. Unfortunately, on 7 
September, HL debited £1,000 from his account. 
Mr S contacted HL the same day to highlight the error and they returned the funds four 
working days later. To say sorry, HL originally offered Mr S £200 on 14 September for the 
trouble theyd caused.
HL said in their correspondence with this service that Mr S had eventually accepted £300 in 
full and final settlement of the direct debit issue. From the correspondence Ive seen though, 
I think theres been a misunderstanding between both HL and Mr S about whats been 
agreed on this point. Thats because in his email to this service on 9 February 2023, Mr S 
stated that he hadnt accepted any payment, nor signed anything to say he was happy with 
HLs resolution. On the other hand, HL have said they thought Mr S had accepted their 
proposed resolution on this issue  which I can understand given in the recorded call Ive 
listened to of 23 September 2022, Mr S stated he was happy for that part of his complaint to 
be closed. Having thought about the chain of events and the actions HL took, I think theyve acted 
reasonably in the circumstances. They acknowledged the error and returned the funds 
promptly. They then confirmed the payment had been correctly set up for October. In 
addition, had Mr S wanted to undertake any trades with those monies in September, he 
couldve made a bank transfer from his account and sent the correct amount (£500) back to 
HL. So, Im satisfied the impact of the error is minimal.
Turning to the £300 HL offered Mr S, ordinarily I wouldnt be convinced that such a small 
error warranted that level of redress. I appreciate seeing an incorrect payment taken from his 
account was likely frustrating but as Ive already explained, using financial services wont 
always be hassle free. However, I understand this is a repeat issue so under the 
circumstances, I feel the £300 HL have offered in resolution of this issue is fair and 
reasonable. Therefore, whilst I am supportive of the approach HL have taken on this issue, 
Im upholding this part of Mr Ss complaint. If theyve not already done so, HL should pay Mr 
S the £300. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Having received my provisional decision, HL responded stating they had nothing further to 
add.
In response to the provisional decision, Mr S explained that I had misunderstood part of his 
complaint. In summary, he went on to say that he had not stated anywhere in his complaint 
that the account used to make the pension contribution was a limited company account. In 
addition, Mr S stated that he does not have a limited company. He wanted to understand 
whether a payment coming from a business account would automatically be considered as 
an employer contribution and default to be treated as a limited company account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered Mr Ss further submissions, Im not persuaded to alter the outcome of 
my original provisional decision. Before I explain why this is the case, I think its important 
for me to note I very much recognise Mr Ss strength of feeling about this matter. He has 
provided submissions to support the complaint, which Ive both listened to and read, and 
considered very carefully. However, I hope Mr S wont take the fact that my findings focus 
on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail as he has outlined, as 
a discourtesy. 
As Ive already explained, the purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point 
raised. My role is to consider the evidence presented by Mr S and HL to reach what I think 
is an independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. In deciding 
whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best industry 
practice, but it is for me to decide, based on the available information I've been given, 
what's more likely than not to have happened.
Having reviewed the provisional decision, Mr S stated hes unhappy that references were 
included that the pension contribution was being made from a limited company account. He 
says the payment was made to HL through an account in the name of his business, which 
isnt trading as a limited company. Mr S feels Ive been misled when reaching my 
provisional decision. However, its important to understand why Id concluded the contribution had been made through a limited company - and thats because of comments 
made by Mr S himself.
When Mr S submitted his complaint to this service, he set out his concerns verbally in a 
recorded voice memo. That recording, lasting 10 minutes, was then submitted with his 
wider supporting information. In that recorded voice memo, he stated ..and upon 
receiving the money from my business account, theyve defaulted automatically and put it 
through as a limited company, so theyve registered it as a limited company on their system 
and theyve failed to add the 20% on. That continues the problem theyve added {name 
of Mr Ss business} as a limited company account without any of my permissions. Mr S 
also went on to say HL have his business account noted as a limited company account on 
their systems. So, its because of those comments I understood the payment had been 
made through a limited company.
However, the fact that the pension contribution was made through a business rather than 
limited company account doesnt alter my thinking. Thats because HL received a 
contribution from a non-personal bank account which they needed to allocate to the 
consumers pension. Before they could allocate the £5,000, they needed to understand 
how that contribution should be applied to the pension  either net or gross. The important 
fact here is the contribution arrived via a non-personal bank account and its what 
happened immediately after receipt of those funds which is key. 
So, whilst Im happy to acknowledge the monies arrived via a business rather than a limited 
company bank account, HL still needed to understand how that contribution should be 
treated. And, as Ive already explained, Im of the view that it was the call that Mr S had 
with HL on Monday 4 April 2022 that led to the contribution being incorrectly classed as a 
gross payment.
During that telephone conversation, HL asked Mr S whether the premium should be applied 
as either net or gross to his pension. Mr S replied, the premium can only be gross. And, 
whilst Mr S has conceded that I had no knowledge or understanding of what that meant, if 
he was unsure of the difference between net and gross, he couldve asked HL to clarify 
things for him. As I explained in my provisional decision, whilst HL are unable to provide 
advice, they can provide factual information and this is an area where I dont doubt if asked, 
they would have been happy to clarify things to Mr S if he was unsure. 
As the HL customer services representative Mr S spoke to wasnt authorised to give advice, 
I wouldnt have expected them to check his understanding of the two. And, as Ive already 
explained thats particularly the case when he didnt hesitate to state the payment should be 
made gross when asked. Whilst it was Mr S who initiated contact with HL on 4 April 2022, 
before applying the premium to his plan they needed to understand how the £5,000 should 
be treated  and it was Mr S who instructed HL to treat the contribution as gross. So, 
regardless of the fact that the provisional decision noted the contribution was made through 
a limited company as opposed to a business account, Im not persuaded that HL treated Mr 
S unfairly when dealing with how the pension contribution should be applied to his pension.
Whilst I appreciate this is not the outcome Mr S was hoping for, having considered his 
further comments, I have reached the same decision on each of the complaint issues for 
the reasons Ive already set out above.My final decision
Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited has already agreed to pay £300 to 
settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So, my decision is 
that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited should pay £300 to Mr S.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2023.
 
Simon Fox
Ombudsman