DRN-3248052
The complaint and background
Mr D has complained about Santander UK Plcs decision to agree to increase his overdraft 
several times between May and July 2017, during a period when he was struggling with a 
gambling problem. He says Santander should have realised that he was in serious 
difficulties and should not have allowed him to increase his overdraft. 
Santander looked at Mr Ds complaint but didnt think it had done anything wrong. Mr D 
remained unhappy and so referred his complaint to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Ds complaint. He felt that Santander should have 
realised the extent of Mr Ds difficulties by the time he asked for his overdraft to be increased 
to £900 on 10 June 2017. So the adjudicator recommended that Santander refund to Mr D 
the charges incurred as a result of this overdraft increase and all subsequent overdraft 
increases, backdate any negative information on Mr Ds credit file to 10 June 2017, and pay 
Mr D £100 for distress and inconvenience.
Santander agreed to settle Mr Ds complaint in line with the adjudicators findings. Mr D was 
initially happy with this, but subsequently explained that he felt the payment for distress and 
inconvenience was too low, he said it didnt recognise the serious impact Santanders 
actions had on his circumstances. As an agreement could not be reached, this complaint 
has been passed to me for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, I agree with our adjudicators findings that 
Santander should not have agreed to increase Mr Ds overdraft when he made his second 
request for an increase on 10 June 2017. It should have been clear by that point that Mr D 
was at significant risk of financial difficulties given his clear problem with gambling. But with 
everything Ive seen Im satisfied that what our adjudicator has recommended and what 
Santander has already agreed to do, is fair in all the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr D feels Santander should pay him a higher award for compensation for 
the impact this issue has had on him, and I understand why Mr D feels that way. But given 
what Mr D has told us about his personal circumstances overall, I think it would be difficult 
for me to say that Santanders actions were the main reason behind the difficult situation he 
found himself in. So although I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr D, Im still 
satisfied that by taking the steps our adjudicator has recommended, Santander will have 
done enough to fairly resolve this complaint. 
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, and bearing in mind what Santander has now offered to do 
here, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of Mr Ds complaint 
for Santander to put things right by:
Refunding to Mr D the fees applied to his account from 10 June 2017 until 
account closure.
AND
Backdate any negative information recorded on Mr Ds credit file to 10 June 2017
AND
Santander should also make a £100 award for the distress and inconvenience this 
has caused Mr D.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding this complaint, and I direct Santander UK Plc 
to put things right by doing what Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman