DRN-3362839
The complaint
Mr C says Morses Club PLC irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about a home credit loan lent in February 2021, the loan was for £400 with 
34 weekly instalments of £20. Mr C fully repaid the loan in March 2021.
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Cs complaint and thought the loan shouldnt have been given. 
Morses disagreed and the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr C 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Morses was required to establish whether Mr C could sustainably repay his loan  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue difficulties and 
in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And 
it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Cs complaint.
Morses has provided evidence to show that it asked Mr C about his income and expenses 
and also searched his credit file. Morses hasnt provided the full results of its credit search. 
Based on the checks it carried out, Mr C had sufficient disposable income to repay the loan. 
Morses disagrees with the adjudicators view that Mr C was due to repay a significant portion 
of his weekly income towards repaying the loan as a reason to uphold it says even with that 
portion of Mr Cs weekly income going towards repaying the loan, he still had sufficient 
disposable income.
Mr C has provided a full copy of his credit report, I appreciate different checks could show 
different things but as Morses has been unable to provide the full results of its checks, I think 
its reasonable to rely on the details of the credit file Mr C provided as information Morses 
would likely have seen.
Mr Cs credit report shows that he had two other high cost short term loans, the weekly 
repayment of these was around £60. Mr C also has three credit cards with a combined 
outstanding balance of £1,695 and a combined limit of £2,000. Taking these debts into 
account and the repayment for this loan, I think Morses ought to have known Mr C would 
likely struggle to repay the loan over the term.
Morses has said Mr C repaid the loan early which suggests it was affordable, in my view, I 
think that on its own raises questions about how Mr C was managing his finances. I can see 
from the credit report that Mr C took a loan in the month before this loan and another loan in 
the month after he repaid this loan. In that time, he was using all three of his credit cards 
including taking out cash advances on them.
So while on the face of it, it seemed as though Mr C could afford this loan, I think Morses 
would have seen that he was probably reliant on credit and further lending shouldnt have 
occurred here and so it needs to put things right.
Putting things right
refund all interest and charges Mr C paid on the loan
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about the loan from Mr Cs credit file; HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to take off tax from this interest. Morses must give Mr C a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr Cs complaint. Morses Club PLC should put 
things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2022.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman