DRN-4386234
The complaint
Mr M complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) charged him for 
recovering and storing his vehicle when he made a motor insurance claim. 
What happened
Mr M had a third party only motor insurance policy with Admiral. 
On 5 April 2023, Mr Ms car was involved in an accident. When he called Admiral to inform it 
of the accident, it offered to recover the vehicle. Mr M accepted this offer because he was 
not sure whether the vehicle was roadworthy. 
Mr M says he contacted Admiral the next day so he could get his vehicle repaired. He says 
Admiral did not have a record of recovering his vehicle and could not tell him where it had 
been taken. Mr M says it took Admiral 10 days to tell him where the car was, which meant 
Mr M could not retrieve it and have it repaired. Mr M says he then received an invoice for 
storage and recovery costs. Altogether, the invoice came to £1,075.50. Mr M said he didnt 
know hed be liable for these costs and they wouldnt be covered by his policy. 
Mr M then complained to Admiral. It said that the vehicle was recovered by its out of hours 
supplier. It said if Mr M had made the out of office supplier aware that he only had third-
party cover, then recovery of the vehicle would not have been arranged. It said it would not 
pay the recovery costs because such costs were not provided for by Mr Ms policy. Admiral 
accepted that its call handlers had not been able to tell Mr M where his vehicle was located 
because its systems were not updated. Admiral offered to pay £100 to compensate Mr M for 
the mistakes it made. 
Mr M then complained to this service. Our investigator thought the complaint should be 
upheld. He said that he didnt think Admiral should have offered to recover the vehicle in the 
first place if Mr M only had third-party cover. He also thought that if Admiral had been able to 
locate Mr Ms vehicle when he called, the storage costs wouldnt have accrued. Our 
investigator said that a fair resolution to the complaint would be for Admiral to pay the 
storage costs and half of the recovery costs. 
Mr M accepted our investigators view. Admiral did not. It said Mr M had called its out of 
hours recovery service and so the level of Mr Ms cover would not have been questioned at 
that time. It said the out of hours service would not have known what level of cover Mr M 
had. Admiral said it was up to Mr M to know what he was covered for. In any event, Admiral 
said there was a recorded message when Mr M called the out of hours service saying there 
may be a charge if it was later found that its services fell outside the terms and conditions of 
his policy. 
As Admiral did not accept our investigators view, the matter has been passed to me for an 
ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive upheld Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mr Ms insurance cover was third-party only. In considering the terms and conditions, I can 
see that Mr M was only covered for third-party claims that arose from the use of his vehicle. 
In other words, Mr Ms insurance only covered him for damage that was caused to other 
cars. If his car was damaged in an accident, hed have to sort out any repairs himself. 
Looking at the policy document, I can see it says that Admiral would only recover a vehicle if 
the policyholder had fully comprehensive cover. As Mr Ms cover was third-party only, 
Admiral wasnt obliged to recover Mr Ms car from the accident site. It looks as though it 
acted within its terms and conditions when it refused to pay for the recovery and storage of 
Mr Ms vehicle. 
But in the particular circumstances of this case, I dont think sticking to the terms and 
conditions leads to a fair and reasonable outcome here. 
In considering the issue of the recovery costs, Admiral appears to accept that its out of hours 
recovery agent recovered the vehicle when it shouldnt have been recovered. It says Mr M 
should have known his cover was third-party only. However, I dont think it is fair or realistic 
for Admiral to expect Mr M to be fully conversant with the intricate details of his policy, 
particularly when he had just been involved in an accident. 
Mr M called Admiral and was then transferred to a third-party. It is not clear whether he 
spoke to anyone from Admiral before his call was transferred; or that he knew he was 
speaking to a third-party recovery service. But I dont think he would have reasonably 
expected to be offered recovery if that service wasnt covered under his policy. If recovery is 
offered to a policyholder and there is a risk that service may not be covered on their policy, I 
think it would have been fair for that to have been made clear to Mr M. I dont think a 
recorded message was enough in this case. 
So, with all of that in mind, I think its fair to say that neither Mr M nor Admirals agents were 
clear as to what his policy covered when he called just after the accident. So, I agree with 
our investigator that it would be fair for Mr M and Admiral to share the recovery costs 
between them. 
Looking at the storage costs, I understand Mr M was trying to locate his vehicle and that 
Admiral could not tell him where it was. This appears to have been because its electronic 
systems were not updated when they should have been. I further understand that Mr M was 
in regular contact with Admiral trying to find out where his car had been taken. In my view, if 
Admiral had been able to locate Mr Ms car and hed been made aware that he only had 
third-party cover, he could have arranged for the car to be collected straightaway and he 
wouldnt have incurred the storage costs. 
I dont think Mr M could have retrieved his car to reduce the storage charges any earlier 
because Admiral couldnt say where it was. There was no way for him to avoid the storage 
costs. On that basis, I dont think it would be fair for Mr M to pay for the storage. I agree with 
our investigator that it is fair for Admiral to cover these charges. 
I can see how all of this would have caused Mr M some distress and inconvenience, not 
least when Admiral could not tell him where his car was. With that in mind, I think the £100 
Admiral offered to pay Mr M is fair compensation here. 
Putting all of this together then, I uphold the complaint to the same extent as suggested by 
our investigator and require Admiral to take action to put things right for Mr M. 
Putting things right
I require Admiral to: 
Pay 50% of the recovery costs (including VAT).
Pay 100% of the storage costs (including VAT).If Mr M has already settled the invoice, Admiral must pay simple interest on the 
amount it owes from the date Mr M paid those costs until the date he gets that 
money back. The rate of interest is 8% per year. 
If it has not done so already, pay £100 to Mr M for the distress and inconvenience 
identified above. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to put things right 
as I have set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman