DRN-1627676
The complaint
Mr M complains about the charges hes been invoiced by Mercedes-Benz Financial Services 
UK Limited (MBFS) at the end of his car hire purchase agreement. The complaint is 
brought on his behalf by his wife who Ill refer to as Mrs M.
What happened
Mr M signed a four-year hire purchase agreement with MBFS in March 2015. When the car 
was returned at the end of the agreement it was independently inspected and Mr M received 
an invoice for £4,299.72 for damages. Following his complaint, this was reduced to 
£3,626.72. He complains that any damage on the car, aside from normal wear and tear, 
wasnt caused by him and that hed taken out insurance to cover scratches and dents. He 
also complains that, when Mrs M returned the car, she wasnt aware of the process, the 
member of staff was in a rush and told her everything was fine, there wasnt an inspection in 
her presence, and she wasnt told what it was she was signing.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld, concluding that the 
charges were fair and reasonable and in line with the British Vehicle Rental & Leasing 
Associations (BVRLA) guidelines. Mr M didnt agree. Mrs M said, on his behalf and in 
summary, that:
MBFS significantly reduced the amount of charges after she challenged them  if she 
hadnt complained, Mr M would wrongly have been charged the higher amount.
The dealership should have discussed the damage with Mrs M. She and Mr M had no 
direct contact with MBFS.
Mrs M signed the Used Car Appraisal document because she was told it was part of the 
process of returning the car and the dealership had to make a note of every scratch, dent 
and scuff. At no point was she told there would be charges for damage.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusion of our investigator for these reasons:
The terms and conditions of the hire purchase contract say that the hirer must maintain the 
vehicle in a condition which is consistent with the attached Vehicle Return Standards which 
form part of this agreement. And the terms go on to explain that the hirer is responsible for 
making good any damage or loss to the Vehicle however it occurs. Im satisfied that MBFSs 
vehicle return standards are in line with the BVRLAs guidelines.
During the inspection, by an independent business, photographs were taken and, having 
considered these, Im satisfied that Mr M hasnt been unfairly charged. I say this because, as 
set out in detail by our investigator, in each case the damage is outside of the BVRLAs fair 
wear and tear guidelines.
Mrs M says any damage must have occurred after she returned the car. Im sorry, but Im 
not persuaded this is the case. The damage was noted by the member of staff at the 
dealership when the car was returned, and the nature of the damage is unlikely to have been 
caused either whilst the car was parked at the dealership or during the five miles it was 
driven before the independent inspection.
But Mrs M raises concerns about the return process, so I have carefully considered what 
shes said.
Im satisfied that MBFS has provided evidence of the damage  in the form of photographs 
and video in the vehicle inspection report. 
Mrs M says she wasnt aware of the returns process, that the member of staff was in a rush 
and that she was just asked to sign. But Mr M, having signed the hire purchase agreement, 
must reasonably have known that he would have to pay for any damage to the car. And they 
both must have reasonably known that there was damage to the car. They may not have 
been familiar with exactly the process that would take place to assess the damage, but 
I dont find this makes a difference to the outcome of this complaint. The dealership carried 
out an initial inspection and noted the damage. Mrs M signed to agree this. She says she 
wasnt aware of what she was signing, in the sense that she says she was told the 
dealership had to note every defect and that she didnt realise MBFS would send her 
husband an invoice. Nevertheless, she signed to agree the damage noted by the dealership. 
I would have expected her to reasonably have queried this, even if the member of staff was 
rushing her, if she didnt agree there was damage to the car.
Ive not seen anything to persuade me that Mrs M not being present during either inspection 
made any difference to the outcome  the photographs evidence the damage that is being 
charged for.
When a complaint was raised about the charges, MBFS reduced its invoice by £673. This 
was for three items which, after it investigated, it realised hadnt been noted by the 
dealership. The independent inspection had still identified this damage, but MBFS decided it 
couldnt properly evidence that this damage was present when Mrs M returned the car. 
I think this is fair.
Mrs M mentions that her husband took out an insurance policy to cover scratches and dents. 
He had the opportunity to claim on this policy when the scratches and dents occurred, so I 
dont find this makes a difference to my conclusion.
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont think MBFS has treated Mr M unfairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2020.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman