DRN-1654157
The complaint
Mr G has complained that John Lewis Financial Services Limited failed to process a transfer 
from his credit card account correctly.
What happened
Mr G has a personal credit card account with John Lewis. In October 2018 Mr G made a 
transfer request online to credit a business account he held with another bank, who Ill refer 
to as N. John Lewis processed the request and the funds were sent to N. However, the 
funds werent credited to his business account.
Mr G contacted John Lewis about this and in March 2019, it provided tracing details. It also 
paid Mr G £30 to cover the cost of the calls hed made. Mr G provided the tracing details to 
N, and it located the funds in July 2019. N said the wrong account number and sort code had 
been used but said it couldnt credit the funds to the correct account. Instead it said John 
Lewis would need to recall the funds. Mr N complained to John Lewis. It didnt agree to recall 
the funds as it said there was no error on its part. It said it processed the transaction as per 
Mr Gs instructions.
As the matter remained unresolved Mr G referred his complaint to our service. He believed 
John Lewis was at fault as hed provided all of the correct details, so the funds shouldve 
been credited to the right account with N.
The investigator thought John Lewis shouldve done more to assist Mr G. He asked it to 
recall the funds from N and pay Mr G an extra £50. Mr G didnt accept this and wanted 
further compensation, including an amount to cover the extra interest hed needed to pay on 
his account with N. John Lewis agreed to pay the extra £50 to Mr G and recall the funds.
As Mr G didnt accept the investigators opinion the matter has been referred to me to make 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding it for largely the same reasons as the investigator. So, Im not 
going to be awarding any extra compensation. Ill explain why.
Mr G believes that John Lewis is the party at fault for his transfer not going through. He says 
this because he when he completed the transfer screen online, he was only asked for the 
credit card number he was attempting to transfer the funds to, the expiry date and the 
amount. He wasnt given any chance to enter an account number or sort code. So, he 
thought it was John Lewiss fault that it used an incorrect account number and sort code.
It does appear the account details and sort code used by John Lewis werent the right details 
that wouldve been needed to credit Mr Gs business account with the funds. However, it 
also appears Mr G didnt provide the right reference number either. According to an email sent to him by N, he needed to provide the 16 digit reference number on his account 
summary statement, rather than the credit card number. So, even if the right account details 
had been used by John Lewis, his account still wouldnt have received the funds.
In any event, Im not persuaded John Lewis made a mistake here. It processed Mr Gs 
transaction as per his instruction. It appears the process it was following was for transfers 
made to personal credit card accounts in the same name. John Lewis says these are the 
account details it uses for all transfers of this nature, and it hasnt encountered this problem 
before. But Mr N was attempting to transfer the funds to his business account, so it seems to 
me that this is where the problem lies.
I agree with the investigator that John Lewis couldve done more to assist Mr G when the 
problem first arose. While there was no bank error, Mr G is their customer and so it ought to 
have recalled the funds as per Ns request to help him. So, I think an extra £50 is warranted 
to recognise the inconvenience caused here. 
Mr G has asked for John Lewis to cover the cost of the additional interest hes had to pay on 
his credit card account with N. I asked Mr G to provide bank statements to show the 
additional interest hes paid, but this wasnt provided. So, I havent seen any evidence to 
show Mr N has paid extra interest. And while John Lewis couldve assisted Mr G earlier by 
recalling the funds, the matter is still unresolved as N hasnt yet returned the funds or applied 
them to Mr Ns business account. So, I think Mr G wouldve still had to pay the additional 
interest anyway.
I appreciate Mr Gs frustration that the matter is still unresolved. Ive seen evidence 
confirming John Lewis recalled the funds from N in October 2019, but N still hasnt returned 
these. Im not sure why that is, but I think John Lewis has done as much as it can to facilitate 
the return of these funds to Mr G. The investigator has also tried to help with this by 
contacting N on Mr Gs behalf. I can only suggest Mr G continues to follow things up with N. 
And if N requires any further action from John Lewis to help return the funds to Mr G, I would 
expect it to comply.
Putting things right
John Lewis Financial Services Limited should pay Mr G £50 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. It should also comply with any reasonable further action required by 
N to help return Mr Gs funds to him.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
John Lewis Financial Services Limited should pay Mr G £50 and comply with any further 
reasonable steps required by N to return Mr Gs funds to him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2020.
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman