DRN-3741969
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that Saxo Capital Markets UK Limited trading as Saxo Markets (Saxo) told 
him hed be able to upgrade his SIPP (self invested personal pension) account to 
Professional Status but later said that was no longer possible. 
What happened
I dont think theres much dispute about what happened. How things progressed is recorded 
in a large number of emails. Im not going to refer to all of them, just what I see as key. 
In brief, in early 2021 Mr C was in discussions with Saxos representative about transferring 
his existing ISA and investment account to Saxo and opening a SIPP. Mr C was interested in 
upgrading to Professional Status for his SIPP so he could hold and undertake trades in more 
complex investment products via an account with Saxo which would be held as an asset of 
the SIPP. In particular, Mr C was interested in investing in US based Exchange Traded 
Funds (ETFs).   
To be granted Professional Status Mr C had to meet certain criteria. In an email on 17 
February 2021 Saxos representative said, based on the information Mr C had given, he 
should be able to upgrade to Professional Status. But Saxos representative couldnt advise 
which SIPP trustees would permit that. That was with reference to an earlier email that day 
when the representative had said that Saxo could only upgrade the SIPP to Professional 
Status if the SIPP trustee permitted that.  
Mr C emailed the following day saying hed narrowed down the trustee choice and hed 
probably make an application the next day and let Saxo know. Once the SIPP was opened 
and the transfer process started he could apply for the Professional Status upgrade. On 11 
March 2021 Saxos representative confirmed Mr Cs application from his selected SIPP 
provider had been received and Saxo would begin onboarding for the SIPP.
Mr C initially applied for the SIPP Professional Status upgrade on 12 April 2021. The 
application was rejected because Saxo needed a statement from the SIPP provider showing 
the assets under management (AUM). Mr C forwarded that to Saxo and reapplied again on 
14 April 2021. 
During a telephone conversation on 19 May 2021, Saxos representative said the upgrade to 
the investment account was likely to complete the following day but the upgrade to the SIPP 
was still being considered. In an email following the call Mr C said, amongst other things, 
that hed like his ISA upgraded too. 
On 21 May 2021 the representative emailed to confirm that Mr Cs private investment 
account would very shortly be upgraded to Professional Status. The representative said the 
ISA couldnt be upgraded to trade complex products. Mr C replied asking if that could be 
reconsidered. In an email on 24 May 2021 the representative confirmed the ISA account 
wouldnt be able to trade complex products; that Mr Cs regular account and had been 
upgraded to Professional Status; and that the SIPP account upgrade was in process with the 
SIPP trustee. 
On 25 May 2021 the representative emailed saying the decision about the ISA couldnt be 
changed, adding that, in any event, most complex products werent ISA eligible. The email 
also said the SIPP would be approved for Professional Status for trading complex products. 
But, in a later email sent the same day, the representative clarified that Saxo was waiting for 
Mr Cs SIPP trustee to confirm it agreed the upgrade to Professional Status.   
During a telephone call on 9 June 2021, Saxos representative told Mr C hed have the 
approval of the upgrade to the SIPP account from the following Tuesday (15 June 2021). 
On 21 June 2021 Mr C emailed for confirmation that the SIPP had now been set up for 
complex ETFs. The representative replied, saying he was still waiting for confirmation. After 
Mr C had chased again on 22 June 2021, the representative advised that issues about 
upgrading SIPP clients to Professional Status had arisen. Mr C replied, pointing out hed 
moved the SIPP because of the upgrade and hed been clear from the outset about that. He 
added he hoped it wasnt a case of client discrimination with some getting the upgrade and 
others not. The representative replied saying the decision was being looked at. 
On 30 June 2021 the representative emailed Mr C to say Saxos senior management team 
had decided not to allow SIPP clients to upgrade and so Mr Cs application for Professional 
Status on his SIPP had been cancelled. 
Mr C complained to Saxo. In its final response dated 24 August 2021 Saxo agreed the 
information the representative had given Mr C on 9 June 2021  that his application to 
upgrade his SIPP account to Professional Status had been approved by Saxos senior 
managers and that Saxos legal team would contact the SIPP provider to confirm  was 
incorrect. Saxo apologised and offered £250 in recognition of the inconvenience caused.  
Mr C remained unhappy and referred his complaint to us. 
On his complaint form he set out in detail how hed been impacted. In summary he said, 
after looking on Saxos website and talking to and emailing Saxo, hed decided, in January 
2021, to open an additional SIPP. That had taken a lot of time, misery, emotional distress 
and had a huge impact on his mental health. But, in June 2021, after months of delay, Saxo 
then changed the rules and refused to classify him as a Professional Client for the SIPP. He 
said he was lied to, misled and deceived by Saxos representative. And Saxo had 
discriminated against him as existing SIPP clients can retain their Professional Status. Mr C 
said a warning and a cut off date that the new rules would apply from shouldve been given. 
To resolve matters Mr C wanted his SIPP to be upgraded to Professional Status. And Saxo 
fined for discrimination, deception and financial fraud. He said the compensation offered 
should be increased to reflect the misery, mental and emotional distress hed been caused 
and the time hed spent  over 100 hours. Hed also been affected financially  he couldnt 
buy US traded ETFs and had lost out on investment returns. Mr C also suggested sanctions 
against Saxos representative and the employee who dealt with his complaint. 
Mr Cs complaint was considered by one of our investigators. But he didnt uphold the 
complaint. He made the following findings:
We dont regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that was down to the 
regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We aim to try to resolve individual 
complaints. If something has gone wrong, wed ask the business to take steps to put 
the consumer in the position theyd be in, if the problem hadnt occurred. 
Saxo had acknowledged that its representative gave Mr C wrong information during the call on 9 June 2021. The representative had confirmed that approval to upgrade 
Mr Cs SIPP would be granted within days. That wasnt accurate. Having 
misinformed Mr C, the representative couldve been more contrite when he told Mr C 
by email on 30 June 2021 that the account wouldnt be upgraded. But the 
investigator didnt think the representative had purposely misled or deceived Mr C.
It was clear Mr C had selected Saxo specifically because hed be able hold and trade 
US based ETFs which were considered complex and only permitted for Professional 
Clients. Mr C met Saxos criteria for Professional Clients. His disappointment on 
learning, after an application process lasting almost six months, that service was 
withdrawn was understandable.  
But, before the telephone call of 9 June 2021, Saxo hadnt guaranteed Mr C would 
be approved for Professional Status on his SIPP. There was an application process. 
Initially the application was rejected as the documentation provided didnt prove Mr C 
met Saxos criteria. Saxo wasnt responsible for that. A new application was made. In 
the email exchanges the representative made it clear that implementation was 
contingent on the SIPP providers approval, so Mr C wouldve been aware it wasnt 
guaranteed.
Saxo had explained, following Mr Cs further application, that Saxo was in the 
process of reviewing their policy on permitting Professional Status for SIPPs. It isnt 
for this service to dictate to a business the products and services it chooses to offer. 
Thats a commercial decision for the business.
Saxo had decided not to offer any new Professional Status upgrades for SIPPs. Mr C 
might consider it unfair that SIPPS with existing Professional Status can maintain it 
but, again, that was a commercial decision for Saxo. It wasnt discriminatory, as 
Saxos decision applies to all new applicants equally, not just to Mr C. It was 
unfortunate that this service was withdrawn while Mr C was in the process of 
applying, but the cut off must fall somewhere.
From the email exchanges it was clear Mr C intended to use the SIPP to trade ETFs 
and that was the driver for selecting the Saxo platform and seeking the Professional 
Status upgrade. Mr C felt hed lost out financially as a result of not being able to 
acquire these investments in his SIPP. But before 9 June 2021 there was no explicit 
or implied guarantee of approval. There was nothing to indicate the representative 
had any reason to expect the service to be withdrawn and its unlikely he was a party 
to the decision making process.
The representative did lead Mr C to believe approval would be granted from Tuesday 
15 June 2021. But it was only two weeks later that Mr C learned that approval 
wouldnt be given after all. It wasnt certain that Mr C wouldve traded during that 
period and it couldnt be determined how much hed have invested or for how long 
hed have held those positions. It couldnt be concluded that the erroneous 
information had led to a material financial loss.
Mr C had said the process took 100 hours of his time. It did go on for several months 
but it didnt seem mistakes or delays by Saxo caused Mr C to spend more time than 
might usually be involved in applying for a complex financial product. It was clear 
from the outset hed have to provide the information required and take the steps 
necessary for his application to be assessed. It had taken Saxo from mid April to 30 
June 2021 to decide whether to permit the SIPP upgrade. But, before the call on 9 
June 2021, no particular timescale was promised. 
Mr C was disappointed that Saxo wont offer Professional Status on his SIPP and that had caused him distress and anxiety. But that had to be weighed against Saxos 
right to make commercial decisions. The decision wasnt made with an intention to 
cause distress.
The investigator thought Saxos offer was fair. Saxos representative had told Mr C 
on 9 June 2021 that the SIPP upgrade would be approved by the following Tuesday 
(15 June 2021). Mr C didnt hear then and had to chase. The representative couldve 
been more apologetic when it transpired an upgrade wouldnt be granted after all. But 
that was because Saxos senior management had changed their policy. The 
representative wouldnt have been aware that change was imminent before the 
decision was made. Saxo had accepted Mr C had a poor customer experience and 
had offered £250 which was in line with what wed usually award.
Mr C was very unhappy with the investigators view. Mr C wanted the matter reconsidered. 
He didnt make any further comments or supply any further evidence or information. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and although I know that Mr C will be very disappointed, I agree with what 
the investigator said. 
Im only looking at Mr Cs complaint about Saxos refusal to grant Professional Status in 
connection with the SIPP. Ive seen that Mr C also raised a complaint about moving 
securities. Saxo issued a final response letter about that complaint on 16 August 2021 
partially upholding the complaint and offering Mr C what Saxo termed a goodwill gesture of 
£50. Mr C said in his email sent on 18 August 2021 that he was happy to close that 
complaint. But not his other complaint  Saxos refusal to grant him Professional Status in 
connection with his SIPP, which is the complaint Im dealing with here.
 
Like the investigator Ive focused on what I see as the main issues. Ive considered first if 
Saxo was entitled to refuse Mr Cs application. Ive then looked at how Saxo dealt with the 
application (and refusal). And Ive thought about the impact of any failings by Saxo on Mr C 
and what Saxo needs to do to put matters right, including what Mr C wants to happen. 
I agree with the investigator that the products and services a business chooses to offer and 
the terms on which a particular product or service is available are commercial decisions for 
the business concerned. As are decisions about whether a particular product or service 
should continue to be offered or withdrawn. Saxo, having previously been prepared to offer 
Professional Status to SIPP clients, then looked at that again, issues having been raised by 
an internal team. After considering the position, Saxo then took the commercial decision not 
to continue to offer Professional Status to SIPP clients. We dont have details of the reasons 
for Saxos decision but whether it was based on risk, cost or other factors, I think it was an 
operational and business decision which Saxo was entitled to take and not something in 
which wed seek to interfere. 
I understand why Mr C says Saxo shouldve given a warning that it was going to revise its 
policy about Professional Status for SIPP clients and set a date from which the new policy 
would apply. But I dont think it will always be feasible or practicable to introduce a change in 
that way. And how a business decides to implement a change in policy or approach  and 
whether it is immediate or appliable after a date set  is again a matter for the business 
concerned and its commercial judgment. Saxo was entitled to withdraw Professional Status for SIPP clients with immediate effect. And Saxo was entitled to refuse to upgrade Mr Cs 
SIPP to Professional Status.  
As to how Saxo dealt with Mr Cs application, although, as Ive explained, we wont interfere 
with a business commercial decisions, we can still consider a complaint which relates to that 
sort of decision and look at how the business dealt with an impacted customer, including if 
the customer has been treated fairly. 
Unfair treatment includes discrimination. Mr C has said he was discriminated against but I 
dont think hes alleging discrimination under the Equality Act 2010 and saying theres been 
discrimination based on any of the protected characteristics set out in that Act. I think hes 
referring to discrimination in the more everyday sense and saying hes been treated less 
favourably compared to other customers.
 
Mr C says Saxo is creating a two tier client base as existing SIPP customers whod been 
granted Professional Status were allowed to retain it. Saxo couldve withdrawn Professional 
Status for existing SIPP clients too. But Saxo decided against that. I dont think that means 
Mr C has been discriminated against. As the investigator pointed out, Mr C has been treated 
the same as other (new) SIPP customers in his position. Allowing existing SIPP customers 
to retain Professional Status simply reflects the terms and conditions agreed with those 
customers at the time. 
 
I recognise that the timing was very unfortunate for Mr C. His application was being 
processed when Saxo decided against allowing SIPP customers Professional Status. An 
immediately effective change in policy is likely to impact more on customers such as Mr C, 
whove made an application or taken other steps based on what they understood the 
business stance to be. But, as Ive said above, it wont always be possible to give notice or 
set a cut off date which allows existing applications to be considered under the old policy. 
Like the investigator I think Saxos representative dealt with Mr Cs application on the basis 
of what the representative understood Mr Cs position and Saxos approach to be. It seemed 
Mr C met the prevailing criteria and so the representative thought the application would be 
granted and his communications reflected that. I havent seen anything which makes me 
think the representative deliberately misled Mr C or lied to him. And, as the investigator 
pointed out, Mr C knew it was an application process. Theres always a risk, when an 
application is actually scrutinized, that technical or other issues or queries arise and which 
can lead to delays in processing or the application being rejected. 
Ive also considered the overall time taken  about six months if Mr Cs preliminary enquiries 
started in early 2021 and he was told at the end of June 2021 that he couldnt have 
Professional Status for his SIPP. But Mr C had to first open a new SIPP. It wasnt until 
towards the middle of March 2021 that Saxo received confirmation that had been set up. 
Mr Cs first application for Professional Status for his SIPP was made in mid April 2021. It 
wasnt granted because no AUM statement had been provided. Mr C renewed his 
application more or less immediately with the required AUM statement. It was then a further 
two months before Mr C was told the (wrong) outcome. Given that Mr C was applying for a 
relatively unusual and complex product or service, and that the application wasnt actually 
made until mid April, I dont think I can say the time taken was unreasonable. I note that 
Saxos representative seems to have dealt promptly with Mr Cs email correspondence 
during that period. And, as the investigator pointed out, no particular timeframe was 
promised, leaving aside what happened in June 2021. 
The investigator said Mr C also knew the upgrade was subject to approval by the SIPP 
provider. I dont think there was any reason to believe the SIPP provider would raise any issues. I think it had all been cleared in advance and the particular SIPP provider selected 
because it would allow Mr C to have Professional Status and trade within his SIPP in 
complex financial products including US based ETFs. But, that aside, Mr C knew there was 
an application procedure and approval wasnt guaranteed and subject to confirmation by 
Saxo. 
Mr C got that confirmation during his telephone call with Saxos representative on 9 June 
2021. Mr C was told that his application to upgrade his SIPP account to Professional Status 
had been approved by Saxos senior managers and that Saxos legal team would contact 
the SIPP provider to confirm. Theres no dispute that information was incorrect. Saxos 
representative then had to back track. He told Mr C on 21 June 2021 that confirmation was 
still awaited; on 22 June 2021 that issues had arisen; and on 30 June 2021 that thered been 
a change in policy and the upgrade wouldnt be granted after all. Like the investigator, and 
although the same outcome wouldve prevailed, I think the representative couldve been 
more apologetic and shown more empathy in delivering the revised outcome.
Where we think a business hasnt acted as it should well consider if, as a result of any 
failings by the business, the consumer has suffered financial and/or non financial loss (such 
as pain and suffering, distress or inconvenience). 
As to any financial loss, Mr C has suggested he missed out on investment returns as a result 
of not being to trade. But my view is that Saxo was entitled to refuse Mr Cs application so I 
cant say that any inability to trade was Saxos fault. I also agree with the investigator that its 
impossible to say now what, if any, investments and/or trades Mr C wouldve made and with 
what result. Its also possible hed have lost money so the inability to buy and trade has 
saved, rather than cost, him money. 
I note the amount of time Mr C has spent on the matter. I appreciate thered have been a fair 
amount of administrative and other work involved for Mr C - such as filling out application 
and other forms and locating and submitting supporting documentation. And Mr C did have 
to undertake some research as to which SIPP trustees would permit what he wanted to do. I 
can see that Saxos representative, although he couldnt recommend a particular SIPP 
provider, did try to assist with that. 
Mr Cs position is that he was only setting up the new SIPP so he could obtain Professional 
Status for his SIPP with Saxo. As, in the end, Saxo wasnt prepared to grant that Mr Cs 
efforts were wasted. I can understand why he feels aggrieved about that. But, as Ive said, 
an application is a process and may or may not be successful. At the time Professional 
Status was available to SIPP clients who met certain criteria so both Mr C and the 
representative were working towards that.  Saxo was entitled to revise its policy at any time. 
Even for customers whose application was already under consideration and whod probably 
be most affected by an immediately effective change in policy. 
Im sorry to hear what Mr C says about how this matter has affected his mental health. In 
awarding compensation we take into account the impact of any failings by the business 
concerned on the individual consumer. But, in the main, I havent been able to uphold the 
complaint. And any award wont reflect that Mr Cs application was refused. As Ive said, I 
think that was a commercial decision that Saxo was entitled to make, notwithstanding that 
Mr Cs application was already under consideration. So the award isnt as wide reaching as 
Mr C might expect and the amount is commensurately more modest too. 
What the award acknowledges is Saxos handling of the matter and the fact that its 
representative wrongly confirmed to Mr C that Professional Status for his SIPP had been 
approved. I can understand that Mr C wouldve been very pleased to learn on 9 June 2021 
that his efforts had come to fruition and hed be able to invest via his SIPP as hed been planning. That was then followed by a period of uncertainty from 21 June 2021 before he 
learned on 30 June 2021 that he wouldnt be given Professional Status for his SIPP after all. 
That news wouldve been a blow to Mr C, particularly when hed been told he had qualified. 
I dont underestimate the disappointment Mr C wouldve felt. But Ive also borne in mind that 
the window during which he was led to believe his application to upgrade had been 
successful was relatively short. And, like the investigator, I have to bear in mind and balance 
that Saxo was entitled to come to the decision it did and even where Mr Cs application was 
already under consideration. 
All in all I think the sum offered is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case and 
in line with what wed award for distress and inconvenience suffered, including loss of 
expectation. 
I dont expect Mr C to agree. I can see he feels very strongly that he hasnt been treated 
fairly by Saxo. And hes made it clear that his priority in bringing his complaint is to get 
Professional Status for his SIPP. But, as Ive said above, we wouldnt interfere in decisions 
about how a business operates so wed be unlikely to say that a business should offer to 
provide a service or product to a consumer when the business, for commercial and 
operational reasons, has decided that it will no longer offer that product or service. So Im 
not going to say that Saxo must upgrade Mr Cs SIPP to Professional Status. 
As the investigator explained, we dont fine or punish business. Or impose sanctions on 
employees. If Mr C doesnt want to accept my decision, it will remain open to him to pursue 
his concerns by other means, such as contacting the FCA and/or the media or taking court 
action. 
My final decision
Saxo Capital Markets UK Limited trading as Saxo Markets has already made an offer to pay 
£250 to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So my 
decision is that Saxo Capital Markets UK Limited trading as Saxo Markets should pay £250. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2023. 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman