DRN-4451782
The complaint
Mr F complains that Lloyds Bank PLC failed to protect him from becoming the victim of a 
scam. This complaint has been brought by a representative (a fraud officer from Mr Fs local 
police force) but for ease of reference, Ill mainly refer to Mr F throughout this decision.
What happened
Mr F held a savings account and a current account with Lloyds and sadly fell victim to a 
scam in July 2022. He was contacted by a scammer claiming to be from Lloyds fraud team, 
who said that unusual activity had been detected on his account and that they were 
investigating what had happened. Mr F was subsequently told by this person that the 
manager at his local Lloyds branch was involved in these suspicious transactions and that 
he would need to move his money to keep it safe.
The fraudster gained Mr Fs trust over time and persuaded him to withdraw large sums of 
money in branch, which he would then send on to the fraudster in the post.
Over the period of 7 July 2022 to 1 August 2022, Mr F made the following withdrawals and 
transfers across two different Lloyds branches:
Date Transaction type Branch Amount
07/07/2022 Cash withdrawal A £4,000
11/07/2022 Cash withdrawal A £4,500
14/07/2022 Cash withdrawal A £6,000
20/07/2022 Cash withdrawal A £7,000
01/08/2022 Transfer to Mr Fs account with 
another bank NB £10,000*
*No loss arose from this transfer as the scam was unravelled before these funds left Mr Fs 
account with N.
Mr F says he was told by the scammer to tell the bank the money was firstly for building 
work, and then that it was to buy a car for his grandson. In total he withdrew £21,500 and 
sent it on to the fraudster. Mr F realised hed been scammed when he tried to move the 
£10,000 from his account with N and they invoked the banking protocol, leading to the 
intervention of police who were able to unravel the scam. 
Mr F complained that Lloyds didnt do more to protect him from financial harm, and allowed 
him to withdraw significant sums of money when that was not normal behaviour for him.
Lloyds said it had no concerns about the first two payments given what Mr F had told them 
the payments were for. But Lloyds said that by the third payment it had become suspicious 
and questioned Mr F more closely, as well as asking him to read its leaflet on common 
scams, but that Mr F had confirmed that none of the situations set out in the scam leaflet 
applied to him. By the fourth payment, Lloyds was very concerned, and invoked the banking 
protocol, meaning that police officers attended the branch and also discussed the payment 
with Mr F. But even after that initial police involvement Mr F still wanted to go ahead with the 
withdrawal. So, overall, Lloyds feels there was nothing more it could have done to prevent 
the scam.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. They considered that Lloyds potentially ought to 
have questioned Mr F more closely about the first two payments, rather than waiting until the 
third payment, given that the withdrawals were out of character for Mr F. But in light of what 
happened when Lloyds did question Mr F in more detail, provided information about scams, 
and involved the police, our Investigator didnt think that any earlier intervention wouldve 
made a difference, or that Lloyds couldve done anything more to have prevented the scam. 
Mr F and his representative disagreed, specifically they felt that intervention at an early 
stage  before Mr F was so under the spell of the scammer  could potentially have 
prevented Mr Fs loss. As no agreement could be reached, the matter has been escalated to 
me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator, and for the same 
reasons.
Its not disputed that Mr F authorised the withdrawals in question. So as per the Payment 
Service Regulations 2017 (which are the relevant regulations in place here) that means Mr F 
is responsible for them. That remains the case even though Mr F was the unfortunate victim 
of a scam.
Because of this, Mr F is not automatically entitled to a refund. But the regulatory landscape, 
along with good industry practice, also sets out a requirement for account providers to 
protect their customers from fraud and financial harm. And this includes monitoring accounts 
to look out for activity that might suggest a customer was at risk of financial harm, 
intervening in unusual or out of character transactions and trying to prevent customers falling 
victims to scams.
Taking the above into consideration, I need to decide whether Lloyds acted fairly and 
reasonably in its dealings with Mr F, or whether it should have done more than it did.
Having considered Mr Fs statements over the period prior to the scam, I do think it is 
arguable that from the start the withdrawals were unusual and out of character. His 
statements show some large payments out of his current account, but given that the scam 
payments were cash withdrawals, and from Mr Fs savings account rather than his current 
account, I do consider that the very first scam withdrawal (for £4,000) should have stood out 
as potentially suspicious to Lloyds. 
I appreciate that Lloyds did eventually follow the Banking Protocol and involve the police. But 
this was not until the fourth withdrawal, on 20 July 2022, by which point Mr F had already 
made three previous withdrawals amounting to over £14,000.
Briefly, the protocol recommends that when a customer wishes to make an unusually large 
cash withdrawal, staff should make tactful enquiries to determine if the customer is at risk of 
falling victim to a scam. If they then have suspicions that the customer is at risk of falling 
victim to a scam, the protocol states that they should call the police.I appreciate that Lloyds did not consider there to be anything inherently suspicious about the 
first two withdrawals Mr F made, given what he said the money was for. But he was 81 years 
old, which is a relevant factor here. Both the Banking Protocol and the BBA report on 
customers in vulnerable circumstances acknowledge that elderly customers are more likely 
to be targeted by scammers because of their circumstances.
Considering all of this, I am satisfied that there were indicators that Mr F could be at risk, and 
that Lloyds ought fairly and reasonably to have been alerted by his withdrawal requests from 
the start, and so should have intervened sooner than they did, from the first withdrawal he 
made on 20 July 2022.
However, I need to consider whether any earlier intervention by Lloyds would have likely 
made any difference to the circumstances of the scam, and whether it wouldve ultimately 
prevented the loss from occurring. And having considered all the evidence, on balance, Im 
not satisfied it would have made any difference. Ill explain why.
Lloyds did ultimately follow steps of the Banking Protocol and questioned Mr F around
the circumstances of the withdrawals he was making in a private area, and eventually called 
the police on 20 July 2022. But even after this discussion with police Mr F still wanted the 
payment to go ahead.
Mr F believed that dishonest staff from Lloyds were involved and had been briefed from the 
very start of the scam by the fraudster to keep the true purpose of the withdrawals a secret. 
And I think its more likely than not that Mr F wouldve stuck to his story, no matter which 
point Lloyds intervened, given that he believed the Lloyds staff were part of the reason why 
his money was at risk. And since it seems apparent that even the police were not able to get 
to the bottom of what was unfolding when they spoke to Mr F on 20 July 2022, I dont think 
that any further probing or in-depth questioning from Lloyds would have done so either.
I acknowledge that, when Mr F then tried to move £10,000 out of his account with N, and it 
too invoked the Banking Protocol, police were then able to get to the bottom of what was 
going on. But I think we must bear in mind here that Mr F does not appear to have been told 
that N were involved in the fraud, but he did firmly believe that Lloyds staff were involved in 
trying to defraud his accounts. So I think it is reasonable to infer that his reaction to 
questioning from Ns staff, and about payments made from his account with N, would be 
very different to his reaction to questioning about his Lloyds account. 
Overall, whilst I think Lloyds could have done more to intervene from very first withdrawal 
Mr F made, Im not persuaded this would have ultimately made a difference and I think he 
would have proceeded with the withdrawals in any case.
I have a great deal of sympathy with Mr F being the victim of what was clearly a cruel scam 
that has had a significant impact on him at an already difficult time. But it would only be fair 
for me to direct Lloyds to refund his loss if I thought it was responsible for the failure that 
caused it. And while Ive made it clear that Lloyds ought to have acted sooner, Im not 
persuaded that it wouldve been able to prevent Mr Fs loss, given the nature of the scam he 
fell victim to. So, I cannot fairly and reasonably hold it liable in these circumstances.
I acknowledge that there were delays in Lloyds providing a meaningful response to Mr Fs 
concerns, but Lloyds has paid him £60 to recognise the impact of those delays and Im 
satisfied that is reasonable compensation in the circumstance of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr F, as I know he feels strongly about this matter. But in the 
circumstances, I will not be asking Lloyds to take any further action.My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman