DRN-2518762
The complaint
Mrs O makes a number of complaints about Barclays Bank UK PLC following problems 
using telephone banking.
What happened
Mrs O says she was unable to use telephone banking in May 2019 and went to a Barclays 
branch to try and sort matters out. She says Barclays couldnt sort the problem out and 
raised a complaint for her. Mrs O says she didnt receive a response and so wrote to 
Barclays in early 2020. She says she was unable to use telephone banking for about 18 
months and would like compensation for what took place and for Barclays to apologise and 
accept it was at fault.
Barclays says it wrote to Mrs O in June 2019 about her complaint and has also made a 
number of attempts to speak to her. It accepts it didnt reply to two of her letters and has 
offered £50 compensation for that. It also says it has sent Mrs O new passcodes and doesnt 
accept it had any system errors. Barclays says it has suggested to Mrs O that she use online 
banking.
Mrs O brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator thought it impossible to say what the problem was and also thought Barclays 
had sent a response to the complaint in 2019. The investigator thought the compensation 
offer fair and reasonable for that part of the complaint.
Mrs O doesnt accept that view and in summary says it must be Barclays fault that she 
couldnt access telephone banking and says a full investigation should be carried out. She 
says she has been caused significant inconvenience.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold the main part of this 
complaint. I appreciate Mrs O will be disappointed by my decision.
I dont think it possible to be sure why Mrs O was unable to use telephone banking and 
where the problem was. I appreciate Mrs O says it must be Barclays systems that were at 
fault, but Barclays says that wasnt the case. In those circumstances I cant fairly hold either 
side responsible for what took place.
Im satisfied Barclays has tried to help Mrs O and can see it sent new passcodes and tried to 
contact her without success on a number of occasions. I also think it did reply to the 
complaint that was raised in 2019 and sent Mrs O its response in June 2019. I appreciate 
Mrs O says she didnt receive that letter but that is not something I can fairly hold Barclays 
responsible for as it doesnt deliver the mail. And I would have expected Mrs O to have 
contacted Barclays far sooner than she did if she didnt receive a response to the complaint.
I accept Mrs O was caused inconvenience by not having access to telephone banking 
regardless of the reasons, but I also think she would have had access to alternative ways of 
banking.
There is no dispute that Barclays didnt respond to some of Mrs Os letters. I accept Mrs O 
would have been caused inconvenience and frustration as a result. But Im satisfied Barclays 
offer of £50 compensation fair and reasonable for that part of the complaint and I dont think 
the impact of that mistake on Mrs O was significant or that she suffered any financial loss.
I appreciate Mrs O would like a full investigation into what happened but its not our role to 
audit or check Barclays systems. We have to consider the evidence provided by both sides 
and do not check either sides systems to identify what caused the issue.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the main part of this complaint. I find Barclays Bank 
UK PLC has made a fair and reasonable compensation order of £50 and Mrs Os 
acceptance of that offer would be in full and final settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman