DRN-4271091
The complaint
Mr M complains Metro Bank PLC trading as RateSetter recorded a gone away marker 
against his credit file for his loan account when they shouldnt have.
What happened
In May 2023 Mr M applied for a credit card with another provider and was turned down. He 
was told it was because RateSetter had recorded a marker on his credit file showing him as 
gone away. Mr M called RateSetter and was told it was because letters were being returned 
from his postal address. Mr M said this is false as hes receiving letters, and RateSetter 
could have emailed him. Mr M said he wanted compensation for the error, and he wanted to 
see a copy of the envelope thatd been returned.
RateSetter said theyd issued an annual statement to Mr M in January 2022 and sent it by 
post as they were required to do. They said they noted a gone away marker had been added 
on 27 April 2022 and this is usually because post has been returned. They noted Mr M was 
still living at the same address, and they updated their systems. But they didnt think theyd 
done anything wrong, so they didnt uphold his complaint.
Unhappy with this, Mr M asked us to look into things. One of our Investigators did so but 
couldnt see RateSetter had done anything wrong.
Mr M disagreed, in summary he said:
As long as the marker is on his credit file, the expectation is that records should be 
kept  this varies between two to seven years
RateSetter must be able to produce the evidence and theyve provided nothing to 
show he returned the letter
No legislation has been mentioned to explain what time financial businesses are 
required to keep records for  and as far as hes aware if there is a dispute then 
records need to be kept for at least seven years. Hes received all his statements 
from RateSetter and there has been no issue until now
They provided him with the 2023 annual statement, not the 2022 statement
As Mr M didnt accept our Investigators outcome, the complaints been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The regulator the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets out the rules for our service to 
follow. These rules are set out in the Dispute Resolution: Complaints (DISP) Handbook.
DISP 3.6.1 says:
The Ombudsman will determine a complaint by reference to what is, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.
And DISP 3.6.4 says:
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case, the 
Ombudsman will take into account:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) (where appropriate) what he considers to have been good industry practice at the 
relevant time.
Ive set out the scope of how Im required to decide cases, because Mr M has talked about 
the law setting out retention periods for evidence. Mr M though hasnt named a specific law, 
and Im unaware of any law which would require RateSetter to have kept a copy of the 
envelope that was returned to them. Because of that, Ill decide this case based on what I 
consider to be fair and reasonable.
The envelope that was returned is at the crux of this complaint and is the key piece of 
evidence thatd determine whether RateSetter have or havent made an error.
RateSetter have said they use contractors to send out any required annual statements that 
have to be sent by post. And theyve told us their contractors arent required to keep the 
envelope as evidence. 
In the circumstances I can absolutely see why Mr M would want a copy of the envelope  on 
the basis he never moved. It would clearly have been helpful to have provided this, but given 
itd been more than a year, I dont find it particularly unusual they didnt still hold a copy of 
this.
So, in the absence of that Ill need to decide things based on what I think is more likely than 
not, using the fair and reasonable remit Im required to.
Although RateSetter may have sent Mr M a copy of the 2023 annual statement, the note 
they recorded was on 27 April 2022. So, it stands to reason its the 2022 annual statement 
sent in January which they say was returned. 
Ive noted Mr M has said hed already had a copy of this. But I also cant ignore that 
RateSetter have added a gone away marker to his account. I cant rule out theyve made an 
error, because Mr M says he received the letter, but I think its more likely than not they 
havent. As a general rule, I think itd be unlikely theyd have added something to his records 
and credit file without any reason to go into his file to do so. 
In addition, Mr M has mentioned sometimes his post is delivered to another property in error 
 and often people may return things as gone away by mistake.
So, based on all the evidence Ive seen, I think its more likely than not theyve added this 
marker correctly.
I have though thought about if theyd made an error, whether Id ask them to do anything 
more than they have, and I dont think I would. RateSetter said sorry and arranged for the 
entry to be removed. In the circumstances, Im satisfied thatd have been a fair resolution to 
any error anyway.Finally, Ive noted Mr M has said RateSetter needed to keep records for any disputes. But 
Ive already found they more likely than not didnt make any error in recording the gone away 
marker. In addition, this wasnt in dispute until over a year later  when he first contacted 
them in May 2023. Up until that point, I think RateSetter thought theyd done the right thing.
Overall, Ive not found any reason to say RateSetter have acted unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman