DRN-1606017
The complaint
Mrs T, through a representative, complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc (Clydesdale) didnt 
make reasonable attempts to contact her about arrears on her account.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached so far for these reasons:
Mrs T took out a loan and agreed to make contractual monthly payments. But she 
missed two payments, totalling around £725, in 2017 and 2018. Mrs T has told us 
that it was due to unforeseen circumstances, which she now cant recall the details 
of, that led to these payments being missed. But I havent been given any persuasive 
evidence to suggest that she shouldnt be required to make these two payments 
towards her loan.
Mrs T moved address which is why she didnt receive letters from Clydesdale 
notifying her of the missed payments. I think its fair to have expected Mrs T to notify 
Clydesdale of her change of address, and I cant fairly hold it responsible for the fact 
it continued to write to this address until it was amended in 2019  long after the 
payments had been missed. 
Mrs T thinks that Clydesdale shouldve tried to contact her by telephone to discuss 
the missed payments, and she says it had her telephone number so couldve done 
so. Information from Clydesdale suggests that it did make an attempt to call her. But, 
whether it did or not, it wasnt required to do so. Im satisfied it made reasonable 
attempts to contact her by writing to the address shed provided. 
When a customer misses payments, we expect a business to work with them to get 
things back on track. I note that the letters sent to Mrs T offered support. Clydesdale 
provided income and expenditure forms alongside the arrears letters so Im 
persuaded it wanted to recover the arrears in a way that was affordable for Mrs T. It 
also appears that, rather than asking for the full loan to be repaid, Clydesdale agreed 
a payment plan with Mrs T when there was contact.
Given all of this, I think it would be unfair to suggest that Clydesdale has acted 
unfairly or unreasonably here. Mrs T is being asked to repay an amount that she was 
contractually obligated to pay, having had the benefit of the loan which she was 
repaying.  
I note that Mrs T and her representative contacted Clydesdale in 2019 to change the 
address it held for Mrs T. It appears that Clydesdale made an error here by only 
changing the address on one system initially  for which it offered £25. But this error 
was substantially after the missed payments  it was in 2019  so had no bearing on 
the missed payments. It also doesnt seem to have resulted in any loss to Mrs T and 
the matter was resolved relatively quickly. Im satisfied that £25 is reflective of what 
went wrong here. 
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint about Clydesdale Bank Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2020.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman