DRN-3506856
The complaint
Mr C complains that Pepper (UK) Limited mis-sold his mortgage because he was lent more 
money than was necessary, due to issues regarding the title deeds for the property. 
What happened
Mr C took out a mortgage with GE Money in January 2007. The mortgage has since 
transferred to Amber Investments SARL who have appointed Pepper (trading as Engage) to 
administer the account on their behalf. 
Mr C said that sometime in 2014 to 2015, his neighbour contacted him through a solicitor 
and informed him that according to the Land Registry, a large portion of Mr Cs garden 
belonged to him (the neighbour).
Mr C said that his neighbour had copies of title deeds from the Land Registry which 
confirmed what he was told  I will refer to these title deeds as D2.
Mr C has told us that his neighbour built into his garden, in line with the D2 title deeds, and 
he has lost a significant amount of space because of this. He said he has tried to complain to 
the solicitor that dealt with the initial house purchase, but they are no longer trading. Mr C 
said he has since spoken to a couple of other solicitors, one of which told him not to 
complain to the lender, while the other one told him to complain to the Solicitors Regulation 
Authority (SRA). Mr C said the SRA told him that the complaint about the solicitor that dealt 
with the sale of the property in 2007 had been raised too late. 
Mr C said he spoke to Engage on 10 August 2020 letting them know what had happened. 
Engage told Mr C that they had filed title deeds based on what the solicitor had told them  I 
will refer to these deeds as D1. But after the conversation Engage had with Mr C, they 
completed a search with the Land Registry and noticed that the correct deeds were in fact 
D2, so they updated their system to reflect this. 
Mr C complained about this as he said Engage had given him incorrect information on the 
call of 10 August. Engage told Mr C that they had discovered that prior to the mortgage 
completing in 2007, changes to the land were already underway and this is something that 
the solicitors should have picked up. Engage said they registered title number D1 based on 
what they were told by the solicitor  but have since amended it to show D2.
Mr C wasnt happy with what Engage told him so brought the complaint to our service where 
it was looked at by one of our investigators. The investigator listened to the call recording 
from 10 August and noted that Mr C was complaining that because of the issues with the title 
deeds, he was in fact lent more money than he needed when he took the mortgage out. 
The investigator contacted Engage as he believed Mr C was complaining that the mortgage 
was mis-sold because he thought that someone, namely the conveyancer or Engage, should 
have noticed that the documentation on D1 showed changes being made to the land.
Engage responded to our investigator and said the Mr C has brought his complaint outside 
of the relevant time limits. They said Mr C was fully aware of the concerns surrounding the 
title deeds but chose not to complain.
Our investigator agreed with Engage and said that Mr C had brought the complaint too late, 
so decided that we wouldnt be able to consider the complaint about the mis-sale of the 
mortgage. But the investigator did comment on the change that Engage made to their 
records changing the title details from D1 to D2. The investigator didnt think that Engage did 
anything wrong here. 
Mr C disagreed and in summary said all the documentation he had referred to D1 and any 
amendments made prior to the sale of the property were still reflected in D1. He said the 
independent valuer working on behalf of Engage should have known that he may not have 
been purchasing what he thought he was.
He said Engage decided that changes made to the land before he purchased the property 
affects them and theyve taken the easy option of now telling him that D2 is what the 
property is secured on.
As Mr C disagreed, he asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so it has 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We cant investigate every complaint thats referred to us. Were bound by certain time limits, 
which are set out in our rules. Those rules are the Dispute Resolution rules (known as DISP) 
and are set out in the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook. They set out the scope and 
limits of our powers. We cant choose to ignore these rules, however strongly someone 
might feel about their complaint. DISP 2.8.2 R says that the Ombudsman cannot generally 
consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the Financial Ombudsman Service more 
than:
Six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
Three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought 
reasonably to have become aware) that they had cause for complaint
If a complaint is made out of time, we have no power to consider it unless the financial 
business consents (which Engage havent here) or unless there is evidence of an earlier 
complaint having been made in time (which there isnt), or unless there are exceptional 
circumstances which explain why this complaint wasnt made in time. 
Part of Mr Cs complaint is about the actions that took place after a telephone call he had 
with Engage in August 2020. He believes that Engage took the easy option of just amending 
their system to now show that the title D2 is what his property is secured under. As Mr C is 
complaining about an event that took place within the last six years, we will be able to 
consider this part of the complaint. 
Mr C has also complained that his mortgage was mis-sold. 
Mr C is complaining about a mortgage he took out in 2007. This event occurred more than 
six years before Mr C complained to Engage in 2020 and so, Im satisfied that he is out of 
time in respect of the first part of the rule. 
Ive therefore considered whether Mr C brought his complaint within three years of when he 
knew, or ought reasonably to have known, he had cause to complain so as to be within the 
three year time limit.
Mr C has explained that a neighbour has taken part of his garden and after checking with the 
Land Registry, it appears that he doesnt own as much land as he thought he did when he 
took the mortgage out. Mr C said he tried to contact the solicitor who acted on his behalf when he purchased the 
property, but they are no longer trading and he strongly believes that the surveyor who acted 
on behalf of Engage at the time, should have picked up on the issue. 
Mr C has told us that he cant remember the exact date but around six years ago he was 
approached by his neighbour through a solicitor and told him that based on the information 
held at Land Registry, the neighbour owned a significant part of Mr Cs garden. 
Mr C has already explained that he tried to contact the original solicitor that carried out the 
legal work for his purchase but they are no longer trading, and he also said he contacted a 
couple of other solicitors but they were not able to help him. I also understand that he 
contacted the SRA who told him he was out of time to complain due to the relevant time 
limits that apply.
I think that its clear here that Mr C knew there was an issue from around 2014 and he ought 
reasonably to have become aware of a cause for complaint at that time. I appreciate he has 
made other enquires with other sources, but he should have raised a complaint sooner than 
he did.
I am satisfied that Mr C ought reasonably to have been aware that he had cause for 
complaint more than three years before he complained and at the earliest, from 2014. So 
this complaint has been brought outside the relevant time limits in our rules. Im not aware of 
any exceptional circumstances that prevented Mr C complying with the time limits.
Part of the complaint I can consider  actions following on from the telephone call in August 
2020
Mr C contacted Engage on 10 August 2020 and Ive listened to this telephone call. Mr C is 
quite rightly concerned about what he actually purchased in terms of property and land, 
when he took the mortgage out. He asked Engage what paperwork they had from the time of 
purchase as he believes there is a problem. He said that he was lent more money than he 
should have been because it has since transpired that the boundaries that the Land Registry 
have, are different to those on his original title deeds. He said the Land Registry has details 
of him owning the property and front garden only which is showing under title D2. However, 
title D1  which is what he thought he owned, is showing the property, front garden, back 
garden and the garage. 
On the back of this call, Engage made their own enquires with the Land Registry and noticed 
that the correct title deeds were in fact D2  so they updated their system. 
I dont think that Engage acted unreasonably here and having listened to the call, I dont 
agree that they gave Mr C incorrect information. When he asked about the title number, the 
adviser gave him what they had on record. Its only due to the conversation that Mr C had 
with them, that they carried out their own searches and made the changes.
Engage would only have registered the title number based on what the original solicitor 
would have told them, and they were entitled to rely on that information. Im satisfied that 
under the circumstances, Engage did what was expected of them.
My final decision
I find that our service is unable to consider Mr Cs complaint about the possible mis-selling of 
the mortgage from 2007. 
And for the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint about the actions that 
Pepper (UK) Limited (trading as Engage) took after speaking to Mr C on the telephone in 
August 2020. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 28 June 2022.
 
Maria Drury
Ombudsman