DRN-3616221
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) have failed to refund the money 
they lost as part of an investment scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
In summary though Mr and Mrs B made the following payments to a scammer. These 
payments were as follows and were a mixture of debit card payments and transfers;
Transaction 
numberDate Merchant AmountRunning 
Total
1 08/10/2021 Convertency.EU £2,020 £2,020
2 11/10/2021 Convertency.EU £3,535 £5,555
3 18/10/2021 Foris Dax MT £1,500 £7,055
4 20/10/2021 Foris Dax MT £16,000 £23,055
5 26/10/2021 Foris Dax MT £3,000 £26,055
6 27/10/2021 Foris Dax MT £7,000 £33,055
7 27/10/2021 Moonpay £218.17 £33,273.17
Mr and Mrs B asked Lloyds to refund these payments as they believe Lloyds should have 
done more to prevent them from being scammed. Lloyds did not agree with this.
One of investigators looked into this matter already. They thought that Lloyds had provided 
sufficient warnings about the payments and therefore Lloyds did not have to offer a refund.
Mr and Mrs B did not agree with this and therefore their complaint has been passed to me to 
issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons. 
It isnt in dispute that Mr and Mrs B authorised the disputed payments they made from their 
Lloyds account, The payments were requested by them using their legitimate security 
credentials provided by Lloyds, and the starting position is that banks ought to follow the 
instructions given by their customers in order for legitimate payments to be made as 
instructed.
However, Ive considered whether Lloyds should have done more to prevent Mr and Mrs B 
from falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular transaction. 
For example, if it was particularly out of character.
Its common ground that the payment that Mr and Mrs B made on 18 October 2021 was 
unusual given that it did trigger the banks fraud prevention systems and was automatically 
blocked pending further enquiry. I dont think the two payments prior to this should have 
merited intervention due to them not being sufficiently out of character to prompt further 
questions. Accordingly, its just a question of whether the bank went far enough in all the 
circumstances with the intervention it carried out for the £1,500 card payment.
After the payment was flagged as unusual, Lloyds says it asked Mr and Mrs B to confirm the 
payment was genuine. I have listened to the calls that were made and have read the 
transcripts. Amongst other things Mr and Mrs B said the following;
They had been dealing with Foris Dax MT (the crypto currency company the payment 
was being sent to) for some time prior to making the payment from their Lloyds 
account, even though this was the first time they were transferring funds.
They also confirmed that they had made payments before to their crypto account but 
through a different provider. 
They confirmed that they had been introduced by friends and they had done their 
own research. 
They also confirmed that Foris Dax MT was registered with the FCA. 
They further confirmed that they had not given anyone access to their phones or 
computers. They said that they had given remote access to their device some time 
ago but that had been deleted and they were acting on their own behalf and had not 
been dealing with a broker or any other third party.
Overall, I am satisfied that Mr and Mrs B were asked proportionately probing questions and 
were given sufficient warning about the risks involved with this transfer; I dont think Lloyds 
could really have asked anything further. 
Mr and Mrs Bs representative has raised a number of reasons as to why they believe that 
Lloyds should have stopped this payment. But ultimately, Lloyds asked probing questions 
and Mr and Mrs Bs answered these questions with sufficient persuasiveness for Lloyds to 
let the payment go through. I can see that Mr and Mrs Bs representative has pointed to some specific answers that Mr B 
made during his calls with Lloyds and that they feel that these answers should have 
prompted further intervention. I have carefully considered all these points. I accept with 
hindsight and going through the conversations line by line it is possible that Mr B provided 
information that suggests that he had given a third party remote access to his computer and 
was in fact dealing with a third party. But Mr B also said specifically that he was not dealing 
with someone else and was acting on his own behalf on a number of occasions and that the 
remote access software had been deleted. I am also mindful that Mr B was given a detailed 
warning of the risks of letting someone have access to his computer and he proceeded with 
the payment regardless of this. Given this I think Lloyds did enough given the overall 
circumstances.
I note that the representative of Mr and Mrs B has said that it believes that Lloyds should 
have intervened further when additional transactions were made. I have carefully considered 
this, and I agree that this probably should have been the case. That said though given the 
answers that Mr and Mrs B provided when Lloyds did intervene, I dont think that any further 
intervention would likely have altered Mr and Mrs B decision to carry out the transactions. 
They seemed completely convinced at the time that what they were doing was genuine.  
Also due to the coaching that Mr and Mrs Bs representative says that they were given by 
the scammer they were giving persuasive answers to questions asked. So I dont think any 
further intervention from Lloyds would have made a material difference to whether these 
payments would have went ahead.
Ive also thought about whether Lloyds could have done more to recover the funds after Mr 
and Mrs B reported the fraud, as in some circumstances the money can be recovered via the 
bank raising an indemnity with the receiving bank. However, in these circumstances, Mr and 
Mrs B transferred money to their own crypto wallet before it appears that the funds were 
subsequently transferred on to the scammer. As a result, no funds would have remained in 
their crypto wallet for the bank to recover, so I dont think there was anything further Lloyds 
could have done to recover the funds.
Lloyds are also under no obligation to refund the money to Mr and Mrs B under the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code either, as the Code does not apply to 
transfers which the payer has effectively made to themselves and does not apply to debit 
card payments either.
In relation to chargebacks for the debit card payments I do not think that a chargeback 
wouldve been successful due to the fact that the payments were made to purchase crypto 
from the various exchanges and what was purchased was supplied.
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs B, and Im sorry to hear 
they have been the victim of a cruel scam. However, Im not persuaded that Lloyds can fairly 
or reasonably be held liable for their loss in these circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman