DRN-2677214
The complaint
Ms A has complained about the decision by Tokio Marine Kiln Insurance Limited (TMK) to
decline part of her claim under her landlords insurance policy after her property was subject
to an escape of water.
What happened
Ms A owned the ground floor and basement flats in a converted house. She let out the
properties. She made a claim to TMK after the tenant of the ground floor flat reported
damage caused by an escape of water from the bathroom of the flat above.
TMK arranged for its loss adjuster to visit the property. The loss adjuster accepted that the
escape of water had caused damage to the bedroom ceiling in the ground floor flat.
Ms A and her contractor considered that damage had also been caused to the bedroom wall
of the ground floor flat and to a timber sash window in the basement flat. The loss adjuster
arranged for a surveyor to inspect the property.
The surveyor concluded that the damage to the bedroom wall and the basement flats
window was unrelated to the escape of water. He considered that the damage was instead
most likely due to a defective flat roof.
TMK said it would pay to repair the damage to the bedroom ceiling but not the other
damage.
Ms A complained to TMK about its decision and its administration of the claim.
TMK issued a final response letter maintaining its decision to decline the claim for the
damage to the bedroom wall and the basement flats window. However, it accepted there
had been problems, including unnecessary delays, in its handling of the claim for which it
offered £300 compensation.
Ms A was unhappy with TMKs response. She referred her complaint to us. She also said
TMKs contractors had damaged the soffit of her flat roof and it should therefore pay for the
repair of this also.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I considered the complaint should not be 
upheld. My findings were as follows:
The policy provides cover for certain insured events, including an escape of water. The
policy does not provide cover for damage caused by gradual deterioration or wear and tear.
TMK accepted that the ceiling damage was caused by the escape of water. However, it did
not accept that the escape of water caused the damage to the bedroom wall and the
basement flats window. Its surveyor reported as follows:
The wall damage of the bedroom and the rotten window is a result of a gradually 
operating cause. Water is penetrating the failed flat roof and soaking the external wall 
and in turn causing the high level of damage to the wall of the bedroom and the 
window frame rot.
When Ms A challenged this conclusion, the surveyor provided the following, more detailed,
explanation (please note, he uses the term ground floor flat for what I have described as
the basement flat):
The damage to the ceiling is minimal and in line with a recent escape of water .
The wall damage in the bedroom is separated away from this area of damage and is 
extensive.
Had the leak from the bathroom caused this level of damage to the wall the whole of 
the bedroom ceiling would be on the floor. There is also a space of around 4- 5 feet 
from the ceiling damage to the wall damage with no evidence of damage between.
The wall damage in the bedroom and also to the lower flat window is on the outside 
wall, around 5-6 feet away from the outside wall of the bathroom above. Directly 
above the damaged wall and window is a huge spilt in the felt of the flat roof and 
evidence of rotting timber underneath.
The window in the ground floor flat is rotten, which can only occur as a result of 
prolonged exposure to water/damp. For this level of damage to be a result of the leak 
from the bathroom above, the water will have to have been running for weeks (and 
travelled across the floor of the bedroom), which would result in extensive damage to 
the bedroom ceilings in both flats and been very obvious to the tenants. The ground 
floor flat has no other damage to the room except the window.
I consider this explanation to be very plausible. Ms A says her contractor supports her view
that all the damage is related to the escape of water but I have seen no expert written
opinion to counter the surveyors report. The damage appears to have been caused
gradually over a period of time, most likely by water penetrating the failed flat roof above.
Ms A has provided a photograph of the window apparently without damage but according to
its data this photograph was taken some two years before the escape of water occurred.
I dont find it persuasive in showing that the escape of water was responsible for the damage
to the window.
In view of the above, I do not consider that TMK is liable under the terms of the policy for the
damage to either the bedroom wall or the basement flats window.
At the suggestion of the investigator, TMK has nonetheless offered to pay £800 to cover the
cost of repairing the bedroom wall. This was in the absence of Ms A providing a broken
down estimate showing the cost of this particular repair. It is up to TMK as to whether to
maintain this offer should my final decision be to not uphold this complaint. It would be
helpful if, in response to this provisional decision, TMK could confirm its position on this point
as this may assist Ms A in deciding whether or not to accept the eventual final decision.
In respect of the soffit, Ms A provided photographs showing that, after TMKs contractor had
been on site, a hole had appeared in the roof and wood had appeared in the guttering.
TMKs loss adjuster accepted that the contractor may have disturbed the area while
inspecting it but said that the timber fascia was clearly rotten, as was the felt over it, and
therefore even the slightest touch was likely to cause it to crumble. I consider the
photographs show the roof is in a poor state of repair and in need of urgent attention, thoughthis is not because of any insured peril. I therefore consider that even if damage appeared
after the contractors inspection, this was likely due to the long-standing issues which
required addressing rather than any recklessness on the part of the contractor. I therefore
consider that TMK is not liable for any payment towards the repair of the soffit.
At the suggestion of the investigator, TMK has nonetheless offered £200 towards the cost of
repairing the soffit. Once again, it is up to TMK as to whether to maintain this offer should my
final decision be to not uphold this complaint. It would again be helpful if, in response to this
provisional decision, TMK could confirm its position on this point as this may assist Ms A in
deciding whether or not to accept the eventual final decision.
TMK accepts that there were some failings in its handling of the claim, including delays. It
offered £300 compensation for these failings in its final response letter and Im satisfied this
was fair. I dont consider it is required to pay anything more in this respect.
I invited both parties to make further submissions in response to my provisional decision.
Ms A said she was disappointed by my decision. She maintained that it was the leak from 
the flat above, and not the roof, which had been responsible for the damage for which she 
was claiming. She found the surveyor to be lacking in professionalism and credibility. She 
said no further water had come through the ceiling or walls once the leak in the flat above 
had been fixed, even after heavy rain. She said there had been water staining on the beams 
running across the bedroom ceiling towards the external wall which she felt supported her 
view that the leak was responsible for all the damage. She said the hole in the soffit had 
been caused by TMKs contractor.
TMK said it agreed with my provisional decision but confirmed it would maintain its offers to 
pay £800 for the repair of the bedroom wall and £200 for the repair of the soffit.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that Ms A disagrees with my decision but she hasnt provided further evidence.
While Ms A had concerns about the surveyor, I have no reasonable grounds for disputing his 
professional opinion. I note Ms As point that if the roof had been the cause of the damage, 
one might have expected to see further damage to the property following heavy rainfall and 
her suggestion that the water from the leak above had travelled along the beams above the 
bedroom to cause damage elsewhere. However, unlike the surveyor, Ms A is not an expert 
in this area. And as I explained in my provisional decision, I consider the surveyor has given 
a detailed and persuasive explanation as to why the leak could not have caused the damage 
in the disputed areas. In the absence of an expert opinion to challenge this, I consider it was 
fair for TMK to decline cover for those repairs.
With regard to the hole in the soffit, I dont dispute that this may have been caused by TMKs 
contractor. However, I have explained why I consider this was likely due to the poor state of 
the roof rather than any recklessness on the part of the contractor. I therefore dont consider 
that TMK is liable for the damage.
TMK offered to pay £300 compensation for its failings in handling the claim and I remain of 
the opinion that this is a fair amount. In light of the above, and the fact that TMK accepts my decision, I see no reason to change 
my provisional decision that the complaint should not be upheld.
TMK has nonetheless confirmed it is willing to honour its offer to pay £800 for the repair of 
the bedroom wall and £200 for the repair of the soffit.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2021. 
David Poley
Ombudsman