DRN-3335769
The complaint
Mr S complains that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited declined his private medical insurance 
claim.
What happened
Mr S has private medical insurance insured by AXA.
Unfortunately Mr S was diagnosed with cancer. As a result of his cancer treatment his blood 
sugar levels were affected and he says his previously well controlled diabetes deteriorated. 
Mr S oncologist referred him to an endocrinologist (diabetes specialist) for outpatient 
consultation to get his diabetes under control.
AXA declined the claim for the referral. It said the policy didnt provide outpatient cover for 
consultations and diagnostic tests except consultations with Mr S cancer treating specialist 
and diagnostic tests that are directly related to treatment Mr S was having to kill cancer cells. 
AXA said as the claim was to see a diabetes specialist about diabetes the claim wasnt 
covered.
Mr S complained to us. In summary he said:
The policy wasnt clear as although it gave examples of specialists covered for his 
cancer treatment that wasnt an exhaustive list. 
AXAs interpretation of the policy was too narrow as cancer treatment is likely to 
affect other parts of the body. His diabetes complication should be considered as part 
of the cancer care and if a complication wasnt covered that should be clear in the 
policy. 
Without the involvement of a diabetes specialist it would be extremely difficult to 
continue his cancer treatment which would mean theres a strong chance his cancer 
would spread.
He wants AXA to cover his claim for the referral.
Our investigator said AXA fairly declined the claim for the diabetes referral.
Mr S disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. He said that a specialist who is part of 
a team supporting the oncologist treating his cancer should be regarded as being directly 
involved with his cancer treatment.
Mr S has also complained to us about AXA declining to cover his pre cancer diagnosis tests. 
Our investigator explained that as AXA had sent Mr S a separate final response letter to his 
complaint on that matter we would consider it as a separate complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This decision is only about Mr S complaint about his claim for diabetes referral. Well 
consider his complaint about AXA declining to cover the costs of his pre cancer diagnosis 
tests as a separate complaint.
The relevant industry rules and regulations say insurers need to handle claims promptly and 
fairly and shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. Im sorry to disappoint Mr S but I think AXA 
reasonably declined the claim. Ill explain why.
The policy says:
4.1 Cancer
Due to the nature of cancer, we cover it a little differently to other conditions. This 
section explains the differences. If a specific aspect of your cover is not mentioned 
here, the standard cover described elsewhere in your handbook applies.
About your cover for cancer treatment
Your plan does not have cover for outpatient consultations or diagnostic tests. We 
make an exception to this if you are diagnosed with cancer and will cover 
consultations with your cancer treating specialist (such as an oncologist, surgeon, 
radiotherapist or haematologist) and diagnostic tests that are directly related to 
treatment you are having to kill cancer cells.
We will cover investigations into cancer and treatment to kill cancer cells.
Page 35 of the policy also set out the cover:
Comparing our cancer cover
To help make our cancer cover clearer, the following information is in a format that 
the Association of British Insurers (ABI) recommend
If youre an outpatient
Additional cover is available for outpatient consultations with your cancer specialist 
after diagnosis of cancer
Additional cover is available for outpatient diagnostic tests with your cancer specialist 
after diagnosis of cancer.
I think the policy is clear there is no cover for outpatient consultations or diagnostic tests, but 
there is an exception for cancer treatment. However that exception is only for consultations 
with Mr S cancer treating specialist and diagnostic tests that are directly related to treatment 
Mr S is having to kill cancer cells.
I understand Mr S point that AXAs list of cancer treating specialists can be read as not 
being exhaustive, as the policy wording says such as. But, even if I thought the policy 
wording could be reasonably read to mean outpatient consultations and diagnostic tests with 
other specialists than the four listed could be covered those consultation and tests would 
have to be directly related to the treatment Mr S having to kill cancer cells. Mr S was being 
referred to see a specialist to bring his blood sugar levels under control. The specialist he 
was referred to is recognised with AXA as a physician with a special interest in 
endocrinology, the type of specialist to treat and monitor a patients diabetes. The specialist isnt recognised by AXA as a cancer specialist. The consultation Mr S had with that specialist 
would be for diabetes, not to kill cancer cells. So I think AXA reasonably concluded there 
was no cover under the policy terms.
Ive also considered whether the claim should be covered on a fair and reasonable basis. 
AXA hasnt disputed that the deterioration of Mr S diabetes was due to his cancer treatment 
or that the diabetes referral was medically required. But I think the policy is very clear that 
the only cover for outpatient consultations and diagnostic tests is when they are directly 
related to treatment that kills the cancer cells. So not cover for outpatient consultations and 
diagnostic tests for complications of the cancer treatment or for conditions that have been 
affected by the cancer treatment. In the circumstances I dont think I can fairly require AXA 
to pay the claim.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman