DRN-2121638
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Accredited Insurance (Europe) Limited (AIEL) declined his claim 
and avoided his policy when his car was stolen.
What happened
Mr M had a car insurance policy with AIEL. His car was stolen, and he submitted a claim. 
While AIEL were investigating the claim, Mr M said in an interview that he stayed with his 
partner, at a different address three or four nights a week. The car was stolen from his 
partners address. 
But AIEL say if it had known Mr M sometimes kept his car at a different address at night, it 
would never have offered him cover. And because Mr M didnt declare that he sometimes 
kept the car at a different address, AIEL say that hes misrepresented a material fact. And as 
such, under the rules, it can decline the claim and avoid his policy.
But Mr M is unhappy with this. He says he didnt misrepresent, and he wants AIEL to pay his 
claim. Hes also complained about the poor service hes received, the delays and the fact 
that AIEL told him it was paying his claim. 
Our investigator reviewed and recommended this complaint was upheld. The investigator 
said there had been poor service. The investigator also said that Mr M took reasonable care 
when taking out the policy, and that no qualifying misrepresentation had taken place. 
AIEL agree that there was poor service given and its offered £300 because it gave incorrect 
information to Mr M. But it maintains that a misrepresentation was made, and its asked for 
an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
The relevant law which applies in this case is the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). CIDRA requires consumers to take reasonable care not 
to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The 
standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Did Mr M take reasonable care and was there a qualifying misrepresentation?
AIEL says Mr M didnt give correct information about where the car would be kept at night 
when he was taking out the policy. 
Mr M obtained a quote for this policy through an aggregator website. And Ive been provided 
with a screenshot of his sales journey through this website and a copy of the follow-on 
telephone call where Mr M paid for the policy. The question asked during the online 
quotation process was where do you keep the car at night?. The screenshot provided 
shows that beside the question there is a pop-up dialogue guidance box that states, if you 
leave the car in different places on various nights of the week, please choose the one in 
which the car is most often kept. Mr M chose street outside home. There were no further 
questions linked to overnight parking asked during the sales call recording provided. 
The onus is on the AIEL to ensure that all material information is obtained through questions 
put to the consumer and this is a key consideration in deciding whether a consumer has 
taken reasonable care. Mr M said that he stays with his partner three or four nights a week. 
He says this was taken out of context in the interview and this is more of a loose 
arrangement. Hes provided a council tax bill to prove he has his own home, and this is 
where he resides. But sometimes he stays with his partner at her home, and sometimes he 
stays in his own home.
As he doesnt stay a set number of nights at each address its not as straightforward as 
50/50 as AIEL have argued. And even if it was, theres no option to declare a second 
address. As per the guidance note he was advised to choose where the car would be kept 
most often. The system only allows him to give one address. So, by answering the question 
with his home address Mr M, has chosen the most reasonable option. Its where he lives, 
and at the time he filled out the quote online, this was the most reasonable answer. So, the 
question was clear, and so was the guidance. And looking at the answer provided I dont 
think it can reasonably be said that he provided inaccurate information here. I think Mr M 
took reasonable care with his answer. 
As Mr M took reasonable care and didnt make a qualifying misrepresentation the remedies 
provided under CIDRA dont apply. AIEL need to reinstate the policy and consider Mr Ms 
claim, in line with the remaining policy terms and conditions. If Mr M has insured another car 
with AIEL and hes incurred a higher premium because of the avoidance, AIEL need to 
refund the difference plus interest. If hes taken a policy elsewhere AIEL need to provide 
written confirmation that the avoidance was given in error, so Mr M can request a refund if 
one is required. AIEL also need to remove this avoidance from all databases both internally 
and externally. 
I appreciate that AIEL have shown it wouldnt have covered Mr M if it had known he kept the 
car at more than one address. AIEL has also raised a query about the questions asked on 
the aggregator website that was used and how they are industry standard questions. But Im 
not going to deal with either of these issues in this decision. Ive found that Mr M took 
reasonable care and didnt make a qualifying misrepresentation. So, I dont have to make a 
finding on the other issues AIEL have raised. 
CompensationMr M isnt happy with the service thats been provided. In particular he was given incorrect 
information about how much he would receive for this claim and when. AIEL has already 
offered £300 in compensation for this poor service.
Ive looked at what happened as a whole in particular the errors that were made and the mis-
information that Mr M was given. And I think an award of £300 in total is a fair and 
reasonable amount for the distress and inconvenience Mr M has suffered. So, if this amount 
hasnt been paid, I direct AIEL to now do so. If it has already been paid, I dont require AIEL 
to pay anything further in compensation. 
My final decision
My final decision is to uphold this complaint.
I require Accredited Insurance (Europe) Limited to:
Reinstate the policy and consider Mr Ms claim, in line with the remaining policy 
terms and conditions.
Refund with interest* any additional premium Mr M may have paid to AIEL because 
of the avoidance. *(If Accredited Insurance (Europe) Limited considers that its 
required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it 
should tell Mr M how much its taken off. It should also give Mr M a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate).
Remove all records of the policy avoidance on databases internally and externally 
and write to Mr M stating that the policy was avoided incorrectly (so he can use this 
letter for refunds from any subsequent insurer).
If the compensation of £300 for distress and inconvenience hasnt been paid, I direct 
AIEL to pay this now.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2020.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman