DRN-3463103
The complaint
Mr A complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC failed to refund transactions he didnt
make and that they incorrectly recorded information with the credit reference agencies and
wrongly lodged a marker with a fraud prevention agency.
What happened
Mr A has explained that he opened a credit card to build his credit score. He stated he was
owed some money from a person who Ill refer to as F. They wanted to pay him back and
suggested they could use the credit card to do that. Mr A gave the details of his card to F
and there were then a series of disputed transactions on the card. Mr A noticed them and
contacted Tesco about them.
Mr A admitted that hed been nave and a young man at the time, but he wasnt responsible
for making any of the payments from his card. Tesco required Mr A to repay the outstanding
balance. Several payments from different credit cards were used to pay off the balance and
Tesco then received information that these were a result of fraud and reversed several
transactions. Tesco paid the funds back to the card holders, which left an outstanding
balance on the credit card and Mr A said he tried to ignore this for a while. This meant that
there were missing payments on the account and Tesco reported this to the credit reference
agencies.
Mr A said he tried to contact F and eventually got in touch with his father. Mr A had a series
of email exchanges with the father which ultimately didnt lead anywhere.
Mr A then arranged to repay the outstanding debt which was eventually settled. Mr A asked
Tesco to remove the earlier reports they made to the credit reference agencies. Tesco
declined to change the information theyd supplied as it was an accurate reflection of how
the account had been operated. Tesco then closed the account and lodged a marker with
CIFAS - a fraud prevention agency because they were informed some of the incoming
payments used to pay off the debt were from stolen credit cards.
Mr A complained to Tesco, who investigated the situation but didnt change their position. Mr
A was unhappy with how Tesco had dealt with his complaint and brought it to the Financial
Ombudsman for an independent review.
Mr A explained that hed reported the matter to Action Fraud but hadnt notified the police.
He maintained that he wasnt responsible for any of the disputed transactions and he didnt
realise his credit card was going to be used in this way.
The complaint was looked into by one of our investigators who thought Mr A wasnt
responsible for authorising the transactions and he shouldnt be held liable for them. He
recommended that all charges should be removed and that any adverse information should
be removed. In later correspondence with Tesco, our investigator thought that there wasnt
enough evidence to support the marker with CIFAS and recommended that Tesco remove it.
Tesco disagreed with the investigators outcome and asked for a further review of the
complaint which has now been passed to me. I issued a provisional decision where I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Authorisation
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017 and
the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The basic position is that Tesco can hold Mr A liable for the
disputed payments if the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that he made them
or authorised them.
Authorisation is made up of two parts. Authentication and consent. Authentication is usually
referred to as the technical evidence and in this case, Tesco have supplied evidence that
shows the payments were sent using Mr As mobile app, using his account number. Im
satisfied the evidence shows the disputed transactions were authenticated.
Consent refers to the way in which Tesco and Mr A agreed to operate the account to allow
Tesco to make payments on Mr As behalf. For example, Tescos terms and conditions set
out that if a payment is arranged through mobile/internet banking and the account holder
uses their security details to confirm the payment, then Tesco accept that the instruction to
make the payment is authorised by the account holder. So, because Mr As mobile app was
used to set up the money transfers - Im satisfied that consent was given and the disputed
transactions were authorised. But, there are exceptions where it wouldnt be appropriate for
Tesco to hold Mr A responsible, for example if the mobile app or his card details were used
without his permission.
Mr As version of events is that he loaned money to someone (but later explained it was to
purchase clothes) who he later said he didnt know their full name or where they lived (F).
This was despite saying that hed visited his fathers house and had a lengthy email
discussion with him (father) about his sons debt. Mr A was asked on several occasions to
provide evidence of the loan of this money, which Mr A said was several thousand pounds.
Hes not been able to provide any evidence that a loan was made.
Mr As case is that he was owed money and F suggested he could pay it off with Mr As
credit card. Mr A later said he was nave when he gave the person his card details, but I
dont think thats the case here. Thats because Mr A opened the credit card so he could
improve his credit rating, but he didnt make any purchases with the card. The card was only
opened for a relatively short time before it was used to make large money transfers. The first
disputed transaction was for just under this amount and was then paid down using other
credit cards, which were later reported as fraudulent payments from unauthorised credit
cards. Then, a further money transfer was carried out, again paid down with suspect credit
cards. Tescos audit data shows various named individuals all linked to Mr As address who
were in receipt of the transferred funds, so it seems implausible that Mr A wasnt aware of
the outgoing money transfers.
The person who was using the account clearly knew the credit limit and was arranging for
stolen cards to be used to repay the debt on Mr As card. Mr A later told Tesco that the cards
used to pay off his outstanding balance belonged to family, but when he was asked to
provide their details, he claimed someone was impersonating him on a call to Tesco.
Tescos information is that they called Mr As registered mobile when this conversation took
place and he disconnected the call when they asked him more detail about it. So, it seems
unlikely that Tesco called anyone other than Mr A because the call was made to the
registered number they had for him and he was able to pass security.Id question whether any loan was made to this person, but even if there was, by allowing
his credit card details to be used by another person, Mr A was allowing them to make
transactions on his behalf  known as apparent authority. What that means is that by his
actions, Mr A effectively gave permission to this person to use his account  which Mr A
remains liable for. Mr A has denied being responsible for them , but I dont think the
evidence shows that  at the very least hes responsible for the debt by allowing another
person to use his card.
But, I think his involvement is more than that because the transactions were made to
persons using his address, so I think Is unlikely he wouldnt have been aware of them as
they were made using Mr As online banking app, which he confirmed he sometimes used.
Theres no explanation how someone other than him could have accessed it or why the
money transfers were linked to Mr As address.
I dont think its plausible to lend someone several thousand pounds and then arrange to
give them all their credit card details to be repaid. That could have been done in numerous
other legitimate ways, whether a bank transfer or by a cash payment. The payments into the
account only served to reduce the credit balance in order to send more money to an account
linked to his address. They werent made as any form of repayment to Mr A. Theres no
evidence of any loan by Mr A or any repayment of such a loan. What the evidence shows is
that a credit card was opened and used to make money transfers, then fraudulent payments
from various credit cards were used to pay off the debt.
So, whilst Im sure Mr A will disagree with me, the evidence leads me to the conclusion that
Mr A was more likely than not responsible for these transactions and my current thinking is
that I dont intend to uphold this element of Mr As complaint.
Credit Reference Agencies
Mr A wanted Tesco to amend their reports theyd made to the credit reference agencies.
Tesco have an obligation to report how Mr A managed his account and theyre required to
report this accurately. Mr A has agreed that his management of the account wasnt up to the
required standard and Tescos reporting reflected this. I appreciate he later repaid the
outstanding balance, but unfortunately this doesnt mean that the earlier reporting was wrong
or needs to be changed. My current thinking is that I wont be upholding this aspect of Mr As
complaint and I wont require Tesco to do anything further.
CIFAS Marker
Tesco obtained evidence from the other credit card companies that the payments made to
Mr As card were fraudulent. In order for Tesco to lodge a fraud marker against Mr A, they
have to meet certain standards. The relevant ones here are that Tesco have to be satisfied
that a fraud has taken place, which they did when this was confirmed by the other credit card
companies.
The other aspect that Tesco must address is:
That the evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could confidently
report the conduct of the Subject to the police
Mr A has denied being involved in this enterprise and if that couldnt be shown, then I think
Tesco wouldnt meet the above standard. So, Ive examined the evidence from both parties
to consider if Mr A was likely knowledgeable about what was going on or just caught up in
Fs apparent fraudulent activity. Tesco have shown that the account was just used fortransferring funds to individuals associated with the same address used by Mr A. There were
no attempts to build credit which is the explanation Mr A gave for opening the credit card. Mr
A told Tesco that the credit card payments were made by family  although he later denied
this. Ive already made a finding that I think it unlikely it was anyone other than Mr A who told
Tesco this information. And this information wasnt accurate because the credit card
payments were reported as fraudulent, so I think this indicates a level of knowledge about
the source of the funds.
Mr A couldnt provide any evidence that hed given money to F, who he says used his card
details. Ive considered the email exchange with Fs father, whilst extensive, doesnt explain
what happened.
Mr As version of events have been inconsistent and the reasons he gave havent been
supported by relevant evidence. The links to his own address for the outgoing payments and
the use of stolen credit cards leads me to conclude that I think it was reasonable for Tesco to
lodge a marker with Cifas as theyve met the standard required. I currently dont intend
asking Tesco to amend their reporting.
I invited Mr A and Tesco to give me any more evidence and information they wanted me to
consider before issuing my final decision. Tesco didnt respond and Mr A stated that he 
hadnt made a transaction on his phone.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill address Mr As comment about the use of the mobile app to make the disputed 
transactions. When Tesco supplied their evidence about the activity on Mr As account, its 
apparent that the disputed transactions were made via Tescos banking app. 
Mr A has already confirmed he used the app although he maintains he didnt make any of 
the disputed transactions. Ive already made a finding that it was more likely than not Mr A 
who was responsible for making these. Theres no evidence of F having access to the 
banking app and Mr A had earlier confirmed hed only given F his card details, rather than 
allowing F to use Mr As mobile banking access. So, I dont think it likely it was anyone other 
than Mr A using his own banking app to make these money transfers which he later 
disputed.
I dont think its plausible for F to pay back a loan (for which theres no evidence of it existing) 
using a credit card that Mr A said he opened to build his credit (but maintains he never used) 
and the money transfers from it went to an account associated with Mr As own address. 
Ive not seen anything that would change my original assessment and this final decision 
confirms what Ive set out in my provisional decision. So, for the avoidance of any doubt I 
think it was reasonable for Tesco to hold Mr A liable for the payments made from his 
account, that the reporting to the credit reference agencies was appropriate and they met the 
standards required by CIFAS. I dont uphold this complaint and wont be asking Tesco to do 
anything further.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Tesco Personal Finance PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman