DRN-3615887
The complaint
Miss P complains about changes Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited made to her home 
insurance policy.
What happened
Miss P has a home insurance policy with Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited, which 
covers her contents and buildings.
Miss P has made a number of complaints to us about the way claims have been handled 
under her home insurance policy. Those complaints have been dealt with separately and I 
wont be re-visiting those issues in this decision. 
This complaint relates to changes made to the terms and conditions of the policy at renewal. 
The background is well known to both parties, so I wont go into great detail here.
Suffice to say, Miss P is unhappy that certain changes  particularly relating to the upper 
limits on contents claims under the policy  were made, she says, without her knowledge, 
agreement, or approval. 
She made a complaint to Lloyds about this issue, but Lloyds didnt uphold the complaint, so 
Miss P brought it to us.
The complaint appears to relate primarily to changes made to the policy at renewal in 2022. 
Although Miss P also tells us she thinks Lloyds should offer her a policy with the same terms 
as the one she took out in 2004 in connection with the mortgage she was taking out on her 
property.
Miss P has made several claims against the policy between 2004 and the present date. 
Some of those claims are not finalised, at least as far as Miss P is concerned. 
Our investigator looked into Miss Ps complaint and didnt think Lloyds had done anything 
wrong.
Miss P disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss P tells us that she thinks an insurer, under common law, isnt entitled to vary the terms 
of a contract with a consumer without their approval or agreement, if the change in terms is 
detrimental to the consumer. 
She also believes that in law when an insurance policy is renewed, that remains the same 
contract between the business and the consumer. Miss P says she has this advice from 
qualified legal counsel.
Our service takes the view that each insurance period (usually a year) is covered by a 
separate contract. In effect, at renewal, there is a new contractual agreement between the 
parties. 
We also take the view that an insurer is usually entitled to vary the terms of the policy, as 
long as they give clear notice, in good time, to advise the consumer of the planned changes. 
That leaves the consumer with an informed choice about whether to enter into the new 
agreement or seek insurance elsewhere.
Miss P  and her legal advisors  are of course perfectly entitled to disagree with our view. 
She is also entitled to not accept this decision, which would leave her entirely free to pursue 
the matter in court, where she can make whatever legal representations she sees fit.
It's clear to me from the evidence we have on file that Lloyds told Miss P about the changes 
theyd make to her policy if she renewed in 2022. Miss P contacted Lloyds to object to the 
changes, referring back to the letters theyd sent her which explained the changes.
Miss Ps objection to those changes isnt easy to pin down. She disagrees with the idea that 
Lloyds were entitled to make those changes at all without her agreement. But she also says 
that if changes were to be made  because Lloyds no longer offered the same insurance 
product  then they should offer her the closest possible cover through a new policy.
It's clear from the exchange of correspondence we have on file that Lloyds proposed to 
move Miss P on to their silver level of cover  as opposed to bronze or gold. 
The silver cover has an upper limit of £100,000 on contents claims. The gold cover has a 
limit of £250,000. 
Miss P has questioned why Lloyds didnt offer her the gold cover. Theyve pointed out that 
the documentation they sent asks the customer to consider whether the cover being offered 
meets their needs - and to call Lloyds to make any changes if necessary.
When Miss P contacted Lloyds, she told them the gold cover was insufficient for her needs. 
It wasnt unreasonable then for Lloyds not to offer that cover. Indeed, it would have been 
entirely unfair for Lloyds to take Miss Ps business and not refer her to the market to seek 
appropriate and sufficient cover elsewhere.
In short, Lloyds were entitled to change the terms of the policy at renewal. Before the 
renewal in 2022, they informed Miss P about the changes that would be made  in good time 
to allow her to seek cover elsewhere. 
And they have not treated her in any way unreasonably or unfairly when they pointed out 
that the cover they were able to offer didnt meet Miss Ps needs  according to her own 
estimation of the value of the contents of her house.
The same principles would apply to any change to the terms of the policy made at any 
renewal point between 2004, when Miss P bought the policy, and 2021. An insurer is entitled 
to change the terms, at renewal, as long as they make the changes very clear, in good time.
It wouldnt be unreasonable for Lloyds to have deleted records of correspondence with 
customers in line with their data security and data protection policies. So, they may not be 
able to produce copies of all correspondence sent to Miss P after 2004, when she first 
bought the policy.
But Im satisfied its more likely than not that renewal documents were sent to Miss P each year. And its likely that any changes to the policy were set out in those renewal documents. 
And as I say above, insurers are entitled to vary the terms and conditions on renewal, as 
long as the customer is fully informed, in good time.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 September 2022.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman