DRN-3776743
The complaint
Mr R complains that Monzo Bank Ltd did not contact a third party on his behalf to help 
retrieve a payment.  
What happened
In November 2021, Mr R made an international payment from his Monzo account. In 
February 2022, Mr R contacted Monzo and explained he was having some issues getting 
the transaction reversed and sent back to his Monzo account. Monzo explained that they 
use a third party provider, W for international transfers and if Mr R had an issue with an 
international transfer made from his Monzo account, he would  need to contact W himself 
directly to try and fix the issue. 
Mr R was unhappy with this and felt his contract and account was with Monzo, not W, so 
Monzo should be contacting W themselves to try and fix the issue. He also said that he is 
dyslexic so would prefer Monzo to deal with the issue on his behalf. Mr R received a call 
back from a manager at Monzo who explained that ordinarily they would ask a customer to 
contact W directly as they are a third party, so the customer would be best placed to try and 
fix the issue themselves, but that in some circumstances they could contact W. Mr R 
maintained that he would like Monzo to deal with the issue for him and the manager agreed 
to arrange this. 
In response to this, the payments team again confirmed that Mr R should contact W directly 
himself as he is best placed to deal with the issue. Mr R raised a complaint as this advice 
was different to what the manager had assured him. Monzo issued a final response letter in 
which it explained that once an international payment is sent from Monzo to W, Monzo no 
longer has visual sight of the payment so cant locate it themselves, which is why customers 
should contact W directly if they have issues. But they offered him £50 for being given 
incorrect information. Mr R rejected this and referred the complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint. They felt that Monzo was correct to direct Mr R to 
contact W directly, as he entered into an agreement with W when he made an international 
payment with Monzo. And they agreed with Monzos reasoning as to why Mr R would be 
better placed to contact W directly. But they accepted that the manager had said Monzo 
could still have contacted W on his behalf, which it ultimately didnt do. As Mr R had already 
retrieved the £1,500 transaction when he went to France and withdrew the funds in cash, the 
investigator only considered compensation. They recommended an increased level of 
compensation to a total of £150.
Mr R disagreed with the outcome. He explained the crux of is complaint was that Monzo 
tried to force him to deal with W, even after he asked them to deal with the issue on his 
behalf. As an informal agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to 
me for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think that while Monzos initial contact with Mr R in which it directed him to 
contact W directly was reasonable, it has then caused confusion in providing Mr R with 
conflicting information about its service standards. Because of this, I uphold the complaint 
and direct Monzo to pay Mr R £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience the 
matter has caused him.  
As Mr R says, the crux of his complaint is that Monzo made Mr R deal with W directly and 
that it did not offer him assistance when he had problems retrieving a payment. Hes said his 
contract was with Monzo and not W.
Ive considered this carefully, along with the evidence I have been provided. Monzo has 
provided a screenshot of what Mr R would have seen when he made an international 
payment through his Monzo application. This clearly showed that the payment was being 
made through W and that by making the payment, Mr R was accepting Ws terms of use, as 
well as additional terms of use of Monzo. 
Looking at Ws terms of use, it is clear that Mr R has entered into an agreement with W by 
using their services. Ive also considered Monzos terms and conditions, specifically about 
third parties. Monzos additional terms make it clear that international payments are carried 
out solely by W under the terms and conditions Mr R agreed with them. Monzos terms and 
conditions also state that they will not be responsible for any problems with a third-party 
system. 
Considering all of this, I think Monzos initial position that it asks customers to contact W 
directly when they have issues with international payments is reasonable. Theyve made it 
clear that Mr R has entered into an agreement with W directly and that Monzo has no 
involvement in the transaction once it is sent to W. Because of this, Mr R was best placed to 
raise an issue about the transaction with W as he had the relevant information about what 
had happened. Ive taken into account the fact Mr R is dyslexic and prefers telephone 
communication, but I note Monzo gave him both an e-mail and telephone contact for W. So I 
dont think it acted unreasonably in the circumstances.
I note Mr R has said Monzo did not give him information about the transaction so that he 
could raise a complaint with W. But I can see that when he first contacted Monzo about the 
issue, the member of staff at Monzo said they would need to give him a few details about the 
payment so Ws customer support team could locate the payment. They asked Mr R to verify 
his identity so they could share the information, but Mr R refused to do so as he did not want 
to contact W himself. So, I think that Monzo did try and give Mr R the relevant information 
about the payment so that he could raise a complaint directly with W, but Mr R did not 
complete the identity verification. 
I think the error has occurred when a manager at Monzo assured Mr R they would contact W 
on his behalf. While I do think the manager was trying to provide good customer service at 
the time and help Mr R, it was ultimately decided by the payments team that it would still be 
better if Mr R contacted W directly. And as I explained previously, I dont think this decision 
was unreasonable. And I note it repeats what Mr R was told the first time he contacted 
Monzo about this issue. I do think the few weeks after Mr Rs conversation with the manager 
was confusing as he was expecting Monzo to contact W directly at that point, but in the end 
they did not. And I think this would have been distressing for Mr R and ultimately caused him 
inconvenience. In the circumstances, I think £150 compensation is a fair amount and reflects this period of uncertainty. 
It should also be noted it is still unclear if contacting W at any point would have ended up in 
the funds being retrieved. Thankfully, Mr R was able to withdraw the funds in cash when he 
was in France. I note he could have done so sooner in the United Kingdom, but he did not 
want to incur additional fees, which I think is understandable.  
Putting things right
I think Monzo incorrectly informing Mr R that they would contact W on his behalf caused 
confusion and inconvenienced Mr R. And I instruct Monzo to pay Mr R £150 compensation 
in recognition of this.     
My final decision
I uphold Mr Rs complaint against Monzo Bank Ltd and require it to pay Mr R £150 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 February 2023.
 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman