DRN-1724053
The complaint
Mr J has complained that EQUIFAX LIMITED wont give him more details about how they 
work out his credit score.
What happened
Mr J explained that hes unhappy with his Equifax credit score, and with the fact that they 
wouldnt tell him exactly how its worked out.
Hes asked for details of their algorithm, including the percentage weighting of factors, an 
apology, and for the difference between the mortgage rate he has and the rate he might 
have got if he had a better credit score.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. She 
explained that we wouldnt tell Equifax to give out their algorithm as its commercially 
sensitive. And its only an indication of what lenders might think  lenders normally use their 
own rating system based on the information on the credit file, so Mr Js Equifax credit score 
shouldnt have affected his mortgage rate. And neither side had indicated that any of the 
information on the file itself was incorrect. So she didnt find that Equifax had got anything 
wrong here. 
Mr J didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive come to the same conclusions as our investigator, and for much the 
same reasons.
As our investigator explained, the credit score is often just an indication for customers for 
how Equifax reckons a lender might view their credit file. So its not clear that Mr Js 
mortgage lender even took his Equifax credit score into account. And businesses base their 
lending decisions on a number of criteria, so its unlikely that this one piece of information 
was the only reason why Mr Js rate was what it was. 
Even if the credit score from Equifax did make a difference, its ultimately for Equifax to 
decide what factors they take into account in their own algorithm. We cannot oblige them to 
change the way they work out the credit score. Further, from what both sides have told us, 
there does not seem to be any incorrect information on Mr Js credit file, so it does not seem 
that Equifax used any incorrect data, nor that they made any mistake in calculating the score 
based on their algorithm. So I cannot fairly tell Equifax to change the rating here or take any 
further action in relation to Mr Js score.
I can understand why Mr J would like to know exactly how these scores and ratings are 
calculated. But its not something that companies give out, nor is it something Id tell them to 
give out  and for very good reasons. For example, while Mr J may want to know the 
calculations for benign purposes, there are others who would use them to try to manipulate 
or cheat the system. So it makes sense for companies to not give out this information to 
anyone. Equifax have not treated Mr J unfairly in withholding the algorithm  theyve treated 
him like every other customer.
I have not found that Equifax did anything wrong in this particular case.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2020.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman